Document of               g                        v
The World Bank                                           0
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3623b-HA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
HAITI
March 8, 1982
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
US$1            =  0  5.00
¢  1.0          =  US$0.20
¢  1 million    =  US$200,000
Weights and Measures:                      Metric
Metric                               British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                   =      3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2            0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )             0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)          =      2,205 pounds (lb)
1 cubic meter (m3)            =      1.3 cubic yards (cu yd)
Fiscal Year:       October 1 to September 30
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAN       -    National Airport Authority (formerly AAIPP)
AAIPP     -    International Airport Authority of Port-au-Prince (now AAN)
AASHTO    -    American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials
APN       -    National Port Authority
BRH       -    Bank of the Republic of Haiti
CEBTP     -    Centre d'Etude du Batiment et des Travaux Publics (France)
FAC       -    Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Bilateral Aid)
HASCO     -    Haitian American Sugar Company
IDA       -    International Development Association
IDB       -    Inter-American Development Bank
KfW       -    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LNBTP     -    National Laboratory for Buildings and Public Works
NTS       -    National Transport Study
ODN       -    Northern Regional Development Agency
SAT       -    Autonomous Transport Department (TPTC)
SCS       -    Construction and Works Supervision Department (TPTC)
SEPRRN    -    National Permanent Road Maintenance Department (TPTC)
TPTC      -    Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications
UNDP      -    United National Development Program
USAID     -    United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
HAITI
TABLE OF CONTENTS
!
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .....................................                 1
A.   Background . .................. ......               ...... .....    1
B.    Sectoral Development and Priorities ................    2
C.    Institutional Framework .............             ...........       3
II.   THE ROAD SUBSECTOR . ........................ ..............               4
A.    Road Network .................. 0..............  .......    4
B.   Characteristics of the Vehicle Fleet and Traffic ....                5
C.   Road Transport Industry .................... .       ........        5
D.   Administration ................................................. oo.....    7
E.   Planning and Engineering ..........................    8
F.    Feeder Road Development              ............................   8
G.    Construction and Construction Industry              9.........      9
H.    Supervision of Construction .........................   10
I.   Maintenance ..............................  .......    10
J.    Financing and Energy Pricing ......... ..            ............   13
III.   PAST AND ONGOING IDA ASSISTANCE TO THE ROAD SUBSECTOR .....    14
A.    Past Projects          .......................................    14
B.    Ongoing Project . ..................... .. . .... ...........    15
IV.    THE PROPOSED PROJECT ....................................    15
A.    Objectives and General Description ........             ..........   15
B.   Maintenance Component . ....             ... .  ..... .... .......... .    16
C.   Bridges and Other Drainage Structures Component ......   18
D.   Road Rehabilitation Component ...o .......          ............    18
E.    Technical Assistance Component .....................    20
F.    Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursement ..........              21
G.   Execution and Procurement ........  o.....  ............    23
H.   Monitoring ........    .        ..................................   25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Haiti in May 1981. The mission comprised Messrs. Adhemar Byl (Economist),
Zbigniew Kowalski and Ernesto Henriod (Engineers) and Alain Barbu (Financial
Analyst). The report has been edited by Miss Virginia Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- li -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
V.   ECONOMIC kVALUATION      ..........        ............... .   26
At  General                                                     26
B.   Road Maintenance Compcient         26                      26
C.   Bridges and Other Drainage Structures Component..n.t.   26
D.   Road Rehabilitation Component                              27
Es   Risks ..........28
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..........t....sees. 28
TABLES
2.1   Current and Projected Highway Network, 1981-1986 .............      30
2.2   Vehicle Registration, 1975-1980 ......       ........................    31
2.3   Vehicle Imports, 1970-1980 .......     .......... .   ............   32
2.4   SEPRRN's Maintenance Expenditures, FY1977-1986   ...............   33
2.5   Classification and Distribution of SLPRRN's
Maintenance Brigades                                              34
2.6   SEPRRN: Assignment of Maintenance Equipmen;.                        35
2.7   Current and Capital Expenditures for Roads, FY 1976-1981 .....   36
2.8   Revenue from Road UYser Charges FY 1974-1980 ....... .............     37
2.9   Petroleum Consumption by Economic Sectors, 1978-1979  ,.........4   38
2.10  Evolution of Retail Prices for Gasoline and Diesel Fuel,
1974-1981 .............................................           39
2.11  Petroleum Products-Estimated Price Structure as of May 1981  ..  40
4.1   SEPRRN Replacement and Additional Equipment Requirement
1982-1986 ....... ......*          ....................... ....   41
4.2   Program for Construction, Rehabilitation and Repair of
Bridges, Box Culverts and Concrete Fords (2 pages) .9.999999  42-43
4.3   Bridges, Box Culverts and Concrete Fords to be Designed
Only Under the Project      .... ..    ....             ......    44
4.4   Project Cost Estimate by Disbursement Category  .............    45
4.5   IDA Disbursement Schedule 1982-19842..............                  46
5.1   Bridges and Other Drainage Structures Component - Results
of Benefit-Cost Analysis ............                             47
5.2   Bridges and Other Drainage Structures Component - Vehicle
Operating Costs per km on Different Road Surfaces with
Nine Representative Vehicles .         ...................    48
5.3   Bridges and Other Drainage Structures Component - Present
and Projected Future State of Road Structures and their
Access Roads (2 pages) ........... . ..          ............  49-50
5.4   Bridges and Other Drainage Structures Component - ResuLts
of Sensitivity Analysis .       ... ...............   51
5.5   Road Rehabilitation Component - Variations in Vehicle Operating
Costs with Changing Roughness ...    52



- iii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.    Outline of Work Program for SAT .............................   53
2.    Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for the
Complementary Study of the Domestic Construction Industry..    54
3.    Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for
Final Design and Supervision of the Bridges and
Other Drainage Structures Component ....   .     ..................   59
4.    Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for
Final Engineering Design and Supervision of the Paved Road
Rehabilitation Component ........ ..          ............... .    63
5.    Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for
the Study of Road Maintenance Technology        .......          67
6.    Scope of Work for the Annual External Audit of Project
Accounts ...............  ... 68
7.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File ....    69
CHARTS
I.    Proposed Organization of the Ministry of Public Works,
Transport and Communications                  ..            .    70
II.   SEPRRN Organization Chart      ...... . .            . . .          71
III.  SEPRRN Main Workshop Organization Chart             .    .    .    72
IV.   Implementation Schedule 1981-1984 .....      ......................    73
MAP
IBRD 15894R - Haiti - Sixth Highway Project



i



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Background
1.01      Haiti is a comparatively small country covering the western third of
the island of Hispaniola, an area of approximately 27,750 km2. The Dominican
Republic occupies the eastern two-thirds of the island. Haiti extends from
north to south over almost 200 km and from east to west at the southern
peninsula, over 250 km. The country has a long and rugged shoreline of
1,530 km, amounting to more than 1 km per 20 km2 of land area. The interior
of the country is mountainous, with about 40% of the land being above 500 m.
Only one-third is suitable for cropping, 18% consists of pasture and 9% of
forests. The rest is arid wasteland with steep slopes. In 1981, the total
population is estimated at approximately 5.1 million, of which 75-80% live in
rural areas. With an average population density of more than 180 inhabitants
per km2 and a 1980 per capita income of about US$285, Haiti is one of the most
densely populated and one of the poorest countries in the Western Hemisphere and,
indeed, in the world.
1.02      One of Haiti's major problems is the rapid migration of the popula-
tion toward the urban centers, particularly to Port-au-Prince, the capital's
metropolitan area, where 900,000 people, more than 70% of the total urban
population, are now concentrated. Besides Port-au-Prince, there are seven
provincial centers, ranging in size from 20,000 to 60,000 inhabitants, and
61 smaller towns, many of which are poorly served by the existing transport
system.
1.03      The characteristics which determine Haiti's transport system are
the country's island location, its rugged terrain and long coastline, and the
dispersion and low productivity of its agricultural sector, as well as the
dominance of its capital city. Agriculture accounts for about 40% of the GDP.
1.04      More than 98% of Haiti's external trade is moved by sea and the
balance by air or overland to the Dominican Republic. Although Cap Haitien,
the second port, located in the north, is important for economic development
there, it underwent no major improvement since 1953: neither did the smaller
coastal shipping ports serving the traditional sector. Recently, however,
a program for upgrading the Cap Haitien facilities, as well as an important
coastal shipping port development, was started with IDA and KfW assistance.
Cap Haitien is therefore expected to slowly recover some of its historic
importance. While considerable tonnages (e.g., bauxite, petroleum, wheat,
cement) are handled at specialized private terminals around the country,
95% of the general cargo trade is handled at Port-au-Prince, located at the
center of the country's west coast. International passenger traffic is mainly
by air and by cruise ships serving Port-au-Prince and Cap Hatien, bringing a
large number of one-day visitors.
1.05      Inland transport moves primarily by road and is, to a large extent,
concentrated on the few recently constructed primary roads such as the Northern
(Rl) and the Southern (R2) roads, linking Port-au-Prince with Cap Haitien
and Les Cayes respectively (para 1.12). Road transport accounts for more than
80% of all inland transport.



-2-
1.06      Haiti's road network was totally neglected during the 1960s, and
its deterioration was almost complete. This further increased the country's
spatial imbalance, isolating secondary towns and rural communities from
the capital. Since 1971, the Government has recognized the importance'of
roads and the need for their upkeep and has reconstructed and improved the
road network and rebuilt road maintenance capacity. Considerable progress has
been made, but many shortcomings persist in road maintenance, and the insti-
tutional structure needs continued strengthening to allow phasing out of
technical assistance.
1.07      The second transport mode, coastal shipping, accounts for approxi-
mately 18% of total domestic freight volumes. Although the relative share
of coastal shipping is not expected to grow, the volume handled will con-
tinue to increase as services are restructured and modernized following the
upgrading of coastal shipping ports.
1.08      The share of air transport in Haiti's total transport volume is
comparatively small, but it has gained importance with the dynamic development
of Haiti's export-oriented industries, especially the transformation and
assembly industries. Cargo handled by the international airport of Port-au-
Prince increased from 24,000 tons in 1978 to 28,600 tons in 1980. Air passenger
transport increased from 360,000 in 1978 to 456,000 arriving and departing
passengers in 1980. The international airport of Port-au-Prince is managed by
the National Airport Authority (NAA), and its main runway was recently extended
to 3,000 meters. Most df the international traffic is carried by foreign
airlines. However, Air Haiti handles international cargo transport and, in
May 1981, announced plans for passenger service. Haiti's second airport is
situated in Cap Haitien, where a 1,500 m runway was recently paved. Domestic
air transport is comparatively insignificant. Haiti Air Inter serves primarily
tourists and, to a lesser extent, public officials and businessmen.
1.09      The only existing railroad (75 km) runs from Leogane and the Plaine de
Cul-de-Sac to the Haitian American Sugar Company refinery in Port-au-Prince and
is used exclusively for sugar cane traffic. It is owned and operated by HASCO.
In the 1979-1980 harvest year, approximately 400,000 tons of sugar cane were
moved by this very narrow railway line, in spite of its rather poor condition.
B.   Sectoral Development and Priorities
1.10      The first Five-Year National Development Plan (FY1971-1975) gave
priority to the development of the productive sectors of the economy, particu-
larly agriculture, but also prepared the ground for economic and technical
studies for the reconstruction of the transport infrastructure. Since 1972,
Haiti has obtained substantial assistance from multinational aid agencies for
reconstruction of the road network, revival of road maintenance and improvement
of the port infrastructure. Major road reconstruction projects supported mainly
by IDA and IDB came on stream in 1974.
1.11      Between 1975 and 1977, the Government, with a UNDP grant of
US$600,000, contracted a National Transport Study (NTS) with the American
consulting firm L. Berger International. The World Bank acted as executing
agency. The NTS recommended a transport policy adapted to the country's
needs and potential, in which priority should be given: (a) to improved



-3-
maintenance and selected upgrading and rehabilitation of existing roads; and
(b) to coastal shipping improvements to achieve a more even distribution of
economic activity between Port-au-Prince and the provincial towns. These
recommendations were adopted in the second Five-Year National Development
Plan (FY1976-1981) and provided a basis for three IDA projects, including the
present one. During this period, about 23% of total public investment expendi-
tures were allocated to transport investments.
1.12      About 450 km of the main road network have been improved, including
the two main roads from Port-au-Prince to Cap Haitien and to Les Cayes (with
IDA and IDB support respectively), as well as a 40-km branch-off road to the
provincial capital of the southwest, Jacmel. In addition, in 1973, the
United States Agency for International Development (USAID) started to finance
equipment purchases, technical assistance and training in road maintenance and,
in 1977, a rehabilitation program of secondary roads. Approximately 340 km of
secondary roads have been rehabilitated.  Further improvements of old paved
primary and secondary gravel roads and the rehabilitation of many bridges are
still required. The 1981-1986 Five-Year Plan includes the continuation of the
maintenance buildup, the rehabilitation or upgrading of 897 km of gravel roads
to paved standards and the improvement of another 1,000 km of secondary roads
to good, all weather, gravel standards.
1.13      As far as coastal shipping is concerned, the Government is improving,
with IDA's assistance (Fifth Transport Project and Coastal Shipping Port
Project), provincial cabotage ports. Upgraded coastal shipping services would,
in several instances, allow the postponement of costly road construction
projects.
C.   Institutional Framework
1.14      The Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications (TPTC) is
responsible for transport investment, but the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Affairs and the Ministry of Planning are also closely involved. The Ministry
of Finance and Economic Affairs, assisted by the Governor of the Bank of
the Republic of Haiti (BRH), is responsible for monitoring port development
and operations of customs services and for the collection of transport taxes;
TPTC is responsible for airport operations through the Civil Aviation Service,
which regulates air transport and domestic airports. The Ministry of Planning
defines national development strategy and reviews, consolidates and coordinates
the proposals of various ministries and agencies. In addition to these
ministries, two autonomous agencies have been formed in response to particular
needs: the National Port Authority (APN) and the National Airport Authority
(NAA).
1.15      The responsibilities of TPTC also include public buildings, zoning
and construction regulations, city streets and some public utilities. In the
early 1970s, the Government faced the problem of initiating the 1971-1976 Plan
with inadequate institutional capacity. Following recommendations of external
lending agencies, TPTC restructured its organization by grouping various
departments into Management, Planning, Support, Executive Operations and
Regional Offices groups (Chart I). The resulting institutional framework,
however, is somewhat unwieldy and suffers from a number of deficiencies such
as duplication of responsibilities on the one hand and gaps in responsibilities
on the other. Programing and budgeting are still not done on a sectoral basis,



-4-
liaison between agencies and services functions poorly and routine coordination
depends too often on direct action by the Minister or individual directors
who are particularly concerned (para 2.19).
1.16      One of the key departments in TPTC is SAT, which is responsible for
establishing criteria for road construction and maintenance, physical and
economic planning and the definition of transport policies (para 2.14).  SAT
was established in December 1975 and acts as a sectoral planning unit and a
highway planning and engineering office. Its responsibilities were defined by
law in January 1977.
1.17      The Executive Operations group has three departments:  a Construction
and Works Supervision Department, an Urban Streets Department, and the
National Road Maintenance Department (SEPRRN). The most important section
of the Support Services group is the National Laboratory for Buildings and
Public Works (LNBTP). TPTC also has a programing unit.
II. THE ROAD SUBSECTOR
A.   Road Network
2.01      Haiti's national network of inter-city roads consists of approx-
imately 2,750 km of motorable roads, of which some 576 km are paved and
the remaining 2,174 km are gravel-surfaced (Table 2.1). In addition, there
are numerous earth roads and non-motorable tracks, used by vehicles and/or
pack-animals and pedestrians, which are not part of the national roadnet.
Even though much of the main network has been built or upgraded recently, some
primary and several secondary roads are in poor condition and need strengthen-
ing or improvement. Improved road maintenance has, to some extent, checked
further road deterioration and restored some measure of serviceability;
however, special attention should be given to repair and rehabilitation of
bridges, drainage structures and fords.
2.02      Haiti has a large number of aging steel and concrete bridges.  The
country also has a large number of water crossings without any structure
where vehicles, donkeys and people ford the rivers during low water; delays
due to high water are frequent. Many were built more than fifty years ago
and, today, are in a precarious condition; some of the older bridges require
major repair works, and several concrete fords have to be replaced. During
the last year, traffic on several primary and secondary roads has frequently
been interrupted by failing drainage structures.
2.03      The repair/reconstruction of existing bridges and the provision of
new ones at important crossings would be a necessary complement to the ongoing
rehabilitation, maintenance, and rural road programs. Besides the recently
constructed Northern Road, the primary network includes a number of aged paved
roads. Their timely rehabilitation and strengthening is a needed complement
to the ongoing maintenance program. The study necessary to prepare a road and
bridge reconstruction program was conducted under the Fifth Transportation
Project (Credit 807-HA, 1978).



2.04      The highest priorities in the road transport sector are maintenance
and rehabilitation of existing roads and bridges. These priorities, together
with the Government policy of promoting the growth of provincial agglomer-
ations outside the Port-au-Prince area, are reflected in the road component
of the current draft Third National Development Plan (1982-1986), as well as
in the 1982-1986 Five-Year Plan of TPTC.
B.   Characteristics of the Vehicle Fleet and Traffic
2.05      Although statistics on vehicle registration are not very reliable,
Haiti's motor vehicle fleet, excluding army and Government vehicles, is esti-
mated at some 38,000 units, of which approximately 90% are registered in
Port-au-Prince (Table 2.2). This figure corresponds to a vehicle ownership of
less than seven vehicles per 1,000 inhabitants, the lowest in the entire Latin
America and Caribbean Region. While the NTS estimated a net growth rate of
10% for the period 1970-1975, vehicle registration grew at a rate of about
12.5% p.a. during the period 1975-1980, but the growth rate in the second
half of the period was more than 17% per annum. Some 27% of the fleet are
trucks and pickups serving private and public transport; 12% of them are used
for passenger transport, and about 30% of the cargo vehicle fleet is used for
the mixed transport of passengers and cargo. Imports of new and used vehicles
have increased steadily in recent years. In the last decade, approximately
31,000 vehicles have been imported, almost 13,000 of them during the last
three years in spite of little growth in imports of commercial vehicles
(Table 2.3).
2.06      Port-au-Prince is the center of the road transport system.  According
to an origin-destination survey carried out recently on the main road network
by SAT, 84% of all vehicles, which carried 75% of total freight volume and 80%
of total passengers, had their origin or destination in the capital. This is
consistent with the origin-destination surveys executed in 1975 during the
NTS and suggests that the polarization on Port-au-Prince has accelerated. It
is estimated that about 50% of the network carries less than 20 vehicles per
day (VPD), 10% carries between 20 and 100 VPD, 25% between 100 and 300
vehicles and 15% of the network carries more than 300 vehicles. Probably
half of the country's goods transported are carried by human portage and
pack animals, mostly along country trails and secondary and tertiary roads.
2.07      The results of recent traffic counts along the newly reconstructed
primary roads show traffic growth during the first years of service of 15
to 20%, which is well above previous trends and suggests an important increase
in generated traffic. The NTS projected long-term traffic growth rates
ranging between 4 and 8% annually for goods and public passenger transport
and about 11% for private vehicles. Recent growth forecasts for selected
secondary roads on a medium-term basis average about 6% for transport of
goods, about 7% for public passenger transport, and 9% for private vehicles.
C.   Road Transport Industry
2.08      Haiti's road transport industry is subject to only a minimum of
regulation. Inter-urban tariffs for passengers and freight are competitive,
and entry into the road transport industry is free. In the past, most enter-
prises offering urban transport services for passengers and freight were
owner-operated one-vehicle enterprises. Recently, however, there has been a
tendency toward concentration of ownership. There are a few firms operating



-6-
comparatively small truck fleets which act mainly as haulers for the construc-
tion and other industries. A few industrial enterprises operate their own
small truck fleets. Credit for commercial operators is available through
banks and dealers, but at fairly high rates of interest. The only requirement
for transport enterprises is a formal registration with the police, who issue
special license plates; there is no restriction on licensing. Third party
insurance is compulsory for all vehicles in Haiti, but coverage is reportedly
considered unsatisfactory by users.
2.09      Urban transport and its tariffs are also largely unregulated.  Hcwever,
taxi service in Port-au-Prince operates with standard tariffs set by the Depart-
ment of Labor and enforced by the police. Urban public transport in Port-au-Prince
is dominated by small buses and "tap-taps" which generally operate on a fixed
line-haul and stop wherever passengers so wish. Since autumn 1980, one public
state-owned bus company, CONATRA, has been operating in Port-au-Prince in
competition with privately owned public transport vehicles.
2.10      UNDP preinvestment studies carried out in 1971 and 1973 recommended,
inter alia, that speed, weight and dimensions of vehicles be regulated in
accordance with AASHTO standards, and also made recommendations on the installa-
tion and operation of weighbridge stations. The three IDB-financed Southern
Road projects (1974-1980) included technical assistance to introduce axle
weight regulations and to prepare the necessary legislation. Load surveys of
the NTS suggested that, at the time, overloading was not a serious problem,
mainly because the poor-condition of many secondary roads acted as a deterrent.
However, the improved condition of recently reconstructed primary roads and
the competitive situation of the road transport industry have led to increased
overloading.
2.11      In compliance with covenants agreed with IDB and with IDA under
Credits 478-HA and 556-HA, the Government, on January 2, 1978, enacted legis-
lation defining limits for vehicle weight, dimensions, and axle loads consistent
with the structural and geometric design of the road. The decree requires
that the following limits be observed: 8,000 kg for single, and 15,000 kg for
tandem axles, and 40,000 kg for total loaded vehicle weight; it stipulates the
following fines for overloading: US$40 equivalent for axle load violations
and US$60 for total weight violations. TPTC, through the Haitian police, is
in charge of enforcement.
2.12      Weighing scales have been installed on the Southern Road, and
portable scales have been used on the Northern and other roads.  Recently, the
Government has been unable to keep its rixed and some mobiie weighing equipment
in operational condition. The existing axle load limits are relatively low,
and a small increase may be justified given the technical characteristics of
trucks available on the international market. However, this matter should be
studied carefully, taking into account the load capacity of Haiti's road
system as well as ongoing work on the same matter now taking place in the
neighboring Dominican Republic. Pending discussions on increasing axle load
limits, the Government relaxed enforcement of axle load and total weight limits.
2.13      At negotiations, the Government agreed to take all steps necessary
to ensure the enforcement of its regulations concerning axle load limits and
vehicle dimensions and not to modify, suspend or grant exemptions to any such



-7-
regulations without a prior exchange of views with IDA. It is necessary
to overhaul the system for vehicle weight control, and the Government has
already commissioned consuLtants (joint venture Setec, France, and Sohico,
Haiti) to review the existing vehicle weighing system as a compiement to the
ongoing road rehabilitation study. The consultants have determined locations
where permanent weighing stations should be operated based on traffic volumes
and vehicle types, and are preparing recommendations for support facilities
for the handling of overioaded vehicies. The consuitants have also recommended
revisions in current regulations, in particular the introduction of a more
effective system of sanctions relating the amount of fines to the seriousness
of the overioading. The project inciudes a component to finance purchase of
new vehicle weighing equipment which would be installed at weighbridge stations
throughout the country. Adoption of a more effective system of sanctions
as part of the program of control of weight and dimensions would be a
condition for effectiveness of the Credit Agreement.
D.   Administration
2.14      Highway administration is the responsibility of TPTC.  As explained
in paragraph 1.15, TPTC's departments are organized in five groups: Manage-
ment, Planning, Support, Executive Operations, and Regional Field Offices
(Chart I). The departments primarily concerned with highways are: (a) Service
Autonome des Transports (SAT), responsible for planning and engineering; (b) the
Construction and Works Supervision Department (SCS), responsible for contract-
ing and supervision of civil works; (c) the Service d'Entretien Permanent du
Reseau Routier National (SEPRRN), the Permanent National Road Maintenance
Department; and (d) the National Laboratory for Building and Public Works
(LNBTP) responsible for testing of materiais and standards. Coordination and
flow of information between departments are not optimal, and, as a result,
integrated planning is rather deficient; actualiy, day-to-day coordination of
work often depends upon direct action by the Minister (Secretary of TPTC).
2.15      More than 200 engineers, architects, and economists are empioyed
by TPTC out of a total of 1,350 employees, and most are assigned to SCS, SAT,
SEPRRN, LNBTP and the Urban Roads Department. The majority of the engineers are
graduated from the Polytechnic Schooi or the University of Port-au-Prince;
several have studied or received additional training and experience overseas,
mostly in the USA or France. On principle, these technicians should provide
TPTC with adequate professional expertise and management capacity; however,
because of the lack of incentives resulting from relatively low salary levels and
poor management procedures, a number of TPTC's professional staff, engineers,
and technicians share their professional time between TPTC and other occupations.
2.16      LNBTP provides, at estabiished rates, materials testing support
services for design, construction, and maintenance of all civil works, includ-
ing construction. It is financially autonomous and provides training courses
for TPTC inspection staff. LNBTP receives support from the French foreign
aid agency (FAC) in the form of technical assistance by the Centre d'Etude du
Batiment et des Travaux Publics (CEBTP). Until 1980, CEBTP provided one
engineer holding the position of co-director. At present, the French engineer
serves in an advisory capacity.



-8-
E.   Planning and Engineering
2.17      Transport planning, programirng, project evaluation and highway
engineering design constitute the main functions of SAT, which was created
in the context of IDA's Third and Fourth Highway Projects. SAT is in charge
of transport sector inputs for the planning and programing of highway improve-
ments and expenditures, preparation and evaluation of transport regulations,
and the systematic collection of traffic data.  As intended by the organi-
zational structure and the staffing of SAT, feasibility studies, planning,
engineering and design for major road projects are almost exclusively performed
by consultants (mainly foreign) under SAT's supervision.  In recent years,
US-educated Haitian engineers have founded small domestic engineering firms
which also participate in project preparation. It is expected that more
routine engineering work would be given by SAT to these domestic firms, if
necessary, in association with foreign consultant firms.
2.18      Since its establishment, SAT has been involved in the preparation
of transport data for the current Five-Year National Development Plan
(1976-1981) and the proposed 1982-1986 Development Plan. SAT conducted one
origin-destination traffic survey in 1977 and two project specific traffic
counts in 1980 and 1981, both covering only a part of the country's main rcad
network.
2.19      SAT needs to improve its programing and budgeting activities as
well as its collection of traffic and transportation data. Traffic counts
have not been executed annually, and on a comparative basis, as was intended.
USAID has provided transportation planning experts for a period of ten months
to assist SAT with the development of an Economic Analysis Unit. The objective
was to organize and train the unit in data collection for the transport sector
contribution to the National Development Plan and to prepare and analyze data
needed by financing agencies for individual projects. The work program of
SAT over the project period was reviewed and agreed during negotiations
(Annex 1).
F.   Feeder Road Development
2.20      Feeder roads have been constructed mainly with the financial assis-
tance of USAID and the technical assistance of consultants (TAMS, USA) since
1977. The program operated two labor-based and two mechanized brigades, each
350 men strong. Work was coordinated by TPTC. Each brigade was capable of
constructing some 3-4 km of rural roads per month with tools and equipment
furnished by USAID. TPTC carried the salary cost of personnel employed by
.ht brigaus adnd recurrent expenses necessary for the operation of equipment;
SEPRRN maintained equipment used by the brigades. In terms of total kilometers
constructed, the project was only partially successful because of budgetary
constraints on the part of TPTC.
2.21      The need to overcome the isolation of outlying areas and to extend
the benefits of developments in agriculture to regional centers has resulted in
increased demand for rural road construction. USAID is financing a followup
three-year, about US$18 million, labor-intensive program (1981-1984), including
technical assistance to construct some 700 km of rural roads. IDB confirmed
its commitment to continue the development of labor-intensive construction.



-9-
IDB would initiate construction of 179 km of rural roads in the Southern
Peninsula before the end of 1982, and is also financing a 16-month study for
the design of 140 km of rural roads in the Artibonite Valley.
2.22      IDA is already financing construction of some rural roads under
the First Rural Development Project (Credit 675-HA), and construction has
been carried out by TPTC forces.
2.23      Feeder road planning and construction represent one area which is
clearly in need of coordination. TPTC intends to consolidate responsibilities
for various feeder road programs under a new Department of which the existing
Feeder Road Unit would be the nucleus. During negotiations, the Government
confirmed that, for the purpose of developing consistent standards and methods
of execution, it would exhange views annually with IDA on measures to ensure
adequate coordination among units charged with planning or carrying out
construction of feeder roads.
G.   Construction and Construction Industry
2.24      Most highway construction is carried out by international contractors
or by Government work forces. Prior to 1955, United States contractors were
employed in the reconstruction of the network, which was first built before
1935. During the 1955-1972 period, no major road reconstruction was undertaken.
Small scale works were executed by Government forces, which further eroded the
strength of the local private road construction industry. Since the resurgence
of highway construction activity in 1972 and until 1979, all major road
construction projects have been awarded to foreign contractors (French,
Canadian, and American) with limited participation of local firms through
subcontracting. In 1979, part of a major road reconstruction contract on
a Bank-financed project (Cr. 807-HA - US$10 million, February 1978) was
awarded to a Haitian-American consortium.
2.25      Costs of highway construction by foreign firms are high because
of the small size of the market, high mobilization costs and high perceived
risks. The need to foster a competitive local construction industry has been
recognized since the appraisal of the Third Highway project in 1974. This led
to the inclusion of a survey of the construction industry in Haiti, within the
NTS report. The situation analysis presented in that report is still valid
today: the domestic construction industry is small and incipient, and the
market continues to be dominated by foreign contractors, with Haitian firms
doing mostly building and minor structural work.
2.26      The NTS report correctly identified the lack of skilled personnel as
a key problem of the domestic construction industry. Only two local companies
profited from the NTS recommendations and undertook their own enhancement and
technology transfer through associating with foreign firms. There is no
establishment training system for the industry, and there is a dearth of
vocational training facilities. First priority must therefore be given to
overcoming these shortcomings.



- 10 -
2.27      The construction industry chapter of the 1977 NTS report will be
updated and complemented by consultants (para 4.18), leading to the preparation
of action plans for strengthening the domestic construction industry, with
particular reference to training at all levels. Outline terms of reference
for this study are attached in Annex 2. The study would also include an
appraisal of the current state of development of labor-intensive road construc-
tion and maintenance technology in Haiti, and an evaluation of the assistance
required by Haiti in this area. Ongoing feeder road programs would also
evolve and generalize labor-intensive construction methods. They would
specifically address the problems of defining proper technical, organizational
and funding arrangements for the contracting of such works (para 2.23).
2.28      With regard to the construction, rehabilitation and repair components
of the Sixth Highway Project, Haitian firms should predominate in the tendering
for most of the bridge rehabilitation and repair work. The program for rehabili-
tation of the main Port-au-Prince - Cap Haitien (North) road should attract
foreign companies, as well as the two Haitian firms which would be capable of
handling major works with the support of their foreign associates.
H.   Supervision of Construction
2.29      TPTC's Construction and Works Supervision Department (SCS) is respon-
sible for the management and supervision of construction. SCS was formed,
with IDB's support, in 1974, to coordinate, standardize and manage the work of
consultants entrusted with the supervision of civil works on large construction
contracts and to initiate TPTC's participation in the supervision of construc-
tion of the Southern Road. While the Construction Department has since gained
valuable experience and continues to develop its capabilities to provide
required institutional support, TPTC will continue to rely upon experienced
consulting firms for the management and supervision of large civil works
contracts with increased participation of Haitian consultants and SCS personnel.
I.   Maintenance
2.30      Bank Group support for road maintenance in Haiti dates back to 1956
when the Bank granted its first loan of US$2.6 million to finance a Maintenance
and Rehabilitation Project (Loan 141-HA) comprising reorganization and expan-
sion of the highway maintenance organization, and road rehabilitation and
maintenance of about 1,000 km of roads. In 1962, an IDA Credit of US$350,000
was made for the Interim Highway Project (Credit 32-HA) to finance the foreign
cost of completion of the road maintenance and rehabilitation works started
under the 1956 project. In 1959, the Government estabiished a "Service Special
d'Entretien et d'Amelioration des Routes," but improvements were shortlived
and road maintenance practicaily ceased after 1963, resulting in the rapid
deterioration of the road network and the isolation of food-producing regions
from consuming centers. In 1972, the Government recognized the need for a
completely new maintenance organization and created the Permanent National
Road Maintenance Department (SEPRRN) as an autonomous agency solely responsible
for road maintenance. In 1973, USAID supplied Haiti with US$3.15 million in
loans and US$1.78 million in grants to finance an agreed maintenance program,
including technical assistance, rehabilitation of maintenance workshops and
reconditioning of existing equipment and purchasing units. In 1975, SEPRRN
prepared, and the Government approved, a Five-Year Maintenance Program for the



11 -
period 1976-198i which was supported by adequate budgetary allocations (Table 2.4).
In i977, the Government obtained from USAID an additional grant of US$8.6 miliion
to finance advisory services for in-service training of personnel and acquisition
of equipment to pursue the expansion of SEPRRN's capacity.
2.31      SEPRRN's budget is separate from that of TPTC and is partly funded
with allocations from the investment budget. Estimated budgetary requirements
for the proposed 1982-1986 maintenance program have been reviewed and approved
in principle by the Government. The 1982 budget was formally approved.
2.32      SEPRRN owns some 400 units of equipment with replacement value of
US$8-9 million, which, according to consultants PRC Harris, USA, is about
30 units beiow requirements for the programed expanded maintenance capacity.
About 37% of the presently owned equipment was manufactured in 1976 or before,
and some 20% was received from US Army surplus; this equipment requires
frequent maintenance. Average fleet utilization 1/ stands at 70%, which is
relatively acceptable but could be improved given the level of funding of
SEPRRN. SEPRRN will need to replace about one-half of its fleet between 1981
and 1984. USAID has indicated that it was involved in maintenance equipment
purchases only on an exceptional basis and that it will be unable to help
in the financing of the new equipment that SEPRRN now needs. IDA has indicated
to the Government that it considers adequate provision for road maintenance a
precondition for further lending in the road subsector. It has also indicated
that it would consider financing road maintenance equipment only if an attempt
is made to balance the road maintenance effort between capital- and labor-
intensive technology. Direct involvement by IDA in maintenance is supported
by the standing policies (a) to maintain the autonomous status of SEPRRN, in
particular its separate funding under the investment budget; and (b) not to
involve SEPRRN in road construction, with the possible exception of using
SEPRRN workshops to maintain, at cost, equipment used in feeder road construc-
tion to avoid costly duplication of effort.
2.33      SEPRRN's organization is shown in Chart II.  It operates ten field
workshops and a weli equipped central workshop in addition to well equipped
spare parts facilities in Port-au-Prince (Chart III). The central workshop
does all major overhaul work and is well managed. The remaining five district
workshops perform preventive maintenance and routine repairs, excluding major
overhauls.  The subdistrict workshop facilities are limited to minor repairs.
SEPRRN's total utilization of its equipment fleet is about 70%.
2.34      Both the district and subdistrict workshops of SEPRRN also service
the small lot of construction and maintenance equipment assigned by TPTC to
its regionaL offices because the Ministry's own facilities, except for its
main workshop in Port-au-Prince, are not operational. Even TPTC's workshop
in the capital will eventually be phased out or reduced to a maintenance shop
for passenger cars, and the Government is seeking a solution for the reassign-
ment of some of TPTC's main workshop personnel.
1/   See paragraph 4.06 for definition.



- 12 -
2.35      SEPRRN employs about 3,000 people including 28 engineers; its fielic
personnel is organized into 142 maintenance brigades comprising six intervention
brigades which carry out periodic maintenance, 12 grading and 90 hand brigades
for routine maintenance, 28 asphalt brigades for pavement patching, and
six bridge brigades for \the routine and periodic maintenance of structures.
Composition of these brigades and their assignment to the six districts and
five subdistricts responsible for road maintenance throughout the country are
shown in Table 2.5. Assignment of maintenance equipment to the brigades is
shown in Table 2.6.
2.36      SEPRRN's maintenance activities show a predominance of expenditure
for labor: payrolls account for 52% of total monthly expenditures. Mechanized
intervention brigades average about 30 laborers, and grading brigades about
15 laborers, who are employed in removing debris from the road and who perform
other tasks before and after equipment is used.  SEPRRN will be encouraged to
continue its efforts to increase the labor input in road maintenance and to
enhance the ongoing program for maintaining road sections with labor provided
by neighboring communities.  In 1980/1981, about 75 km of rural roads were
maintained by ten communities, which were paid the equivalent of US$702 per
km/year.  SEPRRN furnished the hand tools, the materials (stockpiled along the
roads as required), a small roller, and an experienced foreman with a motorcycle
to facilitate his movements between the crews he supervises. Overall supervi-
sion of this work is carried out by a SEPRRN engineer. Following initial
encouraging results, SEPRRN will contract the maintenance of a total of
250 km of rural roads to communities in 1982. The contract rate will be
adjusted to the equivalent of about US$1,100 per km/year.
2.37      SEPRRN has systematically expanded the maintained network from about
1,450 km in 1979 to about 2,000 km in 1980 (including all existing paved
roads), with the final objective of maintaining the 3,700 km that will be part
of the National Network in 1985/1986 (Table 2.1). Evidence of maintenance can
be observed on many roads; in 1978/1979, SEPRRN carried out 69% of its planned
maintenance for gravel roads and 77% for paved roads. Corresponding results
in 1980/1981 were 77% of planned maintenance for gravel and 91% for paved
roads. SEPRRN is still in the process of building up its capacity and will
require further external support. USAID continues to support the development
of SEPRRN by providing technical assistance through 1986, but will not be able
to finance equipment renewal (para 4.02).
2.38      Currently, SEPRRN's work is not limited to routine or periodic
maintenance: poor condition of much of the existing network requires that
deteriorated roads be rehabilitated by SEPRRN before routine maintenance can
be programed. Since SEPRRN has not yet established cost breakdowns for each
category of maintenance, its average costs for routine and periodic maintenance
of gravel roads, combined with rehabilitation work, are high (US$3,600/km)
because of the high amount of repeated regraveling and rehabilitation required
as a result of the poor drainage condition of large portions of the secondary
network in mountainous areas. The proposed project will be used as a vehicle
to redress this situation.



- 13 -
J.   Financing and Energy Pricing
2.39      Annual expenditures for TPTC's personnel and administration are
financed from the country's general budget. Investment works and operating
expenditures for SEPRRN are financed partly from abroad. Yearly expenditures
for the highway sector in FY76 to FY80 averaged approximately US$51.7 million,
of which some 90% were for investments (including preinvestment studies and
technical assistance). Approximately 59% of these investments have been
externally financed, and the major portion was used for the construction of
410 km of national roads (Table 2.7).
2.40      Government revenues from road user charges have increased consider-
ably from about US$5.5 million in 1974 to approximately US$15 million in
FY80 (Table 2.8). The increase is due to the substantial growth of traffic
during the last years as well as to the mounting import duties, mainly on
petroleum fuels, cars and tires. Road user charges have been generally
sufficient to finance the maintenance expenditures and to contribute to
investments in the road sector; however, increased participation of the road
user in the cost of building and maintaining the network is necessary.
2.41      CIF import prices for gasoline and diesel are US$1.043 and
US$1/US galLon respectively. The consumer prices of these locally consumed
fuels, particuLarly gasoline, are high in comparison with levels in the U.S.
and other Latin American countries but low in comparison with levels of European
countries and other developing countries. As of March 1981, the retail price
per US gallon for gasoline in Port-au-Prince was US$2.15, but the price for
diesel was only US$1.17. This gasoline price includes USi86.4 in taxes
(import duty and excise tax), but there are no taxes on diesel.
2.42      Taxes on automotive fuels serve two objectives:  (a) rationaliza-
tion of the use of energy, which results in savings of foreign exchange in
a country totally dependent upon imported oil; and (b) participation of
the road user in the cost of building and maintaining the network. Under
Haiti's current tax structure, neither objective is being realized. Since
taxes are levied only on gasoline, the system creates an incentive to increase
the number of diesel-fueled cars and, thus, to avoid the tax altogether. The
change in the composition of the Haitian fleet has already progressed consider-
ably, and, as shown in Table 2.9, almost 50% of the automotive fuels consumed
for road transport in 1979 consisted of dieseL. This trend is likely to
accelerate as a result of the tax increase on gasoline, decided in March 1981,
which enlarged the price differential between these two fuels from USJ63 to
USg98/gallon at the retail level (Table 2.10). The USg86.4 tax differential
is causing distortions in the choice of road vehicle type and is making
existing gasoline vehicles obsolete more rapidly than necessary; diesel-driven
road vehicles are not paying taxes sufficient to cover their share of road
deterioration and maintenance costs; simiLar distortions in the choice of fuel
are being encouraged in non-transport sectors.
2.43      IDA missions have indicated to the Government that the reduction
of the price differential by imposing a similar tax on automotive diesel
as the one on gasoline would be beneficial. As much as 332,000 barrels



- 14 -
of diesel are consumed annuaily in Haiti for road transport.  This amounts
to more than 13 miiiion gallons, or a potential annual revenue of up to
US$13 million, which would be sufficient to double the road maintenance effort,
take care of a substantial amount of rehabilitation and increase other road
investment if channeled to this purpose in 1985 and 1986 (Table 2.4). The
Government has recognized the need to apply adequate taxation on diesel through
a gradual increase in retail prices. The Government agreed with IDA during
negotiations to increase, beginning in 1982, the tax on diesei fuel in order to
eliminate the difference between such tax and the tax on gasoline by the end of
1983 (Table 2.11). The initial increase of USJ20 equivalent per gallon was
introduced in early March 1982.
III. PAST AND ONGOING IDA ASSISTANCE TO THE ROAD SUBSECTOR
3.01      The Bank Group has made one loan and extended five credits to Haiti
for transportation, beginning in 1956, for a total amount of about US$59 million,
US$56 million of that amount since 1972. The road transport subsector has been
the main objective of Bank Group assistance, although its last two credits,
extended in 1978 and 198i, also inciuded coastal shipping components.
A.   Past Projects-
3.02      The Bank Group's involvement in Haiti's transport sector began with
a Bank Loan (Loan 141-HA, US$2.6 million, 1956) for a Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Project which involved about 1,000 km of roads. The second
operation (Credit 32-HA, US$350,000, 1962) was an Interim Highway Project to
complete works undertaken under the first project. Political and managerial
problems hampered the timely implementation of these projects.
3.03      The changed economic environment in the country since the early
1970s made it possible for IDA to resume its support for the transport sector.
The reconstruction of the Northern Roads (250 km), including emergency re-
construction of the. Estere, Sonde and Limbe bridges under the Third and the
Fourth Highway Projects (Credits 478 and 556-HA, 1974 and 1975, US$10 and US$20
million respectively), had accomplished the principal objective of providing all
weather access between the principal port in the Northern Region, Cap Hatien,
and the capital, Port-au-Prince, as well as linking the Artibonite Valley to
the main food-consuming centers. The projects also financed the much needed
NTS and provided support for efforts leading to the legislation of controls of
vehicle weights and axle ioads.
3.04      A Project Completion Report (PCR) and a Project Performance Audit
Report (PPAR) for both the Third and the Fourth Highway Projects, dated May 27,
1980, were circulated on May 30, 1980. The PCR found reestimated economic
returns of 25 and 41% respectively, against 20 and 35% expected at appraisal,
in spite of construction cost overruns, mainly due to considerably higher
growth rates in traffic (in some cases as much as 230% higher) and higher
vehicie operating cost savings for heavy vehicles. The PPAR indicates that
there were some differences of opinion between the Government and IDA about
the design standards to be used, especially in relation to the bearing capacity
of the pavement. In view of the limited funds available, the Association
insisted that the road be rebuilt to modest standards, conforming to the needs



- 15 -
of the traffic anticipated in the near future. The prime objective of the
Third and Fourth Projects was to rebuiid the whole length of the road to
reestablish reliable communications between Port-au-Prince and Cap Hatien,
the regional capital of the Northern region. It was anticipated that
strengthening of some sections would be needed within the first ten years
of service of the road. The Government, although initially inclined to
adopt higher standards, agreed with this approach.  The Government under-
took to instail and operate weigh scales to check overioading. Full
implementation of this undertaking was deiayed (para 2.13). Once the road
was completed, traffic developed much more rapidiy than anticipated, with
a high proportion of trucks. Axle loads were also substantiaiiy higher
than anticipated because of the introduction of heavy trucks and the
prevalence of overloading. This situation has led to the need for
strengthening of certain sections earlier than anticipated (para 4.13).
B.   Ongoing Project
3.05      The Fifth Transport Project, now practically completed (Credit
807-HA, US$15 million, 1978), comprises a road and bridge component and a
coastal shipping component. The road and bridge component essentially pro-
vided for the upgrading and paving of 54 km of roads in the Northern Plains
region, a feeder road to the port of Jeremie, and the reconstruction of two
major structures, the Hyppolite and the Three Rivers Bridges. The coastal
shipping portion includes a pilot port project which provides new terminals
for shallow draft vessels at Port-au-Prince, Port-de-Paix and Jeremie at a
total cost of US$3.5 miiiion.
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A.   Objectives and General Description
4.01      The objectives of this project are to foster execution of high
priority road and bridge maintenance and rehabilitation works prepared
under ongoing projects of IDA and other externai ienders, mainly USAID
(maintenance, training and rural roads) and IDB (secondary roads and upgrading
of primary roads), and to continue IDA's long-term program of institution-
building in the subsector.
4.02      The project comprises:
-    acquisition of equipment for renewal and expansion of SEPRRN's
existing fleet to carry out routine and periodic road maintenance
and rehabiiitation inI accordance with the 1982-1986 Five-Year
Maintenance Program (para 4.05);
-    carrying out of a program of control of weights and dimensions
of vehicles, including the procurement and operation of weighing
equipment and the diligent enforcement of laws and regulations
governing such control;



- 16 -
rehabilitation of 57 bridges and other drainage structures;
rehabilitation and strengthening of 100 km of the Northern Road;
and
a technical assistance component for studies of maintenance
technology and of the domestic construction industry and for
auditing of the project accounts kept by TPTC and SEPRRN.
B.   Maintenance Component
(i) The 1982-1986 Maintenance Program
4.03       Over the last five years, SEPRRN has developed a systematic approach
to the planning, scheduling and control of its annual maintenance programs,.
Appropriate maintenance procedures were defined, tested and implemented
in all the districts and subdistricts (para 2.30). The following targets
were accepted for the program:
1982     1983      1984      1985      1986
Physical Targets (in km and %)
Paved network (km)                      609       637       671       694       699
Percent maintained 1/                   100       100       100       100       100
Gravel network (km)                   1,800    1,950    2,150    2,400    2,700
Percent maintained                       85        95        95       100       100
Kilometers maintained                 1,530    1,755    2,040    2,400    2,700
Earth network (km)                      438       414       368       327       317
Percent maintained                       85        90        95       100       100
Kilometers maintained                   370       370       350       327       317
Budgetary Targets (in US$ Millions) 2/
Type of Operation
Routine                                    4.4       4.7      5.1       5.5       6.0
Periodic                                  4.1        4.4      4.8       5.2       5.7
Subtotal                                8.5        9.1      9.9      10.7      11.7
Rehabilitation                             1.0       3.1      4.5       4.6       4.6
Total                                   9.5       12.2    14.4       15.3      16.3
1/   Total maintenance requirements presented in Table 2.1.
2/   Table 2.4.



- 17 -
4.04      The physical targets for 1982-1986 are based on past performance and
current equipment constraints. Programing of maintenance work would initialiy
give priority to paved roads and then to gravel roads. A number of earth roads
would also receive a gravel surface which, together with rehabilitation and
new construction, wouid expand the gravel road network to some 2,700 km by 1986
from 1,800 km in 1982. Full scale maintenance of the all gravel roads would be
achieved in 1985.
(ii) Maintenance Equipment Requirements
4.05      Based on a review of its equipment inventory, SEPRRN prepared a list
of aging road maintenance equipment which will need replacement to carry out
the 1982-1986 Five-Year Maintenance Program. Furthermore, limited additions
to SEPRRN's list are necessary to meet 100% of the requirements for periodic
maintenance by 1983 and for routine maintenance by 1984. A summary of SEPRRN's
equipment needs is shown in Table 4.1. The increased capacity would also
permit SEPRRN to maintain the national highway network at an improved level of
service (para 2.37). Equipment procurement would be made in two tranches.
IDA's approval f or the purchase of the second tranche would be given only
after a detailed review of maintenance methods to determine the possible scope
for increased reliance on more appropriate labor-intensive technology (paras
4.17 and 4.29).
4.06      Based on present 70% equipment availability, the targets adopted by
SEPRRN concerning equipment utilization and availability are indicated below
and would result in total average utilization of 80%. They reflect anticipated
improvements as well as the relatively low average age of SEPRRN's equipment
after replacements are made under the project.
Target                            %
Equipment availability                         85
Utilization of available equipment              95
Total fleet utilization (85 x 95)            + 80
4.07      The Government confirmed at negotiations that SEPRRN's equipment
would be used only to carry out an agreed program for routine and periodic
maintenance, exciuding SEPRRN from participation in road reconstruction,
which would be contracted to private contractors. The Government also
confirmed that the availability and utilization of SEPRRN's equipment fieet
and the required percentage of total network to be maintained each year
would be monitored on a continuing basis and assessed annuaIly by comparison
with the above norms. The Government additionally confirmed that equipment
management, including systematic planning of renewal overhaul and scrapping,
would be discussed with the Bank at the time of review of SEPRRN's annual
maintenance program and that it would do all in its power to achieve con-
tinued technical assistance financed by USAID. Assurance has been obtained
only for one year. If such assistance would not be forthcoming in subsequent
years, it might have to be financed under the proposed project.



- 18 -
(iii) Control of Overloading
4.08      The only permanent weighbridge station in Haiti, which is located on
the Southern Road, is equipped with a conventional mechanical balance. However,
this equipment breaks down frequently; spares for its repair are not easily
available, and the equipment's downtime is considerable. On other roads of
the national network, including the Northern Road, axle loadings are checked
with small portable equipment.  The Northern Road carries high amounts of
heavy traffic, and portable weighing equipment may be insufficient to analyze
overloading. Control of vehicle and axle loadings for compliance with legaLl
limits is precarious (paras 2.11-2.13), and the Government agreed during nego-
tiations to carry out a program of control of weights and dimensions of
vehicles, including the procurement and operation of weighing equipment and
the diligent enforcement of laws and regulations governing such control, and
to furnish to IDA quarterly reports on the status and progress of the program
starting in July 1982.
C.   Bridges and Other Drainage Structures Component
4.09      An engineering/economic study was prepared under the Fifth Trans-port
Project by consultants DIWI (Germany) to provide an overview of the problem of
bridges and structures and to recommend a five-year program for the rehabilita-
tion and repairs of the existing bridges and construction of new bridges, box
culverts and concrete fords (para 4.02). A total of 350 different drainage
structures was inspected and evaluated, of which 100 were bridges. Only
19 bridges were found in good condition; 31 require minor repairs and
35 intensive repairs; 15 bridges need to be replaced. Because of funding
constraints, only the first share of the program would be accommodated under
the project i.e., 57 structures, including six new bridges and a 2-km road
section (Gimbale bypass) to eliminate the need to replace two fords with
bridges and replacement and/or repair of 51 culverts and concrete fords.
These structures are listed in Table 4.2 and are shown on Map IBRD 15894R.
4.10      The detailed engineering of the structures included under the
project, and of ten additional structures (Table 4.3) which would form the
subsequent phase of the program, is presently being carried out by local
consultants under DIWI's supervision. This preparation work is being financed
through a Project Preparation Facility of US$300,000 extended to the Govern-
ment on August 21, 1981. Funds advanced under the Facility would be refinanced
out of the proposed credit. The engineering, which would be completed by the
end of March 1982, provided a basis to update the cost estimates.
D.   Road Rehabilitation Component
4.11      This priority rehabilitation and strengthening program of some 100 km
of the Northern Road (Port-au-Prince to Cap Haitien), reconstructed to minimal
standards under the Third and the Fourth Highway Projects (Credit 478-HA and
556-HA, US$10 and US$20 million, 1974 and 1975 respectively), was prepared by
the joint venture of consultants Setec (France) and Sohico (Haiti). It
consists of strengthening and improvement of a 56-km mountainous section
between Passe Reine and Roche Halame and an additional 1.5 and 2.7 km in the
Coupe Limbe and Morne Anglais areas respectively; and spot repairs and surface
dressing of two adjacent sections (39.4 km) between Gonaives and Passe Reine
and between Roche Halame and Cap Haitien (Map IBRD 15894R).



- 19 -
4.12      The present pavement structure was designed based on the then existing
low traffic leveis and traffic growth forecasts and the iimited resources avail-
able for the project. 1/ The section from Port-au-Prince to a point 90 km north
of it was constructed with a iight bituminous concrete surface 4 to 6 cm thick;
the remaining 160 km has a double surface treatment. Existing pavement width
varies from 6.5 m in fiat and rolling sections to 6.0 m in the mountainous
sections between Gonaives and Cap Haitien where grades of 8-10% are common and
the alignment is quite winding. When the Northern Road was paved over the
period 1975 to 1977, the quaiity of the works was, with isolated exceptions,
found to be satisfactory and in accordance with agreed design and specifications.
The design was predicated on maximum economy in construction. It was envisaged
that sections of the road where traffic growth would be more rapid than expected
would need strengthening within ten years. The road has been opened to traffic
since i976, and the combination of higher-than-projected traffic and overloading
has led to the need for early pavement strengthening (para 3.04).
4.13      At the time of preparation of the Third and Fourth Highway Projects,
annual traffic growth was estimated at 5-7%, and, based on the selected
engineering criteria, pavement resealing and resurfacing would have been
needed every six to seven years. After the road was opened, traffic grew more
rapidly than anticipated and, at present, reaches 2,500 vpd north of Port-au-
Prince, 600-800 vpd aiong the centrai coastai section south of Gonaives,
and some 300 vpd on the least trafficked northern section between Gonaives and
Cap Haitien. Current traffic levels are 50% higher than those projected at
appraisal in May 1978. Truck and bus traffic is especially heavy on the
central section (270 vpd) and the north section (i50 vpd).
4.14      A detailed technical economic study was carried out by consultants
Setec (France) and Sohico (Haiti) on some 553 km of paved roads, inciuding the
Northern Road (Port-au-Prince to Cap Hatien, 250 km), the Southern Road
(Port-au-Prince to Cayes, 180 km), the Jacmel Road (connecting the South Road
to Jacmel, 43 km), the Mirebaiais Road (connecting Mirebalais to Port-au-Prince,
50 km) and the Ganthier Road (Croix des Bouquets to Fond Parisien, 29-km).
Consultants assigned the highest priority rating for the program to strengthen
and improve a 50-km mountainous section between Passe Reine and Roche Halame,
and to repair and surface-dress a 40-km section near Gonaives. The consuitants'
recommendations were reviewed by IDA, and both sections have been inciuded for
financing under the project. Final engineering by Setec-Sohico, including the
2.1 km of the Gimbale bypass to avoid two fords which would otherwise have to
be replaced by bridges, has been completed.
4.15      There are other sections of the Northern Road and a further 300 km
of roads elsewhere in the country for which reconstruction, rehabilitation
or surface dressing was recommended by consuitants, but which couid not be
included under this project. Nevertheless, final engineering for the Mirebalais
Road (50 km) has been completed by the same consuitants to allow the Government
to look elsewhere for external financing or to serve as a basis for a future
IDA project.
1/   Traffic on individual sections of the Northern Road ranged between 96 and
over 1,000 vehicles per day in 1977, and traffic growth forecasts averaged
about 5%.



- 20 -
E.   Technical Assistance Component
4.16      The project includes a technicai assistance component which is, and
another which is not, directly Linked to other project items. The former is a
study of the most appropriate road maintenance technology. The latter is a
study of the construction industry to update and complement the 1977 National
Transport Study and auditing of the project accounts.
(i) Road Maintenance Technology Study
4.17      As a result of the increasing relative cost of capital goods and the
possibility that too much money is being spent on routine and repeat periodic
maintenance of gravel roads because of the lack of adequate drainage, the Govern-
ment agreed to have a consultant investigate if it would be better to increase
rehabilitation and minor betterments rather than to continue spending high
amounts each year on routine and periodic maintenance. In addition, the
Government agreed that, before increasing its mechanical maintenance capacity
through the purchase of additional equipment, it wouid investigate if improved
effectiveness could be obtained from increased labor-intensive activities and
from systematic reiiance on smali contractors. Agreement was reached during
negotiations that no disbursements would be made under the second tranche
(Table 4.1) of the equipment component until this investigation is completed
and TPTC has reviewed its maintenance methods after consultation with IDA.
This study would be initiated in 1982 and take three months of professional
services to complete. A detailed review, satisfactory to IDA, of SEPRREN's
past field records compiled by maintenance brigades and required to assess the
brigades' cost-effectiveness, would be part of the proposed study. Evaluation
of these records would permit determination of the equipment-intensive
maintenance activities best suited for execution, empioying labor-intensive
technoiogies for periodic maintenance activities.
(ii) Study of the Domestic Construction Industry
4.18      Emphasis would be on the formulation of specific proposals for basic
and vocational training for the industry's managers and skilied workers, and
the training of technicians (project specific and elementary general management,
surveying, cost estimates and control). Three man-months of professional ser-
vices would be sufficient for this study. The study should iead to the adoption
by the Government of a comprehensive program to foster the development of local
contractors, in particular, increased reliance on contractors as an alternative
to the present excessive use of force account operations for periodic maintenance
and feeder road construction.
(iii) Auditing of Project Accounts
4.19      The accounts of the proposed project would be audited yearly by a
firm of auditors acceptabie to IDA. In practice, given the state of the
accounting and auditing profession in Haiti, this wouid most probably mean that
international auditors would have to be hired and paid from project funds (some
US$15,000 per year). This requirement would be consistent with procedures in



- 21 -
force under existing USAID and IDB ioans.  SEPRRN's accounts are aiready audited
by external auditors, and the audited reports are of good quality, inciuding
income statements, balance sheets, and funds statements. The Government con-
firmed at negotiations that it would continue to audit SEPRRN's accounts and
provide IDA with such audit each year starting in 1983 for the year 1982.
Lasting institutionai improvements similar to those being obtained at
Eiectricite d' Haiti and the National Ports Authority are expected from
this auditing effort.
F.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursement
4.20      The total estimated project cost is US$19.2 million, as shown in the
table on the following page. The proposed loan of US$14 million would finance
96% of the foreign exchange cost amounting to 73% of the total cost (100% of the
foreign exchange of the base cost and 73% of the foreign exchange cost of contin-
gencies). The Government would finance the remainder (inciuding about 2% of
taxes) and the expenditures required to carry out the agreed Five-Year Mainte-
nance Program (1982-1986) in the amount of about US$68 million at 1981 prices
(Table 2.4). These expenditures include US$26 million in routine maintenance,
US$24 million in periodic maintenance and US$18 miilion in rehabilitation
works necessary to make roads maintainable. The availabiLity of counterpart
funds and the commitment to fund SEPRRN's program adequately were confirmed
at the time of negotiations.
4.21      The cost of equipment, spare parts, and workshop tools has been esti-
mated on the basis of detaiied iists prepared by consultants (PRC Harris, USA)
and includes local preparation and delivery charges but excludes import duties
and sales taxes. The cost of vehicle-weighing equipment is based on recent
experiences with similar items under Bank-financed projects.
4.22      The cost estimates for civil works for rehabiLitation and strength-
ening of the Northern Road were prepared by consultants (para 4.14), based on
quantities from final engineering and current unit prices for similar works.
The cost estimates for rehabilitation and construction of fords, bridges,
and other drainage structures were prepared by consultants (para 4.09) and
updated on the basis of substantially completed engineering (para 4.10).
4.23      Costs of consulting services for detailed engineering, supervision
of civil works, technical assistance and studies reflected in this project are
estimated at US$1.4 million. These costs are based on recent contracts and
man-month rates for similar services by local and foreign firms. The consul-
tant services costs include costs of vehicles, survey equipment, local trans-
portation, local technicians, overhead and profits, but exclude soils laboratory
costs. Average cost per man-month for engineers is estimated at about US$2,000
for some 125 man-months of Haitian nationals, and about US$11,000 equivalent
for 75 man-months of foreign consultants. The expatriate personnel input com-
prises senior level, high-caliber expertise.



- 22 -
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Cost Estimate by Project Component!/
(in millions of US dollars at end of 1981 prices excluding taxes)
IDA
Local   Foreign       Total  Participation
% of                   % of
Project Components                           Amount  Amount  Total Amount  Amount  Total
1. Road Maintenance Equipment
a.  Maintenance equipment                      0.2      3.6            3.8             94
b.  Spare parts and tools                      0.1      0.6            0.7             94
c.  Vehicle weighing equipment                  -      0.2             0.2             94
Sub-Total                                   0.3     4.4      94    4.7      4.4    94-!
2. Bridges and Other Structures
a. Civil works                                 1.0      2.4     70    3.4              70
b. Final engineering                           0.2      0.1     33    0.3              70
c. Supervision                                 0.1     0.2      80    0.3              70
d. Technical assistance                         -       0.1     80    0.1              70
Sub-Total                                   1.3     2.8      60    4.1      2.9    70
3. Road Rehabilitation
a. Civil works                                 2.0      4.6     70    6.6              70
b. Final engineering                            -       0.1     80    0.1              70
c. Supervision                                 0.1     0.4      80    0.5              70
Sub-Total                                   2.1     5.1      71    7.2      5.0    70
4. Studies and Auditing.                           -       0.1     80    0.1       0.1    70
Total Base Cost                             3.7    12.4      77   16.1    12.4
5. Contingencies
a. Physical 10% of 2 and 3                     0 4      0.8            1.2     1.6    52
b. Price 12% of total base cost3/              IT                   5 I4  TT9          -
Total                                       4.6    14.6      76   19.2    14.0    73
1/ For a breakdown by disbursement category see Table 4.4
2/ Represents 100% of foreign cost
3/ 8.5% in 1982 and 7.5% in 1983-1984



- 23 -
4.24      The foreign exchange component of the civil works is 70% of the
total cost and reflects dependence upon imported supplies, especially fuel and
equipment. This estimate is based upon a detailed analysis of cost components.
It has been assumed that the pavement strengthening and rehabilitation work
would be carried out by a foreign contractor in association with a local firm.
Concerning the bridge component, it has been assumed that local firms would
carry out small and medium size contracts, up to US$500,000, and that large
size contracts would be carried out by a combination of foreign firms and
Haitian firms. The foreign exchange component of consultant services for super-
vision of construction, technical assistance, and detailed engineering has been
estimated at 80% for foreign and 33% for domestic consultants, reflecting
experience with contracts under the ongoing Fifth Highway Project.
4.25      The following expenditures would be eligible for disbursement under
the credit against full documentation:
(a)  100% of the foreign expenditures for direct imports of equipment,
spare parts and workshop tools or 94% of the total expenditures
for locally procured imported equipment spare parts and workshop
tools;
(b)  70% of the total cost for all civil works, for final engineering,
and for supervision of works as well as for other technical assistance.
4.26      The estimated-schedule of disbursement is shown in Table 4.5.  Dis-
bursements are expected to be somewhat slower than those experienced in the past
in Haiti because of the unusual project mix, with a large number of bridges
and structures and equipment purchases to be procured in two phases. The
closing date of the credit is foreseen for June 30, 1985.
G.   Execution and Procurement
4.27      TPTC would be responsible for project execution through the following
departments in accordance with the project implementation schedule shown as
Chart IV.
-    SEPRRN for equipment procurement, including specifications of
the bidding documents and deployment of newly purchased equipment
in accordance with agreed road maintenance program and for a study
of road maintenance technology;
-    SAT for the preparation of engineering designs for the bridge
and road strengthening and rehabilitation programs and for technical
assistance for the Construction Industry Study; and
-    SCS for the execution and supervision of construction, rehabilita-
tion and strengthening works to be carried out under the Bridge
and Road Programs.
4.28      These departments have adequate capacity to carry out the tasks
under the project; however, considering the demands placed on them by projects
financed by other lenders, the absorptive capacity of SAT and SCS would have



- 24 -
to be kept under close review. The Government agreed during negotiations
that it would exchange views periodically with IDA on the staffing of, and
coordination among, the various administrative units of the Ministry charged
with carrying out any part of the project.
4.29      Equipment:  The procurement program for new equipment, including
spare parts, would be carried out in two tranches (Table 4.1) in accordance
with IBRD's Guidelines for Procurement of July 1980 and would indicate lot,
size, estimated cost and proposed exceptions to ICB. Contracts for purchases
of equipment, spare parts or tools which, after grouping according to the
guidelines, are estimated to cost under US$50,000 may be awarded following
local advertising in accordance with the regulations of TPTC. In cases
where equipment is to be purchased under the project as a relatively small
addition to a number of existing similar units, SEPRRN may, if IDA would
agree, and for the purpose of standardization, procure such equipment on the
basis of quotations from established suppliers. Contracts for the purchase of
spare parts of specific makes for existing equipment may be purchased directly
from established deaiers. IDA approval for the purchase of the second tranche
(1983/1984) would be contingent upon the measures mentioned in paragraph 4.17.
The list of equipment included in the second tranche would be adjusted in
accordance with the findings of the review of maintenance technology. SEPRRN,
assisted by consultants, would prepare specifications for the maintenance equip-
ment and spare parts to be acquired under the project, prepare pertinent bidding
documents and evaluate bids presented by suppliers.
4.30      Works:  Civil works for roads and structures totaling about US$12 mil-
lion, including contingencies, would be procured by ICB after prequalifi-
cation of firms, all in accordance with IBRD's Guidelines for Procurement.
Contracts with an estimated cost below US$50,000 would be advertised locally
in accordance with TPTC regulations. Foreign bidders would have the opportunity
to participate.
4.31      For bidding purposes, bridge and other structure works would be
contracted in iots of between US$500,000 and US$1 million each, and the road
rehabilitation component (about US$6.6 million) would be let as one contract.
The proposed division is compatible with the established contracting capacity;
it would ensure satisfactory implementation of the project, and would maximize
participation of local firms without undue risk. Provisions permitting
submission of alternative bridge designs would be included in bid documents.
All bidders wouLd be requested to submit a fully documented bid for the design
included in the bidding documents.
4.32      There are at least two Haitian firms with adequate technical and
financial resources to compete with foreign firms for civil works. Packaging
civil works for bridges would possibly allow up to six other smaller Haitian
firms to present successful bids because the repair and construction work on
reinforced concrete bridges, box culverts, concrete fords and minor repairs to
existing bridges included in the project require low capital and technological
resources.



- 25 -
4.33      Consultants wouid be retained following the Bank's Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants of August 1981. Their selection, qualifications, experi-
ence and terms and conditions of employment would be subject to prior review
and approval by IDA. No withdrawals of the proceeds of the Credit would be
made with respect to civil works until consultants for the supervision of civil
works have been hired. The terms of reference for consulting services for
final engineering designs, supervision of civil works and related technical
assistance were agreed at negotiations (Annexes 2 to 6).
4.34      Review of Procurement Decision.  The Government agreed at negotiations
to submit to IDA, for review and approval, documents used for prequalification
of bidders before qualification is invited; lists of prequalified bidders would
state reasons for exclusion of any applicant. Before inviting submission of
bids, the Government would furnish to IDA, for review and approval, specifica-
tions and other bidding documents together with a description of advertising
procedures. Before a final decision on the award is made, the Government would
inform IDA of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and furnish a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of bids received,
together with recommendations for award.
H.   Monitoring
4.35      The progress of the project would be monitored against the agreed
implementation schedule and financing requirements established at appraisal.
In addition, the following indicators would be monitored to assess advances
made toward the project objectives:
(a)  availability and utilization of maintenance equipment (para 4.06);
(b)  programing and implementation of SEPRRN's annual maintenance pro-
grams (para 4.03);
(c)  periodic reports on weight and dimension controls of trucks using
the roads (para 4.08);
(d)  budgeting and adequacy of funds for the maintenance and reconstruc-
tion program as per agreed schedule (para 4.20); and
(e)  increased labor-intensive activities in road maintenance (paras 4.17
and 4.29).
4.36      In September of each year, SEPRRN would review jointly with IDA
its proposed maintenance budget and work program for TPTC's next fiscal year.
On March 15 of each project year, starting in 1982, SEPRRN would submit to IDA
for review its revised maintenance program through September of that year.
4.37      SEPRRN would be required to keep separate and detaiied records of
production and cost based on actual field records, for each maintenance bridgade,
and determine cost-effectiveness of each brigade; costs would include equipment's
fixed and operating costs, showing the number of productive hours, equipment
downtime and departmental overheads. The latter should indicate the time that
the equipment was in the workshop for servicing. Labor cost would include
salaries, social benefits and allocated supervisory costs.



- 26 -
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The three major components of the project have each been subject to
a separate and distinct analysis. Because each component has a considerable
maintenance element, the rate of return on the whole project and on each
component is expected to be above 20%.
B.   Road Maintenance Component
5.02      The road maintenance component, which was originally supposed to be
financed by USAID, consists mainly of the replacement of road maintenance
equipment which was purchased under a USAID project. This equipment was
carefully selected to fit in an optimum strategy. It will therefore continue
to have a very high economic return. In its present state (37% manufactured
before 1976 and 20% being former US Army surplus equipment), this equipment
requires frequent and costly maintenance. In addition, Haiti does not have
the necessary foreign exchange to replace the equipment, without which not
only would the roads deteriorate, but also costly future expenditures on road
reconstruction would be required. USAID recognizes the need for these expendi-
tures, but is already committed on other projects. A small amount of equip-
ment to increase Haiti's road maintenance capacity would be purchased only
after it has been determined that more labor-intensive operations would not be
a better substitute (para 4.05).
C.   Bridges and Other Drainage Structures Component
5.03      This component and the road rehabilitation component were carefully
prepared by the Association under the ongoing Fifth Transport Project. The
project component consists mainly of deferred maintenance and repair of existing
bridges and other drainage structures, but also includes the construction of a
2,100 meter road section bypassing two existing fords which would otherwise have
had to be replaced by two bridges.
5.04      For every road section, a zone of influence of the road was deter-
mined, and the demographic, spatial and economic data of that zone served as a
basis for estimates of present and future traffic. Wherever relevant, the
modal split between coastal shipping and road transport has been taken into
account to determine expected future traffic flows. Other elements taken into
account are autonomous traffic and generated traffic from pack animals to
vehicles and from one road to another as well as purely generated traffic due
to the creation or improvement of drainage structures.
5.05      The following benefits have been quantified by the consultant:
vehicle operating cost savings of actual and generated traffic, increased on-
farm consumption made possible by the project, savings realized by avoidance
of produce spoilage, accident avoidance benefits and residual values of the
new structures at the end of the analysis period.
5.06      Costs taken into account consist of the economic costs of the invest-
ment proper, the differential maintenance costs, the costs of having to construct
temporary river crossings in case of a fallen bridge, and the maintenance costs
of these temporary structures.



- 27 -
5.07      With these costs and benefits, three types of analysis were made:
the conventional internal rate of return (IRR), the benefit/cost ratio and the
net present value of the benefits caiculations. The results of these three
calculations can be found in Table 5.1. They indicate rates of return between
17 and over 100% with the lowest rates for new construction and the highest
rates for maintenance of existing structures.
5.08      The most important benefits are the vehicle operating cost (VOC)
savings (Tabie 5.2). These savings are the result of cost differentials
between operating different types of vehicles on better access road and bridge
surfaces than would exist without the project. The typical vehicles can be
found in Table 5.2, column 1. They range from a private passenger car with a
cost of USJi5.43 per km on the best road surface to a tanker truck with
a VOC of USg205.2i per km on the worst road surface (a track with a rocky
surface or through a swampy terrain). The present state and the projected
future state of road structures and their access roads are given in Tabie 5.3.
An economic classification of the evolving status of the project roads is given
in Table 5.2.
5.09      A sensitivity analysis of this project item indicates that, even when
VOC savings alone are taken into account as benefits, the rate of return will
still remain positive for all items being selected for the project (Table 5.4).
A sensitivity analysis with constant costs and declining benefits (-20%) or
constant benefits and increasing costs (+15%) also indicates that the rate of
return will remain above 13% for ali structures.
5.10      The selection process of structures was based mainly on rate of
return considerations which made all repairs come out with very high priority.
However, the priority rankings of IRR, B/C ratio and sensitivity tests were
also added up and used for ranking. Finally, some budget constraints had to
be taken into account, which led to the design of some rather expensive
structures (US$1.6 million, Tabie 4.3) which will not be executed under the
project unless the existing structures should fail.
-5.1i      A special analysis was made of the proposed new alignment of a
2,iOO-m section of the Port-au-Prince--Mirebalais road, which would eliminate
two existing fords which would otherwise have to be replaced by bridges. The
rate of return (18%) of that new alignment was considerably higher than the
rate of return on the two new bridges on the existing alignment, and the road
section was therefore included in the structures program.
D.   Road Rehabilitation Component
5.12      The road rehabilitation component was selected from a set of more
than 500 km of roads studied on the basis of the IRR for the selected section.
The IRR was calculated in a straightforward classical way. Only the economic
costs of the investment, the VOC savings based on initial and generated
traffic and traffic growth and the maintenance cost savings were taken into
account. The initial status and the projected status of the road section
under study were expressed in terms of roughness in mm/km. Initial roughness
was measured with a calibrated bumper integrator. Vehicle operating costs



- 28 -
for six different kinds of vehicles (Table 5.5) are in line with Bank experLence
in other parts of the world. The most extreme observations are still rather
modest since the differences between VOC for roughness 2,000 mm/km versus
roughness 4,000 mtm/km are only 17 and 19% respectively for light and heavy
trucks and vary by 30 to 40% for light vehicles.
5.13      The IRR of the reinforcement of the Passe Reine-Roche Halame section
of the Northern Road was calculated by the consultants in four different
sections, each with an IRR of 12 or 13%. Additional investigations have been
under way to determine whether a lighter pavement than the one proposed by
the consultants (3 cm of bituminous concrete and 7 cm of bituminous gravel)
could be adopted.  Annual average daily traffic on the four sections varies
between 270 on the two central ones, 410 on the southern and 290 on the
northern section.  Traffic growth, which averaged more than 10% per annum on
all major roads in Haiti, is expected to continue at a rather high level in
the future.
E.   Risks
5.14      There are no exceptional risks affecting this project.  The road
structures rehabilitation element could suffer implementation delays because of
the attempt to spread the design work among local consultant firms and the works
among local construction firms. The institution-building that should evolve
from this endeavor is warranted even at the cost of some delay. Finally, the
road rehabilitation element is particularly straightforward and does not
present any particular risk.
5.15      The maintenance component is, as usual, the one with the highest
uncertainties. SEPRRN is emerging as a strong institution, and its equipment
maintenance capability is good. The equipment provided under the project would,
therefore, be in good hands. In addition, SEPRRN would need continuation of the
technical assistance now financed by USAID. The confirmation, in principle,
mentioned in paragraph 4.07 would alleviate the risk affecting this element. It
is clear, however, that the provision of related financing would have the usual
uncertainties and risks of delay. The critical element of support for SEPRRN
would be the funding of its operations. The record of the last four years is
good; nevertheless, the proposed levels of spending are high. This aspect
would have to be monitored closely, and SEPRRN's annual programs may have to be
adjusted in case of shortfalls. The assurance mentioned in paragraph 4.07
concerning the autonomous funding of SEPRRN and the restrictions of its
activities to maintenance would maintain the integrity of this institution and
allow it to complete its development.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following:
(a) work program for SAT over the project period (paras 1.16 and 2.19);
(b) no revisions, suspensions or exemptions to existing regulations
on axle load limits to be made without IDA's prior agreement
(para 2.13);



- 29 -
(c) the Government to consult with IDA annually on measures to ensure
adequate coordination among units charged with planning or carrying
out construction of feeder roads (para 2.23);
(d) a schedule to eliminate the entire tax differential between gasoiine
and diesel progressively by the end of 1983 (para 2.43);
(e) SEPRRN's equipment not to be used for road construction (para 4.07);
(f) availability and utilization of SEPRRN's equipment fleet and the
required percentage of total network to be maintained each year
to be monitored on a continuing basis and assessed annually
(para 4.07);
(g) equipment management, incLuding systematic planning of renewal
overhaul and scrapping, to be discussed with the Bank at the time
of review of SEPRRN's annual maintenance program (para 4.07);
(h) quarterly reporting by the Government to IDA on implementation of
its weight and dimension control program (para 4.08);
(i) no disbursements to be made under the second tranche of the equip-
ment component until the road maintenance technology study is
completed and TPTC has reviewed its maintenance methods after
consultation with IDA (para 4.17);
(j) SEPRRN's audited accounts to be made available to IDA starting in
1983 for the year 1982 (para 4.19);
(k) avaiLability of counterpart funds and the commitment to fund
SEPRRN's program adequately (para 4.20);
(i) the Government to review, jointly with IDA, the staffing of, and
coordination among, the administrative units of TPTC involved
in the project (para 4.28);
(m) procurement program, bidding documents and model contracts (paras 4.29,
4.30 and 4.34); and
(n) terms of reference for consulting services for final engineering designs,
supervision of works and related technical assistance (para 4.33).
6.02      Adoption of a system of sanctions for axle load violations, providing
for fines which are proportional to the extent of the violation, as part of the
program of control of weight and dimensions of vehicles, would be a condition
for effectiveness of the Credit Agreement (para 2.13).
6.03      Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for an
IDA Credit of US$14 million; standard IDA conditions are appropriate.
March 8, 1982



- 30 -
TABLE 2.1
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Current and Projected Highway Network 1981-1986
(in kilometers)
Year                1981       1982       1983      1984       1985      1986
Paved roads          576        609        637       671        694       699
Gravel roads        1,650     1,800      1,950     2,150      2,400     2,700
Earth roads           469       438        414       368        327        317
Total km            2,7441/   2,847      2,951     3X1-89     3,421     3,714
Source: SAT
1/ Previous statistics on the total km of the National Network includes an
additional 1,000 km of earth tracks which were to be rehabilitated by
TPTC under "Title 4" with USAID financing. The project has not materialized
and the 1,000 km are no longer part of the National Network.
October 1981



- 31 -
TABLE 2.2
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Rezistration FY1975-1980
(Vehicles in units and growth in percent)
Vehicle Type                 1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980
Passenger Cars             13,448   13,480   14,843   17,379   18,300   22,030
Trucks                      2,167    2,031    2,161    2,828    3,556    3,344
Pick-ups                    2,924    2,354    2,599    3,669    4,774    6,716
Jeeps                       1,479    2,001    2,265    2,807    3,549    3,435
Buses                         318       331       645       849    1,112    1,115
Special Vehicles               87        38        53        62        70        64
Sub-Total                  20,423   20,235   22,513   27,594   31,361   36,704
4otorcycles                   600       864       861    3,187    1,508    1,491
Total                  20,991   21.099   23.374   30,781   324869   38,195
Growth Subtotal in %         n.a.       -         11        23        14        17
Growth  Total    in %        n.a.       1         11        32         7        16
Source: Armed Forces in Haiti, Haitian Institute of Statistics
October 1981



- 32 -
TABLE 2.3
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Imports, 1970-1980
(Number in units and growth in percent)
Fiscal 2        Passenger Cars            Commercial Vehicles
Year          Number. Growth               Number  Growth
1970              910    n.a.                  827    n.a.
1971             1178    29                   1017    23
1972             1068   - 9                    916   -10
1973              886   -17                   1532    67
1974             1148    30                   1645     7
1975             1043   - 9                   1329   -19
1976             1492    43                   1154   -13
1977             1525     2                   1425    23
1978             2507    64                   2090    47
1979             3081    23                   1161   -44
1980             2630   -15                   1214     5
Total           1468                         13514
Annual Growth
1970-1980                11                            8
1970-1975                15                           10
1975-1980                20
1/ Excluding duty free vehicles, which are reportedly a significant,
but unsubstantiated number.
2/ Fiscal year is from October l to September 30.
Source: Haitian Institute of Statistics and Ministry of Finance
February 1982



- 33 -
TABLE 2.4
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SEPRRN's Maintenance Expenditures
Actual FY1977-1981 and Budgets FY1982-1986 at 1981 prices
(in millions)
Actual Expenditures                         Annual
Years        1977        1978      1979       1980         1981         Growth
Gourdes       8.8        13.4      17.2       25.8         39.0
US$           1.8         2.7        3.4       5.2          7.8           45
SEPRRN's Maintenance Budget Requirements, 1982-19861/
(at 1981 prices)                       Annual
Years        1982        1983      1984       1985         1986        Increase
Gourdes      46.5        61.0      72.0       76.5         81.5
US$           9.5        12.2      14.4       15.3         16.3           15
of which
Routine       4.4         4.7       5.1        5.5         6.0
Periodic .'    4.1        4.4       4.8        5.2         5.7
Rehabilita-   1.0         3.1       4.5        4.6          4.6
tion
1/ Approved by Ministries of Finance and TPTC (Five-Year Maintenance Program FY1982-
1986). Fiscal year is from October 1, previous year to Sept. 30 of indicated vear.
Assumptions (in US$): Routine Maintenance: paved roads 2000, gravel roads 1600
and earth roads 800 per km; periodic maintenance: paved roads 14,000 per km every
seven years; gravel roads 8000 every five years; rehabilitation about 15,000 per
km.
2/ The proposed Road Maintenance Technology Study will analyze to which extent periodic
maintenance and rehabilitation should be done by SEPRRN or by contractors.
Source: SAT
October 1981



- 34 -
TABLE 2.5
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Classification and Distribution of SEPRRN's Maintenance Brigades
ki.n un3tsj
Type of Brigade  Intervention   Regrading   Bridge   Hand    Asphalt    Total
Type of                                                     Routine
latervention        Periodic       Routine   Periodic Routine Patching
and
Routine
Location
Districts
Port-au-Prince          1             1         1       13         8          24
Cap Haitien             1             2         1       13         5          22
Gonaives                1             1         1        7         2          12
Hinche                  1             1         1        7         -          10
Les Cayes               1             1         1        8         4          15
Jeremie                 1             1         1        8         -          11
Sub-Districts
Port de Paix            -             1         -        7         -           8
St. Marc                -             1         -        7         3          11
Mirebalais              -             1         -        6         1           8
Jacmel                  -             1         -        6         3          10
Petitgoave              -             1         -        8         2          11
Total units             6            12         6       90        28         142
Source: SEPRRN
October 1981



- 35 -
TABLE 2.6
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SEPRRN Assignment of Maintenance Equipment
Total      Central  Districts and
Needed for   Garage   Subdistricts   Intervention   Regrading                Hand           Asphalt        Bridge
Description                     Program      Total   Each   Total   Each   Total  Each  Total  Each  Total  Each  Total  Each  Total
Bulldozers                            12           -       -         -        1       6        1      6
Loaders Front-end                       8          -       -         2()      1       6        -      -
Loaders Backhoe                       11           -       -         -        1       6        1      5       -      -       -      -       -   -
Dump Trucks                           97           -       -         -        5      30        1    16       0.5   45               -        1   6
Graders                               24           -       -         -        2      12        1    12                -      -              -   -
Lubrication Trucks                     6           6       -         -        -       -        -      -       -      -
Service Trucks                         6           6       -         -        -       -       -       -       -      -
Fuel Trucks                            2           2                 -       -        -       -           -      -       -       -
Tractors Industrial                   12           -       -         -        2      12       -       -       -      -
Water Trailers                        24           -       -         -        2      12        1    12        -      -
Compactors (Self-Propelled)            -           -       -         -        -       -       -       -       -      -       -      -       -   -
Steel Rollers 12-15 T            6           -       -         -        1       6        -      -       -      -       -      -       -   -
Vibro Rollers 15 T              11           -        -        -        1        6       1      5       -
Vibro Rollers 1.5 T             29           -       -         -        -        -       -      -       -    15       0.5   14         -
Walk-Behind Rollers 3 T               10           -       -         -        -       -        -      -       -      -      (b)   10        -   -
Flatbed Trucks                         4           4            -             -       -       -      -        -      -       -      -       -   -
Sedans                                 8           8       -         -        -       -       -      -        -      -       -      -       -   -
Utility Vehicles                      34          12       2        22        -       -        -      -       -      -       -      -       -   -
Pickup Trucks                         47           3       -         -        2      12        1    12        -      -      0.5   14        1   6
Truck Tractors                         3           3            -        -            -       -       -       -      -       -      -       -   -
Trailer 20-25 T                        4           4       -         -        -       -        -      -       -      -       -      -       -   -
Asphalt Kettle                        14           -        -        -        -        -       -      -       -      -      0.5   14         -   -
Asphalt mixers and warmers            10           -        1(c)    10        -        -       -      -       -      -       -      -        -   -
Concrete mixers                        6           -        1        6        -       -        -      -       -      -       -      -        -   -
Welders 300 amp.                      16           -        1(d)    10        -        -       -      -       -      -       -      -        1   6
Air Compressors 275 CFM                 6          -        -        -        -        -       -      -       -      -       -      -        1   6
Fork Lift 3 T                           1          1        -        -        -       -        -      -       -
Yard Crane 3 T                          1          1        -        -        -        -       -      -       -
(a) One assigned to North Road
One assigned to Jacmel Road
(b) As required
(c) Assigned to districts serving the North and Jacmel Roads
(d) Except Port-au-Prince district.
Source: SEPRRN
October 1981



- 36 -
TABLE 2.7
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Government's Current and Capital Expenditures for Roads, FY'1976-1981
kin mililons ot US dollars)
Est.
1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980  1981
TPTC Operating Expenditures          1.9   1.3    2.1      2.0    2.6    2.7   3.0
SEPRRN Maintenance Expenditures g   2.0   3.9    4.0       3.5    5.4   10.2  11.2
Government financed                0.8   2.2    1.8      2.7    3.4    5.2   7.8
USAID financed                     1.2   1.7    2.2      1.0    2.0    5.0   3.4
Investment Expenditures             23.6  45.6   42.7    56.9   36.5   40.3  60.0
Totals                        26.8  49.8   48.8    62.6   44.5   53.2  74.2
Government Financing                 n.a. 18.0   20.0    31.4   23.9   28.8   3.3
External Financing                   n.a. 31.8   28.8    31.2   20.6   24.4  70.9
1/ October 1 to September 30
2/ Includes capital expenditures for new equipment
Source: Ministry of Planning and TPTC
October 1981



- 37 -
TABLE 2.8
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Revenue from Road User Charges FY 1974-1980
(in millions of US dollars)
1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
Taxes on fuel and lubri-
_cants-/                     3.11    4.25    3.97    4.50    5.85    6.68    7.86
Import duties                 1.63    2.84    4.37    6.73    3.61    6.29    4.65
On vehicles                   1.20    2.38    3.66    5.63    3.09    5.17    3.50
On spare parts               0.17    0.19    0.24    0.30    0.28    0.32    0.35
On tires                     0.26    0.27    0.47    0.80    0.24    0.80    0.802/
Registration fees3/           0.76    0.81    0.87    1.19    1.32    1.41    1.29
Drivers permits               0.10    0.11    0.13    0.15    0.11    0.12    0.12
5.60    8.01    9.34   12.57   10.62   14.50   13.922.!
1/ Includes import duty and excise taxes
2/ Mission estimates
3/ Includes tax on first refistration, subsequent annual registration and inspection
fees (Taxes Specifiques .
Source: SAT and Ministry of Finance: Customs and Administration Generale des
Contributions
October 1981



- 38 -                                 TABLE 2.9
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Petroleum Consurption by Economic Sectors, 1978-1979
(1000 barrels per year)
1978                    1979
Sector                                 Volume      %            Volume     %
Industry 1/                              786     46.7            769     43.0
Gasoline                               47       2.8             494/    2.7
Middle Distillates                     270     16.0            296     16.5
Bauxite                              -                        28
Electricite d'Haiti                 123                      139
Others 2/                           147                      101
Fuel Oil                              469      27.9            424     23.7
Bauxite                               27                      25
Cement                              287                      277
Electricite d'Eaiti                  25                       26
Others 3/                           130                       96
Transport                                761     45.2            858     47.9
Domestic                               665     39.5            718     40.1
Road Trangnort                      631      37.5            681.    38.0
Gasoline                          335                      34
Diesel                            296                      332
Aviation Gasoline                     34      2.0             37      2.1
International Jet Fuel                  96      5.7            140      7.8
Residential & Commercial                  82      4.9             89      5.0
LPG                                     22                      30
Kerosene                                60                      59
Speciality Products                       55      3.3             74      4.1
Total                   1,684    100.0          1.790    100.0
Source: Oil Companies
1/ Includes industry as well as part of the service sector
21 Includes consumption for power generation in industrial establishments and in
the service sector, such as potable water company, hotel industry and others.
3/ Obtained as a residual.
4/ Compares witha total for industry and transport of 349,000 in 1980
February 1982



- 39 -                               TABLE 2.10
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Evolution of Retail Prices for
Gasoline and Diesel Fuel, 1974-1981
(US$/gallon)
Gasoline           Difference            Diesel
January 9, 1974               .84                  .34                .50
February 8, 1974              .94                  .31                .63
May 1, 1975                   .92                  .32                 .60
March 5, 1976                 .94                  .31                 .63
March 2, 1977                 .97                  .32                 .65
March 1, 1979                1.06                  .41                 .65
June 1, 1979                 1.29                  .57                 .72
August 8, 1979               1.58                  .78                 .80
September 2, 1979            1.58                  .73                .85
February 20, 1980            1.85                  .78               1.07
August - 1980                1.85                  .68               1.17
March - 1981                 2.15                  .98               1.17
Source: SAT and Bank mission
ebrUa5ry 1982



- 40 -
TABLE 2.11
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Petroleum Products -- Estimated Price Structure as of March 19817
(in US Dollars per US gallon)
Gasoline               Diesel
Actual    Phase I   Phase I__
Average Postings in Caribbean                     0.986       0.940      0.940     0.940
Freight, Insurance & Wharfage                    0.057       0.060     0.060      0.060
Price CIF                                         1.043       1.000     1.000      1.000
Import Duty                                       0.644         -       0.150      0.644
Excise Tax                                        0.220         -       0.050      0.220
Marketing Margin                                  0.143       0.100     0.100      0.100
Dealers Margin                                    0.100       0.070     0.070      0.070
Final Consumers Price                             2.150       1.170     1.370      2.034
Phase I = Before Board Presentation
Phase II = By end of 1983
Source: SAT and Bank mission
1/ Date of latest substantial change
2/ Or an equivalent combination.
February 1982



HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SEPRRN: Replacement and Additional Equipment Required for 1982-1986 Period
Equipment Units                                       In Thousand of US$and 1981 Prices
Total Needed                 Equipment                  Total      Procurement   Unit                               Total
Description               for Program   On Hand   Retire  Replac.   Added   Purch.   82    3/84 Price   1982/83   1982/84  Eip. Cost
Bulldozers                         12            14          6        4         -        4          1       3      90        90        270           360
Loaders Front-end                   8            12          5        1          -        1                1      54         -          54           54
Loaders Backhoe                    11            12          4        3         -         3         -       3      35         -        105           105
Dump Trucks                        97            88         30       30         9       39         19      20      25       475        500           975
Graders                            24            21         10       10         3       13          5       8      65       325        520           845
Lubrication Trucks                  6             7          4        3         -         3         3       -      40       120           -          120
Service Trucks                      6             -          -        -         6        6          6       -      14        84          -            84
Fuel Trucks                         2             4          2        -         -        -          -       -       -         -          --
Tractors, Industrial               12             -          -        -        12       12         12       -      15       180           -          180
Water Trailers                     24            13          -        -        11        11         3       8       7        21          56           77
Cumpactors: (Self-propelled)
Steel Rollersl2-l5 Ton           6             6          -        -         -        -          -      -       -          -          -             -
Vibro  Rollers   15 T           11            11          -        -         -        -          -      -        -         -          -             -
Vibro  Rollers   1.5 T          29           29          10       10         -       10          5       5     10         50         50           100
Walk-Behind Vibros 3 T          10             -          -        -        10       10          5       5     14         70         70           140
Flatbed Trucks                      4             9          5        -         -        -          -       -       -         -          -             -
Sedans                              8             8          3        3         -        3          3       -       7        21          -            21
Utility Vehicles                   34            34         16       16         -       16          8       8       9        72          72          144
Pickup  Trucks                     47            60         26       26         -       26         13      13       8       104        104           208
Truck Tractors                      3             3          1        1         -         1         -       1     45          -         45            45
Trailers 20-25 Ton                  4             7          -        -         -        -          -       -       -         -          -_
Air Compressors 275 CFM             6             3          1        1         3        4          2       2      18        36          36           72
Welders, 300 AMP                   16            16          4        4         -         4         2       2       5        10         10            20
Fork Lift, 3 T capacity             1             1          1        1         -        1          1       -     21         21          -            21
Yard Crane 3 T Capacity             1             1          1        1         -         1         1       -      21        21          -            21
Concrete Mixers                     6             6          2        2         -        2          2       -       5        10                       10
Asphalt Kettles                    14            24          -        -         -        -          -       -       -         -          --
Asphalt Mixers/Warmers             10             3          -        -         7         7         7       -      10        70          -            70
Subtotal                                                                                                            1,780      1,892         3,672
Spare Parts 20%                                                                                                             356        378           734
Equipment tor vehicle weighing                                                                                              200         -            200
Additional equipment for
Bridge Brigades                                                                                                              65                       65
Workshop Tools                                                                                                               68         -             68
Totals                       412          392         157      116        61      117        98      79             2,469      2,270         4,739
Source: SEPRRN
September 1981



- 42 -                                              TABLE 4.2
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Program for Construction, Rehabilitation and Repair of Bridges, Box Culverts and Concrete Fords
(dimensions in meters, costs in thousands of US dollars)
Structure                                     Dimension Road at  Typeof                   Costs                            AATI/
Identif.                                      Structure Bridge   Work_1/ Construction   Road at            Repair      1980    1990   IRR
No.               Road Section                       Approach               firm         Bridge                                      %
Approach                 ~~~~Approach
12.1-01       Mirebalais-Las Cahobas          3x2.0x2.0  50        RBC (UA)   38.6            7.7                      58     180      120
12.1-02                                         .5, s 5.3           BR          -             -               4.8
12.1-03                                         6.Cx5.5             BR          -             -               1.2
12.1-04                                         5.OxS.9             BR          -             -               1.5
12.1-05                                        70.3 x 4.7           BR           -            -              34.9
12.1-06                                         5.8                 BR          -             -               1.8
12.1-07                                         3x2.0     50       RBC (VA)   38.6            7.7
12.1-08                                        36x12 .0             BR          -             -               2.3
12.1-09                                       22.3 x5 .6            BR          -             -              41.2
12.2-02       Las Cahobas-Belladere            6.2x 7.5             BR          -             -               3.1      13      5 4     101
12.2-03       Dominican Republic border       22.7x 5.7             BR          -             -              62.0
11.2-01       Croix des Bouquets-              5.Ox 8.9             BR          -             -               8.3    341      824      119
Thomazeau Intersection
1.2-01       Trou du Nord-Terrier Rouge    46.5x 4.9               BR          -             -              46.0      53     1:L7      45
1.3-01       Terrier Rouge-                   7.4x 7.8             BR          -             -               2.8      27      68       67
1.3-02       Ft. Liberte Intersection         7..2x 5 .6           BR          -             -               9.4
1.3-03                                       22.0x 5.8             BR          -             -              17.3
1.4-01       Carrefour Ft. Liberte-           4.3x 7.7              BR         -             -               4.2      15      30       17
1.4-02       Ouanaminthe-Dominican            7.5x 7.7              BR         -             -               3.6
1.4-04       Republic border                 19.Sx 5.4              BR         -             -             123.0
1.4-05                                       18.8x 5.9              BR         -             -               7.7
1.4-06                                       18.3x 7.7              BR         -             -               9.9
1.4-07                                        S.Sx 7.7              BR         -             -               1.7
4.1-02       Carrefour Dolant-Gros Morne    7.2, 5.4                BR         -             -               4.0     174    404    2168
4.2-06       Gros Morne-Port-de Paix         11. 5:7.7              BR         -             -               7.2      69    15B       200
4.2-09                                        8.4 ,4.7              BR         -             -               5.0
24.0-01       Pont Sur La Riviere Grande   118.9x6.3                 BR         -             -              23.8      55    135        71
Anse
21.2-02       Houck-Port Salut                  5.6 86.0             BR         -             -               1.7      41    13'5      181
Sub-Total Page 1                           100                   77.2         15.4          428.4



-    -                                            TABLE 4.2
Page 2 of 2
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Program for Construction, Rehabilitation and Repair of Bridges, Box Culverts and Concrete Fords
(dimension in meters, costs in thousands of US dollars)
Structure                                Dimension Road at Type of                    Costs                     AAnD4l.
Identif.                                 Structure  Bridge  Work 1/                    Road at  Repair      1980    1990    IRR
No.                  Road Section                Approach              Construction Bridge                                  %
No.                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Anoroach
16.1-01         Jacmel-Cayes Jacmel           7.6            BR             -            -        4.6         89     210      24
16.1-02                                    3x2x2       50    NBC           38.6         6.0        -
16.1-03                                    4x2x2       50    RBC           48.4         6.8        -
16.1-04                                                      NF            23.7         1.9        -
8.1-01         Catrefour Menard-       10.0x7.8                            -            -       30.6         80      219     34
8.1-02         Dondon-St. Raphael       2x2.0x2.0    50    NBC (UA)       28.6         6.6        -
8.1-03                                  2x2.0x2.0    50    RBC (UA)       28.6         6.6        -
8.1-04                                    2.0x2.0    50    RBC (UA)       18.6         6.5        -
8.1-05                                    16.0x9.2  950    RB  (UA)    157.5         107.7        -
8.2-01                                    20.2x6.1          BR                                  29.8
8.2-02                                    3x2.0x2.0  50    RBC (UA)       38.6         6.3
8.5-01         Pont Sur La Riviere
Guayamouc-Hinche         137.5x5.5          BR             -             -      92.4          38      93     44
2.1-01         Limbe-Port Margot        4x2.0x2.0    50    RBC (UA)       48.4         7.8        -          21       76     20
2.1-02                                  3x2.ox2.0    50    RBC (UA)       38.6         8.2        -
2.1-03                                  2x2.Ox2.0   50    RBC (UA)        28.6         7.2        -
2.1-04                                  2x2.0x2.0    50    RBC (UA)       28.6         6.9        -
2.1-05                                     2.0x2.0    50    NBC (UA)      18.6         6.0        -
2.2-02         Port Margot-Le Borgpe   2x2.Ox         50    RBC (UA)      28.6          7.3       -           12      51    36
5.1-01         Port-de-Paix-St. Louis  2x2.Ox         50    NBC (UA)      28.6          6.0       -          184     375     34
5.1-02          du Nord                 2x2.0x        50    UBC (UA)      28.6          6.0       -
5.1-03                                     16.0x     400    NB  (PA)    146.1          55.6       -
5.1-04                                     16.Ox     400    NB  (PA)    146.1          55.6       -
5.1-05                                  2x 2. x2.     50    NB  (PA)      28.6          6.0       -
5.1-06                                  3x 2.0x2.     50    NBC (PA)      38.6          6.0       -
5.1-07                                  3x 2. Ox2.    50    RBC (PA)      34.0         10.0       -
20.0-01         Cavaillon-Barraderes    3x2.0x2.0    50    NBC (UA)        34.0          5.1       -            7      22     87
20.0-02                                      100 m           NF  (UA)      17.5          1.4       -
20.0-03                                       50 m           NF  (UA)       8.7          0.8       -
Carrefour Ihomazeau-
11.3-00         Mirebalais                               2100 Road in lieu of bridges 748.3        -         206      465     24
11.3-03                                     16.Ox9.2  400    RB  (PA)    166.6          65.5       -
11.3-04                                   2xl6.Ox9.2  400    RB  (PA)    246.7          77.2       -
Sub-Total Page 2                    5,550               1,498.1      1,235.3  157.4
Total Pages 1 & 2                   5,650               1,575.3      1,250.7  585.8
I AADT Average Annual Daily Traffic
BR - Bridge repairs                                                NB - Construction of new bridge
RB - Replacement of existing structure with bridge                 NBC - Construction of new box culvert
RBC - Replacement of existing structure with box culvert           NF - Construction of new concrete ford
UA - Acces road unpaved
PA - Paved access road
Source: TPTC (DIWI Consultants)
September 1981



HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Bridges, Box Culverts and Concrete Fords to be Designed Only Under the Project 1/
Structure                            Road    Type of              Costs
Identification           DImensions_ AceRs,   Work.2/   Construction    Design
Road Section                      No.                      Meters                              US$ dollars
Carrefour-Ft. Liberte                       3/
Dominican Republic Border        1.4 - 03 -             16.0 x 9.2   620       RP  PA       380,250        19,015
Hinche-Carrefour Menard            8.3 - 01        3 X  16.0 x 9.2   800         NB  UA        574,000       28,700
Hinche-Thomassique                 9.2 - 01        2 X  16.0 x 9.2   600         NB  UA        341,700       17,085
Jeremie-Moron                     23.1 - 01        2 X   2.0 x 2.0    50         RBC UA         35,950        1,800
23.1 - 02        2. X   2.0 x 2.0    50        NBC UA        34,600        1,730
23.1 - 03               2.0 x 2.0    50        NBC UA        24,620        1,230
23.1 - 04               2.0 x 2.0    50        NBC UA        34,600        1,730
Dame Marie-Anse d'Hainault        23.3 - 01        3 X   2.0 x 2.0   100         RD  UA         50,370        2,520
23.3 - 02        3 X   2.0 x 2.0    50         NBC UA        45,000        2,250
23.3 - 03        3 X   2.0 x 2.0    50         RBC UA        50,370        2,520
2,320                 1,571,460        78,580
t
1/ These structures will be designed and financing for their execution will have to be found from another source.
2/ See footnote one Table 4.2
3/ The existing bridge will be kept operational under the routine maintenance program with minimal outlays
Source: TPTC (DIWI Consultants)
September 1981



- 45 -
TABLE 4.4
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Cost Estimate by Disbursement Category
(in millions of US Dollars at end of 1981 prices excluding taxes)
IDA participation
Local  Foreign  Total   Amount           %
1. Purchase of Equipment
Spare parts and Tools                      0.3      4.4      4.7      4.4         941!
2. Civil Works                                 3.0     7,0    10.0        7,0         70
3. Final Engineering  (PPF)                    0.2     0.3      0.5       0.3         70
4. Supervision of Works                        0.2     0.6      0.8       0.6         70
5. Studies and Auditing                         -      0.1      0.1       0.1         70
6. Base cost                                   3.7    12,4    16,1       12.4
7. Physical Contingencies                      0.4     0.8      1.2
1.6        52
8. Price Contingencies2/                       0.5     1.4      1.9
9. TOTAL                                       4.6    14.6    19.2       14.0         73
1/ Represents 100% of foreign cost
2/ 8.5% in 1982 and 7.5% in 1983-1984
Source: Mission Estimates
October 1981



- 46 -
TABLE 4.5
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IDA Disbursement Schedule
(in millions of US dollars)
Project
Financial
Policy
IDA Fiscal Year     Quarterly      Cumulative Disbursement       Analysis   1/
and Quarter       Disbursed       Amount            %          Department-
FY 1983
December 1982         0.5          0.5                 4             14
June 1983              3.0         3.5                25             37
FY 1984
December 1983          4.3         7.8                56             81
June 1984              2.6        10.4                74             90
FY 1985
December 1984          2.5        12.9                92             96
June 1985              1.1        14.0               100            100
I/ Profile of past IDA disbursement for highway projects in Haiti
Source:   Mission Estimates
February 1982



- 47 -
TABLE 5.1
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Bridges and Other Drainage Structures Component
Results of Benefit-Cost Analysis
(Net present value in thousands of US dollars)
NPV of Benefits
Section                                             IRR                       at 8%
No.                Name                           in %     B/C Ratio   Discount Rate
1.2        Trou du Nord-Terrier Rouge              45        4.8           109.8
1.3        Terrier Rouge-Fort Liberte Inters.   67          10.4           264.6
1.4        Fort Liberte-Quanaminthe-Port
Massacre(Dominican border)           17         1.8           431.6
2.1        Limbe-Port Margot                       20        2.3           262.4
2.2        Port Margot -le Borgne                  36        5.5          4636.2
4.1-02     Crrf. Dolant-Gros Morne              2168         n.a.           n.a.
4.2-06/09  Gros Morne-Port de Paix               200         n.a.           n.a.
5.1        Port de Paix-St. Louis du Nord          34        4.O          1889.8
8.1/2      Crrf. Menard-Dondon-St.Raphael          34        3.9          1437.7
8.5        Pont Guayamouc-Hinche                   44        5.1           235.4
11.2-01     Croise de Bouquets-Thomazeau Inters.119           n.a.           n.a.
11.3        Crrf. Thomazeau-Mirebalais             206        n.a.           n.a.
12.1        Mirebalais-Las Cahobas                1120       35.5          5485.5
12.2-02/03  Las Cahobas-Belladere-Border           101        n.a.           n.a.
16.1        Jacmel-Cayes Jacmel                     24        2.5           206.8
20.0        Cavaillon-Barraderes                    87        8.0           491.5
21.2-02     Houck-Port Salut                        18        n.a.           n.a.
24.0        Pont sur la Riviere de la Grande        71       42.6           519.2
IRR = Internal Rate of Return
B/C = Benefit/Cost
NPV = Net Present Value
CRRF= Carrefour or Intersection
Source: DIWI
September 1981



- 48 -                                    TABLE 5.2
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Bridges and Other Drainage Structures Component
Vehicle operating costs per km on different road surfaces with nine representative vehicles
(in US cents)
_-        -r-l         @        l    *    i__ __                        _ -  i---
Private       c o v  V  15,43      17,78       25,79      22.81      29,10      41,86      50,28
Passenger   Q' Q   |               1,04  18,49  26,83     24,17      30,84      44,37       53.30
Car           Q., Q     1 7.26      9 I91     28,19       26,00      33,17      47,58       57,32
C 0 V     17, 04     19,13      26,02   1     23,88    29,45      38,75       47,17
Tap-Tap       Q'Q Q,     7.s8J     20,09      27,32       25,55      31,51      41,46       50,47
Q" Q-     19,13      21,81      29,66       27,46      33,87      44,56       54,25
C 0 V      7,41      19,89      29,33       26,29      35,01      45,15       58,95
Mini-bus   |      Q,    !8,59      20,89       30,B0      28,13      37,46      48,31       63,08
_   _ _Q Q.^    2.4l2,13  22,27  33,44   30,24       40,25      51,92      67,80
C 0 V     36,22   I  41,27       52,501     49,41      63,13      78,33      109,35
Truck         Q, Q,     3U, 3      4 3,33|   55,13        52,87      67,55       83,81     l17,02
Q|   Q.   411,93     46,b4      59 33       57, 32     l 3,23     90,86      126.86
4-wheel       c o v     25,'94     29,56       38, 33     33,54      42,83      51,40       6m168
Drive         Q' Q,     26,9(9      30,74      401,49     35,09      14.98       53,97      64,76
Q" Q-     29,0(5     33,11 I     43,6i      37,90      48,40      58,08       6s,70
C 01 V    29,61      33,12      42,6;       40,07      46,72      64,54       85.13
Pick-up       Q,' Q      30,79      34,78 V    44,30      42.41      49,52       68,41      90.24
" Q9.    33,16       31,(0)     43,2Z       45,68      53,26      73,565      97(15
C 0 V     24,40      26,51       36,95      32,39      43,91      56.91       71,36
Light         Q, Q,'    25,62       27,84      38 ,80     34,65      46, 98      60,89      76.36
!Truck         Q Q..    21,57  |   29,96        41i 76     37,57     o50,93      66,01       62 78
Hteavy      |c o v        51,5S     55,24      71,13      67,23      86,7o      115,h6     159,28
Truck         Q, Q' *   54,13   1    1,3)|  74,68         71,93      92,77      123.75   1|7043
_        I__   7"Q Q-  57,65     64,68      80 38       77,99     100,57     134,16     184,76
Tanker        C O V      64,81      71,(19     86,44      80,90      104,39     135,20     i76,90
|Truck         Q, Q*     681(5      75,-4      A1 76       86.56     111,70     144,66    |89,29
0" 0-=  ! ° oI  73,23  8 81,33       47 67  . .3,R4   121,09     156,83     205,21
Q1: Modern well maintained flat road with adequate drainage and a bituminous surface allowing
easy circulation at average speeds of 70-80 km/h for passenger cars and 60 km/h for most
other vehicles.
Q2: Reasonbly good bituminous road with acceptable level of maintenance, slightly deteriorated
riding surface, average speeds 60 and 50 km/h for passenger cars and other vehicles respectively.
Q3: Bituminous road with important damage on the riding surface, average speeds 40 and 30 km/h
respectively
Q   Good gravel road during dry season but with drainage problems during rainy season.  Average speed
45 km/h for passenger cars but substantially slower after rain.
Q   Gravel or earth roads with damaged riding surface, protruding large stones and pebbles and very
difficult sections after rain. Frequent changes in speed necessary even in dry season. Average
speed 25-30 km/h.
Q6: Road with riding surface almost exclusively in loose large stones. Impassable for light vehicles
during and immediately after rains. Average speed 15-20 km/h.
Q7: Rocky track or track through swampy terrain. During and after rain only passable by 4-wheel drive
vehicles. Average speed in dry season 10 km/h for jeeps and 5-10 km/h for trucks.
Q': Curvy bituminous surface road with longitudinal slopes of 3-6%.
Q": Curvy bituminous surface road with longitudinal slopes of 6-12%.
Q*: Curvy gravel road or track with longitudinal slopes of 3-6%.
Q**: Curvy gravel road or track with slopes of 6-12%.
Source: DIWI
September 1981



- 49 -
TABLE 5.3
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Bridges and Other Drainage Structures Component
Present and Projected Future State of Bridges and other Structures and their Access Roads
(length in meters)
Future Status
Structure        Length                  Without Project               With Project
Identification    Section    Status!/               Year of                      Year of
No.           Studied      1980    Quality Modification        Quality   Modification
1.2-01            200         Q4        Q7        1986             *           *
1.3-01            100         Q4        Q7       1990              *           *
1.3-02            100         Q4        Q7       1986              Q7         1996
1.3-03            100         Q4        Q7       1986              Q7         1996
1.4-01            100         Q4        Q7       1986              Q7         1993
1.4-02            100         Q4        Q7        1991             Q7         2001
1.4-03            650         Q4        Q7       1982              Q1         1983
1.4-04            100         Q4        Q7        1984             Q7         1989
1.4-05            100         Q4        Q7       1991              Q7         2001
1.4-06            100         Q4        Q7       1986              Q7         1996
2.1-01             50         Q4        Q7       1982              Q4         1983
2.1-02             50         Q4        Q7       1982              Q4         1983
2.1-03             50         Q4        Q7       1982              Q4         1983
2.1-04             50         Q4        Q7       1982              Q4         1983
2.1-05             50         Q4        Q7        1982             Q4         1983
2.2-02             50         Q4        Q7        1982             Q4         1983
4.1-02            100         Q4        Q7        1984             Q7         1989
4.2-06            100         Q4        Q7        1986             Q7         1993
4.2-09            200         Q4        Q7        1986             Q7         2001
5.1-01             50         Q5        Q7        1982             Q4         1983
5.1-02             50         Q6        Q7        1982             Q5         1983
5.1-03            400         Q7        Q7         -               Q1         1983
5.1-04            400         Q7        Q7         -               Q1         1983
5.1-05             50         Q4        Q7        1982             Q4         1983
5.1-06             50         Q4        Q7        1982             Q4         1983
5.1-07             50         04        97        1982             Q4         1983
8.1-01            100         Q4        Q7        1991             *           *
8.1-02             50         Q4        Q7        1982             Q4         1983
8.1-03             50         Q4        Q7        1982             Q4         1983
8.1-04             50         Q4        Q7        1982             Q4         1983
8.1-05            650         Q4        Q7        1982             Q1         1983
8.2-01            100         Q4        Q7        1986             Q7         1990
8.2-02             50         Q4        Q7        1982             Q4         1983



- 5C -
TABLE 5.3
Page 2 of 2
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Bridges and other Drainage Structures Component
Present and Projected Future State of Bridges and other Structures and their Access Roads
(length in Teters)
Future Status
Structure       Length                 Without Project               With Project
Identification    Section    Status!              Year of                      Year of
No.          Studied      1980    Quality Modification       Quality   Modification
8.5-01           100         Q1        Q7        1986             *           *
11.2-01           100         Q1        Q4        1986             *           *
11.3-01           400         Q7        Q7        1982            Ql          1983
11.3-03           400         Q7        Q7        1982            Q1          1983
11.3-04           500         Q7        Q7        1982            Q1          1983
12.1-01            50         Q4         Q7       1983            Q4          1983
12.1-02           100         Q4         Q7       1986             *           *
12.1-03           100        -Q4         Q7       1986             *           *
12.1-04           100         Q4         Q7       1986             *           *
12.1-05           100         Q4         Q7       1986            Q4          1991
12.1-06           100         Q4         Q7       1986            Q4          1991
12.1-07            50         Q4         Q7       1983            Q4          1983
12.1-08           100         Q4         Q7       1986             *           *
12.1-09           100         Q4        Q7        1986            Q4          1981
12.2-02           100         Q4        Q7        1989             *           *
12.2-03           100         Q4         Q7       1986             *           *
16.1-01            100        Q4         Q7       1986            Q7          1996
16.1-02            50         Q4         Q7       1982            Q4          1983
16.1-03            50         Q4         Q7       1982            Q4          1983
16.1-04           250         Q7         Q7       1982            Q4          1983
20.0-01            50         Q4         Q7       1982            Q4          1983
20.0-02           100         Q7         Q7        -              Q4          1983
20.0-03             50        Q4         Q7       1982            Q4          1983
21.2-02           100         Q4         Q7       1986            Q7          1996
24.0-01           200         Ql         Q7       1986             *           *
* Modification outside projection period, after collapse of repaired bridges.
** Only passage for canoes.
Source: DIWI
October 1981
1/ For definitions see Table 5.2.



- 51 -
TABLE 5.4
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Bridges and Other Drainage Structures Component
Results of Sensitivity Analysis
IRR in %
No. of  IRR of        Constant Costs           Constant Benefits
road    basic  Benefits Benefits   Only         Costs    Costs
Priority   Section   run    +20%         -20%   Traffic B   +15%        -15%
1        12.1      120      136       105        94        107       139
2        11.2      119      129       107        91        106       131
3        20.0       87      104        69        71         76       102
4        24.0       71       75        65        44         62        84
5          1.3      67       72        60        32         58        78
6         1.2       45       49        39        23         37        56
7         8.5       44       49        38        36         36        54
8         2.2       36       43        33        22         32        40
9         5.1       34       40        27        22         29        39
10          8.1/2    34       39        27        20         29        39
11         4.1       24       30        18        16         23        29
12        12.2       24       28        19        15         21        27
13        16.1       24       28        19        15         20        28
14        11.3       24       28        19        14         20        25
15          2.1      20       24        16        11         17        24
16          1.4      17       21        13         7         14        20
Source: DIWI
October 1981



- 52 -
TABLE 5.5
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Rehabilitation Component
Variations in Vehicle Operating Costs with Changing Roughness
(in US cents per km net of taxes)
Surface
Condition                       Vehicle Operating Costs
"Roughness"   Passenger  4-wheel            Light    Medium    Heavy
mm/km)        Car       drive    Van    Truck       Truck    Truck
2000          13.3       14.6   11.5    14.0        38.7      53.0
2500          14.3       16.0   12.5    15.1        40.2      55.3
3000          15.3       17.5   13.6    16.3        41.9      57.8
3500          16.3       19.1   14.7    17.5        43.6      60.5
4000          17.3       20.6   15.9    18.7        45.3      63.0
Source: SETEC
September 1981



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline of Work Program for SAT
1.   Planning
a.   Updating of five-year plan (at least once a year)
b.   Followup of execution of investment projects in a five-year plan
(continually)
c.   Project preparation (as need occurs)
d.   Plan realization reports (annually)
2.   Statistics
a.   Prepare Annual Report of transport statistics
(first one in March 1982 and annually thereafter)
b.   Execute traffic counts and analysis of traffic count data
(thrice annually at selected points nationwide and when required
locally)
c.   Publish traffic count statistics (July 1982 and annually
thereafter)
d.   Prepare reports on truck axle load and dimensions limits
enforcement (quarterly, as required by Section 3.07 of the
Development Credit Agreement starting April 1982)
3.   Studies
a.   Supervise ongoing road studies
- ports and coastal shipping
- air transport studies
b.   Establish standards (specifications) for transport infrastructure
for
- bridges and structures (1982)
- main roads (1983)
- feeder roads (1984)
c.   Supervise preparation of a manual on bridges and drainage structures
construction and maintenance (by September 1982)
February 1982



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Terms-of Reference for Technical Assistance
for the Complementary Study of the Domestic Construction Industry
1.   General
1.1       The Study would make use of, update, and complement the 1977
report on the domestic construction industry prepared by Louis Berger
International, Inc. for UNDP/IBRD (Chapter 12 of the National Transport
Study). It would be executed in the period July through September 1982.
1.2       The objective of the study would be to set up action plans for
strengthening the construction industry, and, in particular, for developing
a basic education and professional training system, on the basis of an updated
overview of the industry's environment, through which training needs would be
defined in terms of curriculum and the number of trainees for each category.,
1.3       As a result of the review of the environment of the industry, the
study would also list other problems and constraints affecting the construc--
tion industry and, where applicable, would recommend actions to overcome
those problems or constraints.
2.   The Industry's Environment
2.1       Legal and institutional status of the industry, including:
-    recognition of the industry as a sector of the economy;
-    laws (e.g., corporate, taxation, customs, labor) which apply
to the industry;
-    regulations affecting the industry:  design, construction and
safety regulations; procurement of construction services by
Government, para-statal and private corporations; supervision
and payment of work in progress;
-    the industry's institutional base:  existence and strength of
the industry's representative association.
2.2       The demand for construction services (including civil and
building construction and road maintenance) to update and extend the Berger
report's projections as a means to determine educational and resource needs.
The study of demand should include possible routine and periodic maintenance
works and minor improvements which are ideally suited for the development of
small domestic contractors, with a minimum requirement for capital and
technology.



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
2.3       Fluctuation in the demand for construction services and its
effect on the industry's resources (including trained personnel).
2.4       The companies which make up the Haitian construction industry:
updating the Berger presentation by sampling only (i.e., a new survey
would not be required) but including smaller and even potential contractors:
discussion of their access into, or progression within, the industry through
their participation in road improvement and maintenance work.
3.   The Industry's Resources
(A) Human
3.1       Traditional sources of manual labor, skilled labor, operators,
foremen, technicians, engineers and managers.
3.2       General education and professional training status of all
categories of construction personnel, including, for field personnel, basic
skills such as reading, writing and arithmetic.
3.3       Additional training or continuing education requirements for
construction personnel. The trades or professions to be covered should
include the following, grouped together or extended according to existing
practice or, where appropriate, to the consultants' recommendations:
-    Labor:  building skills (including sub-trades);
-    Lbabor:  civil construction skills (operators, drivers and
mechanics of mobile and static equipment);
-    Foremen:  building;
-    Foremen:  civil construction;
-    Technicians:  surveyors, cost accountants,  paymasters,
storekeepers, plant managers;
-    Project Managers;
-    Civil Engineers; and
-    Managers.
(Both foremen categories to include labor-intensive technology.)
3.4       Numbers to be trained, to sustain expected growth and attrition
within the industry.
3.5       Existing educational and training facilities.  Proposals for
adapting or extending those facilities for training construction industry
personnel.



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
3.6       On-the-job training and certification of skilled workers.
Existing systems, proposals of improvements. On-the-job training of other
categories of field and office employees. Technical assistance require-
ments for on-the-job training.
3.7       Existence of vocation or skills to start up as contractors.
Entrepreneurial drive, leading to the creation of new companies. Sources
of new entrepreneurs. Particular attention should be paid to the develop-
ment of small local contractors, specializing in labor-intensive technologies,
particularly through the improvement and technification of existing leader-
ship systems. Potential access points to the industry; for example, housing
construction and road maintenance and improvement.
3.8       The consultants should produce a detailed action plan related to
the development of human resources for the construction industry. The
plan should include:
(a) person or agency accountable for results;
(b) a schedule of activities, in logical sequence;
(c) a program for the scheduled activities, showing starting and
finishing times;
(d)  budgets:  (i) of resources and
(ii) financial
linked to the above schedule and program.
(B) Equipment
3.9       Availability and future requirements of construction equipment.
3.10      Channels available to contractors for the acquisition of
equipment, including:
-    purchase;
-    SLELC (Service de Location d'Equipement Lourd de Construction);
-    other hire agencies;
-    inter-company hires;
-    leasing.
3.11      Equipment repairs and maintenance, including:
-    dealer service;
-    repair shops; and
-    availability of spare parts.



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
(C) Materials
3.12      Availability of construction materials.  Constraints (if any)
created by the lack of specific materials or by difficulties for
importation or acquisition of materials.
(D)  Financial Resources; Bonding; Insurances
3.13      Financial requirements and constraints of the domestic construc-
tion industry. Financial resources available to contractors, for long-
and short-term requirements.
3.14      Bonding and insurance requirements and constraints.  Bonding and
insurance agencies; their adequacy to suit the construction industry's
requiremants.
4.   Labor-Intensive Construction Technology
4.1       A study of the present state of development and application of
labor-intensive construction technology in Haiti, and of the problems
and constraints which affect the spread of this technology. This study
should be closely coordinated with the parallel Road Maintenance Technology
Study (Annex 3).
4.2       Inter alia, the study will delve  into the following topics:
-    resources available for the Government to develop and apply
labor-intensive technology. Existence of an institutional
framework for planning and building rural works, including
feeder roads;
-    existence of standardized construction procedures and of a
corps of trained personnel capable of directing labor-intensive
work in the field;
-    field productivities;
-    viability of labor-intensive construction methods within the
social and economic environment of Haiti, including a discussion
of the effect of wage structures and existing communal and
entrepreneurial leadership usage upon the development of labor-
intensive technology; the most suitable organization for
individual units and their regional groupings; methods of pay-
ment (piece work, task work, daily wages) and the system of
payment (daily, weekly, in kind, in cash, etc.).



- 58 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
5.   Reports
5.1       The Consultant's final report will include:
(i) a presentation of his findings in connection with the industry's
environment and resources, listing the principal problems and
constraints in order of importance;
(ii) an action plan for the improvement of human resources, as
specified in paragraph 3.8;
(iii) listing, in order of priority, of measures to be taken by the
Government or contractors to improve the industry. Proposal.
of action plans, where applicable, presented in the manner
set out in paragraph 3.8; and
(iv) recommendations regarding the future development of labor-intensive
construction and maintenance technology, including the definition of
the assistance required by Haiti in this field. Proposal of action
plans where applicable, presented in the manner set out in para-
graph 3.8.
6.   Personnel
6.1       The personnel requirement for this study is one engineer/economist:
for three man-months.
February 1982



- 59 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Technical
Assistance for Final Design and Supervision of the Bridges and
Other Drainage Structures Component (Phase II) 1/
Design (September 1981 through March 1982)
1.        In 1980, TPTC contracted consultants (DIWI, Germany) to carry out
the now completed Phase I study "Rehabilitation des Ponts en Haiti," financed
under the Fifth Transportation Project (Credit 807-HA). Based on the study's
findings, bridges and other drainage structures in need of reconstruction
were selected for final design.
2.        DIWI would assist contracted qualified Haitian Consultants to provide
engineering services for the preparation of final designs for new bridges,
culberts and concrete fords and for the rehabilitation of existing bridges
(Tables 4.2 and 4.3) and to train Haitian Consultants in mini-computer
technology applications using a desk computer to be purchased under the
project.
3.        DIWI prepared terms of reference for Haitian Consultants, evaluated
consultants' proposals and made recommendations to the Government for the
preparation of the short list; DIWI would also assist Haitian Consultants in
the preparation of final engineering designs, paying particular attention to
technical solutions, materials and construction methods appropriate to the local
economy, bills of quantities, unit costs, and construction cost estimates;
contract documents for tenders consistent with Bank Guidelines (July 1980);
invitations to contractors, information to bidders, form of contract, form of
performance bond, detailed construction specifications and other such informa-
tion as TPTC may require.
4.       DIWI would also ensure that the quality of the final designs would be
suitable for international bidding and would assist TPTC in reviewing pre-
qualification documents submitted by international and domestic contractors and
make recommendations for the selection of experienced firms. It would train
TPTC engineers and local consultants engaged in design and in the programing
and operations of the programs for project-related structural designs,
using computer facilities provided under the project.
1/   Phase I completed under Fifth Transport Project.



- 60 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
Supervision of Civil Works (May 1982 through October 1983)
5.        DIWI would carry out supervision of civil works with its own, and
personnel assigned by TPTC, and would:
(a)  ensure, with support of LNBTP, that the works are carried out
in accordance with contract specifications and agreed implementation
schedule (Table 4.5);
(b) train TPTC resident engineers to keep daily record book to register
important events which relate to the execution of the civil works;
(c) review all required design modification prepared by Haitian
consultants during the course of construction at the request of T]'TC;
(d) control construction costs and certify contractors' invoices sub-
mitted for payment;
(e) prepare detailed monthly reports for TPTC;
(f) prepare as-built drawings; and
(g) procure a set of programs for structural design for simple and
continuous bridges of the type which may be considered for the final
design by Haitian design consultants for the project and adopt such
programs for the computer equipment purchased under the project.
Selection of programs should be based primarily on their usefulness
for the design project structures; however, programs for the process-
ing of hydrological data and solutions to hydraulic flow and founda-
tion design problems for bridges and culverts, as well as programs
for the evaluation of cost effectiveness of proposed alternative
structural designs, should also be made available.
Staffing
6.        DIWI would furnish an estimated total of 45 man-months of services
providing one chief engineer and one bridge engineer for the supervision of
the civil works, and a training specialist in computer programing with a
strong background in bridge design.
Personnel assigned by DIWI would be required to have the following minimum
qualifications:
Chief Engineer: 15 years of acceptable experience in bridge design, of which
10 years in construction of structures, and a working knowledge of French.
Bridge Engineer: 10 years of relevant experience in bridge design and five
years of construction experience and a working knowledge of French.
Programing Specialist: an engineer/economist with ten years of acceptable
bridge design experience, and applicable computer design technology. Either
the chief or the Bridge Engineer should have knowledge of appropriate
technologies and adaptation of designs to local materials, skills, etc.



- 61 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
Personnel required for the design and supervision of civil works
Haitian Consultants                                         Estimated total
man-months
It is estimated that design work will be divided
into three separate lots
3 structural engineers                                          34
3 road engineers (for bridge approaches)                        23
3 soil engineers                                                13
3 junior engineers                                              18
3 hydrologists                                                   9
1 topographic crew                                              12
Other support personnel                                        137
Total            246
Supervision of Civil Works
International Consultants
1 chief engineer                                                30
1 bridge engineer                                                6
1 engineer/economist specialist in computer                      9
Total              45
TPTC Supervision Personnel (each contract)
1 resident engineer                                             18
2 inspectors                                                    36
1 topographic crew                                              18
Other support personnel secretaries, accountants,
drivers                                                       18
Total              90
February 1982



HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
BRIDGES AND OTHER STRUCTURES REHABILITATION
INIPLEIVENTATION SCHEDULE 1981-1983
1981                                            1982                                                          1983
6 7 89  101 2  11 23 4 56  7 89                                                                  1 2 3 4  Eii i 7 8
Selection of Consultants
Final Engineering Designs for:1'
-  Bridge Repairs-                                                           m          -
-  Construction of New Drainage Structures--
Preqaliicaionof Contractors                                                        iiiiili                                                                                                                              t
8 dding Documents and Contracting: Invitation.
Evaluation and Contract Award12'
- Bridge Repairs
-Construction of Nevv Drainage Structure
Execution of Civil VVorks
Bridige Repairs-
-Construction of New Drainage Structures--
Technical Assistance and Computer Training-
jj Designs for structures to be reconstructed under this program wvill be completed by Dctober 31, 1981
and further structures included in the supplementary program by March 31. 1982.
2/ Contracts vvill be let out for 4 or 5 lots at different times.WolBak2124



- 63 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for Final
Engineering Design and Supervision of the Paved Road Rehabilitation Component
Final Engineering Design (July through December 1981)
1.        TPTC has contracted consultants (Setec, France) and Sohico (Haiti)
(joint venture) under the Fifth Transportation Project (Credit 807-HA) to
carry out preliminary studies (Phase I) and to prepare final designs (Phase II)
for the roads to be rehabilitated under this project. TPTC will require con-
sultants to prepare final engineering designs for the Paved Road Rehabilitation
Program based on a review of as-built drawings for the Northern Road, the
results obtained from Phase I studies, and investigations carried out during
Phase II, during which consultants will carry out additional geotechnical studies
of subgrade support, measurement of pavement deflections, slope stability studies,
determination of the adequacy of drainage and an overall evaluation of pavement
conditions. Consultants will also carry out traffic counts, check axle loadings
and actual load factors and prepare traffic projections for the design life of
projected improvements.  TPTC will extend the consultants' contract for the
supervision of construction.
2.        The following additional minimum soil testing program should be
carried out to determine subgrade support and the quality of materials used
in existing pavement structures:
Type and Number of Proposed Tests on Selected 90 Km of the Northern Road
Moisture            Atterberg      Sand      In-place Proctor &
Content  Gradation   Limits   Equivalency Density         CBR
Subgrade                72         72         72         32          50      50
Material Used in
Road Construction      23         18         18         18           -       -
3.        Consultants will identify suitable borrow pits for materials
needed to strengthen project roads and will select borrow pits whose
materials can be transported to the construction site at least cost.
4.        Consultants will obtain additional deflection measurements,
using a Benkelman beam, define homogenous deflection zones, and correlate
deflections with conventional tests made to determine soil support and
condition of the pavement structure. A comparison of Phase II deflection
results should be made with corresponding results obtained during Phase I;
seasonal variations of deflections should also be determined.



- 64 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
5.        Consultants will identify areas where slope stability problems
are in evidence, prepare topographic surveys of these areas showing their
longitudinal profile and cross-sections, and recommend corrective
measures to prevent future slides.
6.        Consultants will review adequacy of both the existing surface
drainage and the road's cross drainage, especially along the 50-km
mountainous section where sidehill cuts with long steep grades cause
high velocity water flows.
7.        Inventory of the existing pavement prepared by consultants should
identify locations and causes of edge and lane joint cracks, reveling, bleeding,
pot holes, whipping of aggregates and other pavement deficiencies.
8.        Consultants will carry out an eight-day traffic count and a survey
of vehicle loadings, checking all trucks with over 3.5-ton capacity.
Results of the survey should be used to prepare a histogram of axle
loadings, from which the effect of actual traffic loadings in terms of
equivalent 8.2-ton axle loads could be determined.
9.        Consultants will prepare bills of quantities and final project
cost estimates based on the hypothesis that construction works could be let
out in one or two lots. The latter would result in smaller size contracts,
allowing a greater number of Haitian firms to present bids. A tradeoff
analysis should be carried out to propose optional solutions based on estimated
construction contract costs for the one- versus the two-lot approach and to
recommend the least cost solution.
10.       Consultants will prepare complete final design plans in a format
suitable for as-built drawings; bidding documents will be in accordance
with Bank Guidelines for ICB.
Supervision of Civil Works (July 1982 through December 1983)
11.       TPTC will require consultants to furnish management services
to ensure a sound and efficient inspection policy for the execution of
civil works in accordance with approved engineering designs. These
sessions will include, but not be limited to:
(a) review of bids received from contractors and recommendations
to TPTC regarding award of contracts;
(b)  review of proposed schedules and procedures for inspection
and construction, quality control, measurement of partial
and final quantities, acceptance of completed work and
payments to contractors;
(c) provision of technical advice and assistance to TPTC inspection
personnel;



- 65 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
(d)  review of work certifications and recommendations to TPTC for
payments to contractors;
(e)  carrying out, through LNBTP, necessary engineering tests of mate-
rials employed in construction with regard to their conformance
with design specifications; and
(f)  preparation of monthly reports on the progress of works for trans-
mittal to the Association through TPTC. These reports should include,
for each contractor, a list of equipment on work site and its
condition.
12.       No work order changes for modification of engineering design would be
permitted without written authorization from TPTC.
13.       Adequate records of the consultants' daily administrative and technical
activities would be available to TPTC and the Bank upon request.
14.       TPTC would furnish adequate transportation for consultants and TPTC
supervisory personnel, make available the services of LNBTP soil and materials
laboratory and provide the necessary administrative support.
15.       Personnel required for supervision would include the following qualified
staff:
Consultants (all works)                       Man-months
1 chief engineer (Setec)                         20.5
1 engineer (Sohico)                              20.5
Short-term specialists in pavements,
crushing plants and earth slides (Setec-)        2.0
Total consultants                                43.0
TPTC personnel (each construction lot)
1 resident engineer                              20.5
3 inspectors                                     60.0
1 topo, crew                                     20.0
Other support personnel--secretaries,
accountants, drivers, watchmen                 160.0
TOTAL TPTC                                      260.5
February 1982



HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
PAVED ROAD REHABILITATION
IMVPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE 1981-1983
Prog,arn                          ~~~~~1981                                            1982                                                           1983
Program                   B                      01112                         4    56    7    89             E1      E      2 1 11                                            11 1
Paved Road Rehabilitation Program9                                                                  2          4    5    6_7        8                         1     2    3    4          6         F    9-10        112
- Pinal Engineering-
- Prequalification of Contractors
Preparation of Bidding Documertss
--Invitation to Bid, Preparation of Offers
-Bid Evaluation
-Cor,tracting
-Civil Works-
-Supervisionr                                                                                                                                                    --                       
WVorld Bank - 23250



- 67 -
ANNEX 5
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
for a Study of Road Maintenance Technology
1.   Review current practices in road maintenance and feeder road
construction;
2.   Identify equipment-intensive activities which could eventually be
replaced by labor-intensive, appropriate technology and make
recommendations;
3.   Whenever such a substitution would be economically feasible,
establish procedures to implement these recommendations;
4.   In collaboration with SEPPRN, review TPTC's present mix of road
maintenance, rehabilitation and minor improvements and propose
procedures which could possibly result in a more cost-effective
maintenance and road construction through increased rehabilitation
and utilization of appropriate labor-intensive technology;
5.   Based on the proposed recommendation for increased labor-intensive
maintenance, if applicable, review, with the Government, the second
tranche of maintenance equipment to be purchased under the proposed
project and adjust equipment needs, as appropriate.
6.   Coordinate with the expert in charge of the Study of the Domestic
Construction Industry for all aspects related to labor-intensive
technology and eventual execution of rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance work by private contractors (Annex 4, paras 4.1 and
4.2).
7.   The personnel requirement for this study is one engineer/economist
for three man-months.
February 1982



- 68 -
ANNEX 6
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Scope of Work for the
Annual External Audit of Project Accounts
1.        The audit should be carried out in accordance with generally accepted
audit standards.
2.        The audit should comment on the accounting principles adopted in the
keeping of project accounts, and any changes incurred from one fiscal year to
the other.
3.        The audit program should include a review of systems of internal
control and checks, in order to determine the degree of reliance that can be
placed upon them, and the extent of testing that needs to be performed by the
auditor.
4.        The auditor should appraise the procedures for safeguarding assets,
ensuring their proper use and that all transactions are accounted for
accurately and properly.
5.        The auditor should satisfy himself regarding the fairness and accuracy
of the project accounts by obtaining sufficient supporting evidence through
the examination of accounting records and supporting corroborative material,
direct physical inspection, general observation, inquiries and confirmations,
and necessary tests.
6.        The auditor's report should consist of the auditor's opinion on the
annual project accounts and of a Management Letter addressing the adequacy of
the accounting and internal control systems and making relevant recommendations
in that respect.
October 1981



- 69 -
ANNEX 7
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available
in the Project File
- Republique d'Haiti, TPTC, SAT, Rehabilitation des Ponts en Haiti, Tome I,
Dossier Economique, Pieces Ecrites, Tome II, Dossier Technique, Pieces
Ecrites, Tome III, Dossier Technique, Plans, Aout 1981, Dr. Ing. Walter -
DIWI International, Consultants.
- Republique d'Haiti, TPTC, Rehabilitation des Routes Revetues en Haiti,
Phase I, Etudes Techniques et Economigues Preliminaires, Vol. I-1; Texte -
Dispositions Generales - Choix des Solutions - Recommendations, Vol. 1-2;
Texte-Etude Technique Detaillee de Chaque Route, May 1981, SETEC International
and SOHICO, Consultants.
- Republique d'Haiti, TPTC, Rehabilitation des Routes Revetues en Haiti, Note
de Synthese Concernant les Etudes de Phase 1, 11 pp., SETEC International
SOHICO, Consultants.
- Republique d'Haiti, TPTC, Rehabilitation des Routes Revetues en Haiti, Programme
de Rehabilitation Retenue a l'Issue de la Phase l-des Etudes, Reponses aux
questions posees par la mission d'Evaluation de la Banque Mondiale en Mai
1981, SETEC International, SOHICO, Consultants.
- Republique d'Haiti, TPTC. Rehabilitation des Routes Revetues en Haiti, Route de
Mirebalais, Deviation de Gimbale, 27-5-81, SETEC International, SOHICO, Con-
sultants.
- Republique d'Haiti, TPTC, Plan Quinquenal 1981-1986, mimeographed.
- Republique d'Haiti, Le Moniteur, Journal Official,
- Monday, January 3, 1977, Decret creant au sein du Department des TPTC un
service denomme: Service de Controle du Poids des Vehicules.
- Thursday, August 9, 1978, Loi organique du Departement des Travaux Publics,
Transports et Communications.



HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTRY OF
T.P.T.C.
X     ;    ~~~SECRETARIAT
MANAGEMENT                                        PROGRAM                 CHIEF
COORDINATING        EXECUTIVE ENGINEER
UN IT
URBAN                FINANCIAL             ORGANIZATION           AUTONOMOUS
PLANNING                              PLANNING               CONTROL               AND METHODS          TRANSPORTATION
DEPARTMENT            DEPARTMENT                 OFFICE            DEPARTMENT (SATj
_  l  ,  _ _____________________________________                                      0
SUPPORT   NATIONAL LABORATORY        GEODESIC AND           LEGAL                 ACCOUNTING AND          ELECTRICITY          WATERVWORKS
SERVICES    FOR BUILDINGS AND       CARTOGRAPHIC          DEPARTMENT              ADMINISTRATIVE           CONTROL             DEPARTMENT
PUBLICWVVORKS    IF    DEPARTMENT                        I     F     DEPARTMENT             DEPARTMENT
EXECUTIVE      VEHICLE WEIGHT           CENTRAL             URBAN ROADS             CONSTRUCTION          NATIONAL ROAD
OPERATIONS      CONTROL UNIT            WORKSHOP             DEPARTMENT                ER N            TEPARTMENT (SEPRRN)
FIELD                                    EINLRGOA  FIE
OPERATIONS                             WORKSHOPS                       REGIONAL OFFICES
World Bank - 23166



HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SEPRRN ORGANIZATION CHART
11 Set Chart I for dotoiltqats 
Eq.ip-                                                                P.y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wre ai- 32
All,d                                      m          nl tr
Fk ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~       )       Aclt  
E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pt
1~~~~~~~D -                         -
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ;43  ~~~~~~~~~~~~VV,~hp
\  Main Parts  l    l    o~~~f Workshopsl
1  Warehouse  l ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -h
1/S- Chart 111I f., detOil
2Sub Dlsti-t -r -qtrolled 6-Ifaty by T,chn,-al l0-r.t.,
VVorld B-nk -23129



HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SEPRRN MAIN WORKSHOP ORGANIZATION CHART
| DIRECTOR OF WORKSHOPS    l
ADMNISTRATIONIC
SUPERINTENDENT                         RK15RCTNSUHOPSTHC
QUALITY CONTROL               CHIEF OF MAIN WORKSHOP   ClNTA FILESA_
COMPONENT                           E HOP                     GENERALREPAIRS                     T    G TRUCE
TOOLS WAREHOUSE          ~~EXCHANGE SHOP                    LAH  HPSHOP                                                         SERVIC
ENGINES AND INJECTORS                                          PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE
HYDRAULIC SYSTEMS                                                      PAINTING
TRANSMISSIONS                                                        WELDING
ELECTRICAL AND BATTERIES                                         RADIATOR AND TIFRE REPAIR
BRAKES AND CLUTCHES                                       FWHEEL BALANCING AND ALIGNMENT
EQUIPMENT CLEANING
World B-nk - 23165
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE 1981-1984
1981                          1982                                     1983                                      1984
Program                                  - 112                                                      j7                   91 1     j    1  2T3 34J  5  6  7  B  9 10    12
Credit Agreement Effectweness
Equipment Replacement Program
Advertising
-- Invitation to Bid and Preparation of Offers
Bid EvalaLatioo_
- Contracting
- Dehveries
Bridge and Drainage Structure Rehabilitation Program
Final Engineering'/                                     _
PreqUalification of Contractors
- Invitation to Bid and Preparation of OffersZ_ 
Bid Evaluation
Contracting
- Civil Works                                                                            - _                                         :  _      _
- SupeV_smion 
Paved Road Rehabl ,tation Program
- Final Engiiieering3/_
- Prequalification of Contractors
- Preparation of Bidding Documenits
- Invitation to BRd and Preparation of Offers
- Bid Evaluatiori
Corntracting                                                                   I
- Civi Works                                                                                    m          -                    -         -
Supervision                                                                                                        -               i          -
Maintenance Methodology Study
Consiruiction Industry Study
_     __                             _                         _  _                _  _                _ _  _     _  _      _  _    _   _  _   _    _      _ _ _      _  __}
11 hngineersrng design for drainage structures to he reconstructed under this prolect to fan completed by Octoher 31, 1981
anid 1or the str,sctuies indicated in she supplementary program bY March 31, 1982.
2/ Project will be divided into 4- 5 lots, and contracts for each lot to be let oait at different times.
3/ EI-mimeering des,qrns for the 90 Km of the North Road to be rehabilitated under this prolect to be ready by October 31, 1981;
foi the Msrenala,s Rnaif by De-ember 1981
World Bank--23355



C
I



3IBRD  15E9A2<
r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V  7I - 1
v4'D'                                                                                        0' ou  -72'T 'E'  6                                                                  .      -j  _                          T     A   N  T / C        O  C       A N                                              ,,/ "C A
I RROR                                                                 OCEU \n  I ,, Ch  AN   F                   ,
Q    ID ~~~~~E Ml- LITITED~ATL                                                                                                                                   NTI
-- -                                                                                                                 CIT  AIH A    PROEC                     PRORE           POR OR T01TN±e N09 oo.1;/~Cnnss%
--~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                   'OND1                                          3        E                             RHELTSO  G oAVt 'v I   ,Vlrrstf  0
z -   ~~  R(IAtD5 REHAEIILITATED J.0tI I PT.  OIGHR N- -P'O "T T                                                                                                                                                                       EN .I
- B0L'E 1XINj117 t tll            tI)t F TH H- GIIW,sY PH0.IL1 T ' (4\dLArlPF-      -   
I_lut V dlR  GC  I'ErLAC1II4GEXlSTHIE> 5TRLCT0IIF  i,  .i .Ttgc'l  - (j
E3- rER, tXLLETlP    IG[   TIGSlUTI                                                                                                                                   1'    <              D>            RNs         -.RPx                  X      '         
lll~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ RIIA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     T   TOO 
I      0M E T CERTS  MoYER                                                                                                                                                                                                      TIEe/O R    L   ,1                                 '
I P  dNAIN REENGE EREC .0 TONO[T   TROCTt p"q),,,<,     
X    NCCLO  ROT  TEARC  ECOTXOCTRO1G1 TUCE
10o        0001     0 R         20 'PRO_ TON/\ s;r A                                                                                                                                                                _                t      e     6      +g       t      P    t         ~ i 
N   NTI RETE  ' -RE/
-           V   TEA f ATTIO    0R =I
-        T OO AL    8-/
,1 YC  1                                                                                                                                                                          IIdi
I,IPEMNIT GNAL 30INCAMES ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      ~    ~     ~    ~     TN   OPNNO 9                        ANYTTM
TOO  NYo 1 17 04SC2    0t  fr 2NN.,k  3N
0 b. r  ,,,4                                               3                                                    7t                                 . Tf               72Coo  MOTOReA  S    E400 A



