Document of
The World Bank                      FIL  t CC-
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3184-HA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR A
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
March 9, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1         =   0  5.00
¢  1.0       =   US$0.20
0 1 million = US$200,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES:
Metric                           British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      2    =    0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )  =    0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m 3ton)      =    2,205 pounds (lb)
1 cubic meter (m )               1.3 cubic yards (cu yd)
ABBREVIATIONS
A AN       -    National Airport Authority
AASHTO     -    American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials
APN        -    National Port Authority
BRH        -    Bank of the Republic of Haiti
CEBTP      -    Centre d'Etude du Batiment et des Travaux Publics (France)
CIDA       -    Canadian International Development Agency
EdH        -    Electricite d' Haiti
FAC        -    Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Bilateral Aid)
HASCO      -    Haitian American Sugar Company
IDA        -    International Development Association
IDB        -    Inter-American Development Bank
LNBTP      -    National Laboratory for Buildings and Public Works
NTS        -    National Transport Study
ODN        -    Northern Regional Development Agency
SAT        -    Autonomous Transport Department
SCS        -    Construction and Works Supervision Department
SEPRRN     -    National Permanent Road Maintenance Department
TPTC       -    Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications
UNDP       -    United Nations Development Programme
USAID      -    United States Agency for International Development
VPD        -    Vehicles per day
VOC        -    Vehicle Operating Cost
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Republic of Haiti
Amount:           SDR        12,200,000 (US$14.0 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard
Project
Description:   The project would help develop Haiti's highway sector through:
(M) rehabilitation of 57 bridges and drainage structures;
(ii) rehabilitation and strengthening of about 100 km of the
Northern Road linking Port-au-Prince to Cap Haitien; (iii) acqui-
sition of equipment, spare parts, and workshop tools for the
renewal and expansion of the road maintenance fleet of SEPRRN,
Haiti's road maintenance organization, and purchase of vehicle
weighing equipment for the control of vehicle axle weights; and
(iv) technical assistance for project supervision and for studies
of road maintenance technology and of the local construction
industry; and for annual audits of the project accounts of the
Public Works Ministry.
Risks:           The maintenance component is subject to risks that SEPRRN,
the road maintenance organization, would not receive adequate
funding; that the external technical assistance it is receiving
may be interrupted; and that it may be diverted to road con-
struction in addition to maintenance. These risks will be
reduced by Government undertakings to provide adequate funds;
to limit SEPRRN's activities to maintenance and to seek
renewal of ongoing technical assistance (sponsored by USAID).
The other features of the project present no unusal risks.
Prolect Cost
and Financing Plan:                                  Local     Foreign      Total
------ US$ Million --------
Cost:            Road Rehabilitation                    2.0         4.6        6.6
Bridges and drainage
structures                        1.0         2.4        3.4
Equipment, spare parts and tools      0.3         4.4        4.7
Technical assistance and studies      0.4         1.0        1.4
Sub-Total                   3.7       12.4        16.1
Physical Contingencies                0.4         0.8        1.2
Price Contingencies                   0.5         1.4        1.9
Total                       4.6       14.6        19.2
Financing Plan   Government                             4.6         0.6        5.2
IDA                                    -         14.0       14.0
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Disbursements:                                                    IDA Fiscal Years
...... (US$ Million).
1983      1984       1985
Annual                                     3.5        6.9        3.6
Cumulative                                 3.5       10.4       14.0
Economic Rate
of Return:      For the project as a whole, 20 percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report:         Report No. 3623a-HA dated October 30, 1981.
Map:              No. IBRD 15894R, attached in Annex.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI FOR A
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDR 12,200,000, (US$14.0 million equivalent), on
standard IDA terms, to the Republic of Haiti, to help finance a sixth
highway project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report on Haiti, distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 13, 1981, was Report No. 3444-HA entitled "Memorandum on
on the Haitian Economy". Its main findings are summarized below. Relevant
social and economic data are presented in Annex I.
3.        Haiti's GNP per capita stood at US$270 in 1980, the lowest level
in the Western Hemisphere. The dire poverty of this country is reflected
in data collected in 1976 that showed that almost 75 percent of the population
lived under conditions of absolute poverty; an infant mortality rate of about
150 per thousand live births; an average life expectancy of 51 years; low
nutrition and sanitation standards (malnutrition and gastro-enteric diseases
account for over half of the deaths in the country) and an adult illiteracy
rate of about 80 percent. Open unemployment is about 16 percent and under-
employment may reach 60 percent of the labor force. Income is distributed
unequally: in 1976, the top 0.4 percent of the population absorbed 43.7
percent of national income, while more than 80 percent of the people had an
average per capita income of iess than US$100 per year. Extreme rural poverty
and high pressure on arable land (600 inhabitants per sq. km), slow improve-
ments in agricultural productivity and the lack of social services, together
with the insufficient deveLopment of other sectors, have all combined to
accelerate migration within and out of the country. The country suffers from
a relentLess pressure of a steadily growing population. Though high mortality
and migration have slowed its growth rate in the recent past (1.9 percent in
1975-80 period), the desire on the part of the Government is to improve health
conditions. Growing difficulties imposed on migration to neighboring countries
will aggravate the already unfavorable relation of resources to population.
The Government is aware of this painful situation and is willing to initiate
a constructive dialogue with IDA on the subject.
4.        Haiti's GDP expanded at an average annual rate of 4.4 percent or
2.7 percent per capita during the 1970-80 period. The pattern of growth, how-
ever, was subject to cyclical fluctuations ranging from 4.7 percent in 1978 to
3.6 percent in 1979 and 5.4 percent in 1980. No growth is estimated to have
taken place in 1981. These fLuctuations were influenced by the performance and
weight of agriculture and by the vagaries of weather and external markets.
Manufacturing and construction have shown a more even performance.
5.        Between 1970 and 1980, agriculture provided employment for about 63
percent of the labor force, contributed on average 38 percent to GDP, and grew
at an average annual rate of 1.7 percent. The sector--which provides the



- 2 -
highest share of exports--is characterized by extremely low productivity.
Its    }perrormance is reflected in declining agricultural export volumes:
agricultural exports decreased by 1.3 percent annually (in real terms)
between 1970 and 1980. Furthermore, the rapid disappearance of Haiti's
forests due to depletion of arable land through erosion, reduces the
availability of already scarce productive land as well as the availability
of wood, the country's prime source of energy. In an effort to halt this
trend, the Government has recently initiated programs to introduce improved
grain varieties, rehabilitate coffee plantations, restore the major irrigated
systems and develop agro-industries. It is also reviving erosion control and
forestry programs.
6.        Since 1970, manufacturing industries, construction and public utili-
ties have emerged as the most consistently dynamic activities with average
annual growth rates of 6.8 percent, 14.1 percent and 9 percent respectively.
Their combined share in GDP represented 22 percent (in 1981) but their con-
tribution to GDP growth during the eleven year period was of the order of 42
percent of the GDP increment. The manufacturing sector owes much of its
expansionary drive to the export processing industries--which have a strong
potential for further development--and to a rapid increase in output of
construction materials. Growth of locally manufactured products, other than
construction materials, for the domestic market was necessarily limited by the
thinness of this market, a reflection, in terms of the low income levels of
most of the population. Construction, on the other hand, was fueled by public
investment in infrastructure.
7.        Gross investment reached 15 percent of GDP in 1981, compared to 10 per-
cent in 1970. This progress was entirely attributable to the public sector,
whose share of total investment has increased from one-fifth in 1970 to two-
thirds in 1981, as a result of an average expansion rate of 14 percent per year
in real terms. The Government's investment strategy, as revealed in its two Five-
Year Development Plans (1972-76 and 1977-81), was geared to the decentralization
of economic activity in favor of rural areas and provincial towns. However,
the Government's decision in 1980 to carry out three major investment projects
not included in the Five-Year Plan, has displaced or delayed planned invest-
ments and has somewhat distorted priorities.
8.        The Haitian Government has prepared an inventory of public sector
development projects for the 1982-86 period as part of a new Five-Year Develop-
ment Plan which is being evaluated by the Bank. Agriculture, transport,
and energy rank high both in the number of projects and in the resources
allocated to them, as was the case in the previous five-year period. These
priorities are in line with the country's most urgent needs for expansion of
the productive sectors and development of basic infrastructure to support
them; however, planned investments in soil conservation and reforestation may
be underestimated. The project inventory is too ambitious to be fully funded
and it stretches the absorptive capacity of several sectors. The respective
roles of the Government and the private sector are not yet sufficiently
defined in some sectors, such as industry and housing.
9.        Institutional strengthening is among the highest priorities of the
Government, and external technical assistance for project preparation and
implementation has been increased considerably. A Joint Commission for the
Implementation of External Cooperation Programs was established in 1975 to
review the country's economic situation and external technical and financial



- 3 -
assistance programs. The Commission, for which the Organization of American
States (OAS) provides the secretariat, is composed of senior government
officials and of representatives of the multilateral and bilateral aid
agencies active in Haiti. The Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic
Development, under the chairmanship of the Bank Group, is another forum
for policy dialogue with the Haitian Authorities, who have recently requested
the Association to consider establishing a sub-group for Haiti.
1O.       The mobilization of domestic resources for investment is hampered by
a low average income level and institutional weaknesses in the capital market
and in public finance. During the 1979-81 period, gross national savings
(GNS) amounted to only 4.3 percent of GDP, down from 7.8 percent in 1970-72.
Foreign assistance, therefore, plays a major role in supplementing domestic
savings and in increasing the Government's expenditure capabilities, as some
two-thirds of public investment are financed by foreign lending and aid.
11.       As the public sector provides a sizeable share of investments and
savings--63 percent and 30 percent, respectively, in the 1970-81 period--
success in raising national savings would depend to a considerable degree on
efforts to improve fiscal management. The Government of Haiti has recently
undertaken a major reorganization of fiscal management: most public revenues
have been integrated into the Government's budget; the Treasury now centralizes
all current expenditures and a significant share of capital expenditures; tax
collection is being consolidated and parafiscal functions have been removed
from the Regie du Tabac (State Trading Monopoly); sound accounting procedures
are being established in all public institutions; customs duties have been
consolidated and rates on luxury goods have been raised; new taxes have been
imposed on the lottery and on international communicdtions and the income tax
law was amended to improve equity and elasticity of income taxation.
12.       While there have been significant gains towards achieving the goals
of the fiscal reform, recent information suggests that resistance to these
measures remains: this is especially true of the business community's reaction
to customs tariff increases. In addition, large extra-budgetary expenditure
authorizations in 1980 have made accurate programming of fiscal developments
uncertain and their use for efficient purposes, unclear.   Moreover, and
notwithstanding a very strong performance of coffee export tax revenues, the
public sector deficit increased from 7.9 percent of GDP in 1979 to around 9.8
percent in 1981. This deficit has been increasingly financed through central
bank credit.
13.       A significant shortfall in exports (28 percent in relation to
1980), in GDP (zero growth), and consequently in public revenues is estimated
for 1981 as the coffee crop has been a poor one; furthermore, world coffee
prices have dropped and bauxite export revenues have declined. Net foreign
reserves have been reduced to nil, arrears have accumulated in spite of
drawings on the Extended Fund Facility (EFF) of the International Monetary
Fund and on the first credit tranche. However, as the new ceilings estab-
Lished under the EFF agreement--on net domestic bank credit to the public
sector and on net domestic assets of the monetary authorities--were exceeded
shortly after their adoption and continued to be exceeded until the end
of the fiscal year, further support from the IMF was not available. The
EFF agreement ended in October 1981, and the only support that the IMF
considered was a Compensatory Financing Facility of US$20 million, which
was approved on December 23, 1981, and is now fully disbursed.



-4-
14.       Faced with a major exchange crisis, the Government decided, in
February and August 1981, to take measures to improve the balance-of-payments'
situation by acting simultaneously on the fiscal situation, by reducing credit
from the Central Bank to the Public Sector, and, on the trade balance, by
curtailing non-essential imports. Furthermore, the Authorities decided to
inciude all traditional "extra-budgetary" expenditures into the budget to
improve its efficiency in the control of public sector operations.
15.       Private transfers continue growing as Haitians working abroad and
non-governmental organizations increase their support. Private direct invest-
ment has aiso been rising with political stability, fiscal incentives, and
cheap labor as the main stimulating factors. In 1980, new private foreign
investment was almost five times higher than in 1976, and is expected to
continue to rise.
16.       Inflation had not been particularly high in the recent past, but it
rose from 13 percent in 1979 to around 18 percent in 1980. The increase in
the consumer price index during 1981 is estimated at 17 percent.
17.       The high proportion of grants and concessionary loans as part of
foreign capital infLow has helped maintain the debt-service ratio at an estimated
4.5 percent for 1980. The rising level of private foreign investment and of
supplier's credits, however, wili bring with it larger factor payments in the form
of dividend repatriation and interest payments. Net factor payments have doubled
in 1980 over 1976 and the ratio of public debt amortization, plus net factor pay-
ments (including private non-guaranteed debt) to exports of goods and non-factor
services, was 8.4 percent.
18.       If development continues along the same path as in the seventies,
the balance of payments is expected to deteriorate. On the one hand, the
country will depend increasingly on imports of food, energy and intermediate
goods for the processing industries; on the other hand, traditional agricul-
tural exports will tend to fade. Consequently, the ability of Haiti to maintain
an acceptable growth rate together with a manageabie financial situation will
depend, at a minimum, on successful efforts to improve substantially the pro-
ductivity of the agricultural sector, which will continue to provide the liveli-
hood of the majority of the population for a long time to come. Continuation--
at a somewhat quicker pace than in the past--of Haiti's economic development will
then require a further increase in the use of foreign savings, given the extremely
low domestic saving capacity. This would require external financing of a high
proportion of the cost of development projects, including local costs.
Moreover, in view of its poverty, its modest prospects for export growth and
its increasing dependence on imported energy, Haiti will require increased
external assistance on concessionary terms for some time to come. An important
factor in determining the availability of this assistance from external
sources will be the successful implementation of the several fiscal reform
measures announced by the Government, and in particular, control of both
capital and current expenditures. This aspect is being closely monitored by
the Association.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
19.       The first Bank loan and IDA credit, in 1956 and 1962, respectively
were for the highways sector. Since 1974, IDA has financed twelve projects in
Haiti. Two credits for highway projects were made in 1974 and 1975. In 1976,
a credit was made for an education project, and, in 1977, credits were approved
for power and rural development projects. In 1978, credits were made for a
transportation project (roads and a pilot coastal shipping port component);
for a second education project and for a water supply project in provincial
towns. A credit for a second power project was approved in 1979. In 1981,
credits were made for a post-hurricane agricultural rehabilitation project in
the Southern Peninsula, for a port development project and for an industrial
credit project. The total of credits outstanding is US$110 million and SDR 17
million, of which US$28.2 million and SDR 17 million were undisbursed as of
September 30, 1981. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group operations
in Haiti and notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of September 30, 1981.
An IFC loan (US$3 million) has been approved for an integrated poultry project.
The loan has, however, not yet been signed and no commitment was accepted sofar.
IFC is investigating possibilities of investment in economically viable projects,
including projects in agro-business and the construction industry.
20.       Various multilateral and bilateral agencies are active in Haiti.
The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) has made loans for rural develop-
ment, transportation, industrial credit, rural education, water supply,
development of the Port-au-Prince harbor, and urban drainage in Port-au-Prince.
The U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) is providing assistance
for integrated rural development projects, community development, malaria
eradication, maternal/child health and family planning, construction of feeder
roads, highway maintenance, and coffee rehabilitation following the hurricane
of August 1980. In addition, USAID is considering a program of assistance
under Title III (grant food aid) of PL 480 to help strengthen the quality of
local staff and to improve the efficiency of key ministries. The Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA) has been supporting a rural development
project in the Southern Peninsula and is participating in a power project in
Port-au-Prince in connection with the Second Power Project assisted by IDA, and
is helping agricultural and technical education and the construction of school
facilities. CIDA has also completed a study of Haiti's water resource potential
for both irrigation and for power generation. France has financed road construc-
tion and is financing seed production, educational planning and research, and
equipment for provincial airports. The Federal Republic of Germany is pro-
viding technical and financial assistance for a regional development project
in the Gonaives Plain, power facilities for Cap Haitien and the Drouet - Saint
Marc Areas, and, together with France, is providing technical assistance for
the execution of the IDA-assisted rural development project in the Northern
Plain. The Federal Republic of Germany is also financing construction of
water systems in two provincial towns and participates in the IDA-assisted
port development project.
21.       Recent and prospective IDA operations in Haiti take into account the
ongoing and planned roles of other official lending agencies. In line with
the Government's Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan (1977-81) and
with Haiti's development priorities (as expressed in the new Development



- 6 -
Plan 1982-86), current and planned IDA operations are meant to support the
improvement and expansion of basic infrastructure in transportation, power,
sites and services and marketing of produce; to expand educational opportuni-
ties and upgrade educational skills, to promote development both in rural
areas and provincial towns, and to create new employment opportunities in
the directly productive sectors. As with ongoing projects, all proposed
operations would always include substantial institution building components.
22.       A third power project has been appraised and would include the expan-
sion of generating facilities in Port-au-Prince and rehabilitation and renovation
of the distribution and transmission networks. A pilot forestry project has also
been appraised and would address the severe erosion problem and the need to
rationalize fuelwood production. A third education project, being appraised,
would continue support for basic education, including curriculum reform. The
ongoing Rural Development Project provides for the preparation of a second
project which would extend the scope of the Regional Development Agency's
programs to additional areas of the Northern Department. An urban project,
being prepared with assistance from the Project Preparation Facility, is
expected to help the poorer segment of the population through upgrading of a
produce market in Port-au-Prince and sites and services assistance in Port-au-
Prince and two provincial towns.
23.       The Bank Group's share in Haiti's external debt disbursed and out-
standing came to 26.7 percent as of October 1, 1980. The Bank Group's share
of external public debt service was about 3.1 percent. While its share of
outstanding public external debt is expected to increase to about 30 percent in
1981, its share of external public debt service would rise to about 3.3 percent.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Background
24.       Haiti occupies the western third of the island of Hispaniola, with
an area of 272750 km and a long and rugged shoreline of 1,530 km (more than
1 km per 20 km of land area). The interior of the country is mountainous, with
about 40 percent of the land above 500 m. These features together with the
dispersion and low productivity of its agricultural sector as well as the
overwhelming dominance of its capital city, are characteristics which determine
Haiti's transport system, and more particularly, its road network.
25.       More than 98 percent of Haiti's external trade is moved by sea and the
balance by air or overland to the Dominican Republic. Ninety five percent of
the general cargo trade is handled at Port-au-Prince. International passenger
traffic is mainly by air and by cruise ships serving Port-au-Prince and Cap
Haitien and bringing a large number of one-day visitors (about 100,000 a year).
26.       Domestic transport moves primarily by road and is mostly confined to
the few recently constructed primary roads linking Port-au-Prince with Cap
Haitien, Les Cayes and Jacmel. Road transport accounts for more than 80
percent of inland transport.



- 7 -
27.       The second transport mode, coastal shipping, accounts for approxi-
mately 18 percent of total domestic freight volumes. The volume handled will
continue to increase as services are restructured and modernized following the
upgrading of coastal shipping ports.
Sectoral Development and Priorities
28.       Between 1975 and 1977, the Government, with UNDP assistance, contracted
a National Transport Study (NTS) for which the World Bank acted as executing
agency. The NTS recommended a transport policy in which priority be given to:
(a) improved maintenance and upgrading of selected existing roads, and (b) coastai
shipping improvements, to achieve a more even distribution of economic activity
between Port-au-Prince and the provincial towns. These recommendations were
adopted in the second Five-Year National Development Plan (FY1976-81) and in
ongoing transport projects assisted by IDA.
Institutional Framework
29.       The Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications (TPTC) is
responsible for transport investment, but the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Affairs and the Ministry of Planning are also closely involved. In addition
to these ministries, two autonomous agencies have been formed in response to
particular needs: the National Port Authority (APN), and the National Airport
Authority (AAN).
30.       In the early 1970s, the Government faced the problem of initiating
the 1971-76 Plan with inadequate institutional capacity. Following recom-
mendations of external lending agencies, TPTC restructured its organization.
The institutional framework, however, is somewhat unwieldy and suffers from
duplication of responsibilities on the one hand and gaps in responsibilities
on the other. Programming and budgeting is still not done on a sectoral basis,
liaison between agencies and services functions poorly and routine coordi-
nation depends too often on direct action by the Minister or individual
directors.
Road Network
31.       Haiti's national network consists of approximately 2,750 km of
motorable roads, of which some 576 km are paved and 2,174 km are gravel or
earth surfaced. In addition, there are numerous earth roads and non-motorable
tracks, used by vehicles and/or pack-animals and pedestrians, and which are
not part of the national roadnet.
32.       Haiti has a large number of aging steel and concrete bridges and
a number of water crossings where vehicles, people and pack animals must
ford rivers; delays due to high water are frequent. During the last decade,
traffic on several primary and secondary roads has frequently been interrupted
by failing drainage structures.



- 8 -
Characteristics of the Vehicle Fleet and Traffic
33.       Haiti's motor vehicle fleet is estimated at some 38,000 units, of
which approximately 90 percent are registered in Port-au-Prince. This figure
corresponds to a vehicle ownership of less than seven vehicles per 1,000
inhabitants, the lowest in the entire Latin America and Caribbean Region.
34.      In 1980, eighty four percent of all vehicles, which carried 75
percent of total freight volume and 80 percent of total passengers, had their
origin or destination in the capital. It is estimated that about 50 percent
of the network carry less than 20 vehicles per day (VPD), and 15 percent of
the network carry more than 300 vehicles. Probably half of the country's
transported goods are carried by human portage and pack animals, mostly along
trails and secondary and tertiary roads.
35.       Recent government traffic surveys along the newly reconstructed primary
roads show traffic growth during the first years of service of 15 to 20 percent,
which is well above previous trends and suggests an important increase in gene-
rated traffic. The NTS projected long-term traffic growth rates ranging between
4 and 8 percent annually for goods and public passenger transport and about 11
percent for private vehicles. Recent medium-term growth forecasts for selected
secondary roads average about 6 percent for transport of goods, about 7 percent
for public passenger transport, and 9 percent for private vehicles.
Road Transport Industry
36.       Haiti's road transport industry is subject to a minimum of regulation.
Urban transport and tariffs are also largely unregulated. Taxi service
in Port-au-Prince operates under standard tariffs set by the Department of
Labor and enforced by the Police.
37.       UNDP preinvestment studies carried out in 1971 and 1973 recommended,
inter alia, that speed, weight and dimensions of vehicles be regulated in
accordance with AASHTO standards, and also made recommendations on the installa-
tion and operation of weighbridge stations. The three IDB-financed Southern
Road projects (1974-80) included technical assistance to introduce axle
weight regulations and to prepare the necessary legislation. Load surveys of
the NTS suggested that, at the time, overloading was not a serious problem,
mainly because the poor state of many secondary roads was a deterrent to
overloading. However, the improved condition of recently reconstructed
primary roads and the competitive situation of the road transport industry
have led to increased overloading.
38.       In compliance with covenants agreed with IDB, and with IDA under
Credits 478-HA and 556-HA (Third and Fourth Highway Projects of 1974 and 1975),
the Government, on January 2, 1978, enacted legislation defining limits for
vehicle weights, dimensions, and axle loads consistent with the structural and
geometric design of roads. The decree, which entrusts enforcement to TPTC
through the Police, establishes the following limits: 8,000 kg for single,
and 15,000 kg for tandem axles, and 40,000 kg for total loaded vehicle weight;
it sets the following fines for over-loading: US$40 equivalent for axle load
violations and US$60 for total weight violations. The Government has not kept
its weighing equipment in operational condition.



- 9 -
39.       The existing axle load iimits are relatively low, and a smail increase
may be practical given the technical characteristics of trucks available on the
international market. However, this matter should be studied carefully, taking
into account the load capacity of Haiti's road system as well as ongoing work
on the same matter in the neighboring Dominican Republic. Pending discussions
on increasing axle load limits, the Government, in 1980, relaxed its load
and total weight regulations.
40.       At the urging of the Association, however, the Government has resumed
enforcement of existing legislation on axle load limits using mobile weighing
equipment. The Government also agreed, prior to negotiations, not to suspend
or grant significant exemptions to existing regulations without the prior
consent of IDA. This was confirmed during negotiations (Section 4.04 of the
draft Credit Agreement). Before effectiveness, the existing system of fines,
which proved ineffective, would be replaced by a progressive system in which fines
are proportional to the overloading. (Condition of effectiveness, Section 5.01
of the draft Credit Agreement). The proposed credit would include a component
to finance vehicle weighing equipment. Agreement has been reached with respect
to the preparation of quarterly reports to be furnished to the Association on the
status and progress of a program to control axle weights and vehicle dimensions
(Section 3.07 of the draft Credit Agreement).
Administration
41.       The departments primarily concerned with highways are:  (a) Service
Autonome des Transports (SAT), responsible for planning and engineering; (b)
the Construction and Works Supervision Department (SCS), responsible for
contracting and supervision of civil works; (c) the Service d'Entretien
Permanent du Reseau Routier NationaL (SEPRRN), the Permanent National Road
Maintenance Department; and (d) the National Laboratory for Building and
Public Works (LNBTP) responsible for testing of materials and standards.
These departments are adequately staffed and funded, and are supported by
technical assistance. SAT, LNBTP, and SEPRRN are, to a certain degree,
autonomous organizations, which has led to inefficiencies in coordination
and in the flow of information, nevertheless it has resulted in budgetary
advantages.
Planning and Engineering
42.       Transport planning, programming, project evaiuation and highway
engineering design constitute the main functions of SAT, which was created
in the context of the Third and Fourth Highway Projects. SAT is in charge of
transport sector planning and programming of highway improvements, preparation
and evaluation of transport regulations, and the systematic collection of
traffic data. Feasibility studies, planning, engineering and design for major
road projects are almost exclusively undertaken by consultants (mainly foreign)
under SAT's supervision. Haitian engineers have founded small local engineer-
ing firms which also participate in project preparation. It is expected that
more routine engineering work would be given by SAT to these domestic firms.
SAT's work program and a monitoring system for its implementation would be
reviewed annually (Section 3.05 of the draft Credit Agreement) as agreed
during negotiations.



- 10 -
Construction
43. (i) Highways: Most highway construction is carried out by international
contractors, with limited subcontracting participation of local firms. In 1979,
however, part of a major road reconstruction contract under the Fifth Transport
Project (Cr. 807-HA; US$10 million, February 1978) was awarded to a Haitian-
American consortium.
44. (ii) Feeder Roads: Since 1977, Haiti's feeder roads program has been
implemented by means of two labor-based and two mechanized brigades, each 350
men strong. The work is coordinated by TPTC and receives financial assistance
from USAID and the technical assistance of consultants (TAMS, USA).
45.       The need to overcome the isolation of outlying areas and to extend
the benefits of development in agriculture to regional centers has resulted in
increased demand for rural road construction. In addition to USAID, CIDA
(Canada) and IDB have financed rural road construction. IDA is financing
construction of some 95 km of rural roads under the First Rural Development
Project (Credit 675-HA). With a view to developing consistent standards and
methods of feeder road construction, agreement has been reached during negotia-
tions regarding annual exchanges of views with IDA on measures to ensure adequate
coordination among administration units involved in planning or constructing
feeder roads (Section 4.02 of the draft Credit Agreement).
46. (iii) Construction Industry: Costs of highway construction by foreign
firms are high because of the small size of the market and high mobilization
costs. The need to foster a competitive local construction industry has been
recognized since the appraisal of the Third Highway project in 1974. This led
to the inclusion of a survey of the construction industry in Haiti, within the
NTS report. The situation analysis presented in that report is still valid
today: the domestic construction industry is small and incipient, and the
market continues to be dominated by foreign contractors, with Haitian firms
doing mostly building and minor structural work.
47.       The local construction industry section of the 1977 NTS report would
be updated by consultants, and an action plan to strengthen the industry would
be prepared under the project. The study will also include an appraisal of
labor-intensive road construction and maintenance technology and required
technical assistance.
Maintenance
48.       Bank Group support for road maintenance in Haiti dates back to 1956
when the Bank made its first loan of US$2.6 million to finance a Maintenance
and Rehabilitation Project (Loan 141-HA). In 1962, an IDA Credit of US$350,000
was made for the Interim Highway Project (Credit 32-HA) to finance the foreign
cost of completing the road maintenance and rehabilitation works started
under the 1956 project. Road maintenance practically ceased after 1963, result-
ing in rapid deterioration of the road network. In 1972, the Government created
the Permanent National Road Maintenance Department (SEPRRN) as an autonomous
agency solely responsible for road maintenance. In 1975, USAID supplied Haiti
about US$5 million in loans and grants to finance a maintenance program. In 1977,
the Government obtained an additional U.S. grant of US$8.6 million for in-service
training of personnel and acquisition of equipment to expand SEPRRN's main-
tenance activities.



- 11 -
49.       SEPRRN owns some 400 units of equipment with a replacement value of
US$8-9 million; however, a considerable part of this equipment will need to
be replaced between 1981 and 1984. The Association considers adequate provision
for road maintenance a precondition for further lending in the road subsector and
has indicated to the Government that it would consider financing road maintenance
equipment only if an effort is made to balance the road maintenance effort between
capital and labor intensive technology; and that SEPRREN is not allowed to be
involved in road construction, with the possible exception of maintaining feeder
road construction equipment to avoid costly duplication of effort. Agreements
have been reached with the Government on these points, and were confirmed during
negotiations (Section 3.06 of the draft Credit Agreement).
50.       SEPRRN's average costs for routine and periodic maintenance of gravel
roads, combined with rehabilitation work, are high (US$3,600/km) because of
repeated regraveling and rehabilitation required as a result of the poor drain-
age condition of large portions of the secondary network in mountainous areas.
This project would be used as a vehicle to begin redressing this situation.
Financing and Energy Pricing
51.       Annual expenditures for TPTC's personnel and administration are
financed from the country's general budget. Investment works and operating
expenditures for SEPRRN depend partly upon external financing. Yearly
expenditures for the highway sector in FY76 to FY80 averaged approximately
US$51.7 million, of which almost 90 percent were for investments (including
preinvestment studies and technical assistance). Approximately 59 percent of
these investments have been externally financed.
52.       Government revenues from road user charges have increased consider-
ably from about US$5.5 million in FY74 to approximately US$15 million in
FY80. The increase is due to the substantial growth of traffic during the
last years and to the mounting import duties, mainly on gasoline, cars
and tires. Road user charges have been generally sufficient to finance
maintenance expenditures and to contribute minimally to investments in the
road sector; however, increased participation of road user in the cost of
building the network is necessary. CIF import prices for gasoline and diesel
are US$1.043 and US$1 per gallon, respectively. As of March 1981, the retail
price per U.S. gallon for gasoline in Port-au-Prince was US$2.15 but the price
for diesel was only US$1.17. Fuel prices are low in comparison with levels in
many other countries. The gasoline price includes US cents 86.4 in taxes but
there are no taxes on diesel.
53.       Taxes on automotive fuels will help Haiti to move towards:  (a)
rationalization of the use of energy, and (b) participation of road users in
the cost of building and maintaining the network. Under Haiti's current
tax structure, neither objective is being realized. The current system
creates an incentive to increase the number of diesel-fueled cars to avoid the
tax altogether. Almost 50 percent of the automotive fuels consumed for road
transport in 1979, the last year for which data are available, was diesel--a
rather high proportion.



- 12 -
54.       Imposing a similar tax on automotive diesel as on gasoline, would
increase government revenues and reduce distortions in fuel pricing. The
Association had therefore discussed the matter with the Government which has
agreed to impose a tax equivalent to US cents 20 per gallon of diesel used by
road vehicles. Agreement has also been reached on a program for the progres-
sive elimination of the remaining tax differential (66 cents) by the end of
1983 (Section 4.03 of the draft Credit Agreement).
Past Projects
55.       A Project Completion Report (PCR) and a Project Performance Audit
Report (PPAR) for both the Third and the Fourth Highway Projects, dated
May 27, 1980, were circulated on May 30, 1980. The PCR found reestimated
economic returns of 25 and 41 percent respectively, against 20 percent and
35 percent expected at appraisal in spite of construction cost overruns,
mainly due to considerably higher growth rates in traffic (in some cases as
much as 230 percent higher) and higher vehicle operating cost savings for
heavy vehicles. The PPAR indicates that there were some differences of
opinion between the Government and IDA about the standards to be used,
especially in relation to the bearing capacity of the pavement. In view
of the limited funds available, the Association insisted that the road be
rebuilt to modest standards, conforming to the needs of the traffic antici-
pated in the near future. The prime objective of the Third and Fourth
Projects was to rebuild the whole length of the road to reestablish reliable
communications between Port-au-Prince and Cap Hatien, the regional capital
of the Northern region. It was anticipated that strengthening of some
sections would be needed within the first ten years of service of the road.
The Government, although initially inclined to adopt higher standards,
agreed with this approach. The Government undertook to install and operate
weigh scales to check overloading. Full implementation of this undertaking
was delayed. Once the road was completed, traffic developed much more
rapidly than anticipated, with a high proportion of trucks. Axle loads were
also substantially higher than anticipated because of the introduction of
heavy trucks and the prevalence of overloading. This situation has led to
the need for strengthening of certain sections earlier than anticipated.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Objectives and General Description
56.       The objectives of this project are to foster high priority road and
bridge maintenance and rehabilitation works, and to continue IDA's long-term
program of institution-building started under previous projects.
The project comprises four components:
-    acquisition of equipment for renewal and expansion of SEPRRN's
existing fleet to carry out routine and periodic road maintenance
and rehabilitation in accordance with the 1982-1986 Five-Year
maintenance program;



- 13 -
-    carrying out of a program of control of weights and dimensions
of vehicles, including the procurement and operation of weighing
equipment and the diligent enforcement of laws and regulations
governing such control;
-    construction or rehabilitation of 57 bridges and drainage
structures;
-    rehabilitation and strengthening of about 100 km of the Northern
Road; and
-    technical assistance for studies of maintenance technology and
of the domestic construction industry; and to audit the project
accounts kept by TPTC and SEPRRN.
The project is important in the context of IDA's association with
the highway sector and the Ministry of Public Works. More specifically,
strengthening of the heavily-trafficked Northern Road would avoid more costly
reconstruction if the road were to deteriorate further. The maintenance
component is essential if the presently successful maintenance operation is
to retain its momentum and expand its activities to new road sections.
Bridge rehabilitation is designed to avoid costly bridge collapse and the
attendant deviation of traffic over long distances. The completion of the
project is foreseen for December 31, 1984.
57.       Maintenance Equipment:  Based on a review of its equipment inventory,
SEPRRN prepared a list of aging road maintenance equipment which will need
replacement during 1981-1984. Additional equipment may be needed to increase
SEPRRN's capacity to maintain the national highway network at an improved level
of service. Equipment procurement would be made in two tranches. IDA's approval
for the purchase of the second tranche (in 1983 and 1984) would be given only after
a detailed review to determine what equipment units could be replaced by more
appropriate labor-intensive technology (Condition of disbursement, Schedule 1,
para 5 of the draft Credit Agreement).
58.       Based on present 70 percent total fleet utilization, SEPRRN's targets
for equipment utilization and availability would result in total average utiliza-
tion of 80 percent as a result of lower down-time.
59.       At negotiations the Government confirmed that the availability and
utilization of SEPRRN's equipment fleet and the required percentage of total
network to be maintained each year, would be monitored on a continuing basis
and assessed annually in conformity with agreed norms. The Government has
also confirmed that equipment management, including systematic planning of
renewal, overhaul and scrapping, would be discussed with the Association at
the time of review of SEPRRN's annual maintenance program. It has agreed
to use its best efforts to ensure continuation of ongoing technical assistance
to SEPREN (Section 3.06(d) of the draft Credit Agreement).
60.       Control of vehicle and axle loading for compliance with legal
limits is precarious. It is necessary to review the entire system: the
Government has already requested consultants to review the ongoing vehicle
weighing operations and to recommend improvements. The project includes
financing for new weighing equipment (see also para. 40).



- 14 -
61.       Bridges and Drainage Structures:  An engineering/economic study
was prepared under the Fifth Transport Project by Consultant DIWI (Germany),
to provide an overview of the problem of bridges and structures and to recom-
mend a program consonant with long-term objectives for the rehabilitation and
repair of existing bridges and construction of new bridges, box culverts and
concrete fords. A total of 350 different drainage structures was inspected
and evaluated. Because of funding constraints, only 57 structures, including
six new bridges, and a 2-km bypass at Gimbale to eliminate the need to replace
two fords with bridges, would be financed under the proposed Sixth Highway
Project. Location of these structures and this section are shown on
Map IBRD 15894R.
62.       A Project Preparation Facility Advance of US$300,000 was extended to
the Government of Haiti in August 1981 to finance part of the preparation
work for this, and for the next, project component. The refinancing of this
advance would be made under the proposed credit.
63.       Road Rehabilitation:  A technical/economic study was carried out by
Consultant Setec (France) and Sohico (Haiti) on some 553 km of roads, including
the Northern Road (250 km). Consultants assigned the highest priority rating
for the program to strengthen and improve a 56-km mountainous section between
Passe Reine and Roche Halame; to repair an additional 1.5 and 2.7 km in the Coupe
Limbe and Morne Anglais areas respectively; and to carry out spot repairs and
surface dressing of two adjacent sections (39.4 km) between Gonaive and Passe
Reine and between Roche Halame and Cap Haitien (Map IBRD 15894R).
64.       The present pavement structure was designed and constructed to
standards for low traffic levels under the Third and Fourth Highway Projects.
The design was predicated on maximum economy in construction. The road has
been opened to traffic since 1976, and the combination of heavier than projected
traffic, together with considerable truck overloading, have led to more pavement
repair than expected for a newly built facility and to the need for early pave-
ment strengthening.
65.       At the time of preparation of the Third and Fourth Highway Projects,
annual traffic growth was estimated at 5-7 percent. After opening the road in
1976, traffic grew more rapidly than anticipated and current traffic levels
are 50 percent higher than those projected at appraisal. Truck and bus traffic
is especially heavy on the central (270 VPD) and the northern section (150 VPD).
66.       The consultants' recommendations were reviewed by the Association.
Final engineering designs for these sections have been substantially completed.
Technical Assistance Component
67. (i) Road Maintenance Technology Study: Due to the increasing cost
of capital goods, and given the availability of low-cost labor, the Government,
prior to purchase of additional equipment, would require a study to be carried
out to determine the possibility of increased labor-intensive activities. The
Association would not disburse the second tranche (1983/84) of the equipment
component until this study is completed (Schedule 1, para. 5 of the draft
Credit Agreement).
(ii) Study of the Domestic Construction Industry: A three-month study
would be prepared with emphasis on the formulation of specific proposals for



- 15 -
basic and vocational training for the industry's managers and skilled workers,
and for the training of technicians.
(iii) Auditing of Project Accounts: The appraisal mission assessed
the capacity of TPTC to comply with the Bank Group's new financial reporting
and auditing requirements. IDA has requested and received agreement during
negotiations that the accounts of the proposed Sixth Highway Project be audited
yearly by auditors acceptable to the Association (Section 4.01(b) of the draft
Credit Agreement). They would be paid, if required, from project funds (some
US$15,000 per year). USAID and IDB already implemented timely and properly
audited annual reports for their projects.
Cost Estimates, Financing, Disbursements and Procurement
68.       The total estimated project cost is US$19.2 million (including 6percent
of physical and 12% of price contingencies). The proposed credit of US$14
million would finance 96 percent of the foreign exchange cost and 73 percent
of the total cost of the project. The Government would finance the remainder
(the Government contribution includes about 2 percent of taxes). It is also
expected to finance the expenditures required for the agreed Five-Year Mainte-
nance Program (1982-86) in the amount of about US$68 million at 1981 prices.
These expenditures include US$18 million in rehabilitation works. The avail-
ability of counterpart funds and the commitment to fund SEPRRN's program
adequately, were confirmed during negotiations (Section 3.06(a) of the draft
Credit Agreement).
69.       The cost estimates for civil works for rehabilitation and strength-
ening of the Northern Road were prepared by consultants based on engineering
studies and current unit prices for similar works. The cost estimates for
rehabilitation and construction of fords, bridges, and other drainage structures
were also prepared by consultants. These were updated on the basis of substan-
tially completed engineering. The cost of road maintenance equipment (includ-
ing spare parts and workshop tools) was estimated on the basis of detailed
lists prepared by Consultant PRC Harris (USA) and includes local preparation
and delivery charges, but excludes import duties and sales taxes.
70.       Consultants:  Cost estimates for consulting services for detailed
engineering and supervision of civil works and for technical assistance, are based
on recent contracts and man-month rates for similar services by local and foreign
firms. Average cost per man-month for engineers is estimated at about US$2,000
for some 125 man-months of Haitian nationals, and about US$11,000 equivalent for
some 75 man-months of foreign consultants to be engaged in engineering and super-
vision of reconstruction works. The difference in man-month costs reflects
the current cost of French-speaking European consultants, and the lower salary
and mobilization costs of local consultants. The consultant services' costs
include costs of vehicles, survey equipment, local transportation, local
technicians, overhead and profits.
71.       The foreign exchange component of civil works is 70 percent of the
total cost and reflects dependence on imported supplies, especially fuel and
equipment. This estimate is based upon a detailed analysis of cost components.
It has been assumed that the pavement-strengthening and rehabilitation work would
be carried out by a foreign contractor in association with firms that would carry
out small and medium size work contracts, up to US$500,000; and that larger size
con-acts would be carried out by foreign firms or by Haitian firms associated



- 16 -
with foreign firms. The foreign exchange component of consultant services for
supervision of construction, technical assistance, and detailed engineering has
been estimated at 80 percent for foreign and 33 percent for domestic consultants,
reflecting experience with contracts under the ongoing Fifth Transport Project.
72.       Expenditures would be eligible for disbursement under the proposed
credit as follows:
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for direct imports of equipment,
spare parts and workshop tools or 94 percent of total expenditures
for locally procured imported equipment spare parts and
workshop tools;
(b) 70 percent of the total cost for civil works, for final engineering
and supervision of works as well as other technical assistance
inciuding services.
Implementing Agencies
73.       TPTC would be responsible for project execution through the following
departments, in accordance with the project implementation schedule.
-    SEPRRN for equipment procurement, including specifications of
the bidding documents and deployment of newly purchased equipment
in accordance with agreed road maintenance program and for the
study of road maintenance technology;
-    SAT for the preparation of engineering designs for the bridge
and road strengthening and rehabilitation programs; and for
technical assistance for the Construction Industry Study; and
-    SCS for the execution and supervision of construction, rehabiiita-
tion and strengthening works to be carried out under the Bridge
and Road Programs.
74.       These departments have adequate capacity to carry out the tasks
under the project; however, considering the demands placed on them by
projects financed by other ienders, the absorptive capacity of SAT and SCS
would have to be kept under close review; during negotiations, the Government
has agreed to review, jointiy with the Association, the staffing of and
coordination among the administrative units of TPTC involved in the project
(Section 3.08 of the draft Credit Agreement).
Procurement
75.       Procurement of equipment under the project would be in accordance
with the current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement" of March 1977. It
would be carried out in two tranches. Consultant services would be retained in
accordance with IBRD's "Guideiines for the Use of Consultants" of August 1981
(Section 3.02 of the draft Credit Agreement).
76.       Contracts with estimated costs over US$50,000 would be awarded
through ICB. Contracts with an estimated cost below US$50,000 and within an
overall ceiling of US$1,000,000 would be advertised locally in accordance
with TPTC regulations acceptable to IDA (Schedule 3, B 1, of the draft
Credit Agreement). Small quantities of equipment and spare parts could
be purchased locally under the same procedures.



- 17 -
SEPRRN, assisted by foreign consultants (PRC Harris, USA) would prepare
pertinent bidding documents for the maintenance equipment and spare parts
to be acquired under the project, and evaluate bids presented by suppliers.
77.       Civil works for construction of roads, bridges and other road
drainage structures would be awarded through ICB after prequalification of
firms in accordance with Bank/IDA Procurement Guidelines. For bidding pur-
poses, bridge and structure works would be contracted in lots of between
US$500,000 and US$1 million each, and the road rehabilitation component
(about US$6.6 million) would be let as one contract (Schedule 3, para A 3b,
the draft Credit Agreement). The proposed division is compatible with
established contracting capacity; it would ensure satisfactory implementation
of the project, and would maximize participation of local firms without undue
risk. Provisions permitting submission of alternative bridge designs would
be included in bid conditions. All bidders would be requested to submit a
fully documented bid for the design included in the bidding documents. All
bidding packages would be subject to IDA's prior review of procurement
documentation (Schedule 3, A 2 and 3, of the draft Credit Agreement).
78.       The terms of reference for consulting services for final engineering
designs, supervision of works and related technical assistance were reviewed
and agreed during appraisal and have been confirmed during negotiations.
Monitoring
79.       The progress of the project would be monitored against the agreed
program for the design, rehabilitation and repair of bridges as well as the
schedule of implementation established during appraisal (Section 3.05 of the
draft Credit Agreement).
Costs and Benefits
80.       The three major components of the project have each been subject to
separate and distinct analyses. Because each component has a considerable
maintenance element, which has a traditionally high rate of return, the rate
of return on the whole project and on each component is expected to be above
20 percent.
81.       Road Maintenance:  The road maintenance component consists mainly
of the replacement of road maintenance equipment purchased under a USAID project.
This equipment was selected to fit in an optimum strategy and will have a high
economic return.
82.       Bridges and Drainage Structures:  This project component consists
mainly of deferred maintenance and repair of existing bridges and other drainage
structures.   The following benefits have been quantified by the consultant:
savings through reduced vehicle operating cost, increased on-farm consumption,
savings realized by avoidance of produce spoilage, accident avoidance benefits
and residual values of the new structures at the end of the analysis period.
The economic costs of the project include the investment, the differential
maintenance costs, the potential cost of having to construct temporary
river crossings in case of a fallen bridge, and the maintenance costs of these
temporary structures.



- 18 -
83.       With these costs and benefits, three types of analysis were made:
the conventional internal rate of return (IRR), the benefit/cost ratio and the
net present value. The results indicate rates of return between 17 percent for
new construction and over 100 percent for maintenance of existing structures.
84.       Road Rehabilitation:  The road rehabilitation component was selected
from a set of more than 500 Km of roads studied on the basis of IRR for the
selected section. Taking into consideration the economic cost of the investment,
the vehicle operating cost, savings based on initial and generated traffic and
traffic growth, and the maintenance cost savings, the IRR on each of the sections
was between 12 and 13 percent.
Beneficiaries
85.       Direct beneficiaries would be truckers and other vehicle operators,
and, because of the highly competitive nature of the road transport industry,
vehicle operating cost savings would be passed on to the general public in
the form of lower transport costs, or at least, in the form of smaller
increases. The areas served by the project, around Cap Haitien and Gonaives
would particularly benefit.
Risks
86.       There are no exceptional risks for this project, although, as usual,
the maintenance component has the highest uncertainties, given the risks of
delayed funding. Elements of risk could be the diversionof SEPRRN's resources
to road construction and the interruptions in technical assistance. Institution
building in SEPRRN is well advanced and equipment maintenance is excellent.
Implementation of the road structures component could suffer some delays
because of the possibility of contracting engineering to local consultant
firms and civil works to local construction firms. Finally, the road rehabil-
itation element is straight-forward and does not present any extraordinary risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
87.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Haiti
and the Association and the recommendations of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
separately. Special conditions are listed in Section III of Annex III. An
additional condition of effectiveness would be that Haiti has adopted a system
of sanctions for axle load violations providing for fines proportional to the
extent of the violation. A condition of disbursement for part of the equipment
procurement program would be that a study, satisfactory to the Association, had
been completed of the appropriateness of labor-based maintenance and the list
of equipment to be procured under the Project had been revised accordingly.
88.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
89.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by: Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
March 9, 1982






ANNEX I
-20-                                                              Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
HAITI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HAITI                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV RAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)Ia
TOTAL              27.8                                  MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       14.0               1960  jb    1970 fb ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AKERICA & CARIBBEAN  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   100.0        120.0     260.0   *                16i6.2                     794.2
ENERGY CUNSUMPTIUN PER CAPITA
(KlLOGK(AMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      36.3         34.5       65.9                   1324.1                      707.5
PUPULATION AND VITAL SIATISTICS
POPULATION, MlD-YEAR (THoUSANDS)  3630.0        4235.0    4920.5    *
URBAN POPULATlON (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 15.6          19.9       26.9                     64.2                       27.7
POPULAITON PROJECTlONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MlLLIONS)                          8.1
STATIONARY POPULATlON (MILLIUNS)                           17.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        130.6       152.3      177.0                     34.3                       55.0
PER SQ. hM. AGRICULTURAL LANI    259.U         300.0      345.3                     94.5                      130.7
POPULAI1ON AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           40.9        42.9       43.4                     40.7                       46.0
15-64 YHS.                          55.2         53.3       53.1                     55.3                      51.2
b5 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.9          3.8        3.5                      4.0                        2.8
POPULATIUN GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.6         1.5        1.7                      2.4                        2.8
URBAN                                4.1         4.0        5.0                      3.7                        5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       44.7        43.1       40.8                     31.4                       46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       19.3        16.5       14.0                      8.4                       15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.0         3.0        2.8                      2.3                        3.2
FAMILY PLANNlNG
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..          ..       16.1
UbERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..        5.0
FOOD AND NUTRITlON
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           [04.0       100.0       92.0                    108.3                       89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    88.0         87.0       93.0                    107.6                       92.3
PRUTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           47.0         47.0       51.0                     65.8                       52.8
OF WHIlCH ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.0        17.0       18.0                     34.0                       16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       35.7        26.0       20.9                      7.6                       20.2
HEALTH
L1FE EXPECTANCY AT BERTH (YEARS)    44.4          49.1       53.1                     64.1                       50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..       150.0_c       ..                     70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATIlON)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..       14.0                     65.7                       27.4
URPAN                                 ..          .,       38.0                     79.7                       74.3
RURAL                                ..           ..        7.0                     43.9                       12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..                     59.9
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                     75.7
RURAL                                 *-         1.0         ..                     30.4
POPULATION PER PHYS1CIAN           9230.5      11569.0    5936.5                    1728.2                    13844.1
POPOLATION PER NURSING PERSON    10342.3        7066.7    4230.1                    1288.2                     2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1567.4      1194.6    1219.0                     471.2                     1028.4
URBAN                              298.0          ..      583.4                    558.0                     423.0
RURAL                                ..           ..    3309.9                        ..                     3543.2
ADMUSSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..         3.6        4.4
UR8AN                                 ..         2.2        4.2
RURAL                                 ..         4.3        4.5
AVERAGE NUMBER UF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          1.9
URBAN                                ..          2.0
RURAL                                ..          1.9
ACCESS TO ELECTRlCITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..         4.1        2.9
ORBAN
RURAL



ANNEXTI
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
HAITTI-STOAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HAITI                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVIRAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MDST RECENT             M7DDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA A CARIBBEAN  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENr RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 46.0        51.0      58.0                    101.7                      73.7
MALE                 50.0         57.0        ..                    103.0                      96.8
FEMALE               42.0         46.0        ..                    101.5                      79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 4.0          6.0       9.0                     35.3                      16.2
MALE                  5.0          8.0      13.0                     34.9                      25.3
FEMALE                2.0          4.0       6.0                     35.6                      14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY) 21.0          19.0       8.0                     30.1                       5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           43.0         52.0      41.0                     29.6                      36.2
SECONDARY                          13.0        18.0        ..                     15.7                      23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        s5.o        23.3         ..                    80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0         2.7       3.5                     42.6                      32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         5.8         19.6      20.6                    215.0                      69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.5          2.6       2.9                     89.0                       8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  11.0        18.7      19.7                     62.8                      20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..       1.2                      3.2                       0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1970.9      2104.4    2345.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  47.6         46.4      45.6                     22.6                      36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              80.0        74.2      73.7                     35.0                      56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 6.4          7.2       7.2                     23.2                      17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                54.3        49.7      47.7                     31.8                      37.2
MALE                                 58.4        54.3      52.7                     49.0                      47.1
FEMALE                               50.4        45.2      42.8                     14.6                      27.5
ECONO!IC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.8         0.9       1.0                      1.4                       1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     169.0                       ..                     381.2
RURAL                                ..          ..     144.0                    187.6                     156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..      82.0                    513.9                     334.3
RURAL                               ..           ..      73.0                    362.2                     137.6
ESTIATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..      55.0
RURAL                               ..           ..      78.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1965-70 average.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population                                           May, 1981
estimates to be shown in the 1981 World Bank
Atlas are $270 (at 1978-80 prices) and 5,009.0
thousand.



ANMEX I
-22-                                                                        Page 3 of 5
TNPtONITIONt OF SOCLAL I00114T00S
Norma:  Although tha data ar  dr-n  from sou -eIgaa1y judged the most tuthoistina and reliable, it should also be mooed that they -y not be itet
nationalIly  -mparblm hbosuso of th  lack of enodartdiad defi.nltoon  end co-cpt, uead by doff- e- ... oortirs Inoolot     the data.  The data are  ease-
thelsa  usefu. il no deeoibe odeca of magnitude, hodiO'aot-o.e .. and cbaoartaedesoeots...majorIdhfhtriio
Tb. refstncegrup  are  t) tho ease  -ounty grop o  tesbct country atd (2)  arvontoy group with enhnba  higheraeaeinoeta  the outry group
ofthsujcooto (nrofo   Capta   'Iutu  00   rporar" gr-P where "teiddls Inom  North Afrtic  and ffhddla fast"  he.bs. beoasn of strnge
sonho-ulnutm  tffhothgm).Inthro.far.rc. group dat  the  - avrgeear  nooplnthon relheted  -ritimetocnasfrecio oao   n   hn   eyoa
majorIity nf the  iutrs    In a  rop has data foe that ootoato.  hirr  Ohaonog   f  orre   eNgtehCitosepderthe-aveisOhy  nf  at
sod heha  uhfr, cation moat be  inerse   hr onletg aoeege  oh one..  indictor. to n-ob-r  'Taeah                    rg.ae.t.uefii  .prr  th  na1ue at
en  Indi-s-i  arthIeei  eco  rho  --utc  atd oat -enr  ar-p.
1AND1 ARIA  (thr...std  qoh.jrrOtopa  Optui _had -noa,.rr,eAoal-tpainhas.
Total - Total  -uface ate  -osIieiog hod  relod   iimdatee.uran  and cutsMll j idhuidd by thier repoo   uber  f b..epeteL beds
Ago,ictuiral.  - f.nae f-       rcc  oa  ae-se   mpraopo  perar-tipa                                    blbai   npnic d private geera  nodeprtahed hnepitt1 sedre
for  -roy, pasr-rr. market erd hitrheo garden. or to lie taoe; 1979 dora.                      habilitatln-o-iner.  inepit.le ore            hsrhlnimtto  pstmarory ereffed
by ar  .trs  non phy.hotar.  hErablitaheto  porvhdiog prinitosiynse-
GNPPUCMPITAlit)   -GNPf per topitaoi.           tsa  trenmre  pricem, oa-                           dialrae1    r t ot I     hirluded.  Rural hnspitale, banono  loin.da halth
-oistd by. sa7 connat too.  atbd as Onnid han  tils   (I97-79 basIs); 1960,                      atd medicalreefers no  pertrentl'y stffedby a phyehiian (bae byI
1970. sod 1979 dare.                                               '                               eia   sttn,ttr   idtfe, etr.2 hih  olfferIn-pathat groom-
datino sopoide a Lnite1d  -age of sedicl f-ioihti.-  IOrsnr-
111001 ctCONS nTINh PER. CAPITA - A .n.mi roonoptiot of               ..o.acll  ngy (olti-at Purp.... urh- baspitaim  indluds WHO.d  pirtipallgee.r.  boahol
drriy.   t  klgrm   ofca            lnetprcP'tta; 19t0. 197h, sod 199                            rerr.ieiltdbsfas  r   etddol   oe    el
POPULATION ADOl VITAL2 STATISTICSit                                                                                              h   .bt~    ..
Treltruao.                                  A.dtr   huota       isf July 1; 1ii, 1977. aod i979  fHO01101
irba Prtlotro(proa   oftotlj -- OuYi off uirt  ttlrrusit                                    householdyrored-re of   group of tndhodi     nO      ahao   hiving 1-osters 11
eang rnotrtes  idhi.  070, ad 1979 dato.                                               the hou...boid for  -ntistit-a  purposs
1noulethoiPrlmotia-200-  - l   ..n"                tjaj                                       AYrerannan.be- of -prot a room - total ura. n                      .ana ..- Aeege  n
Pnltio   nyn   00- oritooair   rjcin    r  basdo  1980                                        her of Pra..e Par r-n  in all -tb-, and ruatI           otI     aosea
toa  pp  nit  yag   ndanodthtbI'dlo   adfenl"Isoe                                        arlng,tdyoioip               nthinearueorpemndrtrtaesm
Proerio  praetrefo  nocait  rte  cnpoa        of theebevlaer-o rpid ots
and  fertIt  tredi   o   rjrro    npse                                                   ndueedfrnietl fnIoMS  t2   y                          .      b.
ittinay  inlahn-oashh onryrruatnothteisn  growtb sirre                                   Primro erbolt1 I tot. maeadfml jie  iea.ml  e   at
materro-tan.         tssacIvdohnfr feott Oty raesOtbret.pImr   ebo-og   daoetoe;oeml                                                     y  nlde   bjdenaodNI
setheret.                                                                                      edotartaorsqotreee   least foryaso   peodpiayfsenlm
etee has been reached,                                                               usually of 12 en 1  yeas o          ng;er .podecnnossr    -eesst
tonalaced  lyh   197  end 197  daa.hohd   ternct  todenia                                                                     - n   ther  fProemawih p-Y   sidae
4yot.), an   etrd (hIdnead  vola   sretoe   f  o-ea  np-onr-tntglees
_atl;i9i 1  197,ed17   aa                                                                       otltrt   ea(enar      lamadts(beo   edndnt.
eas  paolaine hc 150-i, lOA-Ond -     197. 79.I
Ponmeo   Prno  Oar. (eat-una-Anulgotresofuboup-                                     CNItPT-ION                                 Y1
lanoo  fa  101hO.190-7,  od197-7.                                              Psmnar Crs(re  taunhdna'..in)    .Pas                    Ide ones -. numets   ca
fod  in    as  orrhuad)-Anellvebrheprohomd  fmd-erOmemtin   es tnegh    sens   elde   snsmm.hnta   a
tnuana;  gO  1970,h ad17   at.uitr    abIe
1papuarow%     100  1901an1179dae                                                                1r2dn.o 1n g           yesra  ro lr    ..,hn.ed,f: aotnhn   fmnade  an-         .
Itoe   eodohnar-erg   ubrv   sgnoswmnel   eri                                                   lrnn   smvr   nrutnen    nysswe   nitehna   ai
baIetlterdoinpetdi   heetrsos  ree    geseio    sr                                             it  a  t   fet  dr   n  eso    r   aymrb   rpasi   ho
ntityrane;uoaly  fie-per  nersms  nkil_On190, (1970,hc.t. an   99                   otranomfbl dlcnig
Paln  lsaa  -Arorr.  nua  oeuads     0.05   obe   f  cmeusTnRnnvr.ha  nhoan  eeiadn)- 9roerer  fo    ndnsnr
ofbrbreoideosudr  upcso   aInlfml0pennirga.                                            gntlpbirpnrnsn    enehnienoe   nieedT   sevr
leaIotla  Pnorin  e  Cait (1hil-71lI)-Rldno   e   sisana                                       inlma amua hoedmera    ersoaIee-Sce   mte  rro
peodondiun at allfnnd-cratkditis. fduinenldssd an              (enIndtckt  told  urin  the                             - "eAn hlurag  dsisTome1 toden-imnoe
is . on  60  1970ndn  pmer basis   Cadittem  rae  Pn Itarygnd  (e.g sd gry-  n               and mobilen unt.- ty -1di1dby.                       .f-         ..
taosdofsua)g                                            hihse  eiimso   onai   anion    te.g. rnff - and.t    .d-
aniealrsag   p 1d960roesihe   tn-671900nd179dta                                      ealIbu  noeibas1970                 neesolt   ntc   arse9iolda
PmoooBginnmuc-nl-e .. )  of raioItes Inbrtan  of        p-area th)   - Cscnd  doommeid-..     P.... fuone  and h-.. APepln.d.ue  acldia   baenis.etadeas  a
Pue ~day     riai   opistmrs   oetcpoae,Imports1 lines                                        nof n1979mdt.ge-blle; 19g  1970 and 1979 dana.
Pquanrittes used0t  fond, prthceesng,  mad.lade. i          ditto idon. Naqite              Aoteltre aroo)-  ao  fot. he fArmn,foltl                           eeea
memossees  etimaed b  PA79 daaad nopyiigolmnsfreee   iI-siga   ereasa   na   abrfrs   90   90md17   aa
honeehold lerl; 1900-65.  970, and 197   d9ts.                                  197019d 1979.data
Pee eela epal of   orae (esm tetday   -  naninrnome   ofprorapem            Prriiratamantsfrevea) -totl, mle,andfemle -Paeitiantabw
quteaeem   or al cos aissobtee   ytN   roiefotame                                       atnae  ofI tn-ts      .. mal  anP eespp     eaflm,faltge   smmtey
al hna ild.g60b res oi  tta  prta-prdy  n   n gom  rf anIimamd                           196,  197, ed 17   aa    hs   w   ae  on 21_.0-s pa TVnpts   rate 
pae"I    e -      feto   0gessoudb  anf...p.otet.  Th                   .. eaed               relniegaesaaroua  feeppiae,am   agtm   ed 
Olel  on  Nray   96-n,190  o  17  dteSo.h  toteSisfMU                                                       forts.                                              J.
Pee eaAM N   TIOtmi meNl   dominmaymd nia   -Porteenelfoifeddd
ag  goo  14      -eas bnia Chldr dninthis agtra;fo    atdveoig                   e-            5prwt. nlhatI2 panen               pors  20 ea dnant  sad peoras  40pen
tims Anna-W Omoive  from       di tbles  1960, 1970i and 1979 dnea.                            of baueabold.I.-
LifeIseaiane arSloh-(eace P-d-i Aveag  n-,hacr of peso  of lieraigTe..isa    siaasaevr   prniaamcad                                                  f  n        ees
atbith  1      fg 190  nd199dae,an  soldbe197r9s  wthtdiarbt    tnta
ledsarNantaite hon hea oba  1-d)- gonn  detso   osn    Mr  n   50                       OgmidchnoePaeeio - CvetlffON.tieen-le P-. seban adeea
Atones raSafe Nare   femon  of eelatio)d- Ibtl. ihen maIrnl= en -ietmaly  ds                                     Plnae . diet  inesarl on-fo  Pso tems i  me
ba  o  pars  enel oba,  odrual  wth_esonbnInessn  sa..pt 
Id Tf  d. p.~~~~~~~t.Z.k...jerhmand tls-cp""voee Tree ,mnli(0$ es fnird                                               - ahe  ad sed 
raaeomeblsattag    ol   ml  hnuebuefao    mso  h   osb                                         a  one   Penn-n-g ef tptpaletiom         .  (aha  sad  1eal) eke see 0 e dhun
h n . eat d 1-e 1 seda  Ipopoho.pe  of96the day70in fetchingl.               Ita              pnr.dIt..y,                l
Anteset   Pi,mt  icma(c Nteat ofpl e nlaleo-od oL.  onhem.i sing neil -.I                                                                     Id
L-1  t-Poplaton divde  by nabdso.  of prItnn_idntagTptymt..t
glasd nsifm(iui t         dfahbaas e           dmemsiy   level
Pesss.agfm ea Usoima eosee- Pualsean tfelde   by.i nefabmo of- ptran-Aloint
me-d sad htes gadmma   lrs.,pomtin- mwem,od6s5in-e mose



hSf I
-23-                                                                      Pap  4  f 5
HAITI -  GCOnIC DTAn
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCTS IN 1981                                                                                    ANUAL RATE OF GROWTH (2 in constant prices)
US$ Million          %                                                             1965-75-'            1970-751             1975-8D±-/
GNP at 9arket Prices              1,610.0         130.0                                                               1.4                  3.8                   5.0
Cross Domestic Investment           237.6         1[.e                                                               11.8                 14.2                   5.1
Gross National Savings 2/            34.2           2,1                                                              13.7                 19.7                  -4.4
Current Account Balance            -103.4           6.4                                                               _                    _                      _
Export of Goods, NFS  5/            226.1          14.1                                                               1.2                 11.9                  4.8
Import of Goods, NFS  5/            411.7          25.6                                                               4.7                 10.0                  7.7
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980
Value Added                                                 Labor Force                                       V.A.erWr
US Million            %                                     US$ Million           7                              USS It_iion Wrk2
Agriculture                         335.0          32.7
Industry 6/                         235.2          23.0
Services                            453.0          14.3
Total/Average              1023.2         100.0                                        N.A.             100                                N.A.           100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government 7/                                        Central Government
G Million             % of GDP                               C Million)            2 of GDP
1981              1975       1981                            1981             1975        1911
Current Receipts                   1.173.4              13.1       14.4                            657.8             9.3         8.1
Current Expenditures               1,248.5              11.7       15.3                            835.4             8.2       10.3
Current Surplus (+) or
Deficit (-)                       -75.1              1.4       -0,9                           -177.6              1.1       -2.2
Capital Expenditures                 757.9               7.5        9.3                            615.4             5.5         7.6
External Assistance (net) B/         587.0               5.2        7.0                            501.5             4.5        6.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1970      1976      1977      1978       1979      1980       1981
(Million G Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                                            198.2    779.9    930.6   1,159.7  1,353.5   1.593.5   1,801.8
Bank Credit to) Public Sector                                    189.2    346.3    288.9         332.0    392.2       605.6       837.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector                                     65.3    519.7    658.0         791.5    921.8   1,010.4   1,118.3
(Percentages or Indem Numbers)
Money and Quasi-Money as  2 of GDP                                10.0      17.7       18.5       22.5      23.0        22.2       22.1
Consumer Price Index
Annual Percentages in:
Conssmer Price Index                                               3.3      10.2       6.9       -2.6       13.0        18.1       17.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector                                      -2.1       8.9      16.6       14.9       18.1       54.4        38.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                                      9.9      15.2      26.6       20.3       16.5         9.6       10.7
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/     Data refer to FY ending September 30.
2/     Does not include current transfers.
3/     IHS, Co=ptes de la Nation., 3/31/81.
4/     World Bank estihates.
5/     Net of imported inputs for assembly industry exports.
6/     Mining, manufacturing, public utilities and construction.
7/     Consolidated Accounts of Central Government and Public Enterprises.
Q/      Net disbursements of loans and grants.
9/     N.A. ic Now-applicable



ANNEX I
Page 5 of S
-24-
HAITI-TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                                MERCRANDISE EXPORTS (Average 1978-81)
1975      1976       1977         1978      1979        1980        1981                                           US$ Million      %
(9US$ Million)                                           Coffee                                  56.4        34.2
Export of Goods, NFS             105.7       147.3      181.0       203.6      209.1       288.1      226.1        Cocoa                                    5.2          3.2
Import of Goods, NFS            -165.7    -225.5    -269.0    -292.2          -342.2    -414.0       -411.7        Essential Oils                           6.q         4.2
Resource Gap (deficit - -)   -59.4          -78.2       -88.0      -88.6    -133.1    -125.9    -185.6             Bauxite                                 17.9        10.9
Assembly Industry (net)                30.3         18.4
Interest Payments (net)           -7.0       -7.2       -12.1      -14.7       -13.4       -14.3      -17.8        Small Industries                       22.5         13.7
Other Factor Payments  (net)    ..             .           ..          .          ..         ..                        and Handicraft
Net Transfers                     39.4        65.0       63.5        67.9       79.8        77.3      100.0        All Other Commodities                   25.6        15.5
Balance of Current Accounts   -27.0    -20.3            -36.6       -35.4      -66.7       -62.9    -103.4            Total                              164.8        100.0
Direct Foreign Investment          2.7         6.8        8.0        10.0       12.0        13.0        15.7       EXTERNAL DEBT, SEPTEMBER 30, 1980  2/    US$ Million
Net MLT Borrowing                 19.7        24.8       60.5        40.3       32.5        33.1        57.7
Disbursements                  24.9       33.3        68.9       49.5        39.5       43.0        66.0        Public Debt including guaranteed                  248.6
Amortization                    5.2        8.5         8.4        9.2         7.0         9.9        9.3       Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                           -
Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Other Items n.e.                 -18.5         7.2      -19.1        -4.6       36.2         5.0       -3.3
Increase in Reserves (-)         -23.1      -11.6       -12.8      -[0.3       -14.0        11.8       33.3        DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980                          %
Gross Reserves 1/                  9.9        22.7       31.0        38.9       54.7        40.3       19.4        Public Debt, including guaranteed                    4.5
Net Reserves 1/                   -3.8         7.7       20.5        30.7       44.7        32.9       -0.2        Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Fuel and Related Materials
IBRD/IDA LENDING (SEPTEMBER 30, 1980)
Imports                        12.9       17.1        23.6       24.5        34.5       63.0       61.0
Exports                          -          -           -           -          -           -                                                                    US$ Million
1BRD
Outstanding and Disbursed                            66.3
Undisbursed                                         43.7
Outstanding including undisbursed                  110.0
1/  Monetary authorities.
-   :iot applicable
not available
2/ 1981 debt figures are not available yet.
February 1982



-25-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1981)
---------$ Million-------
(less cancellations)
Loan or
Credit                                                    Bank
Number       Year        Borrower          Purpose       Amount      IDA      Undisbursed
One loan and four credits have been fully disbursed          2.6     46.4
618-HA        1976     Republic of Haiti   Education                  5.5          0.5
675-HA        1977     Republic of Haiti   Rural
Development            10.0          4.6
757-HA       1978      Republic of Haiti   Water Supply               6.6          3.2
770-HA       1978      Republic of Haiti   Education                 10.0          8.7
807-HA       1978      Republic of Haiti   Transporta-
tion                   15.0          1.5
895-HA       1979      Republic of Haiti   Power                     16.5          9.7
Total                              2.6    110.0         28.2
of which has been repaid    2.6
Total now outstanding
Amount sold                        0.4
of which has been repaid    0.4        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA             110.0
Total undisbursed                                       28.2
B.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS, expressed in SDRs, as of September 30, 1981.
----- SDR Million -----
IDA    Undisbursed
1106-HA 1/  1981       Republic of Haiti  Agricultural
Rehabilitation      2.6          2.6
1121-HA 1/  1981       Republic of Haiti  Ports                 8.7         8.7
1131-HA 1/  1981       Republic of Haiti  Industrial Credit  5.7            5.7
17.0        17.0
1/   These credits were not in effect at September 30, 1981.



-26-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
t.   STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION as of September 30, 1981 1/
Credit 618     First Education Project; US$5.5 Million Credit of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: May 20, 1976; Closing Date:
originally June 30, 1980 and postponed twice, to December
31, 1981.
The project was completed about 24 months behind schedule due to
original start-up delays in school design and in contracting for construction;
because of climatic conditions; six months of administrative proglems and,
from July 1979 until very recently, an acute shortage of local counterpart
funds. The educational aspects of the project have been substantially met, and
the appraisal target of constructing 332 classrooms has been achieved, though
with a slightl;y higher number of urban classrooms. The credit has been fuily
disbursed.
Credit 675     Rural Development Project; US$10 Million Credit of January 14,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 27, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project has been facing major difficulties. Although the
pace of disbursements has improved in recent months, overall disbursements had
only reached US$4.5 million by the end of September as against initial expecta-
tions of full disbursement by the end of 1981. While the agricultural field
trials and rural water supply components have progressed beyond appraisal
expectations, implementation of other components is behind schedule, though the
feeder road component has improved. The irrigation component is being reduced
drastically. A major unresolved issue is the inadequacy of sugar milling
capacity in the project area and the coordination of cutting and milling of
sugar cane. The Government has taken steps to expand the financial autonomy
of ODN, the project agency, and has established a revolving fund to help
speed up the disbursement process. The Executive Directors have approved a
proposal to amend the Credit Agreement, including a working fund proposal and
changes in the project description.
Credit 757     Provincial Towns Water Supply Project; US$6.6 Million Credit of
January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: Originally December 31, 1981, and postponed to
December 31, 1982.
This project is about 18 months behind schedule because of original
delays in the appointment of consultants; delays in issuing bid documents and
the need to rebid for three of the seven project towns. The technical assistance
component is proceeding well. KfW (Federal Republic of Germany) agreed to
finance two towns when it became clear that the UNCDF grant was not enough to
cover three towns. UNCDF has increased its allocation for the remaining town.
The total cost of the project is about US$1.7 million above appraisal estimates.
Because of poor contractor performance, a re-arrangement of contracts is under
consideratior.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects/investments in execution, and in particular to
report any problems which are being encountered, and the action being
taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-27-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Credit 770      Second Education Project; US$10 Million Credit of March 16,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 25, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project is about 18 months behind schedule due to a shortage
of iocal counterpart funds. However, IDB is providing such funds under a
post-Hurricane Allen loan to help Haiti meet local costs of IDB and IDA
projects. Construction has been stepped up under the supervision of the
Project Unit. Progress in the educational aspects of the project is also
satisfactory. An in-depth review of the project was carried out in September
1981 to ensure consistency of the project's educational aspects with recently
adopted educational reform policies.
Credit 807      Fifth Transportation Project; US$15 Million Credit of June 9,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 26, 1978; Closing Date:
Originally December 31, 1981, and postponed to June 30, 1982.
(a) Road Component: The civil works component has been compieted. The
Government has provisionally accepted them between March and August
1980 but will delay final acceptance of these works until the
completion of some necessary repairs. Phase I studies for a proposed
Sixth Highway Project were completed and provided the basis for
appraisal.
(b) Coastal Shipping Ports Component: There have been delays in
completing port construction because of technical difficulties,
including storm damage to civil works, and completion of all three
ports is now expected in January 1982. Although traffic at the
Port Authority's international terminals has grown consistentiy
in the last three years and financial operating resuits have been
positive, the profitability of the Authority has been deteriorating
and financial targets are not being met. Tariff adjustments now
being considered are expected to remedy this situation.
Credit 895      -  Second Power Project:  US$15 Million Credit and US$6 Million
and EEC Special   EEC Special Action Credit of May 31, 1979; Date of
Action Credit 4   Effectiveness:  April 21, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project, which is co-financed by CIDA (Canada) under a grant of
Can$17.1 million, suffered an initiai delay in 1979 as a result of disagree-
ment with EdH regarding the award of a contract for the diesel generators.
The Government subsequently dismissed the General Manager, the Technical
Director and the main consultants of EdH. These factors had serious reper-
cussions in EdH itself, caused a delay of almost a year in the effectiveness
of the Credits and deiays of up to 18 months in institutional and technical
aspects of the project, except for the main component of the project -- the
expansion of the Varreux power station. However, as the manufacturer of the
generators has been able to reduce completion time by about seven months,
overall delay will be of the order of three months. The Association has tried
to reduce the effects produced by the dismissal of the main consultants, by
providing for an overiap of services with the outgoing consultants. As the
cost of the project increased with the long delay to effectiveness, the
scope of the project has had to be reduced somewhat, mainly in the distri-
bution component, to remain within the funds avaiiable for the project.



-28-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Credit 1106   -   Agricultural Rehabilitation Project; US$3.2 Million Credit
of April 13, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: October 19, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982.
Five thousand tons of fertilizer have been supplied by USAID for the
project which is in early stages of implementation.
Credit 1121    -  Port Development Project; US$11.0 Million Credit of April 13,
1981; Date of Effectiveness: November 16, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
Preparation of final engineering documents and negotiation of contracts
for supervision are progressing satisfactorily; but legislation for a National
Maritime Authority is delayed slightly. Construction bids have been received
and are being evaluated.
Credit 1131    -  Industrial Development Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of
April 13, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: December 8, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This credit is not yet effective. The Industrial Development Fund
has completed preparation of its Operations Manual and its Internal Regulations.
The present comparatively high liquidity situation of commercial banks is likely
to reduce demand for IDF resources, at least until economic activity picks up.
Conversely, the imposition of foreign exchange controls may create a demand for
its resources.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project identification:
(i) Project prepared by: Ministry of Public Works, Transport and
Communications, with the assistance of
consultants and Bank staff.
(2) First mission to consider project: September 1980
(3) Initial request for IDA financing: January 1981
(b) Appraisal mission departure: May 1981
(c) Negotiations completed: February 11, 1982
(d) Planned effectiveness date: July 31, 1982
II. Special IDA Implementation Action: None
III. Special Conditions: Agreement was reached regarding the following matters:
(a) As a special condition of effectiveness, that Haiti will adopt a system
of sanctions for axle load violations providing for fines proportionai
to the extent of the violation, and furnish quarterly reports to the
Association on the status and progress of the program to control
axle weights and vehicle dimensions (para. 40);
(b) views will be exchanged annually on measures to ensure adequate
coordination among units carrying out feeder road construction
and on the work program of SAT (paras. 42, 45 and 49);
(c) SEPRRN, the road maintenance organization, shall not be invoived
in road construction activities (para. 49);
(d) the tax on diesel fuel shall be increased to the level of gasoline
taxes by the end of 1983 (para. 54);



-30-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) acquisition of the second tranche of road maintenance equipment
would be conditional upon the results of a study to determine
whether part of the equipment can be replaced by labor-based
methods of maintenance (para. 57 and 67, condition of disbursement);
(f)  the availability and utilization of maintenance equipment and the
road maintenance program would be monitored at all times, and re-
assessed annually (para. 59);






IBRD 15894R
__   S  \  z2 r            AA TI AN TI C                                  A    I  A  N  r/C
0 C,A N  ~ ~ ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        IA T I ANTC   OCEAN
; e                                                                                        W24I.   e OS C E A IV
IL                H    T                                                        STOLE ST NE ''                                                                                                ; - e TI Bad 
III  lIT          CAR   BEA~N  SEA
HAITI              '                                                                                                                                                                     , '
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                                     n7
READS T BE REATL OUThITD                                                                                                          o--
ROADSU RHTABLITAEINR  F ETA TITUEWAY PROJEO                                                                                                                                          t,CT
- I  N   TUtT-E
= E.    NTEA5RIGEIC REPIACIRIOCIIINTINI SIRIICOTCa                                                                                                                          NQ     \ '                 \        S
* 0H,    ORIRCE REPARSJ
*TIC     EDIT CILATRREPt>TCFNO EIGEXSTNOSTRUCTURE
EXISTING GAhN-POT |T
EXISTING ROADS                                                              _7
RtW ATSPALT ROADS
...........  OLETASP-RTUROAD'S
EA2RT.                                                                                                                                      6a >                  W                              lCe                     }'  
-2QMUNTAI RANGES
PIATEV5Ic
DEPARTMENT.EUOINDARI5E                                                                                                                                                                                    T ,\
IRTEERRATIONAl TOERDARIES 
_ RIGETS                                                                                           ONA  t                                                                        - 0
II  9   II  11  IX                                                                                                                                                                                         RACIST, 1~~~~~-1T-  OR-AUP 
TIC a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CAR                                                                                                            
7h'                                                                                                                                                         /
ca r tos ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~             d93xs\~~~~~~EWSTIIIT   WRIAOSTRA r n  R1.  EVOlLIeC
pO¢ g . a B +g- ! An zgbtret PG3asHo C X cr 7 Pb t _ SB gi t E < 5; 0 z~~~~~~~~~~~~~REN



