CREDIT NUMBER 1220 HA
Development Credit Agreement
(Sixth Highway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated      /                       , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1220 HA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  e                7 -       , 1982, between
the REPUBLIC OF HAITI (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Ministry" means the ministry of the Borrower respons-
ible for public works;
(b) "Maintenance Department" means the Service d'Entretien
Permanent du Reseau Routier National, the National Permanent
Road Maintenance Department of the Ministry;
(c) "Transport Department" means the Service Autonome des
Transports, the Autonomous Transport Department of the Ministry;
(d) "Works Department" means the Service de Construction et
de Supervision des Travaux, the Construction and Works Supervision
Department of the Ministry; and
(e) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated May 26, 1981 and August 21, 1981
between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equi-
valent to twelve million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 12,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
this Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreeme(t, as such Schedule
may be amended from time to time by agreement tietween the Borrower
and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
(b) Road maintenance equipment will be procured on the
basis of lists and time schedules agreed between the Borrower and
the Association.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985
or sich later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Sedtion 2.05. (a) The Borrower shTll pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one,-half of one per cent (1/2


﻿-3-
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from a
date sixty days after the date of this Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the
Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each January
15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1992, and ending January 15,
2032, each installment to and including the installment payable on
January 15, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the Ministry with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, economic
and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.


﻿-4-
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the detailed
engineering, the supervision of construction and the carrying out
of the studies included in the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose selection, qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion in accordance with the principles and procedures described
in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.


﻿-5-
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare And furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure that the departments
of the Ministry responsible for carrying out parts of the Project
conduct such operations pursuant to lists of designs and works
and a schedule of execution satisfactory to the Association
and monitor the carrying out of such operations; the Borrower
shall exchange views thereon annually with the Association.
Section 3.06. In order to ensure the adequacy of the road-
maintenance operations of the Maintenance Department, the Borrower
shall:
(a) make available to the Maintenance Department promptly as
needed such funds as shall be required for carrying out its work
program in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the Associa-
tion;
(b) ensure that the Maintenance Department's equipment
be used only for works of maintenance or rehabilitation;
(c) cause the availability and utilization of the equipment
fleet of the Maintenance Department and the percentage of the
total road network to be maintained in each year to be monitored
at all times and reassessed annually;
(d) use its best efforts to obtain and maintain such tech-
nical assistance as shall be necessary to ensure the sound and
efficient management of the Maintenance Department; and


﻿-6-
(e) exchange views at least once each year with the Associa-
tion on the Borrower's compliance with the foregoing obligations
and on the Maintenance Department's management of its equipment,
including its planning of renewals, overhauls and scrappings.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
quarterly reports on the status and progress of the program of
control of weights and dimensions of vehicles included in Part B
of the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall exchange views periodically
with the Association on the staffing of and coordination among the
various administrative units of the Ministry charged with carrying
out any part of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Ministry
to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of
the Maintenance Department, the Transport Department and the Works
Department.
(b) The Borrower shall cause such Departments to: (i) have
the accounts and financial statemer-) related to the Project
audited for each fiscal year in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as
soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of such
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
reports of such audits by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning
such accounts and financial statements and the audits thereof as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. For the purpose of developing consistent stand-
ards and methods of execution, the Borrower shall exchange views
annually with the Association on measures to ensure adequate
coordination among units charged with planning or carrying out
construction of feeder roads.


﻿-7-
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, beginning in 1982, increase
the tax on diesel fuel so as to eliminate the difference between
such tax and the tax on gasoline by the end of 1983.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all steps necessary to
ensure the enforcement of its regulations concerning axle load
limits and vehicle dimensions and shall not modify, suspend or
grant exemptions to any such regulations without a prior exchange
of views with the Association.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause the Transport Depart-
ment to conduct its operations according to a program of work
satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that a system of sanctions for axle load
violations providing for fines which are proportional to the
extent of the violation has been adopted as a part of the program
of control included in Part B of the Project.
Section 5.02. The date     f) I                    is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of State responsible for finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secr6tairerie d'Etat des Finances
et des Affaires Economiques
Palais des Ministeres
Port-au-Prince
Haiti
Cable address:                       Telex:
SECRETAIRERIE D'ETAT               2030347
DES FINANCES
ET DES AFFAIRES
ECONOMIQUES
Port-au-Prince, Haiti
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI)
89650 (WUD) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Lati    erica and the Caribbean


﻿-10-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Imported equip-               3,840,000        100% of foreign
ment, spare parts                             expenditures
and tools                                     and 94% of
local expendi-
tures for
retail pur-
chase price
(representing
the foreign
exchange com-
ponent)
(2) Civil works                   6,100,000        70%
(3) Consultants' and                               100% of foreign
experts' services:                            expenditures
(a) Supervision                520,000
(b) Studies and                 90,000
audits
(4) Refunding of Project            260,000        Amount due
Preparation Advance                           under Section
2.02 (b)
(5) Unallocated                   1,390,000
TOTAL        12,200,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   If the amount allocated under Category 4 is excessive or
insufficient for the purposes of Section 2.02 (b), the necessary
adjustment shall be made by reallocation to or from Category 5.
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures"' means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of (i) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, (ii) Category
(2) above, until consultants for the supervision of civil works
have 'been hired pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement, or
(iii) for highway maintenance equipment for the years 1983 and
1984 until the Borrower and the Association shall have agreed on a
revised list of such equipment on the basis of the results of the
study comprising Part E (1) of the Project.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
*the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent


﻿- 12 -
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures: and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to foster the execution of high-
priority road and bridge construction, maintenance, rehabilita-
tion and strengthening, prepared under ongoing projects and to
continue the Borrower's long-term program of institution-building
in the subsector.
The Project includes the following:
Part A:
Rbutine and periodic road maintenance and rehabilitation
of roads by the Maintenance Department pursuant to the 1982-1986
Five-Year Maintenance Program and procurement of equipment for the
purpose;
Part B:
Carrying out a program of control of weights and dimensions
of vehicles, including the procurement and operation of weighing
equipment and the diligent enforcement of laws and regulations
governing such control;
Part C:
Construction or rehabilitation of 57 bridges and of drainage
structures; construction of new access road sections;
Part D:
Rehabilitation and strengthening of about 100 km of the
Northern Road; and
Part E:
Conducting studies of (1) maintenance technology and (2) the
domestic construction industry.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1984.


﻿- 14
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   (a) Bidders for the construction of new roads and for the
works included in Part C of the Project shall be prequalified as
described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
(b) Contracts for the construction of bridges and drainage
structures will be grouped for bidding purposes in lots of from
$500,000 to $1,000,000; all road strengthening and rehabilitation
works will be done under a single contract.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import


﻿- 15 -
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works and for purchases of equipment,
spare parts or tools which, after grouping according to the
Guidelines are estimated to cost under $50,000 may be awarded
following local advertising in accordance with the regulations of
the Maintenance Department.
2.   In cases where equipment is to be purchased under the Project
as a relatively small addition to a number of existing similar
units, the Borrower may, if the Association shall agree, and for
the purpose of standardization, procure such equipment on the
basis of quotations from established suppliers.
3.   Contracts for the purchase of spare parts of specific makes
for existing equipment may be purchased directly from established
dealers.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of
the procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modi-
fications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably
request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a state-
ment of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion
of any applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by the
Borrower to the Association for its comments before the applicants
are notified of the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall
make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the
said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts:


﻿- 16 -
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph 2, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respec-
tive bids, recommendations for award and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 17 -
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the <7    L    day of    A &F,
198 o.
FOR SECRETARY


