RETURN TO
REPORTS DES   L cn                                       RES T RI CTED
WITHIN             11E  COPY                         Report No. PA-59a
ONE WEEK
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated orgonizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INITRNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ANDHRA PRADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
INDIA
December 1, 1970
Agriculture Projects Department



t:;i1''''-',wj'  .1-il sPO;3RTS D<E-SK
ROOr: A-124 I3Y:,
,2-o  7-   '
CURCY. EQUIVATS
US$1          =     RB 7.50
Rs 1                US$0.13
Rs 1,000      =    US$133.33
Rs 1.,000,000  -    US$133,333
WEIHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
APSAIC - Andhra Pradesh Agro-Industries Corporation
APSEB - Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Board
ARC    - Agricultural Refinance Corporation
G0I   - Goverzinent of India
IMB    - Andhra Pradesh Cooperative Central Land Mortgage Bank
RBI   - Reserve Bank of India
SGD    - Andhra Pradesh State Groundwater Directorate



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .....        .................    i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION .......        ..........................     1
II.   BACKGROUND OF AGRICULTURE ....................             1
A.   India ..........      .........................      1
B.   The State of Andhra Pradesh ....       .........     2
Area and Population .....       ...........     2
Ecology .......      .....................     2
Agricultural Structure ....      .........     2
Agricultural Production ....      ........      3
Agricultural Development Priorities             3
Introduction .....      .............     3
Minor Irrigation ....      ..........     3
Land Levelling ....      ............     4
Farm Mechanization ....     ........      4
Agricultural Inputs and Services ...            4
Credit Services ...............                5
III.   AGRICULTURAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS INVOLVED
IN TIIE PROJECT .............................           6
A.   Introduction ..........................               6
B.   Agricultural Refinance Corporation    ....            6
Organization and Management    ........         6
Lending Policies and Operations  ....           7
Operational Results ....       ............     7
C.   Andlira Pradesh Cooperative Central Land
Mortgage Bank .....        ....................    8
Organization and Management    ........         8
Lending Policies and Operations  ....           8
Operational Results ....       ............    9
Reserves Policy and Accounts    .......       10
D.   Commercial Banks .....         ...................  10
This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission which visited
India in April 1970 and was composed of Messrs. C.H. WIalton and K.W. Berg
(IDA) and  I.T. Burer, B.P. Pothecary and R.F. Stoner (Consultants) who all
contributed to the report.



-2-
Table of Contents (Cont'd)                                           Page No.
IV.   THE PROJECT .......          ...........................     10
A.   Brief Description .......... .. ...........            10
B.   Detailed Features .....          ..................    11
Minor Irrigation ...............11
Land Levelling ......       ...............     11
Farm Mechanization .....       ..............   12
Consultant Services .....       ...........     12
C.   Cost Estimates and Financing  . .........             13
D.   Procurement ..............................             15
E.   Disbursements  ......        .....................     16
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...........17
Introduction .......      ................      17
Agricultural Refinance Corporation              17
Andhra Pradesh Cooperative Central
Land Mortgage Bank .....       ..........     17
Andhra Pradesh State Agro-Industries
Corporation .......      ...............      18
Lending Policies and Terms .... .....           18
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FARMERS'
BENEFITS ...................................              20
Production ........... .. ............          20
Markets ............................            20
Prices .....,                                   20
Farmers Benefits ....................   .       21
VII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .......... .........             21
VIII.    REC0MMENDATIONS ..............................              22



-3-
ANNEXES
1. Minor Irrigation
Appendix 1-1   List of Taluks Designated for Tubewell and
Dugwell Investments
Appendix 1-2  W4ell Drilling Rates
Appendix 1-3   Terms of Reference and Qualification of
Technical Assistance to the Andhra Pradesh
Groundwater Directorate
2. Land Levelling
Appendix 2-1   Custom Rate Charged by Andhra Pradesh State
Agro-Industries Corporation for Land Levelling
Appendix 2-2   Maximum Scheduled Lending Scales of Andhra
Pradesh Cooperative Central Land Mortgage Bank
Appendix 2-3   Estimates of Land Levelling Costs on the
Nagarjunasagar and Pochampad Schemes
3. Farm Mechanization
Appendix 3-1   Tractor Production and Imports
Appendix 3-2   Tractor Dealer Network
4. Andhra Pradesh State Agro-Industries Corporation Ltd.
Appendix 4-1   Inventory of Earth Moving Equipment
Appendix 4-2   Condensed Balance Sheet
5. Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Appendix 5-1   Condensed Statements of Net Income
Appendix 5-2   Projected Statements of Net Income
Appendix 5-3   Condensed Balance Sheets
Appendix 5-4   Projected Balance Sheets
6. Andhra Pradesh Cooperative Central Land Mortgage Bank
Appendix 6-1   Terms of Reference of Proposed Management
Consultancy
Appendix 6-2   Primary Land Mortgage Banks Combined Operations
Appendix 6-3   Condensed Statements of Net Income
Appendix 6-4   Projected Statements of Net Income
Appendix 6-5   Condensed Balance Sheets
Appendix 6-6   Projected Balance Sheets
Appendix 6-7   Repayment Records of Primary Banks
7.  Commercial Banks Operating in Andhra Pradesh
8. Project Cost
Appendix 8-1   Details of Estimated Project Cost
Appendix 8-2   Breakdown of Tractor and Tractor Implement Cost
Appendix 8-3   Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
9. Tractor Procurement
10. Present and Proposed Interest Rates
11. Farm Incomes and Financial Rates of Return on Investments
Appendix 11-1  Yield, Price and Cost Assumptions
Appendix 11-2  Farm Models
Appendix 11-3  Financial Rates of Return to the Enterprise
Appendix 11-4  Estimated Increases in Cropped Areas and
Production
12. Economic Rate of Return
MAP






INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The report appraises a Project to help finance an agricultural
credit program for investments in minor irrigation, land levelling and
farm mechanization in the State of Andhra Pradesh for which an IDA Cred-
it of US$24.4 million is proposed.
ii.       In common with other Indian states, Andhra Pradesh has given
priority to its agricultural development and it is a surplus producer of
rice and other food crops. Compared with its potential however, its pro-
gress has been held back by relatively limited irrigation facilities
(supplying water to only 19% of agricultural land), and the State is con-
sequently largely dependent on uncertain rainfall. In areas where irri-
gation water is available, the insufficiency of draft power has prevented
the expansion of cropped land and in such circumstances farm mechanization
is an important means to intensive cultivation and improved farming tech-
nology.
iii.      To help overcome these problems, the State Government has ini-
tiated and substantially financed a number of large surface irrigation
schemes. Two of these schemes are now being developed and farmers in
their command areas require long-term loans to level their land and thus
make effective use of the irrigation water. The Government has also sup-
ported lending programs for the expansion of on-farm well development and
for farm mechanization but lack of credit and, in the latter case insuffi-
cient tractor supplies, have limited progress.
iv.       The Project consists of a two and a half year program to finance
on-farm investments and consultant services estimated to cost US$45.0 mil-
lion equivalent: US$26.6 million for minor irrigation, US$9.8 million for
land levelling, US$8.2 million for farm mechanization (tractors, tractor
implements and spares) and US$0.4 million for technical assistance. The
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$7.1 million equivalent or
about 16% of the total Project cost. IDA would finance US$24.4 million
equivalent, being the foreign exchange component and about one-half of the
local currency costs. Farmers' contributions would normally amount to 20%
of the cost of individual investments (25% in the case of tractors) but for
special categories of small farmers this would be reduced to 10% for certain
investments. The remaining finance would be provided by the Andhra Pradesh
Cooperative Central Land Mortgage Bank (LMB) and participating commercial
banks and the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) which would also be
the channel for IDA finance. ARC is already acting in this capacity for two
other IDA supported agricultural credit projects in Gujarat and Punjab.
v.        The IDA credit to the Government of India (GOI) would be made
available to ARC, and, of ARC's borrowings about 70% would be repayable to
GOI after 9 years at an interest rate of 4-3/4% and the balance after 15
years at 5-1/4% per annum. GOI would carry the exchange risk. ARC would



- ii -
supervise, and refinance at 6-1/2% per annum, the lending operations of LMB
and such commercial banks as would meet the criteria laid down by ARC. Loans
to individual borrowers would bear interest at 9% per annum and would be
repayable normally over periods of up to 10 years, but extending to 15 years
for small farmers.
vi.       The implementation of the minor irrigation and land levelling
schemes would be by local contractors or hired labor using local materials.
About 31,000 individual on-farm investments would be made and international
competitive bidding would, therefore be inappropriate. Tractors to be
procured under the Project would be imported and sold to farmers thlrough
existing commercial channels and orders would be based on individual farmers'
preferences and bulked in order to obtain quantity discounts. At present
five foreign tractors suppliers from Bank member countries are eligible for
supply and seven others are under consideration. Hard steel components for
tractor implements would be procured through international competitive
bidding and licenses would be issued for the import of an initial stock of
tractor spare parts procured under the Project.
vii.      ARC and LMB have competent management and art in sound financial
condition. Financial returns to farmers are estimated to range from 16
to 22% on minor irrigation schemes and to be 37% on land levelling and
18% on farm mechanization schemes. The rate of returh to the economy
would be at least 24%. Appropriate assurances have been obtained during
negotiations and the Project is suitable for an tDA credit of US$24.4 million.



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In 1968, an IDA mission, with assistance of the FAO/IBRD Co-
operative Program, reviewed agricultural credit institutions and farm
investment requirements in selected parts of India and identified high
priority agricultural credit projects. Two of these projects, in the
States of Gujarat and Punjab, have been approved by IDA and this Project
for Andhra Pradesh is the third to be appraised. It would enable farmers,
through institutional credit, to make investments in minor irrigation,
land levelling and farm mechanization and thereby to obtain increased
production and other benefits from the new high-yielding seed varieties,
fertilizer use and surface water irrigation facilities.
1.02      Past Bank Group lending for India's agriculture (excluding the
US$23 million Beas Equipment Project under the Indus Treaty) totals nearly
US$213 million. Hitherto this lending has been concentrated on water de-
velopment projects and, in continuation of this, three other irrigation
projects, including one at Pochampad in Andhra Pradesh, are under apprais-
sal. In response to GOI's new agricultural strategy, the Bank Group is
now giving increased emphasis to projects having a more direct impact on
farm investment. Appraisal reports are being prepared for similar credit
projects in Tamil Nadu and Harayana and other agricultural credit and
irrigation projects are under IDA consideration.
1.03      This Project was appraised in April 1970 by C.H. Walton and
K.W. Berg (IDA) and M.T. Burer, B.P. Pothecary and R.F. Stoner (consul-
tants) and this report is based on the mission's findings.
II.  BACKGROUND OF AGRICULTURE
A.  India-/
2.01      Since 1965 India has chianged the emphasis of its development
efforts from industry to the agricultural sector. As a result,
priority has been given in recent vears to accelerating the introduction
of the new agricultural technology, through increasing the availability
of improved inputs and by providing economic incentives to farmers.  The
new agricultural strategy has already brought encouraging results and the
increased use of high yielding seed varieties and fertilizers has partic-
ularly contributed to a significant increase in farm production.
1/   A detailed discussion of the present situation and prospects of agri-
culture in India is given in "Economic Situation and Prospects of In-
dia", Report No. SA-13a, April 24, 1970.



2.02      Although 70% of India's labor force is engaged in agriculture
(providing half India's CDP) only a small proportion of farmers have so
far benefitted from this agricultural advance and these have been mainly
the wealthier farmers with knowledge and canital to adopt the new farm-
ing technology. A vastly increased number of farmers could however take
advantage of the new techniques if helped with credit and, if the momentum
of agricultural growth is to be maintained, it is important that the sup-
ply of rural credit for on-farm investment be increased.
2.03      The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has estimated that credit insti-
tutions will require Rs 15,000 million (US$2,000 million) for agricultural
investment during the five years of the Fourth Plan. Taking an annual
average of Rs 3,000 million, this compares with about Rs 600 million in-
vested in 1966/67. Short-term credit demands are expected to amount to
Rs 20,000 million (US$2,666 million) in 1973-74, five times the level of
current advances, and overall agricultural credit requirements are expec-
ted to increase five-fold from the mid-sixties to the end of the Plan pe-
riod. If these substantial credit demands are to be met, India will need
to mobilize more of its own, particularly rural, savings and increase ex-
ternal borrowings.
B. The State of Andhra Pradesh
Area and Population
2.04      The State of Andhra Pradesh, which came into existence in 1956
is situated in the southeast of the Indian sub-continent (see Map). Its
area of 275,000 km2 and estimated population of 42 million each represent
about 8% of the all-India totals. Over 75% of the population depends an
agriculture which provides 57% of the State's GNP. The State is divided
into 20 administrative districts and subdivided administratively into 189
"taluks".
Ecology
2.05      The State has two main geographical regions, the deccan plateau
and the coastal area. Three main rivers, the Godavari, Krishna and Penner,
drain the State flowing into the Bay of Bengal and are the source of many
major irrigation schemes. Soils vary considerably in depth and from sandy
to clay loams. There are three seasons, the hot summer (March-June) with
maximum temperatures of 49°C, the tropical monsoon (July-November) and the
pleasant winter (December-February) with mean daily minimum temperature of
18°C. The average annual rainfall is 900 mm, ranging from 500 mm in the
southwest to 1,200 mm in the northeast.
Agricultural Structure
2.06      About 15.9 million ha (58% of the total area) are used agricul-
turally with a further 22% under forest. Of the total number of land
holdings, about one-third are of less than 4 ha, one-third are of 4-6 hia
and one-third above 6 ha. In practice however operational holdings are
much larger since different members of a family frequently combine their
land to farm together. Following the abolition of estates in 1948, most
land is now held under the 'ryotwari' system whereby an individual who
occupies and farms land is legally accepted as its owner.



- 3 -
2.07      About 3.1 million ha or 19% of the State's agricultural land is
irrigated, the most important source being tanks (storage reservoirs) (44%)
followed by canals (41%) and wells (15%). As 19% of agricultural land is
left partly fallow and 7% is under pasture, irrigated land in relation to
net sown area is about 27%. On completion, two major irrigation schemes
at Nagarjunasagar and Pochampad (the canal system of the latter being
under IDA appraisal) will increase the present irrigated area to over
4.0 million ha. Of the total cropped area about 63% is under cereals,
11% under pulses, 10% under oil seeds and the balance of 16% under other
commercial and subsistence crops.
Agricultural Production
2.08      With a production of 6.7 million tons (1968/69), Andhra Pradesh
is a surplus producer of food grains and is the second largest producer
of rice (3.3 million tons) in India. Other important crops are sugarcane
(1.2 million tons), groundnuts (900,000 tons) and cotton (94,000 bales)
and the State produces 95% of India's virginia tobacco and 50% of its
castor. During the period 1957/67, cereal production increased by 22%
(rice by 30%) and sugarcane by 34% while groundnut production declined
by 22% and cotton by 8%, this change in production pattern partly reflect-
ing increased irrigation facilities. CroDping intensity averages about
112% ranging from 136% in East Godaveri to 101% in Adilabad district.
Ag_ricultural Development Priorities
Introduction
2.09      A major part of the State's development efforts have been devoted
to the expansion of irrigation facilities, either through well installa-
tion or by canal irrigation schemes. In both cases, but particularly under
the latter, land levelling is an important part of the development, as
without it farmers are unable to utilize to best advantage the irrigation
water made available. More recently, the State has given increased impor-
tance to farm mechanization particularly in the more intensively developed
districts.
Minor Irrigation
2.10      Minor irrigation (Annex 1) has for many years made an important
contribution to increased production and there are at present estimated to
be about 6,000 tubewells and some 400,000 dug (or open) wells in the State.
While all of these wells have been developed privately, the Andhra Pradesh
Cooperative Central Land Mortgage Bank (LMB) has played an important part
in their financing: during the four years to 1968/69 LMB financed the
sinking of over 46,000 wells of various types to a value of Rs 125 million.
The State is generally well supplied with groundwater and except in limited
crystalline rock formations where water yields are insufficient to justify
high boring costs, large areas are eminently suitable for exploitation
either by tubewell (usually a more shallow bore than is found elsewhere
in India e.g. Gujarat) or dugwell. The energizing of wells has been
helped by priority given to rural electrification schemes which are now
reachinp an additional 1,000 villages annually. As in other States how-
ever there is inadequate detailed information about groundwater resources



- 4 -
and insufficient staff to plan its more effective use. Thus while further
well development is technically justified, the effective use of water re-
sources must depend on strengthened technical services through a State
Groundwater Directorate (SCD).
Land Levelling
2.11      Although land levelling (Annex 2) has been carried out for many
years as part of major canal irrigation schemes, it was not until 1966,
when the Nagarjunasagar scneme on the Krishna River came to be impletnented,
that it was recognized that farmers would require investment loans if land
under command (involving steeper gradients than previously experienced)
was to be speedily and effectively prepared to take irrigation water. Tne
completed Nagarjunasagar dam now commands about 350,000 ha (to be increased
to 830,000 ha with main canal extensions) of which nearly 250,000 has been
levelled, one-third assisted by loans from LNB to the value of about Rs 90
million. The Pochampad dam on the Godaveri River, now under construction
will eventually command 400,000 ha when the proposed canal system is fin-
ished, and the land levelling program there has recently started.
2.12      Experience from Nagarjunasagar has shown that about one-third
of the farmers within command areas require LMB loans for land levelling.
Loans are made in accordance with varying scheduled rates depending on
the gradient to be levelled and on whether the land is scheduled for heavy
(wet) or light (dry) irrigation (Appendix 2-1). Work is carried out main-
ly by hired labor, sometimes with bullock assistance, or by hired earth
moving equipment. With substantial incremental farm benefits to be de-
rived from irrigation water, the standard of levelling is generally high.
Farm Mechanization
2.13      Farm Mechanization (Annex 3) has in the past been mainly limited
to coastal areas where soils are heavy and where sugarcane and rice
predominate. There are now about 6,000 tractors operating in the State,
originating either from Indian plants or imports from east European coun-
tries, and these are used for a wide variety of cultivation and production
purposes and transportation. Farmers hire out their tractors for custom
work to a considerable extent and the relatively high rates charged con-
firm significant demand, particularly in sugarcane and rice production
where tractor work is superior to bullocks. With large new areas coming
under irrigation, tractor demand is increasing rapidly as it enables the
farmer to prepare his land in a minimum period between the harvesting of
one crop and the planting of the next, at the same time releasing land
which otherwise would be devoted to bullock fodder. Together these fac-
tors enable the farmer to increase cropping intensity by up to 23% to
about 147%.
Agricultural Inputs and Services
2.14      With increasing expenditure on agriculture under State Develop-
ment Plans (the current Five-Year Plan envisages the allocation of Rs 900
million) much progress has been made in improvinga the availability of farm
inputs and services. This has been particularly marked in the use of ni-
trogenous fertilizers, the consumption of which has increased from 184,000
tons in 1961/62 to 600,000 tons in 1966/67 and to 1.1 million tons in 1967/



-5-
68, with similar increases occurring in the sale of phosphatic and potas-
sium fertilizers, all of which now record a high rate of use. Supplies
are generally adequate for the State's needs and private distributors now
compete with cooperatives in their sale.
2.15      While the use of improved local seed varieties is satisfactory
(now covering about 80% of rice, 35% of millet and 25% of pulse cultivations),
the introduction of the new high yielding rice varieties has been disappoint-
ing with less than 20% of rice areas planted with these types. The reasons
for this are mainly technical as the new varieties are more sensitive to
pests and diseases, have a lower milling quality and are considered to have
a less acceptable taste, thus fetching lower prices than traditional
varieties. It is expected that new Indian crossbreeds will eventually
overcome these problems and meanwhile a program of pest control is being
intensified. Agricultural extension and the State's 42 research stations
are under the direction of the Department of Agriculture and agricultural
staff is being strengthened in 11 districts under the intensive agricultural
area program.
2.17      The Andhra Pradesh State Agro-Industries Corporation (APSAIC)
(Annex 4), established in 1968 with share capital subscribed by the State
Government and GOI, has concentrated its activities on the hiring of earth-
moving machinery for land levelling schemes and on well drilling. APSAIC,
which has acquired considerable experience of these operations, has, over
recent years built up a large park of bulldozers and graders which is fully
adequate to carry out expected land levelling operations and it is also
well equipped with well drilling facilities. The Corporation has also, to
a lesser extent, been involved in the sale and servicing of tractors im-
ported from east European countries under trade arrangements, but its fu-
ture emphasis is expected to be in crop processing industries. Apart from
APSAIC, two private firms provide well drilling contracting services.
Tractor servicing is mainly carried out by private distributors whose
operations are concentrated in the more developed districts (Appendix
3-2), but they are now extending their mobile service units to provide
wider coverage.
Credit Services
2.18      Most institutional credit for agriculture comes from the coopera-
tive movement, short-term credit being channelled from the State Coopera-
tive Bank through the district (Central) Cooperative Banks to primary
societies, while medium- and long-term loans are made by LMB through its
federated Primary Banks. In 1969, the two serious cyclones which struck
Andhra Pradesh, together with political unrest in the Telangana (northern)
region of the State, led to a serious deterioration in short-term credit
repayments. In order to replenish the resources of the cooperative banks
(which because of their default, RBI would only refinance to a limited ex-
tent) the State Government enlisted the support of commercial banks which
agreed to finance either selected cooperatives or, in some cases, individ-
ual farmers directly. While this measure may not fully restore the previous
institutional short-term credit availability, it accelerated the trend of
increased commercial bank participation in agricultural lending.



-6-
2.19      This set-back to cooperative credit (which in short-term lending
probably never accounted for more than 20% of the State's needs) enhanced
the already important role of private money lenders. While little is known
about their activities, the crisis demonstrated that substantial rural sav-
ings are available to them and that a major task is to create fiscal condi-
tions which will attract at least part of these savings into the institu-
tional banking system.
2.20      In view of their prospective involvement in the Project, the
operations of the Agriculural Refinance Corporation, LMB and the commer-
cial banks are discussed in the next chapter.
III. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
INVOLVED IN THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
3.01      Several financing institutions would be involved in the Project.
The IDA credit to the Government of India (GOI) would, as in the Gujarat
and Punjab credit projects, be channelled to the Agricultural Refinance
Corporation (ARC). In turn, ARC would on-lend funds to farmers (and in
the case of tractor loans, contractors), either through the Andhra Pradesl
Cooperative Central Land Mortgage Bank (LMB) and its network of federated
Primary Land Mortgage Banks or through participating commnercial banks.
B. Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC)
Organization and Management
3.02      ARC (Annex 5) was established in 1963 to provide medium- and long-
term finance to agricultural lending agencies throughout India. Its role
is important, not only as a channel for development funds, but also for
its influence on the lending policies and operational procedures of the
agencies it assists. ARC's present paid-up capital of Rs 50 million has
been subscribed by RBI (which is required to hold at least 50% of its
equity), land mortgage banks and other approved financial institutions.
Additionally it can borrow and receive deposits from GOI, state govern-
ments and public bodies, but such funds may not exceed 20 times its share
capital and reserves.
3.03      ARC's head office is in Bombay and it has ten regional offices
one of which is at Hyderabad, the Andhra Pradesh State Capital. The Chair-
man, presently Deputy Governor of RBI, and the Managing Director (also an
RBI officer) head a management staff of nearly 90. Until recently ARC was
entirely dependent on its panel of specialist consultants for technical
advice involved in the appraisal and supervision of its schemes. During
1970 however, ARC has so far appointed three agricultural specialists and
an agricultural economist to its staff to form the nucleus of a technical
division and further appointments are under consideration. This Division
will provide ARC with its own expertise which will supplement that of
consultants whio will continue to be employed as necessary. ARC recognizes
that its growing volume of business will involve increased staffing and is
preparing a staff development program.



-7-
Lending Policies and Ope tions
3.04      ARC may refinance approved agricultural development schemes
initiated by Land Mortgage (or Development) Banks (LMBs) and other lend-
ing agencies to the extent of 902 of loans made for minor irrigation and
75% for all other purposes. Most of its lending has been in the range of
5-12 years. ARC charges 6% interest per annum on its loans: ARC's Board
recently decided to increase this rate to 6-1/2% but this change has not yet
come into effect. Scheduled (commercial) banks may not on-lend at more than
an additional 2-1/2% and although LMB's are not bound by the same restriction,
they usually follow the same mark-up and none exceed it. Collections from
farmers are invested by the lending banks in GOI 5% securities instead of
being repaid simultaneously to ARC. As a result, ARC is deprived of funds
which it could otherwise reinvest in further schemes, while banks are forced
to invest in securities which earn less than the average cost of their
borrowings. As in the case of the Gujarat and Punjab Credit Projects, IDA
would require that banks' repayments to ARC match as nearly as possible their
collections from ultimate borrowers.
3.05      Since 1967, ARC's operations have expanded rapidly.  As of June 30,
1967, ARC sanctions (net of subsequent cancellations) amounted to Rs 300
million for 42 schemes and by June 30, 1970, the commitment had increased to
Rs 2,149 million for 371 schemes. ARC approvals now include the Gujarat
and Punjab Credit Projects for which ARC commitments total Rs 501.6 million
and IDA's agreed contribution to the lending program, Rs 435.2 million.
About 65% of ARC approved schemes have been for minor irrigation, the balance
going to land improvement and plantations, with only a small amount for farm
mechanization schemes. The small amount approved for schemes involving farm
machinery partly reflects the short supply of these items.
Operational Results
3.06      Up to 1967/68 ARC's net earnings after taxes were insufficient
to pay the statutory dividend of 4-1/4% on its share capital. The defi-
ciencies, totalling Rs 1.41 million, have been made good by GOI in accord-
ance with its guarantee to underwrite the mandatory dividend and ARC will
have to reimburse this out of future profits. ARC has since made modest
profits, its net surplus after dividends in 1968/69 and 1969/70 amounting
to Rs 13,000 and Rs 890,000 respectively. With increased lending, ARC's
financial position will, on present trends, improve but the measure of this
will depend on the effect on its interest margin of proposed borrowings at
concessional rates from RBI and on the extent to which it makes further
public bond issues at market rates. In the light of this ARC may decide to
implement its recent decision to increase its overall lending rate to 6-1/2%
per annum, the rate presently applying to its refinance under the IDA
supported Gujarat and Punjab agricultural credit projects which would also
apply under this Project (para 5.09). With most of its assets held in GOI
securities and LMB's debentures, ARC is in good financial condition. ARC's
accounts are audited by an independent firm of accountants.



-8-
C. Andhra Pradesh Cooperative Central Land Mortgage Bank (LI4B)
Organization and Management
3.07      Established in 1962, LMB (Annex 6) is, at the State level, the
apex organization for a network of 181 Primary Land Mortgage Banks. Be-
cause it is the only permitted source of Primaries' borrowings, LMB tech-
nically controls their operations, though in practice this has often proved
difficult. In order to exercise effective control, LMB was recently given
the power to make appointments to all but the lower grades of Primary Bank
staff and this measure, together with the establishment of two regional
offices, is now beginning to show results. Because of their financial
identity, LMB and its federated primaries can be considered together with
an operational relationship similar to that of a hank head office to its
branches.
3.08      LMB's share capital is owned by the Primaries and the State
Government and their respective holdings are subject to periodic review
by RBI. As of June 30, 1969, total subscribed share capital was Rs 40.7
million, of which the State Government contribution was Rs 10.6 million
(26%). Total outstanding borrowings of Rs 682 million comprised Rs 640
million by debentures (including Rs 92 million of special debentures issued
for part refinancing by ARC) and Rs 42 million in short term commercial
bank loans. Farmers' participation through their contributions to Pri-
maries? equity and LMB debentures totalled about Rs 58 milllion.
3.09      As in other States, LMB has found difficulty in mobilizing rural
savings and in the last two years it has been unable to issue any rural de-
bentures (designed to attract farmers' savings). Under present regulations,
rural debentures, which are guaranteed by GOI, may not carry more than
6-1/2% interest per annum and this is clearly inadequate in present condi-
tions. If future credit demands are to be met, it is essential that lend-
ing institutions attract more local resources and RBI and ARC are considering
means by which this could be achieved. One possible course would be for LMB
to receive farmers' time deposits which would not be GOI guaranteed and
could thus carry a higher interest rate.
3.10      20 Directors of LMB's 23-member Board are elected by the Primary
Banks, the other three being nominated by the State Government. The Board,
which works mainly through committees, appoints the Managing Director who
is chief executive and who heads a staff of 280 including staff on second-
ment to Primary Banks. None of the staff however has specialist qualifica-
tions or experience and LMB has therefore decided to establish a technical
cadre of four under an agricultural economist, also to be appointed (para.
5.04). The Primaries, whose total voting membership is 375,000 farmers also
elect their own committees which control their administration and operations.
Lending Policies and Operations
3.11      Loans may be granted for any medium- or long-term investment
that would enhance agricultural production. To borrow, a member must
hold shares in his Primary equivalent to 6% of any loan, this effectively
representing his down payment for a loan, and Primaries' shareholdings in
LMB must amount to 5% of its borrowings therefrom. No loan may exceed



- 9 -
50% of the value of land offered as security. Because of the shortage
of funds, LMB has placed a maximum valuation of about Rs 7,250 per ha
(which in many areas is below land values), and loans for tubewells may
not exceed Rs 15,000 and for farm mechanization investments Rs 25,000
(para. 5.10) Loans for minor irrigation range from 7-15 years (includ-
ing two years grace) for land levelling 15 years (also with two years
grace) and tractors 8 years. Repayments to LMB match Primaries' collec-
tions from ultimate borrowers.
3X12      LMB's interest rates to the Primaries is at present 7% on
ARC refinanced schemes and 7-1/4% per annum on other lending while the
Primaries' lending rates are respectively 8-1/2 and 8-3/4% per annum.
On overall lending operations, LMB's margin is about 1-1/4% per annum
and the Primaries lending margin is 1-1/2%. Under the proposed Project
lending, a 1/2% per annum increased in ARC's lending rate and the allocation
of 1-1/4% margin each to LMB and the Primaries would result in lending rates
of 7-3/4% and 9% per annum respectively. Outside the Project, proposed
lending rates by LMB of 7-1/2% and by the Primaries of 9% per annum would
result in an overall slightly increased margin to LMB at just over 1-1/4%
(Annex 10 and para. 5.09).
Operational Results
3.13      LMB's loan portfolio has risen steadily from Rs 185 million as
of June 30, 1965 to Rs 608 million as of June 30, 1969 with the number of
loans approved increasing from 13,000 (1964-65) to 73,000 (1968/69), loans
for minor irrigation represent about 70% of total portfolio. Profits have
been fairly consistent at about .75% of average funds employed in recent
years but declined slightly to .67% in 1968/69 when they amounted to Rs 4.5
million: LMB has in recent years paid a 5% dividend. As of June 30, 1969,
reserves amounted to Rs 11.6 million (or nearly 2% of loan portfolio).
Collections, which had maintained a level of about 98% for a number of years,
declined in 1968/69 to 95%. This was attributed to the severe cyclones and
political unrest which occurred in that year (para. 2.18) and it is expected
that the position will soon be restored to its previous satisfactory level.
LMB assets are amply secured and the Bank is thus in sound financial condition.
3.14      The organization of LI{B and the Primary Banks would, however, be
strengthened by simplifying loan procedures relating to land title, valua-
tion appraisal and loan utilization which are generally considered to be
unnecessarily lengthy or inappropriate to present circumstances. Similar-
ly the division of responsibility between LM5B and the State Government in
such matters as Primary Bank supervision and development planning has be-
come confused and LMB is thus now paying the costs of some staff which
would appear to be a Government responsibility. Both matters require ex-
amination and rethinking, and competent management advisors should be retained
for this purpose (para 4.10).
3.15      The operating results and collection records of the Primary Banks
vary according to their size and location. However, all loans are adequate-
ly secured and the smaller Primaries will become viable with the expected in-
crease in the volume of lending.



- 10 -
Reserves Policy and Accounts
3.16      While LMB's accounting system is satisfactory, its accounts, in
common with those of other LMBs, would benefit from a more consistent approach
to the treatment of certain items (e.g. provisions and reserves) and by clearer
presentation. ARC recognizes this and has agreed to discuss improvements with
the banks on an all-India basis.  The accounts of LBt and Primary Banks are
audited by independent accountants from the Cooperative Department of the State
Government.
D. Commercial Banks
3.17      As of April 1970, there were 20 commercial banks' operating in
Andhra Pradesh of which 15 were nationalized (Annex 7). Together they
provide about 650 branches throughout the State, the most important being
the State Bank of India (183 branches) and its subsidiary the State Bank
of Hyderabad (117) and the Andhra Bank (144), the last two having their
head offices in the State.
3.18      As elsewhere in India, commercial banks participation in agri-
cultural lending is a relatively new development. Although no reliable
statistics are available of the value of their lending to farmers, this
side of their operations, partly through GOI encouragement, has increased
rapidly in the last two years and at least five of the banks now have
agricultural specialists on their staff.
3.19      Most of the commercial banks' lending has been for minor irriga-
tion investments but tractor and plantation loans have also been impor-
tant. Most banks require a downpayment by farmers of between 25 and
33-1/3% and their security requirements consist of a charge on equipment
purchased and usually, though not invariably, a mortgage on land to the
extent of double the amount of loan. Interest rates range from 9 to
9-1/2% per annum and repayment is usually required within five years.
3.20      Commercial banks would be included among the lending institutions
eligible for ARC refinancing under the Project, because they would provide
farmers with an alternative source of loans outside the land mortgage bank
system and thus a degree of comnetition in service from which both LM3B and
borrowers would benefit. Their participation would also increase the num-
ber and coverage of banks available for Project lending and utilize the
technical staffs at their disposal.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Brief Description
4.01      The Project is a 2-1/2 year lending program to help finance far-
mers' investments in minor irrigation (about 60% of total investments), land
levelling (22%) and farm mechanization (18%).  It would also include tech-
nical assistance to the State's Grotmd Water Directorate (SGD) to be esta-
blished and a study of the procedures and operations of LMB and its federated



- 11 -
Primary Banks. The investment program would be implemented through the
Andhra Pradesh banking system under refinance arrangements with ARC and would
involve about 40,000 loans to farmers and also, in the case of farm mechani-
zation loans, to contractors. The total Project cost is estimated at Rs 338.0
million (US$45.0 million) and IDA's contribution would be US$24.4 million.
B. Detailed Features
Minor Irrigation
4.02       Investments in minor irrigation would involve the development
of about 14,000 dugwells, about 1,350 tubewells (of about 10 1/sec
capacity) and the improvement of around 5,000 old wells into dug-cum-bore
wells, and the installation of some 12,000 electric and 7,700 oil engine
pump sets to energize existing or new wells. Loans for dugwells, well
improvement and pump sets would be made to farmers cultivating about 2-5 ha
while those for tubewells to farmers cultivating about 10 ha.
4.03      To facilitate implementation and eliminate those areas where water
resources are less reliable or boring costs uneconomic, minor irrigation in-
vestments would be concentrated in 78 taluks (Appendix 1-1). In the case of
investments in new or improved dugwells which draw on shallow acquifers there
remains the localized risk in certain known areas that inadequate water will
be found. hlierever such doubts exist, SGD would be required to approve the
technical feasibility of proposed investments and where necessary SGD would
require lending banks initially to finance only to minimum size trial pits to
prove adequate water resources. Loans for tubewells would only be granted
where SGD had certified that it had no objection on technical grounds and
loans for tubewells located within 10 miles of the coast (where there could
be some risk of water salinity) would only be granted where SGD had given its
specific approval. During negotiations assurances were obtained on these
matters.
4.04      Well drilling is presently carried out by APSAIC and to a lesser
extent by private contractors and adequate equipment and expertise is avail-
able to carry out the program. APSAIC now charges well-drilling rates which
are sufficient to meet its costs and provide a surplus for contingencies and,
during negotiations it was agreed that these rates would only be changed with
IDA agreement. The Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Board (APSEB) however
charges a subsidized agricultural tariff of Rs 0.12 per unit and it was agreed
that APSEB would consult with IDA on its cost structure and make proposals
for a tariff increase.
Land Levelling
4.05      Most of the investment in land levelling would be on small farms
within the two major irrigation schemes of Nagarjunasagar (to the extent of
30,000 ha) and Pochampad (10,175 ha) and to a lesser extent on farms under
minor irrigation (15,000 ha). Costs are based on a maximum scale of loan
rates adopted by LMB. These have hitherto included the cost of an initial



- 12 -
crop of green manure but because of its essentially short-term nature it can-
not be considered as an investment cost, and because the difficulty in checking
utilization, manuring would be excluded from financing under the Project.
Any change in the scale of L'MB's loan rates (Appendix 2-2) would be made only
after consultation with IDA.
4.06      Land levelling is carried out either by hired labor, often assist-
ed by bullocks, or by bulldozers, at the farmer's option. In the latter
case, APSAIC provides custom services and has adequate machinery and expert-
ise to carry out the expected program of development. The Corporation now
charges a rate of Rs 71 per hour (Appendix 2-1) for the hire of its earth-
moving equipment which is sufficient to meet its cost and provide a surplus
and, under the Project, this rate would be changed only after consultation
with IDA.
Farm Mechanization
4.07      Farm mechanization investments would be in tractors (about 1,000
of 35 hp and 500 of 50 hp), tractor implements and trailers (Appendix 8-2).
The above tractors, which are now in greatest demand, are most suited to
conditions in the State where heavy soils, irrigation and sugarcane culti-
vation, among other factors, require tractors of these sizes. Farm mech-
anization investments would not be limited to specified areas but in
practice it is expected that most loan applications would come from farmers
in the districts where irrigation is prevalent.
4.08      In order to ensure maximum economic use of tractors, ARC would re-
quire that lending banks would apply as an appraisal norm that applicants
can demonstrate that the tractor would be used to cultivate not less than 40
ha of cropped area per annum or for 1,000 hours of productive work in agri-
culture per annum. Such criteria would apply to the applicants own land, or
to the land of other farmers (through custom work) or a combination of both.
Applicants would also be required to have sufficient implements (at least
three) for use with their tractors and to purchase post-warranty service on
tractors for the life of the loan. Assurances on these matters were obtained
during negotiations.
Consultant Services
4.09      The establishment of a State Groundwater Directorate (SGD) is very
important both for the implementation of minor irrigation investments under
the Project and for planning the long-term exploitation of the State's
groundwater resources (para 2.10). With increasing demands for technical
information on groundwater development throughout India, there is a short-
age of trained and experienced local staff and SCD will therefore need ex-
ternal technical assistance if it is to be effective. Such assistance
might be made available through a bilateral aid program but, in the event
of this not materializing, the Project would finance the services of three
consultants over a two-year period. The implementation of such a program
of technical assistance was agreed during negotiations and the establishment
of SGD with initial staffing acceptable to IDA would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness. Consultants' appointments, conditions of employment and terms
of reference (Appendix 1-3) would be subject to IDA approval.



- 13 -
4.10       The Project would also include finance for a study of procedural
and organizational matters concerning LMB and Primary Banks (para 3.14).
Appointments, conditions of employment and terms of reference (Appendix 6-1)
would similarly be subject to IDA approval and an assurance was obtained
that the consultants report would be submitted to IDA within 18 months of
credit signing.
C. Cost Estimates and Financin
4.11       Estimated Project cost, together with foreign exchange require-
ment are detailed as follows:
Rs million           US$ million            %
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   FE
1.  Minor Irrigation       190.1    9.9   200.0   25.3         1.3    26.6    5
2.  Land Levelling          68.6    4.9    73.5    9.1         0.7      9.8     7
3.  Tractors                  8.0   31.2    39.2    1.0        4.2      5.2   80
4. Tractor Implements
and initial Tractor
Spare Parts
(a)  Trailers         11.0      -     11.0    1.5        -       1.5    -
(b)  Other             5.8    0.7      6.5    0.8       0.1      0.9   11
(c) Initial Tractor
Spare Parts      -      4.7      4.7      -      0.6      0.6  100
5.  Technical Assistance   1.3    1.8          3.1    0.2      0.2      0.4   42
284.8_  53.2   338.0   37.9         7.1    45.0   16
Details of the cost estimates are shown in Annex 8.  Estimates are based on
present prices including a 10% allowance for cost increases of those items
to be produced locally and 5% of those items involving foreign exchange.



- 14 -
4.12      The total cost of Rs 338.0 million would be financed from the
following sources:
Total
Farmers/       LMB &     ARC and      Proj-  IDA Credit Funds
Contractors    Banks    State Govt--  ect                % of
% of        % of         % of   Cost   Total  Project
Rs M  Total  Rs M Total  Rs M Total  Rs M   Rs M         Cost
1.  Minor                  /2
Irrigation 38.0    19-  16.2   8   145.8   73  200.0  105.0           52
2. Land
Levelling  14.7    20   14.7  20    44.1   60   73.5   39.3           53
3.  Tractors    9.8    25    7.4  19    22.0   56   39.2   31.2           71
4. Tractor
Implements
(a) Trail-
ers     2.2    20    2.2  20       6.6   60   11.0       -        -
(b) Other   1.3    20    1.3  20       3.9   60    6.5    0.7        11
Total Lending
Program      66.0    20   41.8  13   222.4   68  330.2  176.2           54
(c) Initial
Tractor
Spare                          /3                  /
Parts   4.7-/ 100      -   -        -      -    4.7    4.7      100
5. Technical
Assistance
(a) Ground-
water    -      -      -   -       2.5  100    2.5    1.8         72
(b) LMB
Organi-
zational
study    -      -     0.6          -      -     0.6    0.3       50
Total Project
Cost          70.7    21   42.4  12   224.9   67  338.0  183.0          54
/1   All items in these columns relate wholly to ARC with the exception of
the Groundwater Technical Assistance amount which relates wholly to
the State Government.
/2 Normally 20% but 10% for small farmers in certain investment:s.
/3   Shown at CIF value.  In addition farmers would bear dealers' mark-up.
4.13      The proposed IDA credit of US$24.4 million (Rs 183.0 million) would
finance about 54% of total Project cost and its refinance of the lending pro-
gram (Rs 176.2 million) would supply about 80% of ARC support of the Project
(Rs 222.4 million). Specifically IDA funds would finance: (a) the foreign
exchange cost of tractors, tractor spare parts and of the technical assis-
tance to SGD and (b) the foreign exchange cost and one half of the local costs
of the minor irrigation and land levelling investments, and one half of the
cost of LMB organizational study. IDA financing of foreign exchange items



- 15 -
would amount to Rs 53.2 million (US$7.1 million) or 29% of its total
contribution while local currency financing would total Rs 129.8 million.
Altlhouglh having a relatively small foreign exchange component, investments
in minor irrigation and land levelling are of vital importance at the present
stage of development in Andhra Pradesh.
4.14      Prices to farmers of tractors imported at the official exchange
rate are generally in line with those applying in other countries. Such
prices are however low when compared with those of less advanced models
produced in India and in relation to current Indian crop prices, which
are significantly above prevailing world levels (Appendix 11-1). A
shortage of tractor supplies together with these factors has contributed
to an active black market in second-hand tractors at substantial premia.
IDA has discussed tractor pricing with the Indian authorities and has been
informed that GOI has taken steps to be released from the arrangements binding
tractors at a zero import duty under GATT, and that it is hopeful that these
negotiations will reach a successful conclusion in the near future. Project
cost estimates include the 8-1/2% sales taxes which are at present applicable
in Andhra Pradesh.
4.15      The IDA credit would be on normal terms to GOI.  Assurances were
obtained that GOI would make the proceeds available to ARC partly repayable
at the end of 9 years at an interest rate of 5% per annum for farmers' loans
not exceeding this period (estimated to amount to 70% of the total) or at
the end of 15 years at 5-1/2% per annum for the longer maturities: in each
case the interest rate would be less 1/4% per annum for prompt payment and
GOI would bear the exchange risk. ARC would on-lend the proceeds to LMB and
participating commercial banks (para. 5.01) at an interest rate of 6-1/2% per
annum on outstanding indebtedness and these banks would in turn on-lend to
ultimate borrowers at 9%. ARC refinancing would be repayable in installments
set to coincide approximately with collection from ultimate borrowers.
D. Procurement
4.16      The execution of minor irrigation and land levelling works would
involve generally small and labor intensive operations on individual farms
and would not therefore lend itself to international competitive bidding.
Adequate well drilling and mechanized land levelling contracting services
are available within the State.
4.17      Tractors are at present supplied by five Indian plants all of
which manufacture with overseas collaboration (three with companies in
Bank-member countries). GOI has recently approved plans which, when im-
plemented, would increase the number of plants and bring the total of
associated companies from Bank-member countries to five (Massey Ferguson,
International Harvester, Eicher, Deutz, Ford) - a number which could
increase to twelve if further proposals under consideration by GOI were
approved. While local tractor production is expected to increase during
the next four years, supply would still be inadequate to meet India's
growing needs and, accordingly, all tractors under the Project, and an
initial stock of spare parts would be imported on the bases indicated in
para 4.18 below.



- 16 -
4.18      The method of tractor procurement proposed follows the arrange-
ments agreed for the Gujarat and Punjab credit projects and would combine
bulk purchase based on farmers' demands with sales effected through the
normal dealership system. Arrangements would include the establishment
of a committee with representatives of GOI, the State Government and,
ARC which would, in consultation with IDA, direct the procurement of
tractors (and other goods). Organizational responsibility would rest
with APSAIC, working under the direction of this comnittee, and it would
be responsible for obtaining price quotations from overseas suppliers in
Bank-member countries and Switzerland representing firms authorized to
manufacture tractors in India at the time of procurement. Details are
set out in Annex 9 and, during negotiations it was agreed that tractors
would be procured only in accordance with these procedures.
4.19      Although the supply of tractor implements, including trailers, from
Indian manufacturers is considered adequate to meet Project requirements,
there is a shortage of certain implement components requiring hard steel.
Accordingly, IDA financing would include steel discs and plow bottoms which
would be procured by international competitive bidding througgh arrangements
organized by the procurement committee (para. 4.18).
4.20      Initial spare parts for tractors (at 1570 of the CIF value of
tractors) would be imported under the Projeet.  Additionally it was agreed
that annually over the succeeding five years after disbursement, GOI would
make available foreign exchange for spare patts for each make of tractor
imported under the Project, equal to 10% of their CIF prices or such other
percentage as agreed between GOI and IDA from time to time.
4.21      Owing to the shortage of sufficient experts in the country, the
consultants required for the groundwater technical assistance to SGD would
have to come from outside India. Good management consultancy ser'ices are
however available and it is envisaged that a suitable Indian firm or organi-
zation would be engaged to advise LIB and the Primary Banks.
E. Disbursements
4.22      IDA disbursements are expected to extend over three years.
Against appropriate statements, disbursements would be 66% of loans for
minor irrigation and 67% of loans for land levelling investments and the
CIF cost of tractors, tractor implement components and tractor spare parts.
IDA would also make disbursements against the cost of foreign consultants
for technical assistance to SGD and 50% of the cost of the LMB organizational
study. Any funds not used for technical assistance would be applied to
further minor irrigation investments. A schedule of estimated IDA disburse-
ments is at Appendix 8-3.



- 17 -
V .  M?f;A:';1 ZAT 'IO  AIND. J'1AAC(LM-.NT
Introcitletion
5.01      Responsibility for the implementation of the Project would rest
primarily with ARC which would control the lending operations of LMB and
participating commercial banks through subsidiary loan agreements. Execution
of a loan agreement acceptable to IDA between GOI and ARC would be a con-
dition of Project effectiveness and loan agreements between ARC and LAB
and participating commercial banks would also be subject to IDA approval.
Commercial banks participation (para. 3.16) would however be limited to those
banks (Annex 7) which were willing to accept the lending terms and conditions
which would apply equally to all Project lending institutions. They
would be excluded from lending for land levelling as the appraisal and
administration of these investments are closely related to government-
financed extension services and their participation in this aspect of the
Project would be difficult to organize.
Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC)
5.02      In order to provide effective control of lending operations, it
would be agreed during negotiations that ARC, through its Hyderabad re-
gional office, would:
(a) be responsible for selecting the commercial banks which
would be required to satisfy ARC as to their ability and
willingness to carry out loan appraisals and lending op-
erations in accordance with criteria laid down by ARC
(para. 5.08). In addition such banks would be required
to accent the financial terms and conditions that would
apply under the Project (para. 5.09);
(b) take measures to ensure that loan appraisals carried out
by LMB and participating commercial banks were in con-
formity with agreed lending criteria and to prevent du-
plicate applications, i.e. that two loans are made for
the same investment.
ARC auditors would continue to be subject to IDA approval.
5.03      To help meet the increased priority which India is giving to the
needs of small farmers, the Project would include special loan terms for
down payments and maturities which would apply to such farmers for certain
investments (paras. 5.10). Definitions of small farmers, which would be
based on land-holding and net income criteria, would be prepared by ARC in
conjunction with LMB and would be subject to IDA approval as part of the
subsidiary loan agreements (para. 5.01).
Andhra Pradesh Cooperative Central Land Mortgage Bank (LMB)
5.04      LMB recognizes the importance of reorienting its lending opera-
tions with emphasis on development benefits and to this end is recruiting
a technical cadre (para. 3.09). An agricultural economist is particularly
important in this and LMB has agreed to make this appointment within three
months of Project effectiveness. During negotiations it would also be agreed



- 18 -
that, assisted by ARC, LMB would carry out a series of short courses to
guide Primary Banks' staff in the new appraisal methods.
5.05      While the basis of LMB land valuation is generally reasonable, the
temporary ceiling placed on the maximum land value to be accepted for col-
lateral purposes (para. 3.11) is a disincentive to development and LMB will
remove this restriction on all future lending. It was also agreed that LMB
auditors would be subject to IDA approval.
Andhra Prad"sh State Agro-Industries Corporation (APSAIC)
5.06      APSAIC's organizational role in the PrQJect would provide the
mechanism required to carry out the various procedures involved in estab-
lishing farmers' tractor requirements and arranging for the procurement of
goods under the Project. In all deliberative matters, APSAIC would be
under the directio,p of the committee to be established for the purpose
(para. 4.17) and there would thus be no conflict of interest in the event
of a tractor manufacturer deciding to use its facilities as distribution
agent. APSAIC would maintain separate accounts for any Project funds
paid or received which would be subject to audit by an indenendent auditor
acceptable to IDA.
Lending Policies and Terms
5.07      ARC would ensure that lending banks would follow policies agreed
upon with IDA and in particular, that loans for minor irrigation would be
limited to the areas specified and subject as mentioned to SGB technical
appraisal (para. 4.03), that loans for land levelling did not exceed the
agreed scheduled rates (para. 4.05) and that tractor loans would conform to
agreed terms and appraisal criteria (para. 4.08). In addition, invest-
ments would be evaluated in terms of incremental returns from the additional
investments in accordance with evaluation methods developed by ARC appropriate
to investments.
5.08      In considering the interest rate structure of Project institu-
tions the following objectives have been taken into account:
(a) It is necessary to further strengthen ARC'* finances so that it
may progressively increase its staff and widen the scope
of its work;
(b) LMB's financial position is satisfactory and could be
improved by increased cost consciousness and by measures
which the proposed organizational study may recommend.
Accordingly, although some increase in its lending margin
is justified, this should be relatively small;
(c) It is important not to exceed the 2-1/2% per annum in-
terest mark-up on ARC borrowings which, while not mandatory,
is generally regarded as an operating maximum and in no
case is at present exceeded in India:
(d) It is necessary to bring the ultimate lending rate under all LMB
operations more into line with the commercial banks' lending
rate of 9% per annum.



- 19 -
5.09      Under the terms of the Project, the following interest rates
would therefore apply:
(a)  ARC would increase its interest rate by 1/2% to 6-1/2% per
annum on both Project and similar non-project lending in
Andhra Pradesh. The increased rate would apply because
it would be undesirable that a lower interest rate
shouild apply to related investments outside the Project.
The effect of this measure would be to increase ARC
interest margin on such operations to 1-5/8% per annum
and to increase LMB's interest rate to 7-3/4% and the
Primaries' lending rate to ultimate borrowers to 9% per
annum:
(b)  LMB's present interest rates on non-Project lending would
be increased to 7-1/2% giving it a slightly increased margin
at just over 1-1/4% per annum overall; the Primaries' interest
rates would be increased to 9% with a margin overall of just
under 1-1/2% per annum. In addition the Primaries would
retain the proceeds of an evaluation fee of 1/2% of individual
investment costs.
Participating commercial banks would also lend at 9% per annum and with
ARC refinance at 6-1/2%, their margin would similarly be 2-1/2% per annum.
Commercial banks would also charge and retain the evaluation fee. Details
of present and proposed interest rates are given in Annex 10.
5.10      To help meet the needs of small farmers, the Project would for such
small farmers to be defined (para. 5.03), reduce the down payments for minor
irrigation investments, not exceeding a cost of Rs 10,000, from 20% to 10%.
In all other cases, down payments by all borrowers would be 25% for tractors
and 20% for other purposes. Repayment terms, which would also include
concessions to small farmers, would be as follows:
(a)  minor irrigation investments in tubewells, dugwells and
well improvement nine years, except that for small farmers,
loans for investments not exceeding Rs 10,000 may be extended
to 15 years maximum: loan repayments on pump sets would in
no case exceed 7 years;
(b)  land levelling investments 10 years which may include two years
of grace in which interest only would be payable; for small
farmers this may be extended to 15 years maximum, also with two
years of grace;
(c) farm mechanization investments 7 years; there would be no
extension for small farmers.
LIS has also agreed to raise the present loan maximum of Rs 15,000 for tube-
wells and Rs 25,000 for farm mechanization investments to Rs 24,000 and
Rs 40,000 respectively.
5.11      Assurances have been obtained on the above and, in order to obtain
operational uniformity, LfB has agreed to extend the same lending terms and
criteria on all its similar lending operations and to apply a 9% per annum
interest rate to farmers on all its lending operations.



- 20 -
VI.  PRODUCTION, tARKETS, PRICES A.'D FAR:NERS' BENEFITS
Production
6.01      The proposed investments would lead to an extension of double
cropping and improved farming practices and, it is estimated that as a
result of the Project, the cropped area would increase by about 50,000 ha
because of increased double cropping. This in turn would lead, at full
Project development, to a considerable expansion of production, notablv of
about 160,000 tons in food grains (mainly rice) and in certain commercial
crops of which groundnuts (an increase of about 40,000 tons), sugarcane
(210,000 tons increase) and cotton seed (40,000 tons increase) would be tthe
most important. In addition, the proposed investments in minor irrigation
and land levelling (which enable the farm utilization of canal irrigation),
together representing about 80% of total Project investments, would result
in dependable yields from areas which at present rely on uncertain rainfall.
Details of the expected increases in cropped area and prodtuction are given
at Appendix 11-4.
Markets
6.02      As Andhra Pradesh produces a surplus of food grains, most of
the Project's incremental production would be transported to other states
for sale and consumption, while some commercial crops would be exported.
Nevertheless, some additional storage and marketing facilities would be
recuired within the State and these would be mainly the responsibility
of the Central Wlarehouse Corporation, the Food Corporation of India and
production and marketing cooperatives. Under the State's current Five-
Year Plan (1969-74) storage facilites are to be increased by about 25%
and this extra provision would meet Project and other expected produc-
tion increases.
6.03      There is at present a wide range of crop processing facilities
in Andhra Pradesh including some 1,650 rice mills, 30 sugar factories and
430 oil mills and the continued development of these facilities by both
public and private sectors can be expected over the next few years.
Prices
6.04      While food grain prices are already lower in Andhra Pradesh
than in other deficit States, some general decline in price levels must
be expected as India progresses towards her aim of becoming self-sufficient
in food grains within the decade. Mhile it remains India's policy to
encourage the agricultural sector through price incentives, uncertain-
ties over future food policy make price forecasting particularly diffi-
cult and for Project purposes, therefore, three levels of price assumptions
throughout the Project period have been taken. These are: (a) a con-
tinuation of present Andhra Pradesh prices, (b) an overall decline of
farm produce prices of 10%, and (c) an overall decline to predicted 1975
world market prices 1/, and each of these bases have been adopted in
calculating the Project's financial and economic rates of return.
1/   The assumed world market prices are those projected by the Trade Poli-
cies and Export Projections Division of IBRD's Economics Department.



- 21 -
Farmers' Benefits
6.05      Farmer's estimated financial benefits have been based on six
illustrative types of farm enterprise that would be financed under the
Project (Annex 11). These show that substantial increases in net income
would result from the proposed investments when combined with the use of
improved seeds, fertilizers and other current inputs at levels which can
reasonably be expected.  On moderately well-managed farms, the financial
rate of return is estimated to range from 16 to 22% on minor irrigation
schemes, and to be 37% on land levelling and 18% on farm mechanization
schemies, after assuming a price decline to predicted 1975 world market prices.
6.06      On the basis of cropping patterns, yields and price assumptions
detailed in the farm models (Appendix 11-1) farm incomes (excluding the
wages of family labor but after debt service) would increase as follows:
I             II        III         IV        V         VI
5 ha          5 ha      15 ha       2 ha     10 ha      5 ha
Pochampad
Net Income:   Nagarjunasagar    land    Tractor    Well Im-
(in Rs)      land levelling  levellin  im lements provement Tubewell Dugwell
(Rs 5,500)     (Rs 7.600)(Rs 37,000)(Rs 3,700) (Rs        (Rs
14,000) 10,000)
At Present        1,304           922        15,514        667    5,788      593
At Full Project
Development    4,482          4,899       27,484      1,946   12,677   3,517
Increment         3,178         3,977       11,970      1,279    6,889   2,924
Debt Service
(interest &
principal)       801        1,093         5,603        588    1,868   1,427
Increment After
Debt Service   2,377          2,884        6,367        691    5,021   1,497
6.07      Farmers at present pay only a minimal fixed land revenue tax,
which is not related to farmers' actual net income and the Project would
not therefore generate any direct tax to be collected from incremental
net income.  Indirect tax benefits would accrue to GOI and the Andhra
Pradeslh State Government throuoh a tax levied on tractor and machinery
sales (at present totalling about 8-1/2%) and estimated to be worth about
a total of Rs 6 million. Lesser revenue would be derived from other indirect
taxes and through corporation tax payable by institutions involved in the
Proj ect.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The Project would bring two direct benefits to India's economy.
First, a higher cropping intensity would increase the production of food
grains and commercial crops (para. 6.01) and, through irrigation, higher
yields would be maintained at more reliable levels than is presently pos-
sible with dependence on uncertain rainfall. India is not self-sufficient



- 22 -
in food grains, vegetable oils and long staple cotton and the increased
production of these commodities would result in foreign exchange savings.
Second, investments in land levelling would enable the Andhra Pradesh
economy (and thus India's) to make maximum use of past and continuing
investments in the two large irrigation scliemes at Nagarjunasagar and
Pochampad:  the potential of irrigation facilities would be further ex-
ploited by tractor investments.
7.02      Taking the three levels of assumed farn prices (para. 6.04) the
rate of return to the economy would be 30% at present prices, 25% on a
10% price decline and 24% at predicted 1975 world market prices. In making
these calculations, family labor except for a small part presently estimated
to be underemployed, has been costed at full market value: all prices have
been converted at the current exchange rate of US$1.00 to Rs 7.50.
7.03      In addition there would be other indirect benefits which are
difficult to quantify. These would include incremental production from
farm custom work, the demonstration effect on other farmers, the strength-
ening of lending institutions in Andhra Pradesh and further agricultural
investments by farmers out of their increased incomes. Further, increased
double cropping would create new jobs to farm laborers and increase the in-
come of numerous small farmers in the 2-5 ha range. These factors would
enhance the Projectst already adequate economic justification.
VIII.  RECO_MENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations the following main assurances were obtained:
(1)  consultants would be appointed to strengthen the
operations of SGD (para. 4.09);
(2)  tractors and their initial spare parts would be
imported on the basis of farmers' choice and through
arrangements for bulk procurement described in Annex 9
(para. 4.18);
(3)  Project lending terms including downpaymeats, maturities
and appraisal criteria would eaually apply to all similar
LMB lending operations while an increased lending rate to
farmers at 9% per annum would apply to all LMB lending
(para 5.11).
8.02      Conditions of Project effectiveness would be:
(1)  That SGD had been established with initial staffing
acceptable to IDA (para. 4.09);
(2)  The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between
GOI and ARC acceptable to IDA (para. 5.01).
8.03      The proposed Project is suitable for IDA assistance of US$24.4
million under usual IDA terms.
December 1, 1970



ANNEX 1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
MINOR IRRIGATION
A. Introduction
1.        With an average annual precipitation of 900 mm, ranging from 500
mm in the southwest to over 1,200 mm in the northeast, most of the farming
in Andhra Pradesh is dependent on rainfall. In the drier areas only a
Kharif (June to October) crop can be grown after the onset of the monsoon,
while, in the more favored areas, residual soil moisture from the monsoon
supplemented by winter rainfall permits a rabi (November-February) crop to
be grown also. Except in the extreme northeast where sugarcane can be
grown on rainfall alone, very little cultivation is possible during the
hot weather (March-May) season.
2.        Inadequate and uncertain rainfall has led to the continued devel-
opment of irrigation and, at the end of 1969, some 19% of the State's agri-
cultural land or about 27% of its net sown area were under some form of
irrigation. In recent years, priority has been given to the development
of two large irrigation canal schemes at Nagarjunasagar and Pochampad which
are still under construction. Together with other canal schems they now
provide water for over 1.3 million ha and this will increase to over 2 mil-
lion ha with their completion. The balance of the State's irrigated area
is supplied by minor irrigation schemes either through tanks (small res-
ervoirs filled during the monsoon) accounting for about 1.4 m ha or by
wells which provide about 500,000 ha with irrigated water. Much of this
irrigated land now permits double cropping.
3.        The demand for more wells has increased and this has particularly
been the case in the last four years (1965-69) when reduced monsoon rain-
fall has led to extensive drought conditions. Irrigation can be particu-
larly beneficial during the monsoon season as a protection against its late
start (as in 1969) or to supplement a water deficiency at its end.
4.        Three types of well are employed in Andhra Pradesh to exploit
groundwater. The first, the tubewell or borewell, has become increasing-
ly popular during the last ten years and is now estimated to number about
6,000. Several designs have been used from the 100 m sophisticated tube-
well with slotted screen, gravel filter and deepwell turbine or submersible
pump to the simple filter point with a 10 cm (4 in) pipe about 15 m long
screened at the bottom and with a certrifugal pump. The second and com-
monest type is the dugwell or open well which has been used in India for
several thousand years and of which there is estimated to be about 400,000



ANNEX 1
Page 2
in the State. In Andhra Pradesh they range in diameter (from 5 to 20 m)
and depth (up to 25 m) according to local conditions and traditions and
while some are fitted with pumps and motors, in most cases water is raised
by bullock power. The third type of well is known in India as the dug-
cum-bore well and is a development of the second in that a boring of be-
tween 5-15 cm (2-6 in) in diameter is sunk at the bottom of the dugwell
in order to increase water flow: in some cases these borings may be over
30 m deep.
5.        The Project would increase minor irrigation facilities in Andhra
Pradesh by the installation of some 1,350 tubewells (with motors), about
14,000 dugwells and by the improvement of some 5,000 existing dugwells by
the sinking of bores (i.e. to become dug-cum-bore wells). In addition the
Project would finance the installation of about 12,000 electric pumps (with
main electricity connections) and 7,700 oil engine pump sets in either
existing wells or in wells to be developed under the above program. To
assist implementation and for technical reasons, Project investments would
be limited to 78 of the 189 taluks (administrative subdivision) in the
State (Appendix 1-1).
6.        A full appreciation of the State's long-term groundwater poten-
tial must depend on more detailed information becoming availble on ground-
water resources and for this purpose, the Project would also include the
financing of technical assistance to a State Groundwater Directorate (SGD)
to be established and which would advise on certain Project investments
(Section D below). The continued development of minor irrigation schemes
is however technically and financially justified but data now available
requires that certain limitations be imposed on the Project's scope and
implementation and these matters are discussed in the following sections.
B. Factors Affecting Project Formulation
Recharge of Groundwater
7.        Any assessment of groundwater potential must primarily take into
account whether sufficient water is being added or recharged to the general
body of groundwater to ensure that an adequate water supply can be pumped
indefinitely. In this respect, areas which are supplied with surface ir-
rigation are distinct from those which are solely dependent on rainfall.
Lands which are under the command of canals or tanks generally have a high-
er recharge rate and canal irrigated areas are particularly favored in
Andhra Pradesh as most of land under command is in the higher rainfall
belt. Rainfed lands vary in recharge potential from the dry areas in the
southeast and centre of the State to the wetter northern areas and coastal
belt.  In much of the higher rainfall lands (of 1,000 mm and above annually)
recharge is not yet a serious problem but in the drylands only limited ex-
ploitation can be undertaken.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
8.        Although it does not take account of 2topography, vegetal cover
or infiltration rate, the formula Rp - 2(R-15)    (where Rp - recharge
in mm per annum and R - average rainfall) gives an approximate guide to
the contribution of rainfall to recharge.
9.        Applying this formula to conditions in Andhra Pradesh where the
minimum rainfall is 500 mm, there would be no areas where some vertical
recharge could not be expected to occur, the break-even point being 300
mm. However, about half the State receives less than 800 mm of rain an-
nually and at this level the resulting recharge would be less than 150 mm
(6 in). It is in such areas that a number of dugwell investments would
be made and while there is little risk of overpumping (as the well soon
goes dry and farmers have to wait several hours before further water ex-
traction) the small recharge limits the area which a farmer can irrigate
with his well. In most cases water availability is still sufficient to
bring reasonable investment returns but in some, generally known, localized
areas the risk that inadequate water will be found remains. Accordingly
in such areas (mainly in the center of the State) SGD would be required
to approve technical feasibility and where necessary would require lend-
ing banks to limit their initial installment to minimum sized trial pits
(about 1.5 m square) dug to proposed depth before excavating to final
size.
10.       In most areas proposed for tubewell development, especially
those towards the north, rainfall is high and recharge as calculated under
the formula would be 180 mm (7 in) or more. Together with high residual
soil moisture left at the end of the monsoon season, this would be suffi-
cient for intensive rabi cultivation. The real danger in these areas is
of over-investment, each farmer preferring to have his own well rather
than relying on one larger well which would have the capacity of supplying
perhaps ten or more. To meet this situation, encouragement should be given
to the establishment of a group of farmers, covering perhaps 20 ha to which
a group loan would be made for one well of about 2 cusec capacity. This
approach adopted in many other parts of the world, would provide a more
economic means of groundwater development.
11.       Because of the wide differences in ecological conditions in
various parts of the State, each minor irrigation scheme needs to be
separately examined to estimate recharge probability. This is at present
done by ARC consultants who are retained to appraise schemes submitted for
its approval and refinancing. Examination of these consultants' reports
shows that, within the limited data available, reasonable calculations
of recharge are made and, in some instances, a reduction in the number
of wells proposed for development has been made. Not all of the areas
included in the Project have yet been appraised by ARC and their imple-
mentation is therefore subject to eventual ARC approval in the normal way
(the same procedure applies to the IDA financed Gujarat credit project).
Providing present ARC appraisal standards (which follow IDA recommendations)
are maintained there should be no danger of overdevelopment of groundwater.
The Project could, however, result in the full groundwater development of



ANNEX 1
Page 4
some areas and a closer examination of recharge potential would be an essen-
tial prerequisite to any further minor irrigation credit appraisal in the
State.
Geo-hydrology
12.       So far as groundwater potential is concerned, Andhra Pradesh may
be broadly divided into two geological formations - hard rock and alluvium.
(i) Most of the hard rock found in the State is crystaline
and nearly all is compact and relatively impermeable.
Borewells in such material, while suitable for high value
domestic water supply, are unlikely to be economic in
terms of yields for irrigation water and experience has
shown their rate of discharge to be unreliable. Else-
where, land areas between the monumental columnar struc-
tured outcrops of granite and basalt, are covered to
various depths with soils and loose weathered rock known
as murram and as their material is fairly permeable, wells
can be successfully developed. Normally the dugwell is
used in this situation but in areas where the depth of
murram is sufficient, bore wells have been successful. A
similar situation obtains in the sedimentary hard rock
with the exception of the loosely cemented tertiary
sandstones which are fissured and sufficiently permeable
to permit the construction of tubewells.
(ii) Alluvial materials encountered in the river valley areas
and on the deltas are invariably permeable and are eminently
suitable for well development. A large number of dugwells
have been constructed under these conditions but increasingly
the tendency is towards the construction of more tubewells.
13.       Because of the high risks and technical difficulties involved,
the Project excludes 285 tubewells in hard rock (but_,not tertiary sand-
stone) areas which were included in the loan application. Accordingly
no tubewells would be constructed in the Kothagudem, Yellander and Mad-
hira taluks of the Khammam District, in Mulug taluk of Warangal District
and in Chintalapudi taluk of West Godavari District. Under the Project,
tubewells would thus only be included in areas with underlying hard rock
where there were sufficient depths of overlying murram.
Water Quality
14.       In most of the proposed Project areas, groundwater is fresh
enough for all purposes. Water quality analyses show that most waters
contain less than 1,000 parts per million (ppm) of total dissolved solids
and that many are around 300 ppm: typical pH values lie between 7 and 8.
In a number of coastal areas and in West Godavari more saline water is
encountered.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
15.       In order to improve information on water quality (and on soils)
the Soil Conservation Service is setting up 21 laboratories of which 10
are operational and 7 in the process of being equipped. Standards for
irrigation water quality laid down in the U.S. Department of Agriculture
Handbook 60 are being used in the State and while this is a useful guide
it should not be adopted too rigidly. This would particularly apply in
certain delta areas which receive a relatively high rainfall and where a
mixture of rainfall and groundwater may reduce salinity to acceptable
levels.
16.       As part of the extended field experiments, it is suggested that
all farmers taking minor irrigation loans should in future be required to
submit well water samples to the district laboratories for analysis. The
laboratory should only record total dissolved solids (measured by EC meter)
and pH values unless results indicated a potentially hazardous water in
which case a full analysis should be undertaken. It is proposed that farm-
ers should be charged Rs 10 for each sample analyzed.
17.       Some fears have been expressed about the danger of seawater
intrusion near the coast if there is extensive groundwater development.
In all similar situations where this possibility has arisen, calculations
have shown that intrusion is a very slow process. It is possible, how-
ever, that underlying saline water can be drawn up into a well near the
coast and to avoid this risk, the specific approval of SGD would be required
for tubewell development within the ten-mile coastal strip.
C. Project Implementation and Services
Well Design
18.       Several improvements in well design should be carried out to
improve performance and extend useful life and while these matters gen-
erally would come within the scope of the proposed groundwater study,
certain changes should be given immediate consideration with a view to
Project implementation.
(1) The present design of tubewells in alluvium do not follow
recognized criteria in respect of gravel filter and well
screen slot sizes. Such criteria are well known to the
Central Ground Water Board (para. 28) which should
be consulted and proper design criteria adopted. The
relationship between screen length, discharge and drawdown
is also not well understood and design changes would give
more economic results.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
(2) The design of filters (or screens) of simple well points
which are used in some districts also reauired attention.
The present use of coir rope wrapped around steel cages
are inefficient with a life of only four years or less
and design improvements should be considered early in the
program.
(3) Corrosion of well screens and pipes is also a problem in
some areas. This is particularly the case in some recently
constructed wells which are discharging water contaminated
with hydrogen sulphide (possibly as a result of the action
of sulphate reducing bacteria). In other countries the use
of resin-bonded fibreglass rather than steel has proved
beneficial and this and other possible materials should
be considered.
(4) The use of centrifugal pumps is generally preferred in
Andhra Pradesh over the more expensive submersible or
deep well turbine pumps. This, however, has the dis-
advantage that centrifugal pumps can only operate at
limited draw down and thus the well discharge is limited.
In circumstances (particularly in alluvial areas) the wells
could produce a higher discharge by adopting the more ex-
pensive pump thus reducing the overall cost of water
delivered.
19.       There is at present some confusion about the proper criterion
for the minimum distance between adjacent wells. The part played by
mutual interference between wells can be a problem if wells are placed
very close together in that it effectively increases the drawdown in the
interferring wells and thus increases the cost of pumping. This does
not, however, affect the recharge position as only the total discharge
from the well field determines where there is overpumping. Once the
average discharge of a well is known and the total recharge potential
determined, the average well spacing can be calculated. The immediate
consideration is that wells should not be placed so close together that
the interference effect considerably increases the well drawdown.
Well Construction
20.       In the construction of dugwells, farmers may employ direct labor
or a local contractor. Most are dug entirely by hand where the material
encountered is alluvium or murrum but explosives are used to excavate in
hard rock. Similar arrangements are made when improving or deepening an
existing well. Borings in the bottom of a well to increase yield are
carried out by hand or by using compressed air operated hammers for the
small diameters. In all this work in constructing or improving dugwells,
local capacity is adequate to meet Project demands.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
21.       For large diameter borings (6-10 cm) in dugwells and for the
construction of tubewells, proper drilling rigs are required. Until re-
cently, well drilling facilities were limited to small private contractors
and the Public Work Department (PWD) of the State Government and total ca-
pacity was small. In 1969 however, the Andhra Pradesh State Agro-Industries
Corporation (APSAIC) (Annex 4) began to undertake well drilling for drought
relief work and it has now built up an extensive and sound organization
operating 51 drilling rigs. As from August 1970, APSAIC increased its
drilling rates from this previously subsidized rate of Rs 24 per foot to a
variety of rates given at Appendix 1-2. These rates are sufficient to cover
costs and nrovide a eood margin for contingencies. For Project purposes,
estimates are based on an average drilling rate of Rs 32 per foot. With
increasing demand for tubewells, it is desirable that more contractors should
enter the field of well drilling but existing capacity within the State is
adequate to meet Project requirements.
Electrification
22.       The policy of the Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Board (APSEB)
is to electrify all villages and wells in the shortest possible time and,
in spite of many difficulties, its recent record is impressive. In 1969,
the Board electrified over 1,500 villages and 35,000 wells and the present
target is to increase the electrification of wells to 40,000 annually ris-
ing to 65,000 annually by the mid-70's. While not all of the wells to be
installed under this Project would be in areas planned for early electrifi-
cation, APSEB would be able to meet increased demands arising out of this
Project without difficulty.
23.       Farmers who require a connection in a village that has already
been electrified are not required to contribute to the costs except for
a small connecting charge of Rs 125 and this item is included in electric
motor investments. A list of villages to be electrified is published each
year but any village not on the list can receive advanced priority if the
farmers lend to APSEB at least half of the cost: an individual thus lends
Rs 2,500 in two installments, Rs 1,500 in advance and Rs 1,000 at the time
the connection is made, and APSEB repays the loan after ten years with in-
terest at 6%. Alternatively, a village can get priority by donating 12-1/2%
of the total cost outright and Rs 125 per connection.
24.       The tariff to farmers at Rs 0.12 per unit is below cost and com-
pares with Rs 0.35 for domestic users and Rs 0.45 for commercial undertak-
ings. APSEB is aware that this low rate, together with high line losses
at 23%, is a major reason for its present loss position and would like to
raise the agricultural tariff to a minimum economic rate estimated at Rs
0.22. It is APSEB's intention to raise the rate to Rs 0.15 to Rs 0.18 in
the next two years and subsequently to an economic level. For the pur-
poses of economic analysis, a rate of Rs 0.22 is used in this report.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
Pumps and Motors
25.       There are 70 firms in the State dealing in pumps, oil engines and
electric motors, many of which manufacture on a small scale and meet a real
need in the production of centrifugal pumps. At the moment any small manu-
facturer can be registered as an acceptable supplier but there is no check
on the quality of his product. Recently 24 of the leading manufacturers
have joined together to form Agro-Subsidiaries and are attempting to in-
troduce more rigid standards. They are trying to persuade the LMB and
Agro-Industries Corporation to restrict purchases to their members but so
far without success. At the moment, the supply exceeds the demand but
manufacturers feel that the demand would expand considerably if there
were more credit available. Oil and electric engines, mainly in the 5-6
hp range, are also available locally in adequate quantities.
26.       While many of the tubewells which would be installed under this
Project would be fitted with centrifugal pumps, others would require sub-
mersible or deepwell turbine pumps. Such pumps are not manufactured in
the State but are produced in other parts of India: despite some temporary
delay in supply owing to recent strikes at factories at Bangalore and
Calcutta, the general supply position is adequate.
27.       While most of the electric and oil engine pump sets would be
expected to be installed in wells developed under the Project, there would
be no requirement that all dugwells should be energized. In many cases it
would be more desirable that a well owner should await electrification
facilities than install an oil engine pump set. Accordingly, some of the
pump sets would be utilized in dugwells which already exist and through
increased water yields, would extend irrigated areas on the farms concerned.
D. Groundwater Study
28.       Responsibility for groundwater development in Andhra Pradesh is
shared by several organizations.  The Government of India has an interest
through two authorities, the Geological Survey of India and the recently
established Central Ground Water Board (previously the Exploratory Tubewell
Organization) while the main State entities involved are APSAIC and PWD.
In the past the division of responsibility between the various institutions
has been ill-defined and, as a result, the long-term development of
groundwater resources has not received the attention that it merits. Instead
of attention being given to investigation, analysis and planning, past
emphasis has been on the fast exploitation of resources without due regard
to the consequences of such action.
29.       The need for adequate planning is illustrated by the situation
arising in the Nagarjunasagar and Pochampad schemes where the contribution
that can be made by groundwater development to both water supply and drain-
age is virtually ignored. In other areas, reports of a steady decline in



ANNEX 1
Page 9
water-table level over recent years cannot be explained or even sustan-
tiated because of a total lack of regular observations. Further, there
is evidence of over-investment in some areas where groundwater supply is
plentiful and, totally un-economic investment in other areas where very
deep wells in hard rock have been contemplated.
30.       As is evident from detailed comments above, the immediate need
is to establish a technical unit which would advise on the implementation
of minor irrigation investments under the Project and, at the same time
carry out further investigation work, in order to define more closely those
areas which are suitable for groundwater development and also to establish
the recharge potential. It is also necessary to prepare a comprehensive
inventory of existing wells and to monitor the changing groundwater situa-
tion in the various Project areas. Some of this work is being done at the
moment by the various bodies engaged in groundwater development but impor-
tance features are being neglected.
31.       In order to carry out this work effectively, responsibility for
all groundwater planning and development in Andhra Pradesh should be vested
in a State Groundwater Directorate (SGD) and suitably qualified and ex-
perienced staff should be posted to it. As there is at present a shortage
of such staff, not only in Andhra Pradesh but throughout India, the Project
would include a technical assistance component of three advisors of wide
and proven experience in the field and it would be their responsibility to
assist in the collection and analysis of data and the training of the Direc-
torate's staff. Proposed terms of reference and job descriptions are given
at Appendix 1-3 and, because of the present shortage of Indian staff in this
field, it is envisaged that foreign consultants would be engaged.
32.       SGD should not attempt to conduct basis research as none of the
problems encountered in the State are unique: solutions are well known and
adequately treated in literature. The outstanding requirement is the appli-
cation of these principles, the systematic gathering of minimum basic data
and its subsequent analysis for planning purposes.
33.       Simple measures which should be taken immediately include regular
measurement of water-table depth, a full inventory of various types of wells
accurately located on maps and a detailed map of surface geology marking
depths of murrum wherever known. It should be the aim to make at least one
measurement of water-table depth in each taluk every month. This should be
taken, possibly by the Panchayat, in an existing well or preferably in a
specially installed pipe and the results sent to SGD where permanent records
and maps should be kept. In preparation for water balance studies that will
invariably be required in deciding the eventual optimum groundwater develop-
ment standard evaporation, pans should be installed at all Indian Metereo-
logical Service Stations in the State and at agricultural research stations
or at the Soil Conservation Service Laboratories. The aim should be to es-
tablish one such pan in each District.






APPENDIX 1-1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
LIST OF TALUKS DESIGNATED FOR TUBEWEL'
AND DUGWELL INVESTMENTS
A. Tubewells
Visakhapatnam                                        Yelamanchili
Anakapalli
Vizianagaram
S. Kota
Chodavaram
East Godavari                                         Prathipadu
Tuni
Kakinada
Pithapuram
West Godavari                                         Tadepalligudem
Krishna                                               Vijayawada
Gudivada
Gannavaram
Guntur                                                Guntur
Nellore                                               Sullurpet
Nizamabad                                             Armoor
Srikakulam                                            Srikakulam
Chipurupalle
Narasannapeta
Tekkali
Bobbili
Visakhapatnam                                         Narsipatnam
Anakapalli
Yelamanchili
Vizianagaram
S. Kota
Chodavaram



APPENDIX 1-1
Page 2
East Godavari                                        Prathipadu
Tuni
Krishna                                              Vijayawada
Guntur                                               Guntur
Gurazala
Ongole
Nellore                                              Podili
Kandukuru
Kavali
Darsi
Sullurpet
Khammam                                              Burgampad
Khammam
Nalgonda                                             Nalgonda
Bhongir
Devarkonda
Miryalguda
Mahbubnagar                                          Mahbubnagar
Nagarkurnool
Achampet
Gadwal
Kodangal
Shadnagar
Wanaparthy
Kalwakurthy
Kollapur
Atmakur
Makhtal
Kurnool                                              Banganapalle
Nandyal
Adoni
Giddalur
Nandikotkur
Cuddapah                                             Cuddapah
Rayachoti
Rajampet
Proddatur
Jamalamadugu
Anantapur                                            Anantapur
Rayadurg
Kadiri



APPENDIX 1-1
Page 3
Warangal                                           Jangaon
Parkal
Narsampet
Mahbubabad
Warangal
Karimnagar                                         Karimnagar
Jagtiyal
Metpally
Sirsilla
Sultanabad
Huzurabad
Nizamabad                                          Armoor
Madnoor
Medak                                              Siddipet
Sangareddy
Medak
Jogipet
Hyderabad                                          Tandur
Pargi
Medchal
Ibrahimpatnam






APPENDIX 1-2
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
MINOR IRRIGATION - WELL DRILLING
RATES CHARGED BY AGRO-INDUSTRIES CORPORATION FROM AUGUST 16, 1970
Rate      Depth                   Idle       Charges
SI.   Bore      per         in                    per           per
No.   size      foot       feet        Soils      hour          day      Remarks
1    1-1/2"  Rs 8.25   up to 30'   Any soil  Rs 12.40   Rs 100.00
10.25   beyond 30'
2    4-1/2"    20.00   up to 150'  Any soil         24.25       200.00    DTH
drills
3 Reaming
charges                           These are in addition to the
from 6"      20.00    -do.-       usual rates at item (2)
4    6"         41.00   up to 150'  Any soil        41.50       350.00    DTH
drills
62.00   151' to 300'
5  Reaming
charges      41.00   up to 150'  Any soil        These are in addi-   DTH
from         62.00   151' to 300'                tion to the drilling drills
6" to 8"                                         charges at item (4)
6    6"         16.00   up to 200'    Alluvial   59.50          500.00   Rotary
soil                            drill
20.00   200' to 400' Alluvial                          (5-5/8
soil                          R.B. bits)
24.00   401' to 600' Alluvial
soil
7   10"         20.00   up to 200'    Alluvial   59.50          500.00   Rotary
soil                            drill
24.00   201' to 400'
30.00   401' to 600'
35.00   601' to 800'
47.00   801' to 1000'
8               20.00   up to 200'    Alluvial   These are in addition
24.00   201' to 400'   soil         to drilling charges
30.00   401' to 600'                at item (7)
35.00   601' to 8001
47.00   801' to 1000'
November 27, 1970






APPENDIX 1-3
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE AND QUALIFICATIONS OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO
THE ANDHRA PRADESH STATE GROUNDWATER DIRECTORATE
Terms of Reference
1.        The responsibilities of experts that would be hired by the State
Groundwater Directorate in connection with the projected study of the State's
groundwater resources would be:
(a) To review and advise on the general and research programs
of the Dirctorate.
(b) To review and advise on the staffing of the Directorate and
its organization.
(c) To assist on the training of staff for groundwater work.
(d) To carry out field visits and advise on the proper equip-
ment and methods to be employed in collecting field data.
(e) To advise on minimum data requirements and their handling
and processing, so that a complete picture can be obtained
in the shortest possible time of the geology, aquifer con-
ditions, water quality, horizontal and vertical recharge,
and the possibility of sea water intrusion in certain areas.
(f) To consider the problem of groundwater "mining" and to advise
as to the degree of "mining" that should be permitted, if at
all.
(g) To review and advise on the methods presently used for ground-
water development and consider what design changes should be
made to wells and pumping devices to improve efficiency and
thus reduce overall costs.
(h) To advise the Directorate in its groundwater consulting
capacity to bodies such as LMB and APSAIC.
(i) To advise on the need for a law to protect the groundwater
resources of the State by licensing or other means.



APPENDIX 1-3
Page 2
Specifications for and Duties of Posts
2.        The qualifications and specific duties of groundwater experts
should be:
(a) Chief Advisor:
(i) Background should be either in engineering hydrology
or geo-hydrology; should have at least 10 years'
relevant experience since graduation, most of it in
groundwater development and planning; and should
have personally conducted fieldwork in groundwater
investigations and similar responsibilities or should
have worked on a well construction program.
(ii) Would be responsible for overall direction of the
advisory program; would advise the Directorate on
policy and research matters; would direct and take
an active part in field and analysis work assigned
to the other two experts.
(b) Geo-Hydrologist:
(i) Background in geology and geophysics with at least
seven years' experience since graduation; should
have had experience in groundwater investigations
and, particularly, in aquifer testing in the field
and in the analysis of results; should have worked
on the problem of recharge; and should be thoroughly
familiar with and experienced in the methods of deter-
mining recharge.
(ii) Would advise on recharge determinations so that a
complete picture of sources and quantities of re-
charge for all districts in the State can be estab-
lished as soon as possible; would monitor field work
himself by carrying out checks on a proportion of the
data; and would help to train local staff in all aspects
of his work.
(c) Engineer/Hydrologist:
(i) Should have had at least seven years' relevant expe-
rience since graduation; should have been concerned
with groundwater investigations or well construction
in the field; and should have had experience in the
design of wells and well fields.
(ii) Would give attention to the economic development of
groundwater, problems of "mining", and the problem
of intrusion of saline water into wells; would work
in coordination with geo-hydrologist in the field and
in the analysis stages of the recharge problems; and
would help to train local staff in all aspects of his work.



ANNEX 2
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
LAND LEVELLING
I. General
Background
1.        Although land levelling has been carried out in Andhra Pradesh
for many years as part of canal irrigation schemes, it was not until re-
cently that it was recognized that individual farmers would require fi-
nancial assistance for the purpose if the large areas, which it was plan-
ned to bring under command of major schemes, were to be prepared quickly
and effectively to take irrigation water. This situation arose because
previous schemes had been mainly in the delta areas where gradients of
1% or less were common, whereas the Nagarjunasagar scheme which began to
come into operation in 1966 and the Pochampad project which is due to
start delivery of water later in 1970 are located higher up their respec-
tive rivers and in areas where gradients are steeper, averaging over 2%.
In order to meet the greater financial cost of land levelling, the Andhra
Pradesh Cooperative Central Land Mortgage Bank (LMB) in 1966 introduced a
lending program to farmers for Nagarjunasagar and subsequently extended
this to cover the Pochampad scheme and, to a lesser extent, land levelling
requirements on minor irrigation schemes.
Planning and Organization
2.        As part of the planning of the major canal schemes, land is lo-
calized or divided into either wet or dry irrigated areas. Land designated
within the wet irrigated areas is intended to receive irrigation water main-
ly during the Kharif (June-October) rains while the dry irrigation areas
would receive lighter irrigation water during the Rabi (November-February)
season. The basis for the division of the command area into the two cate-
gories is soil types, black soils generally being designated as wet lands
(receiving 1 cusec per 30 ha) and red soils designated dry lands (receiving
1 cusec per 60 ha). On the dry lands, cotton, groundnut, bajra and pulses
would be grown under irrigation during the Rabi season and in the Kharif
season rainfed dry crops (such as Jowar) would be grown though with some
supplementary irrigation in the event of insufficient monsoon rains.
3.        Farm plans for levelling and the construction of minor on-farm
feed channels is carried out by soil conservation staff of the Department
of Agriculture and are based on the localization maps. The farm plan de-
fines the farm boundaries, shows the water inlet point and indicates spot



ANNEX 2
Page 2
heights from which the average land gradients may be calculated. It also
shows the position and alignment of the master bund and the recommended
spacing of parallel bunds in accordance with the calculated slopes. These
bunds are aligned across the slope and the final number of cross bunds to
be constructed is left to the discretion of the farmer. Soil conservation
staff are also responsible for estimating the cost of land levelling work
to be carried out where a farmer is seeking a loan from LMB and calcula-
tions are based on the amount of land to be moved. The staff is similarly
responsible for checking the utilization of land levelling loans, though
because of staff shortages this is at present only carried out in the case
of 10% of loans. While the standard of levelling on Nagarjunsagar scheme
has been generally good, this low percentage of checking is an inadequate
deterrent to the occasional farmer who may be tempted to misapply loans.
Government recognizes this and is recruiting further staff in order that
the utilization check can be increased to 25% as soon as possible.
4.        Land levelling is carried out by hand labor (often in hired gangs)
either with or without the assistance of bullocks (and occasionally private-
ly owned tractors) or by hired earth moving machinery. Earth moving mach-
inery, was until recently operated by the engineering wing of the Agricul-
tural Department but this was taken over by the Andhra Pradesh State Agro-
Industries Corporation (APSAIC) on its formation (see Annex 4). APSAIC has
now built up a large unit of earth moving equipment including about 170
bulldozers in the 90/100 hp class and 64 crawler tractors in the 65 hp class
and has more than adequate capacity to carry out the scheduled mechanized
land levelling under the Project and meet other probable commitments. In
February 1969 APSAIC increased its charges for the hire of earth moving
equipment from the previously subsidized rate of Rs 25 per hour to Rs 71 per
hour. A breakdown of the new cost structure is given at Appendix 2-1 and
shows that this rate is adequate to cover costs and provide an operating
surplus. The higher charge inevitably led to a sharp decline in APSAIC's
services but it appears that demand is increasing again now that it is real-
ized that the rate will not be reduced and that mechanized land levelling
can usually be carried out more cheaply than by hand labor. Effective use
of the plant does however depend on block orders thus reducing travelling
and down-time.
5.        Organizational responsibility for executing the land levelling
lending program thus rests with LMB (and its federated Primary Banks) using
staff of the soil conservation service for technical appraisal and checking
utilization of loans. Until February 1970 the cost of soil conservation
staff so employed were reimbursed by LMB but this practice has now been dis-
continued. LMB also has a close working relationship with APSAIC staff for
the hiring of earth moving equipment and with the Department of Agriculture
which provides extension services: the staff of the latter has been strength-
ened considerably in the areas of major development. At Nagarjunasagar where
irrigation development and planning is at a relatively advanced stage, coor-
dination is adequately provided by the regular district administration: at
Pochampad however where development is less advanced it is proposed to ap-
point a project administrator to ensure effective coordination.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
6.        The prospect of more profitable farming has generally been a suf-
ficient incentive for farmers to carry out their land levelling effectively
and any weaknesses are an inherent result of the individual land ownership
on which the system is based. Although soil conservation staff attempt to
plan farms in blocks, area planning based on a watershed is not always pos-
sible. Conversely, there are technical advantages to be gained where land
consolidation has taken place (such as on the Guddipalli Mahatma Ghandi
Lift Irrigation Scheme in the Nagarjunasagar conmand area) thus facilitating
planned contour irrigation as well as mechanized farming.
Basis of Estimates
7.        Land levelling estimates on the two major irrigation projects are
based on a number of assumptions:
(i) As the cost of levelling and irrigation works on wet areas
is approximately double that on dry (because of higher bunds
and smaller fields) the proportion of each type of area to
be developed together with the expected demand for loans
from each area is critical. In general terms, the localiza-
tion of Nagarjunsagar and Pochampad have resulted in about
one-third being designated as wet and two-thirds as dry
areas, but variations occur at different levels of scheme
development. While scheme estimates are based on actual
areas of wet and dry lands expected to be developed (and
not on averages) any change in phasing could alter esti-
mated costs. Based on experience at Nagarjunasagar, the
estimates assume that 40% of farmers in wet areas and 25%
of farmers in dry areas (or about 30% overall) would apply
for loans;
(ii) While a detailed schedule of charges has been adopted by
LMB for gradients ranging from 1%-4% slope (Appendix 2-2)
estimates assume an average loan and any variation from
this would affect costs;
(iii) Mechanized land levelling has been assumed at 20% at Nagar-
junasagar and 40% at Pochampad where land conditions are
less favorable. While mechanized work has been estimated
at the same rates as non-mechanized (though higher gradient
work is assumed) any change in the ratio and costs would af-
fect the validity of the estimates;
(iv) Loans for non-mechanized levelling may additionally include
loans for bullocks on the basis of a maximum of Rs 800 for
a pair on not less than 4 ha, and an extra provision for
boulder removal on rocky land - on the basis of 15% of the
land area for which it is estimated loans will be made.
These assumptions are similarly based on past experience at
Nagarjunasagar.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Project estimates follow those submitted by LMB but exclude provision for
green manuring which is considered to be more appropriate to short-term fi-
nancing. Other details are discussed under the Nagarjunasagar and Pochampad
scheme sections below and estimate assumptions for land levelling on Minor
Irrigation schemes is similarly treated.
Lending Policies
8.        It is LMB's policy to lend a maximum of 80% of individual invest-
ment cost, the balance usually being provided by the farmer in the form of
family labor. In practice the farmers' contribution usually exceeds 20% as
some supplementary levelling and bunding is usually required immediately
after the farm has received its first irrigation water. It is also at pre-
sent LMB policy to lend for a maximum of 12 years including a two-year grace
period in which only interest is paid but in view of the relatively high in-
cremental net value of production from such investments farmers could easily
complete repayment of loans in 10 years (including a two-year grace period).
II. Nagarjunasagar Scheme
Background
9.        The Nagarjunasagar barrage is situated on the Krishna River and
is the longest masonary dam in the world providing the world's third larg-
est artificial storage reservoir. It feeds two main canals, the right bank
canal which will eventually be 440 km in length and has a discharge capac-
ity of 21,000 cusecs and the left bank canal, eventually 225 m long with a
present discharge of 11,000 cusecs to be increased to 15,000 cusecs. The
right bank canal serves the Districts of Guntur, Nellore and Kurnool and
the left bank canal serves Nalgonda, Khammam and Khrishna Districts. Out
of about 830 million ha which will eventually be under command, nearly 800
million ha have been localized (440 under the right bank canal and 360 under
the left bank canal) and the localization of the balance of 30 million ha
(right bank canal) will shortly be completed.
10.       The following table shows the progress of land levelling by LMB
loans since the scheme started in 1966 (for years ended June 30):



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Brought  Under              Area Develop ed by LMB Loans
Year           Irrigation Command        Mechanized   Non-Mechanized   Total
1966/67                   -                   19,200           6,000       25,200
1967/68                260,000                28,300           4,200        32,500
1968/69                 40,000                16,900           1,100       18,000
1969/70 (Est)           77,000                 4,500               20       4,520
- Dec. 70 (Est)          4,000                 4,000           1,000         5,000
Total            381,000                72,900           12,320       85,220
The total value of LMIB loans for the above development is expected to be
about Rs 95 million or approximately 1,100 per ha.
11.        It will be noted from the above table that:
(i) the area under irrigation command has been greater than
the land levelling program. Thus by December 1970, on
the expectation that LMB loans would cover about 30% of
the total land levelling carried out (para 7 (i)), this
would amount to about 285,000 ha compared with 381,000
under command, a total difference of about 100,000 ha or
30,000 ha in terms of future LMB lending;
(ii)  the proportion of mechanized land levelling is about 14%.
This is explained by difficulties arising from the trans-
fer of earth moving custom services from the Agricultural
Department to APSAIC and the increase in hiring charges.
Development Program
12.       Under the Project a total of 30,000 ha would be levelled with loans
from LMB over a 2-1/2 year period in accordance with the following program
(which follows the LMB fiscal year, the first period thus covering six months):
LMB Land Levelling Program
(ha)
Wet Lands          Dry Lands           Total
Jan. 71/June 71             7,400               1,700             9,100
July 71/June 72            14,200               3,300            17,500
July 72/June 73             2,900                 500             3,400
Total                 25,500               5,500           30,000



ANNEX 2
Page 6
This program would be carried out on areas already under irrigation command
but not developed (para 9(i)) and in addition on a further 20,000 ha sched-
uled to be brought under command during 1971/72. Sufficient areas are thus
under command to assure the carrying out of the proposed program. A further
420,000 ha is due to be brought under command from 1973/74 (some of which is
expected to be brought forward to 1972/73) but detailed schedules have not
yet been prepared.
Estimates
13.       Estimated project cost of the land development program at Nagar-
junasagar is Rs 46.99 million and LMB loans are estimated to total Rs 37.60
million or about Rs 1,250 per ha. The increase in costs over the estimated
average 1966/70 is explained by an increase in labor costs and provision
for contingencies. Detailed estimates are set out in Appendix 2-3 and are
based on LMB's schedule of maximum charges (Appendix 2-2).
III. Pochampad Scheme
Background
14.       The Pochampad dam, now in the course of construction is situated
on the Godavari River and when completed will have a command area of about
400,000 ha. The dam serves one main canal with an initial carrying capac-
ity of 5,400 cusecs and as a first stage it is proposed to bring irrigation
to about 100,000 ha, most of which would be in Karimnagar District with a
small amount in Nizamabad District. Only a negligible amount of land level-
ling has so far been carried out in anticipation of the first irrigation wa-
ter being made available in 1970.
Development Program
15.       The land levelling program is based on the annual development of
the command area as estimated by an IDA mission which has appraised the
main irrigation scheme at Pochampad. The development of the command area
is about one-half of that envisaged by the Andhra Pradesh authorities owing
to the subsequent recommendation that the main canal should be lined thus
resulting in its part closure during the rabi season and the slower release
of water to the area designated as dry lands. The program thus proposes
the levelling of 10,175 ha with LMB loans over a 2-1/2 year period related
to the development of the command area as follows (in ha):



ANNEX 2
Page 7
Command Area             LMB Land Levelling Program
Wet Lands  Dry Lands  Total   Wet Lands  Dry Lands   Total
Jan. 71/June 71      2,000         500    2,500        800         125       925
July 71/June 72      4,000       4,000    8,000      1,600       1,000     2,600
July 72/June 73      6,000      10,500   16,500      2,400       4,250     6,650
Total          12,000     15,000   27,000       4,80       5,375    10,175
This program is based on the assumption (para 7 (i)) that LMB applications
will continue at the rate of 40% from farmers on wet lands and 25% from farm-
ers on dry lands.  Additionally, as a further 13,000 ha of dry lands are ex-
pected to come under command later in 1973 and as some farmers could be ex-
pected to level land a few months before the introduction of irrigation water,
the 1972/73 program, for levelling dry land has been increased by 1,625 ha.
Estimates
16.       Estimated project cost of the land development program at Pochampad
is Rs 16.26 million or about Rs 1,500 per ha and LMB loans are estimated to
total Rs 13 million (Rs 1,280 per ha). Costs are higher at Pochampad than
Nagarjunasagar because of more difficult terrain, higher labor costs and the
greater proportion of wet lands at Pochampad (47%) compared with Nagarjunasagar
(18%). Detailed estimates are set out in Appendix 2-3 and are based on LMB's
schedule of maximum charges (Appendix 2-2).
IV. Land Levelling on Minor Irrigation Schemes
17.       Most farms with minor irrigation (e.g. tubewells and dugwells) re-
quire some land development and levelling to obtain optimum benefits from
irrigation water. While circumstances vary according to area, the work in-
volved is generally less than on canal irrigation schemes as the well is
usually so sited as to obtain maximum gradient benefit and accordingly costs
are lower. The Project would provide land levelling on such irrigation
schemes for 15,000 ha at an estimated project cost of Rs 10.25 million and
LMB loans are estimated to total Rs 8.20 million or about Rs 550 per ha.
The area involved compares with about 30,000 ha which are estimated to bene-
fit from the Project's minor irrigation schemes but as farmers often prefer
to wait for up to a year after well installation before completing land
levelling (in order to prove the well's resources) the Project would also
assist some farmers whose wells were installed prior to the Project period.
18.       Estimated costs of land levelling on minor irrigation schemes are
summarized in Appendix 8-1 together with summarized estimates for land level-
ling under the Nagarjunasagar and Pochampad schemes.






Appendix 2-1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
CUSTOM RATE CHARGED BY ANDHRA PRADESH STATE
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CORPORATION FOR LAND LEVELLING
1.        The Andhra Pradesh State Agro-Industries Corporation (APSAIC) at
present charges Rs 71 per hour for land levelling carried out by a 90 hp
crawler-tractor with bulldozer. This charge is based on the following cost
assumptions:
(a) Direct labor requirement of 3 operative staff per tractor
= Rs 7.50 per hour
(b) Fuel at 12 litres per hour and Rs 0.92 per litre, oil and
minor field repairs = Rs 14.50 per hour
(c) Taxes, registration and insurance = Rs 2.00 per hour
(d) Interfield and other transport by low loader = Rs 3.00
per hour
(e) Depreciation of cost (Rs 150,000) over a total of 10,000
hours - Rs 15.00 per hour
(f) Repairs and servicing estimated at 70% of hourly deprecia-
tion = Rs 11.50 per hour
(g) Head office and staff overheads including workshop staff
= Rs 6.50 per hour
(h) Surplus, contingencies and interest payments = Rs 11.00 per
hour
2.        Costs may therefore be summarized as follows:



APPENDIX 2-1
Page 2
Rs/hour
Direct labor                                7.50
Fuel and lubrication                       14.50
Taxes and registration                      2.00
Transport                                   3.00
Depreciation                               15.00
Repairs and service                        11.50
Overheads                                   6.50
Profit margin, etc.                        11.00
Total                                71.00
3.        APSAIC will soon have 208 tractors in the 90 hp class available
for land levelling: allowing for tractors under repair of temporarily with-
drawn from service, the number operative might be about 165. The Corpora-
tion aims to achieve an effective use of 1,200 hours for each tractor per
annum and this would give APSAIC a gross revenue of about Rs 14 million per
annum.



APPENDIX 2-2
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
LAND LEVELLING - MAXIMUM SCHEDULED LENDING SCALES
OF ANDHRA PRADESH COOPERATIVE CENTRAL LAND MORTGAGE BANK
1.   Nagarjunasagar Scheme                                          Rs per Ha
Dry Lands                                                     800
Wet Lands -
Less than 1% slope                                       543
1% to 2% slope                                           850
2% to 3% slope                                         1,350
Above 3% slope                                         1,590
2.   Pochampad Scheme
Dry Lands -
Less than 1% slope                                       690
1% to 2% slope                                         1,015
Above 2% slope                                         1,350
Wet Lands -
Less than 1% slope                                       840
1% to 2% slope                                         1,320
2% to 3% slope                                         1,610
Above 3% slope                                         1,840
Notes:
(1) Additionally LMB allows loans under both schemes for boulder
removal (Rs 260 per ha maximum) and for bullocks (at the maximum
rate of Rs 860 per pair) on 4 ha units on non-mechanized level-
ling.
(2) Scheduled Lending Scales excluded previous LMB provision for ini-
tial manuring at Rs 185 per ha.






INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRIClLTUBAL CREDIT PROJEOr
3stimatas of Land Levelling Costs on the Nagarjunasagar and Pochasmpad Schames
NAGARJUNASAGAR SCHEME                                               POCHA?MPAD SCHEME
Number    Unit (Ha)        Total        Hnit (Ha)     Total        Number     Unit (Ha)      Total       Unit (Ha)     Total
of Ha    Project Cost  Project Cost  Loan Cost   Loan Cost    of Ha    Project Cost  Project Cost Loan Cost   Loan Cost
Dry Land: Non-Mechanized                                (Rs)        (Rs'000)        (Rs)         (RJ'000)       _           (Rs)       (R '00)       (Rs)        (Rs'000)
Scheduled Scale 2/                      40           1,100         4,840          880         3,872        3,225         1,270       4,096        1,015         3,273
Boulder Removal 3/                        660           330          218          260           172           485          330         160           260          126
Bullocks        4/                      1,452           264 _        383          215           312        1.064           264         281           215          229
Sub-total                          4,4oo        1,237         5,441          990         14,356       3,225         1,407       4,537         1,125        3,628
Dry Land: Mechanized -
Scheduled Scale                         1,100         1,100        1,210          880            968        2,150        1,270       2,731         1,015        2,182
Boulder Removal                           165           330           54          260            43           322          330         106           260           84
Sub-total                          1,100        1,11l9        1,264          919         1,011         2,150        1,319       2,836         1,054        2,266
Total Dry Land                          5,500         1.218        6.705          976          5,367        5,375        1.372        7.373        1,097        5.894
Wet Land: Non--echanized
Scheduled Scale                        19,580         1,525       29,860        1,220        23,887         2,880        1,750       5,040         1,400        4,032
Boulder Removal                         2,937           330          929          260            764          432          432          1-42         260           112
Bullocks                               _6,462           264        1,706          215          1,389          950          950          251          215           204
Sub-total                         19,580         1,662       32,535        1,330        26,040         2,880        2,880       5,433         1,509        4,348
Wet Land: Xechanized
Scheduled Scale                         4,920         1,525        7,503        1,220          6,002        1,920        L1'75o       3,360        1,400         2,688
Boulder Removal                            738          330          243          260            192          288           330          95          260            75
Sub-total                          4,920         1,574        7,746        1,259          6,194        1,920        1,800        3,455        1,439        2,763
Total Wet Land                          24,500        1.644       40,281        1,315         32,234        4,800        1.852       B 888        1,481         7.111
Grand Total Dry and Wet Lands             30,000        1,565       46.986        1,252         37,601       10,175         1.598      16 261        1 278        13.005
__I            . _                     6a                         6
Notes  1/ Assumes that 20% of land levelling will be mechanized at Nagarjunasagar and 40% at Pochampad - balance non-mechanized.
Y/  See Appendix 2-2
5/ Assumes applicable to 15% on total area to be developed on each scheme.
I/  Assumes that bullock loans will be made on one-third area to be developed by non-mechanized means but on basis of loan for a pair of bullocks
being made only in respect of 4 ha units.
5/  Cost of a pair of bullocks fixed at a maximum of Rs 1,060.
Contingencies included at approximately 10%.
Rstimates for land levelling on minor irrigation schemes are included in Appendix 8-1.
July 27, 1970






ANNEX 3
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FARM MECHANIZATION
Agricultural Background
1.        Although the overall pace of agricultural development in Andhra
Pradesh has in recent years shown less dramatic growth than some other In-
dian states, many parts of the State favored with higher rainfall or irri-
gation todav reveal the same processes of agricultural change that have
come to be identified with the move to intensive cultivation throughout
the sub-continent. Wherever adequate water is to be found, double crop-
ping has become an accepted practice and farmers have been faced with the
need for speedy and timely land preparation between the harvesting of one
crop and the sowing of the next. Many farmers have also become increas-
ingly aware of the opportunities provided by a number of commercial crops
such as chillies, tobacco, cotton, groundnuts and tumeric and are anxious
to increase their on-farm investments in order to realize maximum profits.
Thus, although the possibilities of intensive commercial farming in the
State are necessarily limited by rainfall and water availability, farmers
who have these benefits are involved in the same processes of technologic-
al change as those of other Indian states where intensive agricultural de-
velopment is more widely established. An important part of this technolo-
gical change is a growing demand for farm mechanization.
2.        Agricultural production in Andhra Pradesh is traditionally labor
intensive with bullocks and, to a lesser extent buffaloes as the main
source of farm power. Implements are generally primitive except in certain
dry-farming areas adjacent to the coastal plain where the range of local im-
plements frequently includes three or four tine cultivators with seeding at-
tachments, spike harrows land levellers and inter-row hoes in addition to
the common bar point plow. Where rice is not grown, a pair of bullocks can
cultivate six to eight dry cropped hectares but in paddy areas, this may
drop to two hectares due to the exceptional demand for farm power for wet
puddling just prior to transplanting. The development of farm mechaniza-
tion has thus followed the development of irrigation resources together
with the introduction of high-yielding varieties and other inputs with the
exception of those rainfed areas in the coastal belt where commercial crops
can be grown.
Tractor Use and Justification
3.        As elsewhere in India at the present time, tractors are being
used to replace bullock power and the range of cultivation operations for
which they are used is still limited. Their introduction has however been
caused by three specific needs where experience has shown that the tractor



ANNEX 3
Page 2
can either enable a higher degree of intensive farming than would be possi-
ble with traditional bullock power or can carry out cultivation operations
more effectively than would otherwise be the case.
(i) The first need is to complete land preparation in a rela-
tively short period between the harvesting of the kharif
crop in about October and planting of seed for the rabi
rains which generally occur in November. To achieve ef-
fective double cropping, speedy land cultivation and time-
ly planting is essential and while much of the need arises
from areas where some irrigation water is available, all
farmers are to some extent dependent on the rabi rains.
The use of bullocks in such circumstances, while not impos-
sible, would involve the maintenance of a much larger num-
ber of animals than would normally be required for farm use
during the rest of the year and their maintenance would re-
sult in the loss of land to animal fodder production. At
high levels of cropping intensity (i.e. at above 140%) the
consequent loss of such land, which would otherwise be used
for commercial or subsistence crops is substantial.
(ii) Many commercial crops, notably tobacco, sugarcane and chil-
lies require deeper plowing than can be obtained from bul-
locks using, even improved, implements. In the heavier
soils of the delta and coastal areas, tractor work is recog-
nized as being generally superior and increased production
has resulted from improved cultivation standards.
(iii) The development of large canal irrigation schemes has in-
creased the demand for land levelling and tractors are in-
creasingly being used not only for the initial levelling
operation but for the subsequent maintenance of bunds and
channels. Tractors are particularly suitable for the
final levelling which is carried out in heavy soil condi-
tions after the first irrigation water has been received
on the farm.
The primary benefit from mechanization is therefore the larger area and en-
ables a farmer to cultivate for commercial crops and, through timely plant-
ing and better cultivation practices, obtain better yields. To a lesser
extent increased production also follows changes in the cropping pattern
and thus higher intensity of cultivation permits the greater use of exist-
ing irrigation facilities.
4.        In addition to, or as part of meeting these three main needs,
tractors are used for paddy puddling, seed and fertilizer application and
to a limited extent for threshing and energizing wells. So far there is
no mechanized harvesting in the State. Off the farm, tractors are widely
used for transporting crops to markets or, in the case of sugarcane to
the local factory and, although a subsidiary benefit, there is no doubt
that their use has helped reduce marketing difficulties.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Tractor Popilation and Demand
5.        There are currently about 6,000 tractors operating in Andhra Pra-
desh, most of wlhich are to be found in the coastal districts or major irri-
gation scheme areas, and particularly in East and West Godaveri and Khrishna
districts.  West Godaveri alone has over 1,000 of this total.  The relativ-
ely small size holdings (about 4 ha) in such districts to some extent ex-
plains the important part which custom hire work plays in tractor use there.
Throughout the State, tractor hire custom services are virtually limited to
those provided bv the farmer/owner with contractors so far playing only a
small part.  Elsewhere in the State, comparativelv few tractors have been
sold and t}. n only to the larger landowners with 15 ha and above whose land
is partiallv irrigated. (Mlaximum legal farm sizes range from 11 ha to 65
ha depending on land quality though families often farm their holdings to-
gether to obtain larger areas). Most of the existing tractors are Massey
Ferguson, International Harvester, the Russian DT 14B and Escorts in that
order of importance.
6.        Any accurate forecast of tractor demand is difficult to establish
and, as no specific attempt has been made to canvass farmers' requirements,
an estimate can only be based on the waiting list of suppliers. The number
of farmers on the lists of private dealers (mainly for tractors in the 35-50
hp range) total approximately 4,500 while the Andhra Pradesh State Agro-In-
dustries Corporation (APSAIC) which supplies tractors imported from east
European countries under trade arrangements, claims to have a waiting list
of about 5,000. Total demand however is likely to be considerably below the
total of about 9,500 as it is probable that there has been considerable du-
plication of registrations while much of the demand has been inflated by the
scarcity factor and, hitherto, the relatively easy terms on which tractors
could be purchased. Present real demand might thus be expected to be of the
order of 5,000 tractors with subsequent annual demand (assuming the elimina-
tion of the present backlog) at a somewhat lower level.
Tractor Supplv
7.        India's tractor supplv derives from the present five Indian plants
and imports mainly from east European countries under trade arrangements.
Since the earlv l060's verv few tractors of western origin have been import-
ed into India though, early in 1970 the Government of India (GOI) proposed
the import of some 1,500 tractors under bilateral aid schemes.
8.        Of the five Indian plants, three manufacture in association with
companies in Banl member countries - Eicher (Federal Republic of Germany),
Tnternational Ilarvester (USA) and Massey Ferguson (UK) the other two being
Escort (Poland) and Hindustan (Czechoslovakia). In addition, as of October
1970, GOT had given approval for the establishment of two other manufac-
turing plants involving association with companies in Bank member countries,
these being Deutz (Federal Republic of Germany) and Ford (UK). The GOT
is also considering proposals for establishing further plants including
seven which would involve collaboration with Bank member countries (one



ANNEX 3
Page 4
each from Austria, the Federal Republic of Germany, France, Japan and USA
and two from UK). Hitherto total Indian production has, for component sunply
or technical reasons, fallen behind rated capacitv, but in 196'? was expected
to reach about 18,000 units.  W4ith additional plants local production can be
expected to increase but past experience makes future forecasts unrealiable.
With present all-Indian demand variously estimated at between 50,000o and
70,000 units per annum, it is however clear that India will continue to be
dependent on imports for some years to come.
9.        Imports from east European countries had been at a relatively low
level until 1969 when they increased to 18,500 tractors and in 1970 such im-
ports are expected to number about 15,000 units. The tractors come from a
variety of countries and manufacturers but Russian, East German and Czechos-
lovakian makes predominate. In India such tractors are distributed by the
Agro-Industries Corp-orations in the various states who have established some
servicing facilities. Detailed statistics of Indian tractor production and
imports are given at Appendix 3-1.
10.       Within Andhra Pradesh, the supply of tractors from all Indian
plants totalled about 1,000 in 1969 and is expected to increase to an an-
nual rate of about 1,300 in the next two years. APSAIC's share of tractors
imported from East European countries amounted to 675 units in 1969 and, de-
pending on the total import position (which is negotiated annually) could
increase to about 2,000 tractors. Total annual supply in the next two years
could therefore be of the order of 3,000-3,500 tractors against present con-
servatively estimated demand of 5,000. The proposed financing of 1,500
tractors under the Pboject over a 2-1/2 year period should therefore be well
within the expected level of unfilled demand. Because of the heavier soils
and deep plowing and levelling requirements from areas where tractor demand
is strongest, farmets' preferences are for the larger hp tractors (much of
their experience with tractors of less than 35 hp has been unsatisfactory)
and the Project woula therefore include tractors in the 35 hp and 50 hp
ranges.
Tractor Distribution and Service Facilities
11.       The main Indian tractor manufacturers maintain 23 dealership out-
lets throughout the State all of which represent firms with associates in
Bank member countries: Tractors and Farm Equipment (TAFE) on behalf of
Massey Ferguson, Voltas for International Harvester and Escorts for Ford.
The dealer and sub-dealer network of these three organizations is given at
Appendix 3-2. Messrs. TAFE and Voltas have deliberately confined their
dealer points to the main selling areas in a period of limited supplies.
At present Escorts ate only marketing their own tractors made with Polish
collaboration but the same dealer network will be handling the Ford 3000
model when the first of these Indian made tractors come on the market early
in 1971. All three companies have plans to increase their outlets in the
key areas where major and minor irrigation schemes are planned but GOI limi-
tations on dealers' profit margins from tractor sales have contributed to
retarding this development.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
12.       With limited sales opportunities, private dealerships have concen-
trated on service and spare parts supply. In addition they offer on-farm
servicing carried out by trained mechanics using motor cycles, on-farm train-
ing in tractor use and post-warranty service schemes. A start has also been
made with mobile workshops and this is likely to be expanded. Particularly
significant however is the back-up support provided by manufacturers at both
the State and regional levels and their considerable resources are especial-
ly valuable in providing training for mechanics, technical information and
stocks of spare parts. Accordingly these dealerships should have no diffi-
culty in handling the comparatively small program of tractors proposed for
financing under the Project.
13.       With a range of activities including well-drilling and custom ser-
vices for land levelling, APSAIC has not attached the same priority to trac-
tor supply and servicing as has been the case of Agro-Industries Corpora-
tions in some other States. It has tried to avoid direct competition with
private dealerships by concentrating on tractors of less than 30 hp or more
than 50 hp and has no plans to participate in the supply or servicing of
any tractors which might be supplied under the Project. APSAIC has however
established a number of supply and servicing outlets (Appendix 3-2) some of
which have been taken over from the Department of Agriculture's former farm
mechanization division, and the Corporation would be prepared to make such
facilities available to any manufacturer not represented in the State. The
Corporation has also built up considerable administrative experience on
tractor supply and demand and could make a useful organizational contribu-
tion in certain aspects of Project tractor procurement.
Tractor Implements
14.       With relatively few opportunities for implement sharing, most
farmers purchasing tractors have also been prepared to purchase an adequate
range of farm implements and these usually include a cultivator (rigid or
spring tine), a pair of cage wheels (for paddy puddling) and a two or four
wheel trailer. In areas where sugarcane, tobacco or chilles are grown, a
mouldboard plow may also be purchased. Each of the principal Indian manu-
facturers offer a range of implements and some try to make it a condition
that at least one implement be purchased with each tractor. Matching equip-
ment from these sources is well designed and of generally higher quality
than that on offer from the small town producer but, being more expensive,
the farmers' preference is for local products. With farm mechanization at
a relatively early stage in Andhra Pradesh, local implement manufacture is
still small and restricted to a few basic types, the more sophisticated im-
plements being brought in from manufacturers in the North (e.g. Punjab).
15.       Although the supply of tractor implements, including trailers,
from Indian manufacturers is considered adequate for Project requirements,
there is a shortage in India of certain implement components which require
hard-steel. It would thus be desirable that steel discs for harrows and
plow-bottoms should be imported. At the present time there is no demand for



ANNEX 3
Page 6
harvesting machinery and further experiments and probably technical devel-
opments will have to take place before this would occur on any appreciable
scale. A list of implements likely to be required under the Project is
given at Appendix 8-3 and assumes that each prospective tractor owner will
purchase an average of 3-1/2 implements, including trailers. All borrowers
for tractors under the Project should be required to have an adequate range
of implements.
Farm Mechanization Advice and Studies
16.       As in most other parts of India, littLe advice or assistance is
available to the farmer in dealing with his farm mechanization problems.
At the present time, neither the Department of Agriculture or APSAIC is
able to make any contribution, and in-service travining programs for farm-
ers are limited to the courses run by Indian maoufacturers. Similarly,
no studies are being undertaken to assess the impact of farm mechanization
on rural areas. While the task presents many problems it is important that
some steps should be taken in the near future with priority being given,
first, to economic case studies of tractor utilization and profitability at
level and, second, to a technical survey to determine how additional opera-
tions can be mechanized. Without some progress in these matters, the poten-
tial benefits of farm mechanization cannot be fully realized.



Appendix 3-1
INDTA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
INDIAN TRACTOR PRODUCTION AND IWPORTS
Indian
Year                 Imports               Manufacture                Total
1951-56               3,5031/                                         3,50.3
1956                  4,h68                                           4,468
7                  4,792                                           4,792
8                  3,733                                           3,733
9                  2,652                                           2,652
60                  3,843                                           3,843
1                  3,2148?!                   380                  3,628
2                  3,033                    1,1114                 4,147
3                  1,523                   1,683                   3,206
14                 2,999                   3,172                   6,171
5                  2,064                   6,318                   8,382
6                  2,884                    7,613                 10,l497
7                  3,5002/                10,526                  14,0262Y
8                  4,5eo2/                13,799                  18,2993a
9                 18,5002/                18,0662/                36,5oo0
1/ Annual average.
2/ Since 1961 most imports have been from east European countries under trade
arrangements.
3/ Estimates.
Sources:
a) Report of Wbrking Group for formulation of Fourth Five Year Plan
Proposals on agricultural machinery and implements.
b)  Ministry of Food Agriculture, Con;unity Dgvelopment and
Cooperatives.
August 13, 1970



Appendix 3-2
IN _
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRIC1JLTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Tractor Dealer Network
TAFE             Voltas         Escorts       A.P. Agro-
(Massey-                                        Industries
District     PFrguson)            (IHC)           (Ford)    District Engineers
Visakhapatnam         S.D.           )                                   1
Shrikakulam            D             )   D                D              1
East Godaveri         S.D.           )                 )                 1
)D
West Godaveri          D             )   D             )                 1 (w)
Krishna                D            )                                    1
Khamman         (see Warangal)      )   D              )                 1
Guntur                 D             )                 )                 5 (w)
Ongole                               )   D             )
Nellor                 D             )   *               S.D.            1
Chittoor             S.D.           )                                    1
Kurnool             ) D              )                    *              I
Chuddapah           )                )   *                *              1
Anantpur            ) S.D.           )                    *              1
Nalgonda               *                                                 1
Warangal              S.D.           )   *                               1
Karimnagar            S.D.          )   *                                2 (W)
Nizamabad                            )                                   1
Adilabad         (see Karimnagar)   )   *                                1
Hyderabad (covering
remaining district)  D                 D                D              5 (W)
D  -  Main dealer
S.D.  -  Sub-dealer
*   -  Tb be appointed
W  -  Proposed workshops



ANNEX 4
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ANDHRA PRADESHi STATE AGRO-INDUSTRIES CORPORATION LTD.
Organization and Management
1.        In order to encourage the development of farm mechanization and
agro-industries, the Government of India (GOI) decided to establish Agro-
Industries Corporations in each of the Indian States. In accordance with
this policy, the Andhra Pradesh State Agro-Industries Corporation Ltd.
(APSAIC) was incorporated in June 1968 as a limited liability company,
its share capital being subscribed by the Andhra Pradesh State Government
and GOI in the ratio of 51 to 49.
2.        APSAIC's Board comprises eight directors, four of whom repre-
sent the State Government and three GOI, together with the Managing Di-
rector. All the directors are civil servants, the Chairman being the
Secretarv for Agriculture in the State Government and the Managing Di-
rector (who is chief executive) as of April 1970 was on secondment from
the Indian Administrative Service.
3.        APSAIC (as the other Agro-Industries Corporations) is intended
to operate as a commercial organization. Its Memorandum confers wide
powers on the Corporation which include:
(a) the financing, manufacturing and promotion of agricultural
machinery and equipment;
(b) the organization and management of engineering and repair
workshops;
(c) the purchase and sale of agricultural machines and appliances
including hire-purchase sales and the provision of farm custom
and other services;
(d) the promotion or conduct of any agricultural, commercial or
industrial enterprise.
4.        The Corporation's Head Office is at Hyderabad and it is extend-
ing a network of regional workshops and servicing centres from a nucleus
taken over from the Department of Agriculture's former engineering wing.
Of its total staff of 1,450, about 230 are employed at Head Office and
Regional and District Offices, the balance comprising workshop and operat-
ing staff.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Operations
5.        APSAIC has concentrated its activities on well drilling under
the State program of minor irrigation works, and land levelling through
the provision of custom services of earth moving ecuipment and, to a lesser
extent, on the supply and servicing of tractors imported from east European
countries under trade arrangements.
Well Drilling Services
6.        Apart from limited services offered by two private contractors,
and in a few districts by the Public Works Department, most of the State's
well drilling activities are carried out by APSAIC. Soon after its forma-
tion the Corporation took over the drilling equipment and staff of the
engineering wing of the Agricultural Department and thus inherited the
nucleus of an operational organization.  This has since been expanded and
its administration strengthened. As of April 1970, APSAIC was operating
51 drilling rigs and, in 8 months of its first fiscal year, sunk 214 tube-
wells and over 2,500 existing wells were converted into dug-cum-bore wells,
a production rate which has since been considerably exceeded as more expe-
rience has been gained. The unit is now working effectively and on the
basis of the increased drilling rates introduced in August 1970, its
operations should show a profit margin. Other aspects of well drilling
operations are discussed under IMinor Irrigation in Annex 1.
Land Levelling Custom Services
7.        As in the case of its well drilling operations, APSAIC inherited
some technical staff and all the earth moving machinery and tractors pre-
viously operated by the Agricultural Department. At the time of take-over
much of this machinery was in poor working condition necessitating a major
program of repair and APSAIC has also increased the size of its earth-moving
equipment with a number of additions. An inventory of the Corporation's
machinery which includes 170 bulldozers in the 90/100 hp class is given
at Appendix 4-1. Most of the mechanized land levelling operations are
carried out on the command areas of the Nagarjunasagar and Pochampad irri-
gation schemes and Annex 2 gives details of APSAIC's past performance. The
Corporation estimates that an average of 11.3 hours are spent bv a 90 hp
bulldozer in levelling one hectare and thus on the basis of one unit level-
ling 80 ha per annum, APSAIC has adequate equipment to carry out the pro-
posed mechanized land levelling programs of about 6,000 ha at Nagarjunasagar
and 4,000 ha at Pochampad over this Project period (Appendix 2-3). The
Corporation charges a rate of Rs 71 per hour for the hire of these bull-
dozers from which it is able to cover its cots and make a reasonable
surplus.
Tractor Supply and Servicing
8.        With farm mechanization at a relatively early stage of develop-
ment in Andhra Pradesh and because of its preoccupation with other activi-
ties, APSAIC involvement in tractor supply and servicing has been much



ANNEX 4
Page 3
less than that of other Agro-Industries Corporations (e.g. Punjab). During
its first fiscal year (to June 30, 1969) the Corporation took delivery of
1,300 tractors imported from east European countries but 972 of these were
subsequently distributed in other states after pre-servicing: over the
calendar year 1969, 675 units were distributed within Andhra Pradesh and
this number if expected to increase to 2,000 annually in the next few years.
APSAIC pre-services tractors delivered to it and provides post-sale servic-
ing facilities through its 14 distribution points. The Corporation does not
wish to take over the distribution and servicing of tractors which might be
brought into the State from other sources though it would be prepared to
enter into some arrangement with one or more manufacturers not presently
represented in Andhra Pradesh which wished to use its facilities.
Other Activities
9.        APSAIC has also been involved in the distribution of farm imple-
ments and of iron and steel. Its future plans include the operation of 3
large model farms and participation in a number of crop processing indus-
tries.
Resources and Financial Operations
10.       As of June 30, 1969 APSAIC's paid up share capital was Rs 30 mil-
lion. In addition, the Corporation liabilities at that date included about
Rs 6 million by unsecured loans from the Andhra Pradesh State Government
(partly in respect of machinery and equipment taken over from the Depart-
ment of Agriculture) and about Rs 5 million by secured loans from commer-
cial banks. APSAIC made a profit of Rs 700,000 on its first fiscal year's
operations. Its condensed balance sheet is given at Appendix 4-2.






AipEendix 4L-1
I N D I A
ANDRRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT MISSION
ANI)HRA PRADESH STATE AGRO-INDUSTRIES CORPORATION LIMITED (APSAIC)
INVENTORY OF EARTH-MOVING EQUIPMENT
Qu an ti ty
Manufacturer             Model           90/100 hp          65 hp        Graders            Date of -urchase
Caterpillar             D6-B-37A             28                                             April 1966 to
U.S.A.                                                                                       August 1966
Bulldozer
Caterpillar            D6-8U
U.S.A.               Bulldozer             17                                             December 1954
Caterpillar             D4-D without
U.S.A.                  attachments                         35                            March 1970
International          Td-15
Harvester            Bulldozer
U.S.A.                                     30                                             March 1960
Bharat Komatsu         D50A-15                                                              Received in
India              Bulldozer             29                                             January-April 1970
Rassian                T100M                                                                December 1965 to
origin               Bulldozer             45                                             July 1966
Romanian               S-650                                                                March-April 1969
origin               Bulldozer                              39
Yugoslavian             TG-90                                                               May 1967 to
origin               Bulldozer             23                                                September 1967
Galion                 Motor Grader                                         3               March 1956
U.S.A.
Russian                T100M Grader                                         5               January 1966 to
origin               Total                170               74           8                July 1966
Awaiting Delivery:                           36
Bharal - Komnatsa                         208
India
August 13, 1970



I N D I A
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ANDHRA PRADESH STATE AGRO-INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
Balance Sheet as at June 30. 1969
Liabilities                                                      Assets
Rs                                                       Rs            Rs
Share Capital                30,000,000       Fixed Assets less Depreciation                         13,403,000
Reserves                        667,000       Current Assets
Profit and Loss Account           43,000        Sundry Debtors and Work in Progress  4,797,000
Secured Loans (from                             Stock-in-Trade                         8,686,ooo
Commercial Banks)           5,220,000
Loans and Advances                    6,973,000
Unsecured Loans (Andhra
Pradesh State Government)  6,173,000          Cash and Deposits                     18,018,000    38,474,ooo
Deferred Liability for
Purchase of Tractors        6,213,000
Current Liabilities           3,561,000
Total                   51,877,000                                   Total                       51,677,000
August 13, 1970



ANNEX 5
INDIA
ANDIIRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
THE AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
Organization and Management
1.        The Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) was established on
July 1, 1963, with the objectives of providing medium- and long-term fi-
nance to agricultural credit institutions and, at the same time, directing
and guiding such institutions toward a development oriented approach in
their operations.
2.        ARC's shareholders include the Reserve Bank of India (RBI),
central and state-level land development and mortgage banks and coopera-
tive banks and other institutions (scheduled banks, the Life Insurance
Corporation of India, insurance and investment companies, and others ap-
proved by the Government of India). Of the initial 5,000 shares issued,
the lawq provided that RBI shall subscribe to at least 50%, the central
land mortgage banks and state cooperative banks to no more than 30%, and
other institutions to no more than 207 and future issues of shares would
be allocated in the same proportion. The initial shares issued were
guaranteed a dividend of 4-1/4% per annum.
3.        ARC's management is vested in a Board of Directors of nine mem-
bers, three of whom are elected and the rest nominated. Three directors
represent RBI (a Deputy-Governor is Chairman of the Board), three the
Government of India (at present The Secretary, Department of Agriculture,
and the Additional Secretary, Department of Cooperation of the Ministry
of Food, Community Development and Cooperation; and a Deputy Secretary,
Department of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance), and three
directors are elected one each by the central land development banks, by
the state cooperative banks, and by the Life Insurance Corporation of
India, scheduled banks, and other insurance and financing institutions.
4.        The Managing Director is the chief executive officer and is
assisted by a managerial staff of nearly 90 (as of October 1970) of whom
65 are based at ARC's head office. Until early 1970, ARC did not employ
any specialists, instead relying on a panel of consultants for technical
advice in appraisal and supervision work. To supplement consultants'
advice, ARC has established a Technical Division which, as of October 1970
comprised three agricultural specialists and an agricultural economist and
to which ARC proposes to make further appointments. With the increasing
volume of lending, ARC recognizes the need to build up its staff at all
levels and is preparing a staff development plan to cover the period to
the end of 1973.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
5.        ARC's head office is in Bombay.  It has ten regional offices in
India (Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Bombay, Calcutta, Chandigarh, Hyderabad,
Kanpur, Madras, New Delhi and Patna) which assist banks and State Govern-
ments in formulating agricultural development projects for financing,
clarify ARC's policies and procedures when required, undertake pre-appraisal
of projects submitted and supervise general execution of projects under
ARC financing. About 25 managerial staff are employed in the Regional
Offices.
6.        In general, ARC's charter provides that it shall be guided by
such directions in matters of policy involving public interest as GOI
may, after consulting RBI, give in writing. ARC can extend financial as-
sistance only to central or state-level land development banks, state co-
operative banks, and scheduled banks: in exceptional cases, and with RBI
approval, it can also lend directly to a primary cooperative at the farm
level. Refinance is provided through purchases of special debentures
floated by central or state-level land development banks and through loans
to state cooperative banks and scheduled banks.
7.        Until June 1966, it was not normally ARC's policy to refinance
construction and energization of wells by individuals unless the outlay
involved was large and development was envisaged through a cooperative
society organized for the purpose. In July 1966, however, ARC not only
removed this restriction, but also circulated a model scheme for minor
irrigation development by farmers in compact areas. Thus, began ARC's
policy of financing individual farmers on the basis of project models.
8.        At the beginning, ARC's policy was to finance no more than 75%
of a project, leaving the balance to be contributed by State Governments.
However, the generally strained resources position of most State Govern-
ments considerably restricted the extent to which land development banks
could avail themselves of refinance facilities from ARC. Accordingly,
to stimulate investments in minor irrigation especially, ARC increased
its support of such investments to 90%, beginning with all projects sanc-
tioned in 1967/68.
9.        Special debentures purchased by ARC from central land development
banks or loans made to such banks are guaranteed by the State Government
concerned; in addition, debentures are backed by a charge on all mortgages
resulting from loans refinanced under the issue. In the case of debentures,
ARC requires that collections from farmers be lodged in a sinking fund of
GOI and other securities and the total debenture is thus repaid in one
lump sum at maturity. As the effect of this is to deprive ARC of the
extra capital deriving from collections as received by lending banks,
(but without any benefit to such banks), ARC has decided that its refinance
under IDA supported Projects should be by loans with repayments matching
those of ultimate borrowers to lending banks.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
10.       ARC will refinance agricultural development schemes which are
technically feasible, financially justified, and are within a reasonably
compact area for facility of loan evaluation and supervision. The scheme
can involve just one farmer, a group of farmers, or an association of
farmers. Preference, however, is given schemes involving a large number
of farmers.
11.       Technical evaluation of schemes is carried out by consultants
drawn from a panel approved by the Government of India. Services of the
Central Ground lWater Board (formerly the Exploratory Tubewells Organization),
the Geological Survey of India and the various commodity boards are also
used and ARC prescribes the terms of reference in every case. Some important
points examined in the case of schemes for minor irrigation include, an
estimate of the quantum of water proposed to be tapped, annual water recharge,
annual water draft, taking into accouint the existing and proposed wells, and
the type of pump sets needed. With the establishment of its own Technical
Division, increasing back-up support is now available from ARC's own
specialist staff which will provide a foundation of technical expertise for
scheme appraisal and supervision throughout India.
12.       Economic evaluation of schemes is performed by ARC staff.  Some
of the important aspects appraised include cost estimates, the suitability
of the cropping pattern recommended, inputs available for development,
farmer's repayment capacity, efficiency of project executing agency, ar-
rangements for the provision of short-term credits and marketing arrange-
ments. Preappraisal is done generally by regional offices, but final
evaluation is made in Bombay.
13.       Periods of refinance are determined after a study of the re-
payment capacity of farmers based on farm models. The terms, however,
especially in the case of long-term projects, tend to be generous. Re-
finance terms for medium-term projects are 3 to 5 years and for long-term
projects 5 to 25 years. At present however, long-term refinance is limited
to 15 years, although 20 years may be allowed in exceptional circumstances.
14.       ARC charges 6% per annun for its funds and although ARC's Board
recently agreed to increase this rate to 6-112%, this change has not yet
come into effect. Scheduled banks are required to charge their borrowers
no more than an additional 2-1/2% per annum and while land development
(and mortgage) banks are not bound by the same restriction, they never-
theless generally follow the same interest mark-up and none exceeds it.
ARC collects a commitment charge of 1/3 or 1% on the amount not used in
a:.y one year according to a schedule of expec:ed withdrawals approved for
a scheme.
Lending (Refinancing) Operations
1.       ... following table shows the progress in ARC's lending opera-
tion (less subsequent cancellations) during the first six years of its
exiscence:



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Number of
Schemes      Total Scheme           ARC
Year                      Approved          Costs           Commitment
Rs M              Rs M
1963/64                        3            22.30             20.10
1964/65                       10          119.60             100.70
1965/66                       23          136.50             108.50
1966/67                       6            91.30              70.70
1967/68                       86          616.10             537.20
1968/69                     105           734.60             642.80
1969/70                     138           874.70             668.90
Total                  371         2,595.10          2,148.90
16.       During the initial years, ARC transacted very little business
due to the need for laying the groundwork and bases for its operations
and for building its staff. An important deterrent, however, was ARC's
policy, at the time, of refinancing only projects in which development
was envisaged through a cooperative society organized for the purpose.
In June 1966, this restriction was removed; furthermore, ARC agreed to
refinance up to 90% of loans for minor irrigation, against 75% hereto-
fore. Thus, during the last two years, projects approved for refinancing
were nearly twice the number during the first five years.
17.       As may be expected, most of the schemes sanctioned were for
projects financed by land development or mortgage banks:
ARC Commitment
RsM          % of Total
(a)  Land development banks           1,935.80          90.1
(b)  State cooperative banks             93.30           4.3
(c)  Scheduled commercial banks         119.80           5.6
Total            2,148.90         100.0
18.       About 85% of the cost of projects approved for refinance were
for minor irrigation and land reclamation:



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Total ARC
Schemes Approved          Commitment
% of                 X of
Number        Total      Rs M      Total
(a)  Minor irrigation        186          50.2    1,405.90    65.5
(b)  Land reclamation          39         10.5       423.70    19.8
(c)  Tractor & Power
Tillers                9           2.4        41.40      1.9
(d)  Soil conservation          2          0.5        21.40      1.1
(e)  Plantations              115          31.0      176.00      8.3
(f)  Poultry                    6           1.6        4.40      0.2
(g)  Fisheries                  8           2.2       35.00      1.7
(h)  Dairying                   2          0.5         3.10      0.1
(i)  Godowns                    4           1.1       38.00      1.4
Total              371         100.0    2,148.90   100.0
Source of Funds
19.       Apart from share capital, ARC can raise funds from the following
sources:  (a) borrowings from GOI and from any entity approved by GOI; (b)
issue and sale of debentures and bonds guaranteed by GOI; (c) borrowings
from RBI for periods not exceeding 18 months; and (d) deposits from GOI,
the State Government, and local authorities for periods not less than 12
months. Total borrowings and deposits received may not exceed 20 times
the sum of ARC's capital and surplus reserves.
20.       ARC's borrowings and receipts of deposits during the six years
of its existence are summarized as follows:
Year                  Borrowings        Deposits Received
Rs M                 Rs M
1963/64                   50.000                   _
1964/65                       -                 1.130
1965/66                                         1.255
1966/67                       -                 1.255
1967/68                   30.000                1.255
1968/69                  177.500                1.254
1969/70                  299.377                1.251
Total               556.877                7.400
Of ARC borrowings during 1969/70, Rs 109,377,000 was raised by a public
issue of ARC 5-3/4% bonds 1982. The balance of borrowings (Rs 447.5 million)
have been from GOI as follows:



ANNEX 5
Page  6
Rs M              Interest P.A.               7kpjnyme r
50,000                None             3n -7ars with 15-year grace
30,000                5-1/2            At ene of 15 years
60,000                 5-1/2           At end of 15 sears
117,500                 5               At end of 9 years
190,000                 5-1/2           A- end of 15 y'ears
Since August 1968, ARC has been allowed a rebate of 1/4% on timely payments
of interest. The larger loan of Rs 117,500 was for a shorter term, since
the proceeds were used to refinance, in the main, minor irrigation schemes,
generally requiring refinance for nine vears or less. The soecial deposits
represent dividends payable on ARC's shares held by R31 whichn, under the
law, must be held by ARC as special deposits.  No interest is paid on them.
21.       A comparative statement of ARC's operating results since its
establishment until 1969/70 is given in Appendix 5-1 and is summarized
below (in Rs million):
Net
Income    Statutorv  Surplus
Gross      Total    Net    Income  Before    Dividend         or
Year       Income  Expenses  Income    Tax  Dividends  Liability  Deficit
1963/64    3.75      0.30      3.45    1.80    1.65          1.91       -0.26
1964/65    4.00      0.39      3.61    1.76    1.35          2.13       -0.28
1965/66    4.35      0.48      3.87    2.27    1.60          2.13       -0.53
1966/67    4.98      0.61      4.36    2.40    1.97          2.13       -0.16
1967/68    6.00      1.67      4.33    2.38    1.95          2.13       -0.18
1968/69   11.04       6.29     4.75    2.61    2.14          2.13       +0.01
1969/70   27.27    20.55       6.72    3.70    3.02          2.13       +0.89
22.       In the first three years of ARC's operations, income was derived
mostly from interest on investments. Beginning 1966/67, this pattern
changed when ARC began to expand rapidly its refinancing operations (para.
15). In 1969/70, interest received from loans and debentures represented
88% of total income received.
23.       Benefitting from cost-free funds available to it during the
first four years of its existence, ARC's main items of expense at the
time was salaries and employee benefits. Needing more funds for its ex-
panded operation, interest paid on borrowed money has since 1967/68 been
an important item of expenses. In 1969/70, interest paid on borrowings
and salaries and employee benefits were 83% and 10%, respectivelv, of
total expenses.
24.       Until 1968/69 net income after taxes had not been sufficient
to meet the statutory dividend liability of 4-1/4,% payable annually to
ARC's initial shareholders (para. 2) and the annual deficiency had to
be made good by GOI in accordance with its euarantoe under the law.  ARC
will have to reimburse these amounts out of future profits.  in 1962/6r5



ANNEX 5
Page 7
however, profits were sufficient to meet the statutory dividend and leave
ARC with a small surplus and this position was significantly improved in
1969/70. The scale of future profits will largely depend on ARC's future
borrowing rates and the extend to which it has to borrow from the market
at higher rates than it has hiherto had to pay GOI. To help offset this,
steps are now being taken to enable ARC to borrow from the National Agri-
cultural Credit (Long-term Operations) Fund of RBI at concessional rates
which, although not yet fixed, might be at about 4-1/4% per annum. This
would broadly enable ARC to maintain its interest margin. Prior to the
decision to permit borrowings from the RBI fund, ARC had approved in
principle, but not put into effect, a 1/2% increase in its lending rate
to 6-1/2% per annum, the rate at which IDA supported projects are already
refinanced. For illustrative purposes, a five-year projection of ARC's
future operating results (Appendix 5-3) assumes an overall lending rate of
6-1/2%; it does not take into account the probability of ARC borrowing at
lower rates from the RBI fund which, when brought into effect would probably
result in ARC not increasing its lending rate for the time being.
25.       ARC is in good financial condition (Appendix 5-3).  Its equity
position as of June 30, 1970, is unimpaired by losses and its assets were
in GOI securities and debentures of land development banks, which are
guaranteed by State Governments. A five-year projection of ARC's financial
condition is given in Appendix 5-4.
26.       In accordance with its charter, ARC's accounts are audited an-
nually by accountants duly qualified under the All India Companies Act
of 1956 (the present auditors are Messrs. K.S. Aiyar and Co.). Under the
same Charter, GOI can appoint the Comptroller and Auditor General of India
to examine and report on the accounts of ARC. To date, GOI has not found
the need to exercise this power.






INDIA
ANIIRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CC(lPORATION
CONDENSED STATEMMN OF NET INCOME
1963/64 to 1969/70
1963/64       1964/65        1965/66        1966/67       1967/68        1968 /9        i969LO
Rs X  % of    Rs M S of    RasM   S of    RasM  % of   RsM   % of  Rs N   % of    Rs M  S of
Total         Total            Total           Total        Total          Total          Total
Incoze        Inome            Income         Inc ame       Income         Income         Inim
INCOMS
Interest Received on Loans and Debentures                    -      -        -    -      1.09     25.1   3.06   61.3    4.83  80.5  10.20   92.4   24.09   88.31.
Interest Received on Investments                           3.75   100.0   3.99 100.0   3.25       74.9   1.92   28.7   1.17   19.5   0.84   7.6   3.18   11.69
Total Income                                          3.75  100.0   3.99 100.0   4.34   100.0   4.98 100.0   6.oo 100.0  11.04 100.0  27.27 100.00
EXPENSES
Interest Paid                                               -       -        -    -        -       -       -      -      o.46   7.8    4.42   40.0  17.07   62.60
Salaries, Allowances, C6nsultants' Fees, and
lDp1loyee Benefits                                       0.20     5.4   0.27    7.0   0.36       8.4   0.47    9.5   0.91   15.2   1.43  13.0   2.0a    7.48
General and Administrative Expenses                        0.09     2.5   0.10    2.6   0.11       2.6   0.13    2.6   0.29    4.8   0.43    3.9    1.42    5.21
Iapreciation of Assets                                     0.01     0.1   0.01    0.1   0.01       0.1   0.01    0.1   0.01    0.1   0.01    0.1   0.02   -tQz
Total Expenses                                         0.30     8.0   0.38    9.7   0.48    11.1   0.61   12.2   1.67   27.9   6.29  60.0   20.55   75.36
NhT INCOME E3YIE TAXES                                       3.45   92.0   3.61   90.3   3.86       88.9   4.37   87.8   4.33  72.0    4.75   43.0    6.72   24.64
Taxes Paid or Payable                                      1.80    48.0   1.76   44.1   2.27      52.2   2.40   48.3   2.38   39.6   2.61   23.7    3.70   13.56
NET INCOME AFTER TAIES                                       1.65    44.0   1.85   46.2   1.59      36.7   1.97   39.5    1.95   32.4   2.14  19.3    3.02   11.08
November 24,1970



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AGRICULTlR AL REFINANCE CORPORAT ION
PROJECTED STATEI;EN'SOF NET INCOME
For Fiscal Years Indicated
1970/71                1971/72                1972/73                1973/74             1974/75
Rs M    % of           Rs M    %.of           Rs M    % of            Rs M     of         Rs M   % of
Total                  Total                  Total                 Total                Total
Income                 Incose                 Incoms                Irro me              Income
INCOME
Interest Earned on Debentures and Loans 1/
Gujarat Credit Project                      1.83    3.86           7.44   10.10         14.94    14.26          20.10   15.16       20.66    13.23
Punajab Credit Project                      2.09    4.41           7.03    9.54           9.13     8.71          7.64    5.76        6.14     3.93
Andhra Pradesh Credit Project               1.20    2.53           5.14    6.98          11.05    10.54         14.05   10.60       12.87      8.24
Others                                     41.52   87.52          53.24   72.29         68.88    65.73          90.01   67.88      115.67    74.08
Interest Earned on Investments                o.80    1.68           o.80    1.09          0.80      0.76          o.80    o.60        o.80     0.52
Total Income                            47.44  100.00          73.65  100.00        104.8o  loo.oo          132.6o  loo.00      156.14   loo.oo
EXPENSES
Interest Paid on
IDA Funds (Gujarat, Panjab & Andhra
?radesh) 2/                               3.49    7.36          13.35   18.13         23.79    22.70          28.86   21.76       29.86    19.12
Other Borrowings 3/                        33.52   70.65          40.50   54.99          51.75    49.38         66.75   50.34       86.50    55.40
Salaries and Consultants' fees              3.50    7.38           6.00    8.15           8.oo     7.63         10.00    7.54       12.00      7.69
General and Administrative Expenses         1.30    2.74           2.00    2.71           2.80     2.67          3.30    2.49        4.00      2.56
Depreciation of Assets                      0.02    0.04           0.03    0.04           0.04     0.04          0.05    0.04        0.06      0.04
Total Expenses                        41.83   88.17          61.88   84.02         86.38    82.42         108.96   82.17      132.42    84.81
NET INCOME BEFORE TAXES                         5.61   11.83          11.77   15.98          18.42    17.58         23.64   17.83        23.72    15.19
Incoom  Tax Due                               3.08    6.49           6.47    8.78          10.13     9.67         13.00    9.80       13.04      8.35
ETIMATED NHT INCOME AFTER TAXES                 2.53    5.34           5.30    7.20           8.29     7.91         10.64    8.03        10.68     6.84
1/ At 6b per armum on all loans made after July 1, 1970; 6% per annum on all earlier loans.
2/ At 4-3/4% per annum.
3/ An average of 5% per annum assu-ned.
July 27,1970



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS
At End of Fiscal Years Indicated
1963/64               1964/65                    1965/66                   1966/67                 1967/68                 1968/69                    1969
Change from                Change from                Change from            Change  rom               hne                     Ci    from
Es M         Rs M     Previous Date      Rs M      Previous Date       s     Previous Date  Rs M  Previous Date    Rs                         s Previous Date
ASSETS
Cash on Hand and in Banks                    0.16        0.16           0.01          0.02        (0.15)           0.06       0.04        0.09       0.03         o.o6       (0.03)       0.04        (0.02)
Investments                                101.85       99.09          (2.76)        55.21       (43.88)         35.79      (19.42)       8.40    (27.39)         5.15       (3.26)      24.99        19.84
Loans                                         -           -             -             1.147        1.147          3.03        1.56        7.35      14.32        25.149     18.15       142.93        17.414
Debentures Purchased                          -          4.50          4.50         147.53        43.03          66.73       19.20      119.04      52.31       278.55     159.52       546.o4       367.49
Other Assets                                 0.80        1.02          0.21           2.34         1.33           3.38        1.04        6.46       3.08        13.58        7.12       17.31         3.73
Total Assets                          102.81      10.7             1.96        106.57          1.80         108.99       2.42       141.34     32.35        322.83     181.49      631.31        308.48
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL EQUITY
Loans fran Gov't of India and others        50.00       50.00           -            50.00          -            50.00         -         80.00      30.00       257.50     177.50       556.88       299.381/
Special Deposits                              -          1.13          1.13           2.39         1.26           3.64        1.26        4.90       1.26         6.15       1.25         7.40         1.25
Other Liabilities                            2.81        3.64          0.83           4.18         0.54            5.35       1.16        6.44       1.09         9.16        2.72       16,94          7.78
Total Liabilities                       52.81       54.77          1.96          56.57         1.80          58.99        2.42       91.34      42.35       272.81     181.47       581.22       308.41
Capital - Paid-up                           50.00       50.00            -           50.00          -             50.00        -         50.00        -          50.00         -         50.00           -
Reserves and Surplus                          N           N             N              N            N               N          N           N          N           0.02        0.02        0.09          0.07
Total Capital Equity                   50.00        50.00           N            50.00          N            50.00         N         50.00       N           50.02       0.02        50.09         0w0
Total Liabilities and CQital Equity  102.81        104.77          1.96         106.57         1.80         108.99        2.42      141.34     32.35        322.83     181.49       631.31       308.48
Note   i/  includes Rs 110 million public bond issue made in January 1970 at 5 3/4% interest per annum repayable in 1982
N - Negligible
November 24,1970



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICUITURAL CREST PROJECT
AORICUTiJRAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
PROJECTED EBA1A2CE SIEMS
As af Dates Indicated
Jurm 30, 1971                    June 30, 1972                     June 30, 1973                    JuMe 30, 1974                      June 30, 1975
Change fmm 1                    Change from                       Crange from                       Clange fmm                         Change fm:n,
Rs M         Previous Date      Rs   M       Previous Datae        as  1        Previous Date      Rs  14         Previous Date       Rs  l         Provioas Date
ASSETS
Cash on Rand and in Banks                    0.10            0.05            0.10              _               0.15              0.05           0.15               _               0.20              0.05
Investmnents                                 5.00            -               5.00              -               5.00               -             5.00                               5.00               -
Loans to commercial banks:
Punjab Credit Project                    12.28            12.28           28.97           16.69            24.59              (4.38)         20.21             (4.38)           15.83            (4-38)
Andbra Pradesh Credit Project              7.403'          7.40           24.24           16.84             43.77             19.53          41.41             (2.36)           36.58             (4.83)
Others                                    80.00           23.60          100.00           20.00           160.00              60.00         200.00             403.00          250.00            50-
Total Loans                                99.68           43.28          153.21           53.53           228.36              75.15         261.62            33.26            302.41            40.79
LoanS to L1M's 2/
Gujarat Credit Project                    56.20           56.20          172.90          116.70            286.90            114.00         331.30             44.40           304.40           (26.90)
Punjab Credit Project                     49.12           49.12          115.86           66.74             98.31            (17.55)         80.76            (17 55)           63.21            (17.55)
Andhra Pradesh Credit Project             29.58-'         29.58           96.97           67.39           175.10              78.13         165.64             (9.46)          146.32            (19.32)
LMB Debentures                             700.00          168.36           840.00          140.00         1,100.00            260.00        1,400.00           300.00          1,900.00           900
Total LM  flftnancing                      834.90          303.26         1,225.73         390.83          1,660.31            434.58       1,977.70            317.39         2,413.93            436.23
Other Assets                                15.00            4.53            20.00            5.00            25.00              5.00         30.00               5.00            35.00              5-00
Total Assets                         954.68          351.12         1,404.04         40.36           1,918 ta14.78                    2,274.47            355.65         2,756.54            482.07
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL EQUITY
Loans from Gv' t of India (IDA Funds):
Oujarat Credit Project                    41.60           41.60          129.40           87.80            218.20             88.80         260.40             42.20           260.40
Punjab Credit Project                     63.40           63.40          158.50            95.10           158.50               -           158.50               -             158.5o
Andhra Pradesh Credit Project             30.20           30.20           98.40            68.20           176,20             77.80         176.20               -              176.20
Total Uk Funds                            135.20          135.20          386.30           251.10           552.90            166.60         595.10             12.20            595.10              -
Other Loans from GOI and Other Sources    750.00           213.10          890.00           1140.00        1,187.00            297.00       1,494.40            307.40         1,964.MO0           470-00
Other Liabilities                           19.05            2.41           26.26             7.21            25.52                74)          27.30             1.78            35.06              7.76
Total Liabilities                         904.25          350.71        1,302.56          398.31          1,765.42            462.86       2,16.80             3238              956              477.76
Capital Pid-up                              50.00            -             100.00            50.00           150.00             50.00         150.00               -             150.00               -
Reserves:
At Beginning of Year                       0.02            -               0.43              -               1.48               -             3.40               -               7.67
Projected Net Income                       2.53            -               5.30              -               8.29               -             10.64              -               10.68
Total Availaole                            2.55            -               5.73              -               9.77               -            14.04                               18.35
Mandatory Dividend Duev                    2.12            -                4.25             -               6.37                -             6.37                               6.37              -
At ead d  year                             0.43             0.41            1.48            1.05             3.40               1.92           7.67             4.27             11.98             4.31
Total Capital gluity                        50.43            0.41           101.48           51.05           153.40              51.92         157.67             4.27            161.98             4.3i
Total Liabilities and Equity Capital       954.68            351.12       1.401.04          449.36         1,918.82             514.78       2,274.47           355.65          2,756.54           482 07
Notes I/ See Appendix 5-3.
2/ ARC loans issued for IDA supported projects are redeemed approximately at the same rate as ultimate borrowers
make repayments to lending banks; ARC debentures and loans for ather projects remain wholly outstanding
for full life of the loan.
3/ FRprenents investments during six months.
4/ Although the mandatory dividend of L4$ only applies to the initial Rs 50 million equity -apital, thie rats
of dividend has been included on all issued eqoity capital in the above table.
btis assumed that about 20% of the Andhra Pradesh Credit Project will be on-lent through scmmercial banks and
OS through  3IB.
November 24, 1970



ANTNEX 6
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TIE ANDHRA PRADESH COOPERATIVE CENTRAL LAND MORTAGE BANK LTD.
AND PRIMARY LAND MORTGAGE BANKS
A. The Structure of the Andhra Pradesh Land Mortgage Bank System
1.        The land mortgage banking structure in Andhra Pradesh is federal
in nature with the Primary Banks functioning at the taluk level (sub-divi-
sion of a district) federated into the Central Land Mortgage Bank (LMB) at
the State level. Although each of the Primary Banks is theoretically inde-
pendent, LMB has the powers to control their operations as it is the only
permitted source of their borrowings and can withhold funds from any Bank
which did not meet its requirements. In practice LMB's control has recent-
ly been strengthened by new powers whereby it can second staff to the Pri-
maries for all but their lower grades.
2.        In all important aspects, therefore, LMB and its federated Prima-
ries can be considered as a single entity with an operational relationship
similar to that of a bank head office to its branches. Thus the Primaries
(under LMB direction and guidance) are responsible for making loans to their
members while LMB wholly refinances the Primaries' lending. As of June 30,
1969, (the latest date of LMB's published report and accounts) the 181
Primary Land Mortgage Banks had a total membership of about 375,000.
3.        In the following paragraphs, the operations of LMB and the Primary
Banks are considered separately in regard to their organization, management
and resources. Their lending procedures and operations being closely inte-
grated are considered together in further sections.
B. The Andhra Pradesh Coooperative Central Land Mfortgage Bank Ltd.
Organization
4.        L'M is the successor to the Madras Cooperative Central Land Bank
which was established in 1929 and which subsequently underwent a number of
constitutional changes with various alterations to state boundaries. It
took its present form in March 1962 with the amalgamation of the Andhra and
Hyderabad Banks to serve the entire State of Andhra Pradesh, operating under
the Andhra Pradesh Cooperative Societies Act of 1964. LMB's head office is
at Hyderabad, the State capital and it has recently established small branch
offices at Nellore and Vizianagaram.



ANNEXC 6
"age  2
Board and Yana-ceient
5.        Under tile General Bodv, withi powers eruivalent to .?n Annual GeneraI
Mreeting of shareholders in a joint stock comoanv, LM''s affairs are directec
bv a board of 24 directors comprising 2) elected bv the Primary Banks on the
basis of one per District, 2 nominated hv the Registrar of Cooperative Socie-
ties together with the Registrar himself anid the MTanaging Director.  To fa-
cilitate administration, most of the Board's powers devolve to a 9-man Exe-
cutive Committee which has wide powers.  Both the Board and the Executi,ve
Committee have a three-vear term.
6.        The Managing Director is LYB's chief executive officer and is ap-
pointed by the Board of Directors subject to the aDproval of the Registrar
of Cooperatives.  Under him there is a Secretarv who is his deputy and, at
the lower level a Deputy Secretarv who is in charge of development schemes
(i.e. mainly those refinanced by the Agricultural Refinance Corporation
(ARC)), two Assistant Secretaries in charge of personnel and legal matters
respectively and a Chief Accountant. As of April 1970, LMB's establishment
totalled 278 of whom 225 were of staff rank.  In addition LMB had at that
date made the first few appointments for secondment to Primary Banks.
7.        While LMB's staff includes many graduates in the arts, law and
banking it has no specialists in agriculture, engineering or economics.
LNIB recognizes that in future it must place more emphasis on the develop-
mental benefits of investments (rather than relving solely on adequate
collateral) and that to do this it requires some specialists. It is thus
now recruiting a small technical cadre of four people including an agri-
culturalist, engineer and water hydrologist, who will be under the direc-
tion of an agricultural economist of assistant secretary status (who has
also yet to be appointed). The last appointment is particularly necessary
in order that LMB, in association with ARC, can lay dowm clear guidelines
for future investment criteria and instruct the Primaries in their appli-
cation. In due course one or more additional agricultural economists may
also be needed to strengthen this aspect of LMB's appraisal work but such
further appointments would be better made after the teclhnical cadre has
established a work pattern.
Source of Funds
8.        As an apex organization, LMB's share capital is contributed by the
Primary Banks (at the rate of 5% of borrowings from LMB) and the Andhra Pra-
desh State Government. The proportion of Primaries' and State Government's
equity holdings is subject to periodic review by the Reserve Bank of India
(RBI). As of June 30, 1969, LMB's total subscribed capital was Rs 40.8 mil-
lion (against Rs 50 million authorized) of which the State Government's con-
tribution was Rs 10.6 million or about 26%. The following table shows the
growth of LMB's issued share capital divided as to the Primaries' and State
Government's subscriptions as of the dates shown (Rs million).



ANNEX 6
Page 3
June 30, 1967    June 30, 1968    June 30, 1969
Primaries                       18.9 ( 64%)        23.8 ( 69%)       30.2 ( 74%)
State Government                10.6 ( 36%)       10.6 ( 31%)        10.6 ( 26%)
Total issued share capital    29.5 (100%)          34.4 (100%)       40.8 (100%)
As of June 30, 1969, LMB's statutory reserves totalled Rs 8.3 million repre-
senting 1.4% of total loan portfolio.
9.        Apart from short-term bridging finance provided by commercial
banks, LMB's borrowings have hitherto derived from the issue of debentures.
These are guaranteed by the State Government as to the payment of interest
and repayment of principal and are secured by the mortgages financed from
the proceeds of a particular debenture issue. As in the case of other state
land banks in India, LMB floats three types of debentures:
(a) ordinary or reg1ular debentures 50% of which are purchased
by the Life Insurance Corporation of India, the State Bank
of India and RBI under pre-arranged quotas, the balance
being sold on the open market, (bur largely taken up by
other institutional investors). Brokerage and underwrit-
ing commission are fixed by RBI, the issue price being de-
pendent on the money market. In 1968/69, interest rates
were 5-3/4% on ten year debentures issued at 98.5% and 6%
on 15 year debentures issued at 98.0%;
(b)  rural debentures which are sold only to individuals since
their purpose is to encourage the mobilization of local
savings. To stimulate their sale, RBI subscribes in the
ratio of eight for every seven rural debentures sold to
private persons and receives interest at 1% less than the
regular rate. The latest rate was 6-1/4% on seven year
debentures issued at par;
(c)  spe~cial debentures which are issued for financing agricul-
tural projects approved by the Agriculture Refinance Cor-
poration (ARC). They are subscribed by ARC and the State
Government in proportions decided by ARC and are currently
in the ratio of 9 to 1. Interest paid on these debentures
is similarly decided by ARC and the present rate is 6% per
annum. In order to meet .iie proposed Project's requirements,
ARC refinance to LMB would be in the form of loans, not
debentures. Such loans would be guaranteed by the State
Government and, apart from the change on the mortgage asset,
would have the characteristics of special debentures.
LIB's borrowings may not exceed 25 times paid-up share capital and reserves.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
10.       The following table shows the growth of LMB's outstanding borrow-
ings as of the dates shown (Rs Million):
June 30, 1967    June 30, 1968    June 30, 1969
Ordinary Debentures                321.7              407.5             531.7
Rural Debentures                    18.5               17.1              16.1
Special Debentures                  59.1               72.5              91.9
Commercial Bank and Other
Loans                             13.2              21.0               42.3
Total                   412.5              518.1             682.0
11.       The above figures are significant in the following aspects:
(i)  Despite the increase in ARC schemes (financed by Special De-
bentures), LMB's ordinary business continued to expand at a
fast rate over the period. In future this is likelv to be
less marked as ARC schemes take over more of the lending now
financed by ordinary debentures.
(ii)  Farmers' demand was insufficient to justify the issue of any
Rural Debentures in the fiscal years 1968 and 1969. Although
there were special circumstances in 1969 (cyclones and politi-
cal unrest) which may have contributed to this, it is consid-
ered that there will be little demand so long as interest on
such Debentures may not exceed 6-1/4% (the maximum rate pre-
sently permitted on GOI guaranteed debentures). While it is
believed that LMB may not issue debentures on its own secur-
ity (a way by which the restriction could be overcome) it is
thought that it could issue time deposits without a restric-
tion on interest rate and this possibility is now being ex-
amined. LIM could afford to pay a higher rate of interest on
a small proDortion of its borrowings, possibly in part reduc-
tion of the loans it has raised from conmercial banks: as of
June 30, 1969 LTMB was paying 7-1/27 interest per annum on Rs
30 million and 8-1/2% on Rs 6 million so borrowed. Because
of its close association with farmers, the land mortgage bank
system should be able to increase the mobilization of rural
savings without an overall reduction in the borrowings by other
institutions. The matter however needs full examination by ARC
in consultation with LMB, RBI and other interested parties.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
C. Primary Land Mortgage Banks
Organization and Membership
12.       As of April 30, 1970 there were 181 Primary Banks operating in
Andhra Pradesh serving 184 of the 189 taluks in the State (the remaining
five taluks being mainly nomadic tribal areas): further expansion of the
Primary Bank network is therefore unlikely. The number of Primary Banks
increased significantly in the early sixties (from 113 in 1963 to 173 in
1965) and many have not yet built up a large enough portfolio to be pro-
fitable: LMB considers that Rs 2 million of outstanding loans is required
for a Primary to be viable and as of April 1970 only 121 banks met this
criterion.
13.       The membership of the Primaries falls into two types.  First, the
regular (or A Class) membership is open to individuals and cooperative farm-
ing, tubewell irrigation and central cooperative societies. Such members
must be landowners and thus be able to offer the security of land: accord-
ingly only A Class members are entitled to borrow. Second, there is also a
relatively small associate (or B Class) membership made up of individuals
who are co-partners or who have soue interest in the title of A Class mem-
bers. This class of membership exis:s to facilitate the execution of mort-
gage deeds in favor of regular members who otherwise would have insufficient
collateral to borrow. Only A Class members have voting rights and are en-
titled to any dividends which t: Primaries may declare.  As of June 30,
1969 the total regular membershin of all the Primaries was about 375,000
farmers, (compared with 300,000 a year earlier) and total outstanding loans
by all Primary Banks totalled 265,J00. This compares with an estimated 3.9
million farm families in Andhra Pradesh and about a 2 million membership of
primary credit societies.
Board and Management
14.       The control of manageiner- of each Primary Bank follows the LM-B pat-
tern with overall control veste_. i. the gen. eral meeting and with a committee
exercising the functions of a Board of Directors. The Secretary of each Pri-
mary (a few of whom are no:, on -cncLnient from LMB) is the chief executive.
The Primaries main independent funct'.-ns are the approval of loans, the ap-
pointment of staff and the dcc.        , L o'ividends (at present limited to a
maximum of 4% per annum).
15.       Apart from L'.''s powk-    ,r :nholV refinaX:ce from a Primary Bank
(which has not been exercised ial r cent c--e7s) and its requirement to ap-
prove loans above Rs 5,000 in va-Se on AR3 schemes and Rs 3,000 on other
investments, Primary Bank control is sharzd between D B and the Cooperative
Department of the State Govc-rmnrer   7   exercises its control through its
inspectors wnile the Departmr.n-   .-,ncerned with checking certain statutory
requirements through deputy- --d sub-registrars, part of whose costs are
paid by LMB.  The gro%whih of >.  ,chemes, with a greater LMB involvement in
the wider aispects of project -- .e.teticr  has to some extent confused a



ANNEX 6
Page 6
clear demarcation line between responsibilities which are properly the State
Government's and those which could more effectively be carried out by LMB.
This matter, together with the liability for State Government staff costs,
requires re-examining and is included in the terms of reference of the pro-
posed organizational study (Appendix 6-1).
16.       Despite these arrangements, LIMB has not been able to exercise close
control over the Primary Banks and one result of this has been a degree of
corruption, widely recognized within the State. To some extent this was in-
evitable in circumstances where the demand for loans was greater than the
availability of funds and where some selection of prospective borrowers had
to be made. It is also recognized however that the absence of any limita-
tion on the re-election of officers of the Primary Banks is a contributory
factor, many having held office for over 20 years. To overcome this problem
the State Governrient recently made regulations which would limit the office
holders of cooperatives to a maximum of six years (i.e. one re-election).
Sources of Funds
17.       Each Primary Bank has a separate issued share capital wholly sub-
scribed by the regular members. Any farmer taking a loan is required to
hold shares to the value of 6% of the loan (which may not be reduced until
the loan is repaid) and this accounts for the greater part of the Primaries'
share capital, the balance being subscribed by the non-borrowing (or former
borrowing) members. The Primaries on-invest in LMB's share capital at the
rate of 5% of borrowings and are thus left with a 1% uncommitted balance.
All the lending operations of the Primaries are refinanced by LMB except
for some short-term bridging finance presently provided by commercial banks
but this also LMB plans to provide in future.
D. Overall Lending Procedures and Operations
Loan Procedures
18.       The Primary Banks lend for (and thus LMB) refinances) a wide range
of agricultural purposes on medium and long-term. The purposes include:
(a) the construction, improvement and major repairs to minor
irrigation works;
(b) land drainage, reclamation and improvement;
(c) construction of farm improvements (excluding housing);
(d) purchase of farm machinery including tractors and imple-
ments;



ANNEX 6
Page 7
(e) purchase of land occupancy rights and redemption of mort-
gages; and
(f) such other purposes as the Board may determine to be for
land improvement of agricultural production.
Because of the shortage of funds, LMB has laid down that loans for tubewells
may not exceed Rs 15,000 and for farm mechanization investments, Rs 25,000.
Lending Procedures
19.       Applications for a loan have to be made to the Primary Bank of
which the applicant is a member. All applicants, who must be cultivators of
land to be mortgaged, are required to deposit a fee at the rate of Rs .5 per
Rs 100 of the proposed loan limit, the final fee being determined on such
amount of loan as may eventually be sanctioned.
20.       Loan appraisal consists essentially of a review of the title to
the property of the applicant and of an assessment of its value made by the
Land Valuation Officer at the Primary and, where necessary, additionally by
LMB's legal staff. In the Telangana area, the land rights of protected te-
nants is established by public enquiry carried out by a sub-registrar of the
Cooperative Department. In all cases a physical inspection is made of the
land and of the proposed area for development.
21.       Because of different systems applying in various parts of the State
to establish land values, valuation committees were established in each taluk
a few years ago with a view to fixing realistic values on different types of
land and their recommended rates were subsequently approved by the State Gov-
ernment. Present arrangements provide for a revaluation in circumstances
where land prices are known to have changed and the present rates are general-
ly considered to be realistic in terms of market values. Because of the
shortage of resources, however, LMB has temporarily placed a maximum valua-
tion on land for collateral purposes at Rs 7,250 per hectare. Loans are made
for up to 50% of the value of agricultural land so valued though in the case
of loans for minor irrigation projects the basis is the potential value of
land after the investment. The Primaries require a first mortgage on such
property (third party security is also acceptable) but they will not accept
any machinery hypotecation.
22.       When a loan has been approved, if necessary by LUB (para 15) dis-
bursements are made in the case of the purchase of land, tractors or mach-
inerv or of expenditures for land levelling or well drilling by contractors
to the third parties concerned, and loans for other purposes are disbursed
in instalments after proper utilization confirmation has been obtained. All
pay;:-.ents are made through checks drawn on the bankers of the Primaries and
everv borrower's investment is inspecte,A within three months of final dis-
bursement.  LMB subseiuently advances loans to the Primaries against tlle
security of mortgages collected by them, L.B's loan periods matching those
of the Primaries' lending to their members.



AINEX 6
Page 8
23.       While the system of land valuatie'w ane appraisal is basically
sound, the mechanics of the various operations tend to be lengthv and cum-
bersome and it is not unusual to find a loan file containing several hundred
portfolios for a loan of small amount. Although nothing should be done
which would reduce the efficacy of the Primary Bank's security, it is admit-
ted that some of the procedures, which have developed over many years, are
not necessary and that the whole operation could be streamlined. It is im-
portant that this should be done, not only to eliminate unnecessarv costs
and delays but also to release the time of some of the field staff who
in future be devoting more of their attention to the assessment of incre-
mental benefits of proposed investments. This matter is therefore also in-
cluded in the terms of reference of the proposed organizational study.
Lending Terms and Interest Rates
24.       Apart from the 6% shareholding requirement, farmers have not hither-
to been required to make any downpayment contribution towards their invest-
ments. However maximum scale of loans for land levelling and maximum loans
placed on tubewell and farm mechanization investments have in effect resulted
in farmers having to make some contribution (in the case of land levelling
about 20%). Loans for minor irrigation have hitherto ranged from 7 to 15
years (and, in the case of wells with two years grace), for land levelling
15 years with two years grace, and for farm mechanization 8 years. All loans
are repayable annually by equal installments.
25.       The present lending rate from the Primaries to individual farmers
is 8-1/2% per annum on ARC schemes and on other investments 8-3/4% per an-
num. Against these rates, LMB refinances the Primaries at 7% and 7-1/4%
respectively thus giving them an overall margin of 1-1/2% per annum. LEB's
margin fluctuates in accordance with its borrowing rates (which vary both as
to the mix of the various debentures issued and commercial loans outstanding
as well as market rates) but on current lending and borrowing rates it over-
all margin is just under 1-1/4%.
Lending Operations
26.       LMB's loan portfolio has risen steadily during the last few years
from Rs 184 million as of June 30, 1965 to Rs 608 million as of June 30,
1969, the latter figure representing a 30% increase over the previous year.
The number of loans approved has similarly increased from about 17,000 in
1964/65 to over 73,000 in 1968/69. Minor irrigation loans have been the
largest element in LMB's portfolio representing about 70% in 1966/67 and
1967/68 though dropping to 58% in 1968/69 with land levelling loans (32%
in 1968/69) and farm mechanization loans (7% in 1968/1969) following in im-
portance. In 1968/69, 63% of all loans approved were for amounts of up to
Rs 3,000.



ANNEX 6
Page 9
E. Overall Operational Results
27.       The following table shows LMB's expenditures, income and profits
expressed as a percentage of average funds employed during the last three
years:
1966/67            1967/68            1968/69
Average funds employed Rs 422.1 million Rs 525.3 million Rs 671.1 million
% of               % of               % of
average            average            average
Rs M      funds   Rs N1       funds   Rs M       funds
Expenditures
Interest            18.4       4.36    24.4       4.64    32.9        4.91
Other                3.1       0.73      4.0      0.76      5.9       0.88
Total          21.5       5.09    28.4       5.40    38.8       5.79
Profit               3.1       0.73      4.0      0.76      4.5       0.67
Total Income        24.6       5.82    32.4       6.16    43.3        6.46
The decrease in profit in 1968/69 was mainly attributable to a significant
increase in the discount and underwriting commission paid on debentures
(from Rs 1.7 million to Rs 2.9 million) part of which can be considered as
the increased cost of borrowing and to a small extent on higher staff costs
(Rs 302,000 increase).  LM  has consistently paid a 5% dividend annually on
its share capital.
28.       Wthile LMB will need to strengthen its staff as its portfolio grows
and in particular build up a small cadre of specialist staff, its main ob-
jectives should be, first, to improve its cost effectiveness by the better
use of staff and second to increase its dividend at least to a level in line
witlh the cost of average borrowings. Appendix 6-3 shows that, with the con-
tinued growth of lending operations this should be possible within approxi-
mately existing margins. It is generally accepted in India that, at least
on ARC schemes, the total margin to land mortgage banks and their primaries
should not exceed 2-1/2% per annum (generally divided equally) and in no
case is this margin exceeded on sucn schemes. To widen this margin would
thus set an undesirable precedent a-d discourage efficiency through better
staff use. It is however desirable that the lending rate differential be-
tween ARC schemes and other investmencs be abolished and thus the interest
rate proposals detailed in Annex 10 would give a-. overall ultimate lending
rate of 9% and LMB a slight>' inc::eased margin at just over 1-1/4%.



ANNEX 6
Page 10
29.       The profits of the Primary Banks vary according to thie size of
their portfolios and because many have not vet reached a minimum level of
viability (para 12) their combined profits have been lower than that of
LMB: in 1968/69 they amounted to Rs 3.9 million or .58% of average funds
employed (Appendix 6-2). The Primaries' position will however improve as
the volume of their lending increases.  As in the case of LNIB however, it
is important that they should deploy their staffs more effectively and
while their overall interest margin of about 1-1/2%1 is adequate, it would
be apDropriate for them to retain the proceeds of an investment evaluation
fee (of 1/2%) as a recognition of the increasing importance to be attached
to improved appraisal methods.
30.       Details of LMB's past accounts are given at Appendices 6-2 and
6-3 and projections of its future financial position at Appendices 6-4 and
6-5.  The latter include the assumption that LB's future lending rate to
the Primary Banks on all operations would be 7-5/8% per annum: the benefit
of the proposed 1/2% evaluation fee is not shown as this would accrue to
the Primary Banks.
31.       LMB's collection rate remained fairly consistent at about 98% for
a number of years but in 1968/69 this declined to 95% reflecting a similar
position in the Primary Banks (Appendix 6-7).  This deterioration is attri-
buted partly to the two serious cyclones which hit the coastal area during
the year and partly to political unrest in the Telangana region and this is
substantially confirmed by the location of the Primary Banks showing the
worst returns: 107 of the Primary Banks however had 100% collection records.
Providing the position can be restored there should be no cause for concern,
and in any case the risk element is negligible as all loans are amply secured.
32.       The accounts of LMB and the Primary Banks are audited by indepen-
dent accountants in the Cooperative Department in accordance with the prac-
tice which is common throughout India. While there is no reason to question
either the validity of the accounts or the independence of the auditors, it
would be desirable if the treatment of reserves and provisions by all L'B's
was more consistent and ARC has agreed to examine this. ARC has also agreed
to discuss improvements in the presentation of LMBs' accounts on an all-
Indian basis.



APPENDIX 6-1
INDIA
ANDHRA PPADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TERENS OF REFERENCE AND QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ORGANIZATIONAL STUDY INTO ASPECTS OF LAND MORTGAGE BANK OPERATIONS
Terms of Reference
1.        The proposed organizational study would be carried out by manage-
mcnt consultants or a suitable institution who would be required to inves-
tigate and report recommendations on the operations of the Andhra Pradesh
Cooperative Central Land Mortgage Bank (ULB) and its federated Primary Land
Mortgage Banks in two main areas of activity.
(i) The responsibilities of LMB and the Andhra Pradesh State
Government in the exercise of control of the Primary
Banks in both statutory and non-statutory matters and in
the preparation and implementation of essentially State
development schemes by the Land Mortgage Bank system.
Subjects to be considered should include the functions
presently exercised by staff of the State's Cooperative
Department and the inspectorate of LMB, the development
section of LMTB and of Government extension staff attached
to LMB for the appraisal and supervision of schemes.  The
consultants' report should include recommendations regard-
ing the liability for the payment or reimbursement of
staff involved in such operations and the financial
implications of their recommendations for each of LMB
and the Primary Banks.
(ii) Improved and simplified procedures for the processing of
loan applications particularly by the Primary Banks but
also by L}B wlhere its approval is required.  This should
include all aspects of establishing land title and valua-
tion and other appraisal requirements. The consultants
should also investigate and report on present methods of
loan utilization checking and the organization of the
staffs of Primary Banks in this regard.
Consultants would be required to submit their report to LB a copy of which
would be sent to IDA within 18 months of credit signing.



APPENDIX 6-1
Page 2
Qualifications
2.        The consultancv should be carried out bv a firm of professional
management consultants or management institute posessing adequate expe-
rience for the job.  The consultancy team should be of three or four people,
depending on individual experience but collectively the consultants should
provide experts in the following subjects:
(i)  Management systems, administrative control and delegation
with sufficient financial knowledge to carry out costings
into alternative organizational arrangements.
(ii)  Banking and its organization including matters relating to
land collateral and valuation, disbursements and staffing.
(iii)  Government organization and statutory requirements relating
to banking and land ownership.



APPENDIX 6-2
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
THE ANDHRA PRADESH COOPERATIVE LAND MORTGAGE BANK LTD.
Land Mortgage Banks Combined (perations
(Rs '000)
1964-65      1965-66      1966-67      1967-68      1968-69
A class membership           151,927       196,673      246,143      299,434      374l,462
Paid up share capital         14,525        21,562       28,329       36,622       49,386
Invested in  L.M.B.            9,996       14.,176       18,926       23,833       30,158
Loans issued since inception:
Number                     106,807      155,852       195,766      244,497      303,864
Amount                       2576,164      374.,618     483,683      620,577       787,j82
Amounts of:
1) Loans borrowed during
year                    44i,573     112,202       102,072      119,482      180,307
2) Loans repaid during
year                   12,427       13,804        19,686       25,967       31,1t93
3) Loan balance due to
L.M.B. on June 30  .184,811      283,209       365,395      458,911      607,725
Loans due by members on
June 30:
Number                   814,089      129,998      167,278      202,630      265,681
Amount                  183,988       275,617      365,938     1464,31414    618,276
Reserve fund                   2,071         2,618        3,239        3,879        14,677
Profit                         1,589        1,999         2,342        3,382        3,897
Loss                              38            77          123           56          290
Total demand under instal-
ments                       21,,056       26,550       36,2114      149,751      69,82h
Instalments  overdue            14714         548           803          672        3,L26
Percentage of overdues to
demand                        2.1          2.1           2.2          1.4          14.S
Foreclosed loans                 862           764          891          878           807
November 24,1970






I N D I A
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ANDHRA PRADESH COOP13RATIVE CENTRAL LAND MORTGAGE BANK LTD.
CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF NET INCOME
FOR FISCAL YEARS INDICATED
1964/65                   1965/66                   1966/67                   1967/68                   1968/69                   1969/70
%  of                     T  o-f                    % of                      %  of                     %  of                      %  Of
Rs M   Total Income       Rs M   Total Income       Rs  M   Total Income      Rs M   Total Income       Rs  M   Total Income      Rs M   Total Income
I N C OM  E
Interest Received on:
Loans                                    9.83        79.78        14.09        80.24         20.15       81.74         27.11       83.78         36.74        84.71        48.oo       86.10
Investments                              2.21        17.94         3.31        18.85         4.14        16.80         5.04        15-57          6.o6        13.97         7.25       13.00
Total Interest Received                    12.7 97.73                17.740       99.09         24.29      -98.5          32.15       99.35         42.80        98.68        52          99.10
Brokerage and Underwriting Commission       o.08         0.65         0.08         0.45         0.10         o.40          0.03        0.09          0.37         0.86         0.30        0.54
Miscellaneous                               0.20         1.62          0.08        o.46          0.26        1.06          0.18        0.56          0.20         o.46         0.20         0.36
Total Income                     12.32      100.00         17.56       100.00        24.65       100.00        32.36       100.00         43-37      100.00         55.75      100.00
E X P E N S E S
Interest Paid on Debentures and Loans       8.92        72.40        13.18        75.06         18.41       74.68         24.36       75.28         32.95        75.97        42.00        75-33
Brokerage and Discounts Paid                0.54         4.38         o.56         3.19          1.26        5.11          1.72        5.31          3.01         6.94         4.50         8.07
Salaries and Allowances                     0.83         6.74         1.24         7.06          1.36        5.52          1.77        5.47          2.16         4.98          2.80        5.02
Depreciation of Assets                      0.30         2.44          0.27        1.54          0.12        o.49          0.13        o.4o          0.13         0.30          0.15        0.27
Other Expenditures                          0.08         o.65          0.09        0.51          0.26        1.05          0.31        0.96          0.38         0.88          o.40        0.72
Taxes Paid 2/                               o.o6         o.48          0.09        0.51          0.12        0-49          0.11        0.34          0.19         o.44          0.50        0.90
Total Expenses                   10.73        87.09        15.43        87.87        21.53        87.34         28.40       87.76         38.82        89.51        5°22303
N E T   I N C O N E                         1.59        12.91          2.13       12.13          3.12       12.66          3.96       12.24          4.55        10.49          5.)40        9.69
1/ Estimated.
2/ Although LMB does not pay any tax on its corporate profits,
its income fromOOI securities is taxable.
Jul27  170



I N DI A
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICSULTURAL -,REDIT PROJECT
ANDHRA FRADESH COOPERATIVE CENTRAL LAND MORTGAGE BANK LTD.
PROJECTED STATEMENTS OF NET INCOME
FOR FISCAL YEARS INDICATED
1970/71                  1971/72                   1972/73                   1973/74
%  of                    %  of                     %  of                     %  of
Rs  M   Total Income     Rs M   Total Income       Rs M   Total Income       Rs M   Total Income
I N C O M E
Interest Received on:
Project Loans  1/                              1.37        1.95         5.75         6.54        12.02        11.34        14.42       11.82
Other Loans  2/                               58.00       82.42        68.oo        77.27        76.oo        71.70        86.oo        70.49
Investments  3/                                9.50       13.50        12.50        14.20        15.50        14.62        18.50       15.16
Brokerage and Underwriting Commission             1.00        1.42          1.00        1.14         1.48         1.h0         1.58         1.30
Miscellaneous                                     0.50        0.71          0.75        0.85         1.00         0.94         1.50         1.23
Total Income                           70-37      100.00        88.oo       100.00       106.00       100.00       122.00      100.00
E X P E N S E S
Interest Paid on:
Loans on account of Project  4/                0.97        1.38          4.11        4.67          8.84        8.34        11.07         9.07
Other Debentures and Loans  5/                53.20       75.60         60.70       68.98        68.80        64.90        79.00        64.75
Brokerage and Discounts Paid                      5.00        7.11          6.oo        6.82         8.00         7.55         9.93         8.14
Salaries and Allowances                           3.20        4.55          3.80        4.32         4.50         4.25         5.00         4.10
Depreciation of Assets                            0.20        0.28          0.25        0.28          0.30        0.28         0.50         0.41
Other Expenditures                                1.00        1.42          1.14        1.29         2.56         2.42         2.50         2.05
Total Expenses                         63-57       90.34         76.00       86.36        93.00        87.74       108.00        88.52
N E T   I N C O M E                               6.80        9.66         12.00       13.64        13.00        12.26        14.00        11.48
1/  Assumes 7-3/46  interest per annum.
2/ Assumes 7-5/8% interest per annum on loans made to June 30, 1970, thereafter 7-3/4%.
3/  Assumes 5% interest per annum.
4/ Assumes 6-1/2% interest per annum.
5/ Assumes 5.9$ interest per annum on loans made to June 30, 1970, thereafter 6%.
November 24, 1970



INDIA
A2DHIA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ANDHRA PRADESH COOPERATIVE CENTRAL LAND MORTGAGE BANK LTD.
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS
AS OF DATES INDICATED
June 30, 1965        Jurn  30, 1966               June 30, 1967                 June 30, 1968                  June 30, 1969                June 30, 1970
Change from                  Change from                   Change from                   Change from                   Change from
Rs M         Rs M    Previous Date        Rs M      Previous Date       Hs M      Previous Date       Rs M      Previous Date       Rs M      Previous Date
ASS srs
Cash on Hand and with Banks       5.97         14.98         9.01            1.82        (13.16)           1.92          0.10            3.40          1.48            3.20         (0.20)
Investuents                      55.92         69.15        13.23           90.60         21.45          107.48         16.88          131.30         23.82          160.00         28.70
Loans to Primary Banks          184.81        283.21        98.40          365.39         82.18          458.91         93.52          607.72        148.81          750.00        142.28
Other Assets                      6.39          8.22         1.83           10.75          2.53           13.74          2.99           17.70          3.96           25.00          7.30
Total Assets               253.09        375.56       122.47          468.56         93.00          582.05        113.49          760.12        178.07          938.20        178.08
LIABILIrIES AND EQUITY CAPITAL
Debentures                      219.76        317.95        98.19          399.35         81.40          497.09         97.74          639.78        142.69          790.00        150.22
Loans and Overdrafts               .36          2.25         1.89           13.25         11.00           21.03          7.78           42.30         21.27           50.00           7.70
Other Liabilities                 8.05         21.99        13.94           15.58         (6.41)          15.91           .33           20.60          4.69           25.00          4.40
Total Liabilities          228.17        342.19       114.02          428.18         85.99          534.03        105.85          702.68        168.65           865.00        162.32
Capital Equity:
Paid-up Share Capital            17.60         24.77         7.17           29.53          4.76           34.43          4.90           40.76          6.33           55.00          14.24
Reserves and Net Income           7.32          8.60         1.28           10.85          2.25           13-59          2.74           16.68          3.09           18.20           1.52
Total Capital               24.92         33.37         8.45           40.38          7.01           48.02          7.64           57.44           9.42           73.20         15.76
Total Liabilities and Equity
Capital                       253.09       375.56        122.47         468.56          93.00          582.05       113.4'           760.12        178.07          938.20        178.08
Estimated
July 27. 1970



IN iA
ANDHRA PRADLCSH AGSS2TLTSUAL RADLT PRCJI.
AlPACA PRALASH JOPFXIVAI'S JANTRAL LAND M'SORPSAG' BANK LTD.
POJOE CTED BALANCE SHAETS
AS OF DATSS INWISAT.D
,rAne 30, 1971     1/             June 30, 1972                      J-  30, 1973                       June 30, 1978
htoge fro-                        Change frre                         Change from                         Change from
Rs M        Previous Date          Rs M        Previo.- Date          Rs M4       Previous Date          Rs M         Preyjoos Date
ASSETS
Cash on Hand and with B.nke          4.03           0.83                6.65          2.62                21.92          5.27                10.90           (1.02)
Investasent                        220.00          60.00              280.00         60.00               340.00         60.0D               400.00          60.00
Loans to Primaries: Prejeot         35.60          35.60              112.69         77.09               197.39         84.70               174.81          (22.58)
Others         900.00         150.00            1,000.00        100.00             1,100.00        100.00             1,250.00         150.00
Other Assets                        35.00          10.00               35.00          -                   40.00          5.00                65.oo          25.00
Total Assets                1,194.63         256.h3            1,434.34        239.71             1.689.31        25.97              1,900.71         21i.40
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY CAPITAL
ProJeot Lo                         29.58          29.58               96.97         67.39               175.10         78.13               165.64           (9.46)
DLb.ntures                      1,000.00         210.00            1,120.00        120.00             1,260.00        160.00              1,450.00         190.00
Loans and Overdrafts               60.oo          10.00               70.00         10.00                70.00          -                    70.00           -
Other Liabilities                  20.00          (5.00)              40.00         20.00                60.00         20.00                70.00           10.00
Total Liabilities          1,109.58         244.58            1,326.97        217.39             1,565.10        238.13             1.755.64          190.54
Equity:
Paid-up Share Capital           63.00           8.00               78.00         15.00                88.00         10.00               102.00          14.00
Reserves:
At beginning of year           18.20                               22.05                              29.37                              36.21
Add Net Incese                   6.80                              12.00                              13.00                              14.00
Total Available                 25.00                              34.05                              42.37                              50.21
Divid-nd. P.id2/                 2.95                               4.68                               6.16                                7.14
At End of Year                  22.05           3.85               29.37          7.32                36.21          6.84                 43.07           6.86
Total Equity                  85.05          11.85              107.37         22.32               124.21         16.84               165.07           20.86
retal Liabilities and
Equity              1,1g4.3           206.L3            1,436.34        239.71             1,689.31        254.97             1.900.71         211.40
ieo Appedic 6-5
iAs$umes 5 diviodtd for 191, 6,% fCr 1)72 nod 77 th-r-ofter.
November 24,1970



Appendix 6-7
MDIA
ANDFRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
THE ANDHRA PRADESH COOPERATIVE CENTRAL LAND MORTGAGE RANK
Repayment Records of Primary Banks
(Rs '000)
Loan portfolio        1/       Overdues end   Percentae       Amount of fore-
end of year    Demand            of year     dues to demand    closed loans
196h-65     183,988       21,056             475            2.25             862
1965-66     275,625       26,550             547            2.06             763
1966-67     365,938       36,244             803            2.21             892
1967-68     464,344       49,751             672            1.34             878
1968-69     607,725       69,823           3,425            4.90             807
1/ Instalments in principal and interest overdue at beginning of the year
and amount fallen due during the year.
November 2h, 1970






ANNYX 7
I N D I A
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJBCT
COMMERCIAL BANKS OPERATING IN ANDHRA PRADESH
(AS of April 1970)
Nationalized Banks                         Number of Branches
Allahabad Bank                                   4
Bank of Baroda                                   d
Bank oIz lncia 
Bank of Maharastra                               1
Canara Bank                                     17
Central Bank of India                           28
Dena Bank                                        3
Indian Bank                                     33
Indian Overseas Bank                            15
Punjab National Bank                            11
*State Bank of Hyderabad
(Subsioiary of State Bank of India)          117
*State Bank of India                            183
Syndicate Bank                                  36
Union Bank of India                             12
United Commercial Bank                           6
Banks with Private Owmnership
Andhra Bank Ltd.                               144
Canara Banking Corporation Ltd.                  d
National and Grindlays Bank Ltd.                 1
Vijaya Bank Ltd.                                 1
Visya Bank Ltd.                                  1
In effect State owned though a small part of holding company's
share capital is held privately.
Note  All oI the above banks are scheduled i.e. are included in the
Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act 1935. They
have paid up capital and reserves of at least Rs. 5 million and
are entitled to certain borrowing facilities from the Reserve
Bank of India.






INDIA
ANDI.A PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Details of ;stimated Project Cost
First Year                  Second Year                  Third Year                         Total Project
Total                        Total                       Total                        Average
Units       Cost            Units        Cost            Units       Cost            Units      Unit Cost       Cost
(EsO000)          -         (sThO)                      (Rs'OO)             -Hs)                    (Rhoo)
1. Ninor Irrigation
Tubewells                              400      5,980              600        8,970             350       5,240           1,350        14,950        20,190
Dugwells                             4,200     25,200            6,200       37,200           3,600      21,600          14,000         6,ooo        84,noo
Well Improvement                     1,500      2,100            2,200        3,080           1,300       1,820           5,000         1,400          7,000
Oil Engine Pump Sets                2,300    12,190              3,400       18,020           2,000      10,600           7,700         5,300         40,810
alectric Paup Sets                  3,600      14,400            5,300       21,200           3,100      12,40           12,000         4,000        48,ooo
Total Minor Irrigation                       59,870                        88,470                      51.660                                     200.000
2. Land Levelling (units in ha)
Nagarjunasagar - Dry-lands           3,350      4,080            1,900        2,315             250         305           5,500         1,218          6,700
- Wet-lands          14 500     23 838            8 55o       14 056           1 1450      2 386          24 500         1,644         40 280
Sub-total          17,oS      *7                04          Tt-7,                                       30,0004
Pochampad     - Dry-lands             625         858            2,625        3,604           2,125       2,918           5,375         1,372          7,380
-Wet-lands            1 600      2 964            2 000        3,704           1,200       2,222           4 800         1,852          8,890
Sub-total                                                      17,1                                                                  16,270
Minor Irrigation Schemes             3,750      2.563            6,750        4,612          14,500       3.075          15,000           683         10,250
Total Land Levelling              23,825     34,303           21,825       28,291           9,525      10,906          55.175            _          73.500
3. Tractors
35 hp                               300      7,500              400       10,000             300       7,500           1,000         25,000        25,000
5o hp                               150     4.275-              200        5,700             150       4,275              500        28,5Qo        14,250
Total Tractors                       450    11,775               600       15.700             450      11,775            1.500                      3h250
4. Tractor Implements
Trailers                              450       3,300              600        4,400             450       3,300            1,590         6,300        11,000
Others                               various    1,950            various      2,600           various     1.950           various          -           6,500
Total Implements                              5,250                         7,000                        52-o 17,500
Total Investment Program                        111.198                       139,461                       79,591                                     330,250
5. Tractor Spare Parts                     various    1,410            various      1,880           various      1,410          various          -           4,700
6. Technical Assistance
Groundwater Study                                 600                         1,300                          600                                       2,5oo
Mauagemant Consultants                            600                           _                                                                        600
Total Technical Assistance                    1,200                         1,300                          600                                       3,100
Total Project Cost                              113,808                       142.6141                      81,6C                                      338,05o
Note 1/ Represents six months expenditures.
7/ Annual land levelling program is taken from Annex 2 (paras 12 and 1l) converting I1B fiscAl year (June 30) to program year (December 31 assumed).



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Breakdown of Tractor and Tractor Implement Cost
Unit. Dis-
Nwber    Unit cif       tribution      Sales         Total           Total    Imported
price        Cost /        Taxes2/      Unit Cost          Cost     Component
_        ~~~(Rs)      (Rs)          (R.)          (Rs)          (R*'000)      (Rs'OOO)
Tractors - 35 hp                         1,000    19,845          3,374         1,974-       25,193          25,000        20,000
- 50 hp                          500    22,575 -        3,838         2,245        28,658          120           11,250
- total                        1,5C0                                                                39,250       31,250
Tractor lplsments -
(a)  Trailers - for 35 hp tractor    1,000       5,600           840            547         6,987  /        7,000          -
- for 50 hp tractor       500     6,400           960            625         7,985 -         W4,000         -
- total                  1!70U                                                              11,000           -
(b)  Other - for 35 hp tractor -
cultivators              1,000        990           160            100         1,250           1,250          -
puddling wheels            800        900           135             90         1,125             900          -
disc harres                200      2,200           330            220         2,750             550         110
mold-board plows           300      1,800           230            170         2,200             660          210
levellis-bl^JA"            200      1,450           210            140         1,800              _0           -
- sub-total                                                                                                 316
- for 50 hp tractor -
cultivators                400      1,400           210            140         1,750             700          _
puddling wheels            200      1,000           150            100         1,250             250          -
disc ha rros               200      2,750           400            250         3,400             680          137
mold-board plows           250      2,250           370            230         3,120             780          252
levelling blades           200      1,650           270            180         2,100             420          _
1,250                                                                2,830 0
Tetal - otber lmplinwts           3,750                                                                 65.50         705
V at about 17% for tractors and 15% for tractor implements.
2  at 8.5% computed on unit price including distribution costs.
estimates assume Rs 20,000 each cif cost.
estimates assume Rs 25,000 each project cost.
e/ stimates assume Rs 22,500 each cif cost.
J estimates assume Rs 28,500 each project cost.
7  estimates assume Rs 7,000 each project cost
,/ estimates assume Rs 8,000 each project cost.
November 24. 1970



INDIA
ANDHRA PUADESH ArCTCULTU,AL CREDIT PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Tractor Spares and
Quarter Ending       Lending Program      Technical Assistance                 Total                  Undisbursed Amount
(Rs M)                 (Rs M)                 (Rs M)              (US$ fT )        (U3t 14)
Deic.  197V               --                                                                                 2L.4
Mar.  19712/                                                                                                 2L.1
June  1971                -                       -                     -                     -              2.4
Sept. 1971               12.0                     0.2                  12.2                  1.6             22.8
Dec.  1971               14.0                     1.0                  15.0                  2.0             20.8
Mar.  1972               14.0                     1.0                  15.0                  2.0             18.8
June  1972               14.0                     1.0                  15.0                  2.0             16.8
Sept. 1972               16.0                     0.4                  16.4                  2.2             14.6
Dec.  1972               16.0                     0.4                  16.4                  2.2             12.4
Mar.  1973               16.0                     0.4                  16.4                  2.2             10.2
June  19732/             16.0                     0.4                  16.4                  2.2              8.0
Sept. 1973               16.0                     0.6                  16.6                  2.3              5.7
Dec.  1973               18.0                     0.6                  18.6                  2.4              3.3
Mar.  1974               18.0                     0.6                  18.6                  2.4              0.9
June  19744/              6.2                     0.2                   6.4                  0.9
Total         1                         6.8                   8730                - _ 71
1/ Estimated Date  of Signing.
2/ Estimated Effectiveness.
E Estimated Project Completion.                                                                                          co
4/ Closing Date.
November 24, 1970






ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDIA
ANDIIRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TRACTOR PROCUREiENT
1.        The Project now proposed would be the third of a series of agri-
cultural credit projects in India which IDA is at present considering. As
in the case of Gujarat and Punjab Credit Projects which it follows, this
and subsequent projects in the series would involve substantial tractor im-
ports. Accordingly, in considering the earlier Projects, careful attention
was given to the method of tractor procurement and the formula outlined be-
low for Andhra Pradesh substantially follows the previously agreed arrange-
ments.
2.        Farmers' purchase through existing dealerships would not be
feasible as the necessary competition between dealerships would only be
obtained by liberalizing import licensing to enable large scale tractor
imports. In view of India's shortage of foreign exchange this would be
inappropriate. Normal international competitive bidding could only be
organized through State entities. This would tend towards a Government
tractor distribution monopoly and further wealcen existing dealership chan-
nels and it would not take farmers' choice into account.
3.        To meet this situation, a formula has been worked out with the
Government of India (GOI), details of which would be as follows:
(a) GOI would establish a central committee (hereinafter
referred to as the Committee) for the purpose of direct-
ing the procurement of goods under this Project. The
Committee would consist of representatives of GOI (one
of whom would be chairman), the Government of Andhra
Pradesh and the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC).
Under the Committee's directions, the Andhra Pradesh
State Agro-Industries Corporation (APSAIC) would organize
the procurement of goods under the Project in accordance
with the following procedures:
(b) APSAIC would obtain tractor quotations on unit prices at
varying quantities from suppliers in IDA member countries
currently authorized to manufacture tractors in India.
These are Eicher (Federal Republic of Germany), Inter-
national Harvester (USA) and Massey Ferguson (UK) with
plants in production and Deutz (Federal Republic of
Germany), Ford (UK) with plants for manufacture approved
by GOI. Further companies may be expected to be added
to the list; GOI is currently considering seven additional



ANNEX 9
Page 2
proposals from firms in IDA member countries. Quotations
would be sought by public invitation and the form and
substance of the bid requests would be subject to IDA
concurrence.
(c) APSAIC would require all suppliers submitting quotations
to give full particulars as to proposed pre-sales and
after sales service arrangements, including provision
for spare parts equal to 15% of the CIF price of tractors
supplied. Any supplier not providing satisfactory assur-
ance as to service arrangements would, subject to IDA
concurrence, be disqualified by the Committee.
(d) APSAIC would advertise through the Andhra Pradesh Co-
operative Central Land Mortgage Bank (LMB) and the par-
ticipating commercial banks, the quoted prices and serv-
ice arrangements offered by the different suppliers.
Farmers would be required to state to the Primary Bank
of LMB or the participating commercial bank their first
and second choice of tractor which they would be willing
to buy and at the same time make application for a loan.
(e) Farmers' tractor preferences would be sent to APSAIC which
would aggregate the orders received according to first
tractor choices. If the aggregate orders for the particu-
lar model came to below the minimum acceptable order for
that manufacturer at the unit price quoted for varying
quantities, the Committee would discard the first choice
for those farmers and proceed on the basis of the second
or other choices as agreed by IDA. After approval by the
Committee, APSAIC would sent to IDA its analysis of bids
and its recommendations for the placing of orders. IDA
would then promptly inform the Committee whether it had
any objections to the recommended orders with its reasons.
(f) APSAIC would subsequently place orders with the selected
supp-ers at t',e un-t pr;ces quote4.  '2_ - wou':I aso
enter into contracts with the selected suppliers which
would specify service arrangements and performance assurances
including the supply of spare parts. Agents representing
suppliers would be required to sell post-watranty service.
(g)  APSAIC would arrange through the suppliers' representatives
in India for the importation, insurance and transportation
to Andhra Pradesh of tractors. Subsequently, the tractors
would be distributed to agents designated by the suppliers
who would perform pre-sales services and sell the tractors
to farmers whose loan applications had been approved.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
(h) Suppliers would be required to maintain stocks of spare
parts by a designated representative in a central store
to be released through agents for tractors imported under
the Project.
(i) In the event of the Committee placing orders ^ver the
reasonable objections of IDA on the grounds of inconsistency
with the procedures or, if the terms of such orders materially
differed from those on which quotations were based, IDA would
reserve the right to cancel from the Credit, such amount as
it considered represented expenditures under such orders.
4.        It is expected that the above tractor procurement method and
procedures would take account of individual preferences and tend to lower
prices while strengthening the services provided by manufacturers approved
agents which is considered essential to the Project.
TRACTOR IMPLEMENT COMPONENTS
5.        The Committee would, as appropriate exercise similar functions
for the procurement of steel discs for harrows and plow-bottoms under the
Project and would be responsible for arranging the distribution of these
items to tractor implement manufacturers.






ANNEX 10
NDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PRESENT AND PROPOSED INTEREST RATES FOR PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
The following table gives the present (in brackets) and proposed interest
rates and margins (expressed as % per annum) for Project institutions:
Margin
Borrowing at              Lending at       Margin      Increases
ARC
(1) Project       (-)  .75 and 5.25 = 49        (-)  6.5       (-)  1.7       NA
(2) Other         (5 average) 5 average         (6)  6.5       (1)  1.5        .5
LMB l/
(1) Project       (-)  6.5                      (-)  7.75      (-)  1.25      NA
(2) Other ARC    (6)  6.5                       (7)  7.5       (1)  1          _
(3) Other         (6 average) 6 average       (7.25) 7.5    (1.25) 1.5         + .25
Schemes
Primary Banks 2
(1) Project      (-) 7.75                       (-)  9         (-)  1.25      NA
(2) Other ARC    (7) 7.5                       (8.5) 9       (1-5)  1.5        _
(3) Other
Schemes  (7.25)7.5                     (8.75)  9       (1-5)  1.5        _
Notes  1/ Participating commercial banks would also receive funds from ARC
at an interest rate of 6.5% per annum and would lend to ultimate
borrowers at 9% giving them a margin of 2.5% per annum.
2/ In addition Primary Banks would retain the proceeds of a 0.5%
evaluation fee charged on the cost of all Project investments.
NA = Not Applicable.
November 24, 1970






INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTJRAL CR8DIT PROJECT
YlIELD PRICE AND COST ASSUMPTIONS
Yield     1mp Costs                                            Farm Irrigation Costs                                  Prices
Full                     Full                                              Full       In-rment   Present        -10%        World Market
Beforo    Developes.t   Before   Development                               Before   D.evelopment                                           1975
kg/ha       kg/ha       Rs/ha        Rs/ha                 Item              Rs         Ro            Rs        Rs/kg       R./kg       _Rakg
Model 1:(Naoarlunasagar): S ha, ICnvstment: Land Levelling for Dry Season Irrigation
Jcwa,                         600          2,000       183          682 )                                                                      055         09          o.46
Oroundnut                      800         1,500       432          746 )          Water Charges           -         350           350         1 00        0 90        o.85
Bara                         600         1,000       188           284            3 and Maintanane       -45                                 0o60         0.54        0.466
Pulses                        400            800       218          609 )          Total                     _49                          5    0.80        0.72        0.80
Cotton (seed)                  800         1,800       664        1,810 )                                                                      1.50        1.35        1.60
Model II:(Pochampad): 5 ha; Investment, Land Levelling for Wet Season Irrigation
3/
Rice                         1,800         6,000       928        1,689 )                                                                   0.65-0.75      0.63         0.59
Pulses                         400           800       218          409 )          Water Charges           -          350          350         0.80        0.72        0.80
Jowar                          600         2,000       183          682 )          Bund Maintenance                   145          145         0.55        0.49         O.46
Bajra                          600         1,000       188          284 )          Total                                                       o.60        0.5         0.46
Cotton (seed)                  800         1,800       664        1,810 )                                                                      1.50        1.35        1.60
OroGndmut                      BO0         1,500       432          746 5                                                                      1.00         0.90        0.85
Model III; 15 ha; Insestaent t 35 hp Tractor and Implements on Irrigated Farm with Tuhbeell
Rice (Kharif)               1,800          6,0o0       928        1,689 )          Power Costs         4,000        6,000        2,000      0.65-0.75"     0.63        0.59
Rice (Rabi)                    -           4,000       928        1,689 )          Maintenance            600       1.200          600      0.65-0.75      0.63         0.59
Pulses                         -             800        -           409)           Total               TR -.         20         02.600         0.80        0.72        0.80
Sugarcane                   70,000        70,000     2,830        2,050 )                                                                      0.07        o.06         0.06
Sesaee                         450          -          250          -                                                                          1.00        0.90         1.00
Model IV: 2 ha; Investment ; Well Rnergii.ng
Jo-arf/                      1,000          -          183          -              Power Costs            300       1,460        1,180         0.55         0.49        o.46
Bejra5/                        800         1,000       188          190            Cannel Meintananca   100           15            50         0.60         0.54        0.46
Rice  /-                                   3500         -         1,689            ' .ot                                         1.23          0.75        0.63         0.59
Rioe                                       4,000        _         1,689                                                                        0.65         o.63        0.59
Model V: 10 ha; Investment  Tubewell
Rice                         3,000         4,000       928        1,050 )                                                                   0.65-0.75       o.63        0.59
Sesame                         450           450       250          250 )          Power Costs            300       2,014        1,714         1.00         0.90        1.00
Bajra                          600           600       188          188 )          Maintenance              0         780          730         0.60         0 54        0.h6
Groundnut                      _           1,500        -           746 )           Total                 Ajj       2,194        2.             1.00        0.90        0.85
Sugarcane                      -          70,000        -          2,050 )                                                                      0.07        o.06        0.D4
Model VI: 5 ha; Investrnt   big Well plus Pumpset
Bajra                          600          -          188          -   )o 0.60                                                                             0.54        o.46
Jo.er                          600         2,000       183          682 )          Power Costs             -          671          671          0.55        0.49        o.46
Pulses                         600           800       218          409 )          Channel MalnteananOe               2            2S0          0.80        0.72        0.80
Rice                           -           3,000        -         1,500)           Total                  -                         21          o.65        0.58        0.59
Chillies                       -           1,000        _           800 )                                                                       2.50        2.25        2.50
SesaMe                         -             550        _            250 )                                                                      1.00        0.90        1.00
1/ In the fourth year after investmentf f-ret year assumes 50%, se.o.d year 70% and third year 90% of full yields.
2/ Crop Costs comprise all expenses (except irrigation costs) including labor colst leas presently under employed family labor which would become employed because of Project Investaents.
3/ Local varIety: RB  0.75 per kg; hign yielding variety: RB  C.65 per kg.
4/ All rainfed.
i/ Lccal varIety.
6/ High-yielding variety.
July 27, 1970



INDIA
AW)HRA PRADESHE A GIWULTURAL CmnT P1JjE                                             oenTix 11-2
FANIKDKD3IS |UNDO PRES     PRI0N ASIPiSOI)
Qroans1/                                                     Net Value
A r e a                 Production Value                     C o a t                     of Production                          Net talu
IuTl                         Full                                                             Full                       Net Value of
Benfore     D.  Iop    st    Before       Deelopot           Bf, DrOer   n           t      Before        Deelop t                       P-d-ti)o
17M,  (R.)  (Rs)        (U)                              (R~~~~~~~~~~~~~)e'(R.s)
Model I (NaI   masagar), 5 ha; Inetastnt   Laod Leel3izn for Dy S...on IrrisetiQo (Re 6.L65V 
do..r                         2.0           1.0            660            1,100             366             682             294             418                            12L
3roundn.t                     2.0           2.0          1,600            3,004i/           864            1,492            736          1,508                             772
3eira                         1.0           3.0            360            1,080             188             564             172            516                            34
Pu.ses                        1.0                          320               _              218             -               102             -                             -102
Cotton (seed)                   -           2.0            -               5.400             -             3.620             -            1.780                          1,730
Total                    6.o          8.0           2,940           10,580           1,636           6,358           1,304          4,222                           2,918
Croppiog Intensity           120%          160%           leos  failly labor preseotly under-elowyd -                                      755                             755
5,003                          :,977oles  inor._rrig. ooo       4 495
3,178
Model II (Pochamupd): 5 ha; Investment: Land LeyelliAg for lit Seseon Irrigatio. (tI  7.569)
iice                          0.5           1.0            675            2,600             464           1,689             211            911                             700
Pulses                         -            0.5            -                320              -               205             -             115                             115
Jowar                         2.5            _             825               -              458             -               367            -                              -367
Sa ra                         2.0          0.5             720              300             376             142             344            158                           -186
Cotton (seed)                  -            2.0            -              5,400              -            3,620              -           1,780                          1,780
Groundnut                      -            2.0            -              3,000              -            1.492              -           1.508                          1.508
Total                    5.0           6.0          2,220           11,620           1,298           7,148             922          4,472                          3,550
Cropping Intensity:          1008          120%          laos fa.ily labor pre-s.tly u-der-.ployyd          -22                             922                           0922
6,228                         5,394  less incr.irrig.costs   _495
Model III: 15 ha; Investent 35 hp Tractor and Iple.not. so Irrigated Fa   with Tube 011l (Rn 37,000)
Rn oe (Tlha.if)               7.0           7.0          9,450           18,200           6,496           11;823          2,954          6,377                           3,423
Hi2ce (Rabi)                   -            3.0            _               7,800            -             5,067             -             2,733                          2,733
Pl-ses                         -            4.0            -               2,560            -             1,636             _              924                             924
Sugacane                      8.0           8.0         39,200           39,200          22,640          16,400          16,560          22,800                         6,240
Sesame                        3.0            -           1.350               -              752            -                600            -                              -60C
Total                   18.0         22.0          50,000           67,760          29,886          34,926          20,114         32,834                         12,720
Cropping Intensity          120%          147%                               IrrigatIon  4;630            7200          -4.360          -7;200 less incr.irrigcosts  -2,600
34,41           4L2,12          1531 2,634                                    10,120
less faoily labor presently uhder.-ee loye                                n100           c100
1,2,026                25~~~~~~,7 34 plus net custo. work   01.750
11,970
Model IV, 2 ha; In-estment, Well Ihargiing  fRs 3,700)
Jowar 3                       1.0            -             550             -                183            _                367           -                              -367
isora 3i                      1.0          1.0             480              600             180             190             300            410                            110
lice  /                        _           1.0             _              2,625             .             1,689             -              936                            536
lice - /                       -            1.0            _               2,6o0            -             1;689             -              911                             911
Totat                   2.0          3.0           1,030            5,825             363           3,568             667          2,257                          1,590
Cropping In.nt-ity            100%          150%           lass fe,ily labor  -resently under-eyloed      -610                           0610                            0610
2,958                         2,867 1ees in-r.irrig.osts    -921
ISodel V: 10 h.; Investment   Tubeeslli (Rs 14,000)
R ce                          3.0           3.0          6,768            7,800           2,784           3,150           3,984          4,650                            666
Sesaoa                        3.0          3.0           1,350            1,350             750             750             600            600
3a. a                         7.0           4.1          2,520            1,440           1,316             752           1,204            688                           -516
Irososdoct                     -            4.0            -              6,000             -             2,981             _            3,016                          3,016
Sugarcane                      -            2.0            -              9.800             -             4.100             -            5.700                          5,700
TotaL                   13.0         16.0          10,638           26,390          4,850           11,736           5,788         14,654                          8,836
Croppilg Ionossity           130%          160%             la.. f-ily labor pr-e.ntly andee-sI.-d           6                             467                          nor67
melared  ,                    !~~T~   laos loor17rrlg.costs   2 al4.
Model VI: S h.; InIes-toeht  Dug Well plun Puopset  (Rs 10,000)
Savra                         2.0           -              720              -              376             _                344            -                             -344
bowar                         1.0           2.0            330            2,200              3            1,364             17             836                            189
P_lses                        1.0           1.0            320              610            218              409             102            231                            129
Rico                           -           1.0             -              1,950            _              1,500             -              450                            450
Crllies                        -            1.0            -              2,500            -                800             -            1,7DN                          1,700
Sesame                         -           1.0             -                550            -                250             -              300                            300
Total                    4.0          6.0           1,370            7,840            777            4,323            593           3,507                          3,024
Itoppiog _ntensity:           100%         120%             less feell  labor presently undr.ea, oved    -543                             o50    I          .3
-.  _ ...  ~. ~      3,780               '4,  0             lesa iocr.rig.costu   -921
2,646
L/ Cooto i1clud,  11 labor -osts with ded-tion -ade at foot of column, f- fa-ily labor pre-estly  -d-.er-eeplo.ed.
2/ Includes proisi_on for green ranurnig hot finasced under thb Prject.
3/ All ruinfed (plot light s-ppleeet-ry irrigation).
Vi Lo-al -arity.
5/ High-yielding cariety.
_oeember 21, 1970



INDIA
ANDRRA PRADESR AGRICULIURAL CREDIT PROJ1CT
Appenlix 11-3
FINANCLAL PATE OF IETURI TO THE DTEPRISE
(in fia)
Year                   1              2               3              4              5              6               7             8-20
Model I (Farm Size: 5 ha - Nagarjunasagar);Inveatmant  Land Levelling ftor jIy MOui  Irrigation
Incremental Sales                     -          6,o48           6,682          7,316          7,640           7,640          7,640           7,640
Incremental Expenses                 925         4.462             4             462  4462     4. 462          4 42462        3.967           3 967
Net Value                           -925         1,5b6           2,220           2,05          3;178           3,178          3,176           3,178
Capital Investment                 5,540                                                                                                        -
Net Incremrital Flow              (6,465)       1l586            2.220          21;2           3,178          3,178           3,178           3,178
Financial Rate of Return - Present prices : 39%
10% price decline by 1975 z 35%
Predicted world market prices of 1975 i 37%
Model II (Farm Sise: 5 ha - Pochampad); Investaent i Land Levelling for pt Seanoe Irrigation
Incremental Sales                     -          7,411           8,207          9,002          94100          9,400           9,400           9,400
Incremental Expenses                 832         5. 423          5.423          5.423          5.423          5423            5,423          5.423
Net Value                           -632         1,988           2,784          3,579          3,977          3,977           3,977           3,97
Capital Investment                 7 569           -               -              _-                                                            -
Net Incrmnental Flow              (8_401         1.988           2.784          3,57Z         3,977           3.977           3,977          3,977
Financial Rate of Return - Present prices : 37%
10% price decline by 1975 : 34%
Predicted world market prices of 1975 : 36%
Model III (Farm Size: 15 ha); Investment   T ractor sand Implements
Incremental Sales                14,400         16,444          18,488         19,510         19,510         19,510          27,927
Incremental Expenses              7,540         7,524           7,540           7             72              7.  075W
Net Value                                         790              94B          l,970         11,970         11,970             7
Capital Investment               37AM                                             -              -               -
Net Incremental Flow             (30,140)        8,904          10.9hB         11.970         11.970         11.970          20O3T
Financial Rate of Return - Present prices: 30%
10% price decline by 1975 a 25%
Predicted world market prices of 1975 t 18X
Model IV (Farm Size: 2 ha); Investment: Well Ernergisting
Incremental Sales                    _           4,539 S4,667.                  4,795          4,195         14,797           4,797
Incremental Expenses                            3 63.56                             6           516           3,516           3.516
Net Value                            _           1,023           1,lSl             r           1,a79          1,279           1,279
Capital Invesftsfnt                3,700           -
Net Incremental Flow              (3.700)        1.023           1.151          1.279          1.279          1.279           1,279
Financial Rate of Return - Present prices s 23%
10% price decline by 1975 : 16%
Predicted world market prices of 1975 s 16%
Model V (Farm Size 10 ha) Investment  Tubewell
Incremental Sales                    -          12,307         13,685          15,063        15,752          15,752          15,752
Incremental Expenses                 -           8,863          8,863           8,863          8,863         8,863            8,863
Net Value                            -           3 444    -       ,009 _                                        ,009  _        ,209
Capital Investment               14,000
Net Inermeental Flow             (14.000)        3.444           4,822          6.200          6.889           6.889          6.889
Financial Rate of Return - Present prices : 38%
10% price decline by 1975 : 31%
Predicted wrld market prices of 1975 t 22%
Model VI (Farm Size : 5 ha); Investment a DugWe3l olus Pwu  Set -
Incremental Sales                    -           3,882         5,176            6,hiD          6,470          6,470           6,4?o          6,470
Incremental Expenses                 -           le            3,924            3,924         3.924 32924                     3,924         3.924
Net Value                            -             743         1,252            2,546          2,546          2,562,546
Capital Investment                10,000           -             -                -              -
Net Incremental Flow            110,000)           743        1,252             2,546 2      2,5246           2.546           2,546          2,546
Financial Rate of Return - Present prices :  20S
10% price decline by 1975 :  14%
Predicted world market prices of 1975 i 18%
Noveaber 24, 1970






ApRendix 11-Xi
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ESTIMATED INCREASES IN CROPPED AREA AND PRODUCTION
The following increases in cropped area and in production are
estimated at full Project development (in the fourth year after
investment):
Cropped Area (ha)             Production (tons)
Before  After   Increase   Before      After     Increase
Jowar              65,000  30,000  (35,000)   43,000      58,000     15,000
Bajra              68,000  27,000  (41,000)   43,000      25,000    (18,000)
Pulses             16,000  31,000   15,000      6,ooo     25,000     19,000
Rice               19,000  62,000   43,000    27,000   175,000    148,000
Tbtal food grains 168,000 150,000  (18,000)  119,000    283,000   164,000
Groundnut           4,000  28,000   24,000      3,000     42,000     39,000
Sugarcane          12,000  15,000    3,000   840,000  1,050,000    210,000
Cotton (seed)           -  22,000   22,000          -     40,000     40,000
Sesame              4,000  18,000   14,000     1,800       9,500      7,700
Chillies                -   7,000    7,000          -      7,000      7,000
Total all crops   188,000 240,000   52,000
November 24, 1970






ANNEX 12
INDIA
ANDH?A PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
(in Rs million)
Incremental Net Value of Production
Ybar       Investment                          under Three Assumptions l/
1             98.9                           -             -               -
2            124.0                         19.7           16.5            16.3
3             70.7                         51.6           14.6           42.7
4              _                           86.0           74.3            71.5
5              -                          100.0           86.5            82.8
6              _                           109.7          94.3            90.8
7              -                          112.7           97.1            92.9
8             39.1                        112.2           97.1            92.9
9              -                          112.2           97.1            92.9
10              -                          112.2           97.1            92.9
11             15.0                         112.2          97.1            92.9
12              -                          112.2           97.1            92.9
13                                         112.2           97.1            92.9
11              _                           112.2          97.1            92.9
15             45.3                         112.2          97.1            92.9
16              -                           112.2          97.1            92.9
17              -                           112.2          97.1            92.9
18              -                          112.2           97.1            92.9
19              -                          112.2           97.1            92.9
20              _                           119.7         104.6           100.4
Rate of Return:                30%            26%            24%
Note 1/ (a) Under present price rate.
(b) Assuming a 10% price decline by 1975.
(c)  Estimated World Market prices by 1975.
The following assumptions have been made in calculating the economic rate of return:
(1)  Allowances for cost increases are excluded;
(2)  Technical assistancepitems are excluded because benefits cannot be
quantified and would be additional to those assumed for the Project;
(3)  Sales and turnover taxes are excluded;
(4)  Reinvestments would be made in tractors in the 8th and 15th years
and in tractor implements in the 11th year;
(5)  Reinvestments would be made in tubewells in the 15th year: provision
is included at one-third cost to cover 5 year balance of period;
(6) Water costs for land levelling investments on major irrigation schemes
are taken at Rs 70 per ha per annum which is estimated to cover capital
costs (over 45 years) and recurrent costs of irrigation works.
August 13,1970






INDIA
IV\MA H A R A S H T R A                         A                     ,2                   ANDHRA PRADES
| MADHYA  7/                AGRICULTURAL CREDiTIROECT
PRADESH             O R I S S A
, ,_     ADILABAD:'?
5RIKAKULAM
AGAR
NiAMA-  -    .I
(_s  -  y   v  os \   &  o   VISAKHAPAM
/MEDAK                                        E.
- /  t " i      W  : (                 > GODAVARI
HYDERABAD 0   \   NAL   DAWGOESVAR                           -D
4U TUR                                                              uew
KUJRNOOL                   ..                                                                 /
NCUDUAPAH        NL
1,NANTAPJR 
~~~~~~~~1                                                                   _     _     _     _     _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....
T A MIL  NADU
.             ~~~~~~~BRD 3066



