CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 226 IN
Project Agreement
(Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
AND
THE ANDHRA PRADESH CO-OPERATIVE
CENTRAL LAND MORTGAGE BANK LIMITED
AND
THE ANDHRA PRADESH STATE
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CORPORATION LTD.
DATED JANUARY 8, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 226 IN
Project Agreement
(Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
*                 AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
AND
THE ANDHRA PRADESH CO-OPERATIVE
CENTRAL LAND MORTGAGE BANK LIMITED
AND
THE ANDHRA PRADESH STATE
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CORPORATION LTD.
DATED JANUARY 8, 1971


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       January 8,   1971, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION (hereinafter called ARC) and
THE ANDHRA PRADESH CO-OPERATIVE CENTRAL LAND MORTGAGE
BANK LIMITED (hereinafter called LMB) and THE ANDHRA PRADESH STATE
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CORPORATION LTD. (hereinafter called APSAIC).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date herewith between
India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association
(hereinafter referred to as the Development Credit Agreement), the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-four million four hundred thousand dollars ($24,400,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition inter alia that ARC, LMB and APSAIC agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and The State of Andhra Pradesh, The State of Andhra Pradesh has agreed to
undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and ARC. part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to ARC on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ARC, LMB and APSAIC, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed
to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement


﻿4
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the term "Rs" means rupees in the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE 11
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ARC, LMB and APSAIC shall carry out the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial and agricultural
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) ARC shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with
the Borrower on terms and conditions (including inter alia those set forth in
paragraph I of Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement) satisfactory to
the Association. ARC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ARC shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(b)   ARC shall invite commercial banks listed in the Second Schedule to
the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, to participate in the Project, other than
making and obtaining refinancing of loans for land levelling operations. ARC shall
within six months after the date of this Agreement determine which of said banks
shall so participate, the scope of such participation and the date on which such
participation shall commence.
(c)   ARC shall enter into agreements with LMB and each commercial bank
selected by it in accordance with Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement on terms
and conditions (including inter alia those set forth in paragraph 2 of Schedule
5 to the Development Credit Agreement) satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. LMB shall enter into an agreement with each Primary Bank
on terms and conditions (including inter alia those set forth in paragraph 3 of
Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement) satisfactory to ARC.
Section 2.04. The operating policies and procedures for carrying out the
Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Association, Andhra
Pradesh, and ARC.


﻿5
Section 2.05. ARC shall take such measures as shall be necessary to ensure
that appraisals of Agricultural Loans are in conformity with agreed lending criteria
and to ensure that not more than one Agricultural Loan is granted for the same
investment.
Section 2.06. In order to assist LMB in reviewing its loan procedures relating
to land titles, valuation appraisals, loan utilization, and other procedural and
organizational matters concerning LMB and the Primary Banks, LMB shall employ
management consultants upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
and shall submit the consultants' report to the Association within 18 months of
the date of this Agreement.
Section 2.07. LMB shall amend its operating policies and procedures so as
(i) to remove all such limitations on the value land can be assigned for collateral
purposes as may prevent a reflection of its reasonable market value, and (ii) to
revise the present limits for tubewell financing and for farm mechanization financing
applied to Primary Banks lending to Rs24,000 and Rs40,000, respectively.
Section 2.08. APSAIC shall organize the procurement of goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the procedures set forth
or referred to in Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) ARC, LMB and APSAIC undertake to cause all imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be insured against marine,
transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, or that adequate provision be made
for the insurance thereof, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable
in a currency freely usable to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, ARC, LMB and
APSAIC shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit under Categories III and IV of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit
set forth in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.10. ARC, LMB and APSAIC: (i) shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to them
by the Borrower and by ARC, respectively, and to disclose the use thereof in
the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the goods
financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)


﻿6
shall furnish to the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit so relent to them and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.11. ARC and LMB shall at all times charge interest on all of their
loans at rates sufficient to enable ARC and LMB, respectively, to (a) cover all
operating expenditures and charges including taxes (if any) and interest payments
on borrowings; and (b) maintain adequate provisions for bad debts and maintain
adequate general reserves in accordance with sound commercial practice.
ARTICLE Ill
Management and Operations of ARC, LMB and APSAIC
Section 3.01. (a) ARC, LMB and APSAIC shall: (a) at all times manage
their affairs, maintain their financial position, plan their future expansion and carry
on their operations, all in accordance with sound business and financial practices
and under the supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
experienced and competent staff in adequate number.
(b)   Take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and review all rights.,
powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of
their business or in the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.02. ARC shall increase its rate of interest on all lending in Andhra
Pradesh for purposes similar to those under the Project to not less than six and
one-half per cent (6-1/2%) per annum for the period during which Agricultural
Loans are made under the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, LMB shall
apply the same criteria and terms of financing that it applies under the Project
to all its lending operations.
Section 3.04. LMB shall appoint to its staff, by a date not later than two
months from the Effective Date of this Agreement, and thereafter employ an
agricultural economist.
Section 3.05. LMB shall carry out a series of courses to guide Primary Banks'
staff in modern appraisal methods, and ARC shall assist LMB in the preparation
and carrying out of such courses.
Section 3.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, LMB shall
not change its current scale of maximum land levelling lending rates and shall ensure
that such scales are based solely on actual investment costs.


﻿7
Section 3.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, APSAIC shall
maintain its rates for well drilling and its charges for mechanized land levelling
custom work at levels sufficient to recover all costs plus a reasonable margin for
contingencies.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ARC, LMB and APSAIC shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices their
operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. ARC, LMB and APSAIC shall: (i) establish and maintain
separate accounts in respect of all funds disbursed and received on account of
the Project; (ii) have their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish to the Association
as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after the end
of each such year, (A) certified copies of said separate accounts and their financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iv) furnish to the Association such other information concerning
their accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association, ARC, LMB and APSAIC shall cooperate fully
to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Association, ARC, LMB and APSAIC shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance   of  their  respective  obligations  under  this  Agreement, the
administration, operations and financial condition of ARC, LMB or APSAIC and
other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association, ARC, LMB and APSAIC shall promptly inform
each other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by any


﻿8
of them of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower
and ARC of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. ARC, LMB and APSAIC, respectively, shall enable the
Association's representatives to inspect all their records and documents relevant
to the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of ARC, LMB and APSAIC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following
two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date when all principal amounts withdrawn by ARC under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and interest thereon shall have
been repaid by ARC to the Borrower.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify ARC, LMB and APSAIC of this event and, upon
the giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties
thereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any partial cancellation or suspension under the
Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed


﻿9
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For ARC:
Managing Director
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Garment House
Dr. Annie Besant Road
Worli, Bombay, 18 W.B.
India
Cable address:
Agrefinans
Bombay
For LMB:
Managing Director
The Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Central
Land Mortgage Bank Limited
Sahakara Bhavan
Hyderabad, India
Cable address:
Ammorbank
Hyderabad


﻿10
For APSAIC:
Managing Director
The Andhra Pradesh State Agro-Industries
Corporation Ltd.
10-2-3, Intekhab Manzil, A.C. Guards
Hyderabad 4, India
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of (i) ARC may be taken or executed by its Managing Director or such other
person or persons as he shall designate in writing; (ii) LMB may be taken or executed
by its Managing Director or such other person or persons as he shall designate
in writing; and (iii) APSAIC may be taken or executed by its Managing Director
or such other person or persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. ARC, LMB and APSAIC shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of
the person or persons who will, on behalf of ARC, LMB and APSAIC, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed
by ARC, LMB and APSAIC, respectively, pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿11
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
By /s/ L. K. Tha
Authorized Representative
THE ANDHRA PRADESH CO-OPERATIVE CENTRAL
LAND MORTGAGE BANK LIMITED
By /s / L. K. Jha
Authorized Representative
THE ANDHRA PRADESH STATE AGRO-INDUSTRIES
CORPORATION LTD.
By /s/ L. K. Jha
Authorized Representative


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Operating Policies and Procedures
1.    Technical Feasibility of Minor Irrigation Investments
(a)   Loans for minor irrigation shall be granted only for investments to
be made in the 78 taluks set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)   Loans for tubewells shall only be granted if the State Groundwater
Directorate has certified that it has no objection to the technical feasibility of
such wells; provided, however, that loans for tubewells to be located within ten
miles of the coast shall be granted only on the approval of the State Groundwater
Directorate as to the technical feasibility of each such tubewell.
(c)   The State Groundwater Directorate shall determine the areas in respect
of which any loans for dugwells (either new or improvements of existing ones)
would require its prior approval with regard to their technical feasibility. In such
areas the Primary and Participating Banks shall initially finance only minimum size
trial pits to prove whether adequate water resources exist.
2.    Financial Feasibility of Farm Investments
(a)   All investments shall be evaluated in terms of incremental returns from
the additional investment, in accordance with the evaluation method prescribed
by ARC.
(b)   Loans for tractor purchases shall be granted only to Beneficiaries who
shall (i) own such minimum area of land as shall be required under LMB's policies
and procedures, and (ii) offer assurances that he has or will have on or before
the time he receives the tractor, at least three implements for use with the tractor.
In making such Loans the Primary Banks and the Participating Banks shall work
towards applying as a norm for appraisal that a Beneficiary should be able to
demonstrate that the tractor can be used for cultivating not less than 40 ha of
cropped area per year or for 1,000 hours of productive work in agriculture per
year.
(c)   Tractor borrowers shall be required to buy post-warranty service on
their tractors for the life of the tractor loan.


﻿13
3.    Financial Terms and Conditions of Agricultural Loans
(a)   (i)          Loan amounts: tractor loans shall not exceed 75% of the
cost of the tractors, and other loans shall not exceed 80%
of the cost of the goods and services to be financed.
(ii)        Interest rate: 9% per annum    on outstanding balance.
(iii)       Fees: Primary Banks and Participating Banks shall charge
Beneficiaries an evaluation fee at the rate of 1/2% of the
individual investment cost. The proceeds of this fee shall
be retained by said Banks.
(iv)         Loan  maturity: shall be based     on  the Beneficiary's
capacity to repay but shall not exceed, in the case of (i)
minor -irrigation investments in tubewells, dugwells and
well improvements, 9 years; and in pump sets, 7 years;
(ii) land levelling investments, 10 years, including 2 years
of grace in which only interest would be payable; and
(iii) farm mechanization investments, 7 years.
(b)   The following exceptions to the terms and conditions laid down in
3 (a) (i) and (iv) above shall apply in the case of small farmer beneficiaries as
designated in the agreements referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement.
i            Loan amounts: where the investment cost does not exceed
Rsl0,000, loans to individual farmers or groups of farmers
for minor irrigation (excluding pump sets) shall not exceed
90% of the cost of the investment.
(ii)        Loan maturity: maturities shall not exceed 15 years in
the case of loans for such minor irrigation investments
referred to in paragraph (b) (i) above and in the case of
loans for land levelling.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
List of Taluks designated for Tubewell
and Dugwell Investments
A.    Tubewells
Visakhapatnam                               Yelamanchili
Anakapalli
Vizianagaram
S. Kota
Chodavaram
East Godavari                               Prathipadu
Tuni
Kakinada
Pithapuram
West Godavari                               Tadepalligudem
Krishna                                     Vijayawada
Gudivada
Gannavaram
Guntur                                      Guntur
Nellore                                     Sullurpet
Nizarnabad                                  Armoor
B.   Dugwells
Srikakulam                                  Srikakulam
Chipurupalle
Narasannapeta
Tekkali
Bobbili
Visakhapatnam                               Narsipatnam
Anakapalli
Yelamanchili
Vizianagararn


﻿15
Visakhapatnam                              S. Kota
Chodavaram
East Godavari                              Prathipadu
Tuni
Krishna                                    Vijayawada
Guntur                                     Guntur
Gurazala
Ongole
Nellore                                    Podili
Kandukuru
Kavali
Darsi
Sullurpet
Khammam                                    Burgampad
Khammam
Nalgonda                                   Nalgonda
Bhongir
Devarkonda
Miryalguda
Mahbubnagar                                Mahbubnagar
Nagarkurnool
Achampet
Gadwal
Kodangal
Shadnagar
Wanaparthy
Kalwakurthy
Kollapur
Atmakur
Makhtal
Kurnool                                    Banganapalle
Nandyal
Adoni
Giddalur
Nandikotkur


﻿16
Cuddapah                                    Cuddapah
Rayachoti
Rajampet
Proddatur
Jamalamadugu
Anantapur                                   Anantapur
Rayadurg
Kadiri
Warangal                                    Jangaon
Parkal
Narsampet
Mahbubabad
Warangal
Karimnagar                                  Karimnagar
Jagtiyal
Metpally
Sirsilla
Sultanabad
Huzurabad
Nizamabad                                   Armoor
Madnoor
Medak                                       Siddipet
Sangareddy
Medek
Jogipet
Hyderabad                                   Tandur
Pargi
Medchal
Ibrahimpatnam


