CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 226 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 8, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 226 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 8, 1971


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AG"EEMENT, dated      January 8,    1971, between INDIA, acting by its
President  (hereinafter  called  the   Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
The State of Andhra Pradesh, The State of Andhra Pradesh has agreed to undertake
certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project.
(C)   By an agreement of even date herewith among the Association.
Agricultural Refinance Corporation, The Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Central Land
Mortgage Bank Limited and The Andhra Pradesh State Agro-Industries Corporation
Ltd., certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project have been
undertaken by the Agricultural Refinance Corporation. The Andhra Pradesh
*        Co-operative C-tral Land Mortgage Bank Limited and The Andhra Pradesh State
Agro-Industries Corporation Ltd., respectively: and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing.
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as tollows
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿4
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted.
(b)   Paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"5. The term 'Borrower' means India, acting by its President."
(c)   The following paragraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The terms 'Project Agreement' and 'Andhra Pradesh Agreement'
have the meaning set forth in the Development Credit Agreement."
(d)   The words "the Project Agreement and the Andhra Pradesh
Agreement" are added after the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in
Section 6.06.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Andhra Pradesh" means The State of Andhra Pradesh, a state of India,
or any successor thereof.
(b)   "Andhra Pradesh Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between Andhra Pradesh and the Association, as the same may be amended
from time to time.
(c)   "ARC"   means Agricultural Refinance Corporation, a statutory
corporation established and organized under the laws of the Borrower.
(d)   "LMB" means The Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Central Land
Mortgage Bank Limited, a cooperative society established andu organized under the
laws of Andhra Pradesh.
(e)   "APSAIC"   means The     Andhra   Pradesh  State Agro-Industries
Corporation Ltd., a corporation established and organized under the laws of the
Borrower.
(f)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Association, ARC, LMB and APSAIC, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement.


﻿5
(g)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ARC pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) and Schedule 5 hereof
as the same may be amended from      time to time with the approval of the
Association, and such term includes all schedules, if any, to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(h)   "Project Area" means the territory of Andhra Pradesh.
(i)   "Agricultural Loan" means any loan made or proposed to be made
to a Beneficiary and to be financed Out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(j)   "Beneficiary" means (i) any person or enterprise carrying out farm
custom work in the Project Area, or (ii) any farmer, group of farmers or cooperative
farming society, carrying out farm work in the Project Area, which is eligible to
receive an Agricultural Loan.
(k)   "State Groundwater Directorate" means the directorate referred to in
Section 2.02 of the Andhra Pradesh Agreement.
(1)   "Participating Bank" means any commercial bank, listed in the Second
Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, which has entered into an
agreement with ARC in accordance with Section 2.02 (c) of the Project Agreement.
(m)   "Primary Bank" means any Primary Land Mortgage Bank which is a
member of LMB and which has entered into an agreement with LMB in accordance
with Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE 11
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-four million four hundred
thousand dollars ($24,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the


﻿6
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1974, or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February 15
and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
February 15   and  August 15   commencing   February 15, 1981 and    ending
August 15, 2020, each installment to and including the installment payable on
August 15, 1990 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE Ill
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out,
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, agricultural and financial practices, and shall provide, or cause to
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction upon any of the obligations of the
Borrower set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall take all
action including, in particular, without reconsideration of the eligibility of the items
for importation, the granting of all necessary licenses, foreign exchange permits
and other approvals required to ensure the prompt importation of the following:


﻿7
(i) that part of the equipment listed in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement that shall be procured from outside the territories of the Borrower
in accordance with the provisions contained in Schedule 3 to this Agreement and
as are required for the efficient carrying out of the Project, (ii) spare parts for
the tractors imported under the Project in an amount equal to 1I5% of the c.i.f.
price of such tractors; and (iii) for a period of five years commencing two years
after the disbursement date in respect of each consignment of tractors financed
under the Credit, spare parts for such tractors in an annual amount equal to 10%
of the c.i.f. price of tractors imported pursuant to subparagraph (i) hereof or such
smaller amount as may from time to time be agreed to between the Borrower
and the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement on terms
and conditions (including inter alia those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement)
satisfactory to the Association for the purpose of relending to ARC for relending
to LMB and Participating Banks the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit in
respect of Categories I, II, III and IV of the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement. The Borrower shall exercise its
rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
(d)   The operating policies and procedures for the carrying out of the
Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement and as the
same may be amended from time to time between the Association, ARC, LMB
and APSAIC
(e)   The Borrower shall make available to LMB through Andhra Pradesh
the proceeds of the Credit in respect of Category VI of the allocation of the
proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to
take all action which shall be necessary on their part to enable (i) Andhra Pradesh
to perform all its obligations under the Andhra Pradesh Agreement, and (ii) ARC,
LMB and APSAIC to perform their obligations under the Project Agreement, and
shall not take or permit any of its agencies to take any action which would prevent
or interfere with the performance of any such obligations of Andhra Pradesh, ARC,
LMB or APSAIC.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall insure, or cause to be insured, or make,
or cause to be made, adequate provision for the insurance of the imported goods


﻿8
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against marine, transit and other
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in
a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit under Categories Ill
and IV of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule I
to this Agreement shall be procured in accordance with the provisions set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. In order to assist the State Groundwater Directorate in its
organization, staffing and operations, the Borrower shall employ, or cause to be
employed, commencing by a date not later than three months from the Effective
Date, internationally recruited consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause ARC, LMB and APSAIC to
maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintaiied
souna accounting practices their operations and financial condition.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause ARC, LMB and APSAIC to: (i) establish
and maintain separate accounts in respect of all funds disbursed and received on
account of the Project; (ii) have their accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of their financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iv) furnish to the Association such other information concerning their accounts
and financial statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.


﻿9
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by Andhra Pradesh of its obligations under the Andhra
Pradesh Agreement, the performance by ARC, LMB and APSAIC of their
obligations under the Project Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of ARC, LMB and APSAIC and, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
*        and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition of ARC, LMB and APSAIC and,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof, the performance
by the Borrower of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement,
the performance by Andhra Pradesh of its obligations under the Andhra Pradesh
Agreement, the performance by ARC of its obligations under the Project Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or the performance by LMB and APSAIC
of their respective obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿10
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement, the Andhra Pradesh
Agreement and the Project Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in
connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the Geieral Conditions
or in Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   A default shall occur in the performance of any obligation on the
part of Andhra Pradesh under the Andhra Pradesh Agreement and such default
shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower and Andhra Pradesh.
(b)   A default shall occur in the performance of any obligation on the
part of ARC, LMB or APSAIC under the Project Agreement and such default shall


﻿11
continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower and the party who shall have defaulted in such
performance.
(c)   A default shall occur in the performance of any obligation of ARC
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and such default shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower and the party who shall have defaulted in such performance.
(d)   ARC, LMB or APSAIC shall have become unable to pay any of their
debts as they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by ARC,
LMB or APSAIC or by others whereby any of the property of ARC, LMB or
APSAIC shall or may be distributed among its creditors.
(e)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ARC, LMB or APSAIC
or for the suspension of their operations.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that (i) Andhra Pradesh will be able to perform its obligations
under the Andhra Pradesh Agreement, or (ii) ARC, LMB or APSAIC will
be able to perform their respective obligations inder the Project Agreemnt
or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)  The execution and delivery of the Andhra Pradesh Agreement on behalf
of Andhra Pradesh have been duly authorized or ratifed by all necessary
governmental action.
(b)  The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
ARC, LMB and APSAIC, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate and governmental action.


﻿12
(c)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and ARC, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(d)   The State Groundwater Directorate shall have been established and
shall be operating with such initial staff as shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Andhra Pradesh Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, Andhra Pradesh and constitutes
a valid and binding obligation of Andhra Pradesh in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, ARC, LMB and ASPAIC, respectively,
and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of ARC, LMB and APSAIC in
accordance with its terms.
(c)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and ARC.
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
ARC in accordance with its terms.
(d)   That the State Groundwater Directorate shall have been validly
established.
Section 8.03. The date April 8, 1971 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. On termination of the Project Agreement in accordance with
its terms, the obligations of the Borrower with respect to the Project shall forthwith
terminate.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. Any Secretary, Special Secretary or Joint Secretary to the
Government of India in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower or a Director
of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower,
01


﻿13
acting singly, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
Ecofairs
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H- Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the      parties hereto, acting through  their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿14
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s / L. K. Jha
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in           % of Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
I.    Loans for minor               14,000,000           66% of total expendi-
irrigation                                         tures pursuant to
loans for minor irri-
gation
II.   Loans for land                 5,240,000           67% of total expendi-
levelling                                          tures pursuant to
loans for land level-
ling
III.  Tractors and                   4,790,000           100% of foreign
tractor spare                                      expenditures
parts
IV.   Discs and plough                  90,000           100% of foreign
bottoms                                            expenditures
V.    Consultants' serv-               240,000           100% of foreign
ices for State Ground-                             expenditures
water Directorate
VI.   Consultants' serv-                40,000          50% of total expendi-
ices for LMB                                       tures
TOTAL         24,400,000


﻿16
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any member of the Bank (other than the Borrower) or of Switzerland;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes, such percentage shall be
reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will be withdrawn on account
of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of the expenditures
under Category II, III, IV, V or VI shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then
allocated to such Category and no longer required therefor will be reallocated by
the Association (subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as
determined by the Association, in respect of any other Categories) by increasing
correspondingly the amount allocated to Category I and the Association will
increase correspondingly (up to a maximum of 100% net of taxes) the percentage
applicable to Category I.
5.   Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above or the provisions of paragraph 4 above, if the estimate of
total expenditures under Category I, II or VI shall increase and no proceeds of
the Credit are available for reallocation to such Category, the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, part of a lending program for agricultural development in Andlhra
Pradesh, consists of:
A.    A 2-1/2 year program to finance investments in minor irrigation, land
levelling and farm mechanization through long-term loans to Beneficiaries in the
Project Area granted by Primary Banks and Participating Banks, which loans will
be refinanced in accordance with the terms and conditions of Schedule 5 of this
Agreement, and with the Project Agreement.
B.    (i)   The provision of technical assistance to the State Groundwater
Directorate.
(ii) The provision of technical assistance to LMB to carry out a study
of the procedures and operations of LMB and its federated Primary Banks.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement Procedures
The Borrower will establish a special committee (hereinafter called the
Committee) for the purpose of directing the procurement of goods under the
Project. The Committee shall consis, of representatives of the Borrower (one of
whom shall be the chairman), the Government of Andhra Pradesh and ARC.
APSAIC will organize procurement of equipment eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the following pro, edures:
1.    Tractors and Spare Parts
(a)   APSAIC will obtain quotations for lots of at least 500 tractors in order
to import about 1,500 tractors. Quotations will be sought by public invitation,
on unit prices at varying quantities, from those suppliers in Bank member countries
and Switzerland who have established tractor manufacturing facilities in India, or
have obtained necessary approvals of the Borrower, for the manufacture of tractors
in India, prior to the date on which quotations are sought. Before bids are invited
the Committee will furnish to the Association, for its comments, the text of the
invitations to bid, the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures and coverage to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docum'ents or procedures
as the Association may reasonably request.
(b)   APSAIC will require all suppliers submitting quotations to give full
particulars as to proposed pre-sales and after-sales service arrangements, including
provision for spare parts equal to 15% of the c.i.f. price of tractors supplied. Any
supplier not providing satisfactory assurances as to service arrangements would be
disqualified by the Committee.
(c)   APSAIC will advertise through LMB and the Participating Banks the
quoted prices and the service arrangements offered by the different suppliers.
Beneficiaries will be required to state to the Primary Bank or the Participating
Bank of their choice for transmittal to APSAIC their choices, in order of preference,
of, and at the same time apply for an Agricultural Loan for, tractors which they
would be willing to buy. Loan applications will be processed in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
(d)   APSAIC will aggregate the orders received, according to first tractor
choices. If the aggregate orders for the particular model come to below the


﻿19
minimum acceptable order for that manufacturer at the unit prices quoted for
varying quantities, APSAIC will discard the first choice for those farmers and
proceed on the basis of second or other choices as agreed to by the Association.
After review and analysis by the Committee, APSAIC will send to the Association
its analysis of bids and its recommendations before orders are placed. The
Association shall promptly inform the Committee whether it has any objections
to the intended placement of order and shall state the reasons for any objections
it may have.
(e)   APSAIC will arrange for the importation, insurance and transportation
to Andhra Pradesh of tractors. APSAIC also will enter into contracts with the
selected suppliers or their agents which would specify service arrangements and
performance assurances including the supply of spare parts. Agents representing
suppliers will be required to sell post-warranty service.
(f)   APSAIC    will arrange for the distribution of tractors to agents
designated by the suppliers who would perform pre-sales services and sell the
tractors to Beneficiaries. APSAIC may charge agents a fee for its services.
(g)   Suppliers will be required to maintain stocks of spare parts referred
to under paragraph 1 (b) of this Schedule by a designated representative in a central
store to be released through agents for tractors imported under the Project.
2.    Discs and Plough Bottoms
Discs and plough bottoms will be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969.
3.    Cancellation
If a contract for the supply of tractors, tractor spare parts, discs or plough
bottoms shall be awarded according to procedures inconsistent with those set forth
or referred to in this Schedule or over the Association's reasonable objection on
the grounds of inconsistency with such procedures or if the terms and conditions
of such contract shall, without the Association's prior concurrence, materially differ
from those on which bids were asked, the Association may by notice to the
Borrower cancel such amounts of the Credit as the Association shall reasonably
determine to represent such expenditures for goods or services included under such
contract or any portion of such expenditures as would otherwise have been eligible
for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 4
Equipment Required for the Project
1.    Tractors of not less than 30 hp.
2.    Tractor implements: trailers, cultivators, puddling wheels, disc harrows,
mould-board plows, levelling blades, seeds and fertilizer drills.
3.    Tractor spare parts.
4.    Pumps, engines, electric motors, electric connections and tubes for
tubewells.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 5
Principal Terms of Relending Agreements
The following sets forth the principal terms and conditions under which part
of the proceeds of the Credit or the equivalent thereof shall be lent to ARC and
under which part of such proceeds shall be relent to LMB, the Participating Banks
and the Primary Banks:
1. Lending Terms to ARC from India:
(a)   Term:
(i)        9 years in the case of proceeds of the Credit relating to
investments in pump sets and farm mechanization.
(ii)       Above 9 years and up to 15 years in the case of proceeds
of the Credit relating to investments on minor irrigation
and land levelling.
(b)   Repayment Terms: One lump sum repayment for each drawing by
ARC at the end of the respective term of the loan.
(c)   Interest Rates:
(i)        5% per annum with 1/4% rebate for prompt payment of
interest and principal in the case of loans referred to in
(a) (i) above, and
(ii)       5-1/2% per annum with 1/4% rebate for prompt payment
of interest and principal in the case of loans referred to
in (a) (ii) above.
(d)   Exchange Risk: for account of India.
2.    Lending Terms to LMB and Participating Banks from ARC.
(a)   Amount: Except as provided in subparagraph (b) below, ARC shall
refinance no more than 90% of Agricultural Loans for minor irrigation
investments and 75% of Agricultural Loans for other purposes.


﻿22
(b)   ARC shall not refinance any Agricultural Loans made by Participating
Banks for land levelling operations.
(c)   Repayment Terms: set to coincide, more or less, with expected
collections of Agricultural Loans refinanced.
(d)  Interest Rate: 6-1/2% per annum on outstanding balance.
3.    Lending Terms to Primary Banks from  LMB:
(a)   Amount: LMB shall refinance 100% of Agricultural Loans made by
Primary Banks.
(b)   Repayment Terms: set to coincide, more or less, with expected
collections of Agricultural Loans refinanced.
(c)   Interest Rate: 7-3/4% per annum on outstanding balance.
4.    Re-use of Funds under the Credit.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, repayments to ARC from
LMB and the Participating Banks shall be deposited in a special account to be
used only for refinancing ARC-approved agricultural development schemes, such
schemes to be carried out in conformity with sound administrative, agricultural
and financial practices.


