                                                                                                                     96359
                                                                                                               October 4, 2011
A Cleaner Power Grid in Bosnia and Herzegovina
Jasmina Hadzic, Communications Assistant in the Bosnia and
Herzegovina World Bank Office, offers this story.
                                                                    Photo Gallery
Stjepan Tomic can see the chimney of the Kakanj Power
Plant from his backyard on the Bosna River. He remembers
when the plant spewed so much ash that it covered his
village.

“There was a lot of dust and sometimes when the chimneys
were firing, ash particles fell like snow on those near the
power plant. You could even see footprints in the dust on the
road. And the dust was very noticeable on rooftops,” he says,
adding, “There is a lot less dust now.”                             Related Links

That is because the Kakanj Power Plant in Bosnia and                World Bank in Bosnia and Herzegovina 
Herzegovina is being reconstructed as part of a regional
                                                                    Energy Community of South East
program supported by the World Bank to rehabilitate and
                                                                    Europe Project (2006-2012)
strengthen the power system in Southeastern Europe, and to
establish a regional electricity market. Bosnia and                 Elektroprivreda of Bosnia and
Herzegovina’s power infrastructure was badly damaged                Herzegovina 
during the war of 1992 - 1995, and its citizens were
                                                                    Elektroprivreda of Croat Community
disconnected from the regional grid.                                Herzeg-Bosnia

The Bosnia and Herzegovina project aims to improve the                 Elektroprivreda of Republika Srpska
environmental performance of four coal-fired power plants
and improve the safety of dams in the country. It funded the
installation of a bag filter on one of the Kakanj Power Plant’s three power blocks to catch ash before it is
released in the air. This emissions control system is the first of its kind in the Western Balkans. Another
innovation is the placement of emissions monitors in several public areas in the nearby town and its
suburbs, so that citizens are kept informed of the air quality in their immediate surroundings.

                         Measurements show air quality has improved significantly and will be even
                         cleaner once a second filter, financed by the power company, starts working
                         next year.

                         “The filter has made a difference,” says Tomic. “The ash dump is still a problem
                         but it is currently being worked on.”

                       The ash dump he is referring to is a mountain of ash and slag leftover from
Tomic with his wife    power generation that the power company dumped on a nearby hillside for
                       almost sixty years. Thanks to years of rainfall, the heap is slowly turning into
concrete. But when the wind blows, ash still flies.

With World Bank funding, the power company is reshaping the gigantic hillside of dumped ash into safer,
more stable terraces, and investing in infrastructure to collect and drain water cleanly. Once that work is
done, the area will be planted with grass and trees. A fence will prevent illegal dumping and deter
people from falling over the edge of what is locally known as ‘the depot’.

                         “Recultivation of the depot is a long-term project that we are undertaking in
                         order to keep within the legal framework and to reduce environment pollution,”
                         says Ilijas Hasanbegovic, Technical Manager, Kakanj Thermal Power Plant.

                         As it operates, the plant continues to produce ash, which it now wets as it
                         dumps, in order to keep the amount of dust under control. And it will no longer
                         pile the ash into a gigantic heap, but layer it. And as the plant keeps to stricter
                         environmental standards, it is now using 15 times less river water for cooling
Ilijas Hasanbegovic      than it once did.

Three other power plants around Bosnia and Herzegovina are being reconstructed under the project.
Work is expected to be finished by June 2012.

Since 1996, transmission stations and hundreds of kilometers of power lines have been rehabilitated
thanks to projects financed by the World Bank, in cooperation with the European Union (EU), European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), European Investment Bank (EIB), United States
Agency for International Development (USAID), and the German Development Bank (KfW).

Measurements show air quality has improved significantly and will be even cleaner once a second filter,
financed by the power company, starts working next year.
