RP47
Resettlement Policy  Revised Vol. 3
DPWH
METRO MANILA URBAN TRANSPORT INTEGRATED
PROJECT
POLICY FRAMEWORK
FOR
LAND ACQUISITION, RESETTLEMENT AND
REHABILITATION
Department of Public Works and Highways
Manila, Philippines
May 2001
FLE COPY
1



*                                   Resettlement Policy
DPWH
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.     Introduction
2.     Definition of Terms
3.     Objectives and Principles of the Resettlement Policy
3.1 Overall Philosophy of the Resettlement Policy
3.2 Principles of Resettlement
4.     Institutional and Legal Framework
4.1 Institutional Framework
4.2 Legal Framework
a) PD 17 (Revised Highway Act)
b) EO1 13 (1995), EO 621 (1980)
c) EO 1035
d) PD 1818 (1981)
e) MO 65, Series Of 1983
f) Supreme Court Ruling (1987)
g) DO 142 (1995)
h) RA 6389
i) Republic Act 7279 (1992) and RA 8368 (1997)
j) AO 50 (1999)
k) RA 8974
5.     Compensation Matrix
6.     Application of the Participatory Process to the Project Cycle
6.1 Project Preparation Stage
a) Pre-feasibility
b) Feasibility
c) Finalization of Technical Design
6.2 Project Implementation Stage
6.3 Post-project Implementation Stage
7.     Institutional Requirements of Resettlement
7.1 DPWH
a) Environment and Social Services (ESS)
b) Regional and District Engineering Offices Of DPWH
7.2 RAP Implementation Committee (RIC)
7.3 Grievance Procedures
8.     Roles and Responsibilities of the DPWH, the Stakeholder and the Communities
9.     Costs and Budget
2



*                                   Resettlement Policy
DPWH
1.  INTRODUCTION
DPWH is aware that in the implementation of MMURTRIP, the following key social
concerns will have to be addressed:
a. Involuntary Resettlement
b. Public Consultation and Participation
c. Protection of Marginalized and Vulnerable Groups
DPWH will, therefore, undertake during the pre-feasibility and environmental screening stage
of project preparation a Social Impact Assessment (SIA) exercise and Land Acquisition
Assessment (LAA) to study the types, degree and scale of impacts of the project. Particular
attention will be paid to adverse impacts to the affected community, such as loss of land and
other fixed assets and the number of persons marginally or severely affected. Where possible,
appropriate modifications to the project will be made in order to avoid or minimize adverse
impacts. However, if adverse impacts are inevitable, appropriate mitigating measures will be
adopted precisely for the purpose of minimizing foreseeable socio-economic effects that a
project will have on the people. To help ensure this, a resettlement action plan (RAP) will be
prepared by the Department.
DPWH has formulated the Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Rehabilitation Policy,
hereinafter called as the 'Resettlement Policy', to govern MMURTRIP projects relative to
land acquisition, compensation, and resettlement of project-affected persons (PAPs) and
vulnerable communities.
This Resettlement Policy will aim to achieve the following:
a. Adverse social impacts of road projects are avoided, minimized, and/or mitigated;
b. PAPs are provided with compensation at replacement cost and assistance for lost
assets which will assist them to improve or at least maintain their pre-Project
standards of living; and
c. Everybody will benefit from the projects.
The LARR Policy will serve as the overall framework in the preparation of RAPs for projects
to be implemented under the World Bank-assisted MMURTRIP. Included in this policy are
the principles and objectives used; a rundown of existing legal, regulatory and policy
framework within which the Policy has to operate; compensation matrix; general procedures
to be followed to ensure public support; and, provisions for internal and external monitoring.
3



*                                   Resettlement Policy
DPWH
2.   DEFINITION OF TERMS
a) Compensation means payment in cash or in kind for an asset to be acquired or affected
by an infrastructure project at replacement cost as provided in Section 2j below.
b) Cut-off Date is the date of commencement of the census of affected persons within the
project area boundaries. Persons not covered in the census are not eligible for claims for
compensation.
c) Disturbance Assistance is the amount given to each PAP who holds full title, tax
declaration or some proof of traditional ownership (such as usufruct when the PAP
belongs to an indigenous community), to the land where his/her severely affected house
stands and who has to shift elsewhere.
d) Financial Assistance is the cash amount paid to agricultural tenants/settlers/occupants
severely affected by the project equivalent to the average gross harvest for the last 3 years
but not less than PhP 15,000 per ha (EO 1035), aside from the cash payment/compensation
of their crops actually damaged by the project. It may also be given to owners of the land
acquired under CA 141 for the area of portion subject to section 112 thereof.
e) Land Acquisition means the process whereby a person is compelled by the Government
alienate all or part of the land he/she owns or possesses, to the ownership and possession
of the government, for public purpose in return for a consideration.
f) Professional Squatters means individual or groups of individuals who squat on publicly
and privately owned land for purposes of renting out to third parties (a) such land whether
for farming or housing plots purposes, or b) structures (houses and businesses) whether
already existing in the land or constructed by them thereon, with full knowledge that they
have no legal right or claim to such land or the use thereof. This definition excludes
individuals or groups that simply rent land and housing from professional squatters or
squatting syndicates. The implementation agency in collaboration with the community
leaders of the Affected Persons will establish and publish in the affected area a list of
persons who fall within this definition. Within thirty (30) days of publication any person
included in such list may petition and seek a review of his/her status through the
grievance procedure referred to in Section 7.3 of this Policy Framework.
g) Project Affected Family (PAF) consists of all members of a household residing under
one roof and operating as a single economic unit, who are adversely affected by the
project. For resettlement purposes, Project Affected Persons (PAPs) will be dealt with as
members of Project Affected Families (PAFs).
h) Project Affected Person (PAP) means a person who on account of the project, would
have his or her: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in
any house, or interest in or right to use any land (including premises, agricultural and
grazing land) or right in annual or perennial crops and trees or any other fixed or movable
4



4                                       Resettlement Policy
DPWH
asset, acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation,
work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently, and
"Project Affected Persons" means, collectively, all persons who qualify as an Project
Affected Person.
i) Relocation means the physical shifting of a PAP from his/her pre-project place of
residence.
j)  Replacement Cost means the method of valuation of assets which helps determine the
amount sufficient to replace lost assets and cover transaction costs. In applying this
method of valuation, depreciation of structures and assets should not be taken into
account. The replacement cost is determined by an independent appraiser applying
intemationally recognized valuation standards, hired by either the project, or by a court of
law as compensation for:
i. Agricultural or residential land;
ii. Houses and other related structures based on current market prices of materials and
labor with no deductions for salvaged building materials;
iii. Crops based on current replacement cost; and
iv. Trees and other perennials based on DENR or those of the independent
consultant's."
With regard to land and structures, replacement cost is defined as follows: For
agricultural land, it is the pre-project or pre-displacement, which ever is higher, market
value of land of equal productive potential or use located in the vicinity of the affected
land, plus the cost of land preparation to levels similar to those of the affected land, plus
the cost of any registration and transfer taxes; for land in urban areas, it is the pre-
displacement market value of land of equal size and use, with similar or improved public
infrastructure facilities and services and located in the vicinity of the affected land, plus
the cost of any registration and transfer taxes; for houses and other infrastructures, it is the
market cost of the materials to build a replacement structure with an area and quality
similar to or better than those of the affected structure, or to repair a partially affected
structure, plus the cost of transporting building materials to the construction site, plus the
cost of any labor and contractors' fees, plus the cost of any registration and transfer taxes.
In determining the replacement cost, depreciation of the asset and the value of salvage
materials are not taken into account, nor is the value of benefits to be derived from the
project deducted from the valuation of an affected asset.
k) Resettlement means all measures taken to mitigate any and all adverse social impacts of a
project on the PAPs, including compensation and relocation as needed.
I) Social Assessment is a framework for incorporating social analysis and participatory
process in project design and implementation.
5



*                                   Resettlement Policy
DPWH
3. OBJECTIVES AND PRINCIPLES OF THE RESETTLEMENT
POLICY
3.1    Overall Philosophy of the Resettlement Policy
This Resettlement Policy is anchored on the philosophy that government projects must serve
the common good. However, in the design and implementation of such projects, all efforts
must be exercised to ensure that:
a) Adverse social and physical impacts are avoided, minimized and/or mitigated;
b) Everybody, including PAPs, will benefit from the projects;
c) PAPs are provided with compensation at replacement cost and assistance for lost
assets which will assist them improve or at least maintain their pre-Project standard of
living; and
d) Project stakeholders (which include PAPs) are consulted regarding the project's
design, implementation and operation.
3.2    Principles of Resettlement
The following principles will be applied in this Resettlement Policy:
a. Acquisition of land and other assets and shifting of people will be avoided or minimized
as much as possible.
b. Only those PAPs found to be residing in, doing business, or cultivating land, or having
rights over resources within, the project area as of the date of the census surveys (i.e., cut-
off date) are eligible for compensation for lost assets.
c. In following the objective of the Resettlement Policy that displaced persons will be
assisted in their efforts to improve their livelihood and standards of living, or at least to
restore them to the pre-project level, and to meet the provisions of World Bank
Operational Directive 4.30 and the provisions of RA 8974, the DPWH will compensate
the PAPs for the affected assets at their replacement cost as the term is defined in 2j of the
Resettlement Policy. The replacement cost would be determined by an accredited or
licensed independent appraiser applying internationally recognized valuation standards.
Proof of ownership over a piece of land may be established through possession of a title
or tax declaration, or customary law (e.g., usufruct, possessory rights) or other acceptable
proof of ownership. The absence of legal title or legal right by PAPs shall not be a bar to
compensation.
d. If the PAP rejects the compensation at replacement cost offered by the DPWH as
compensation for the land, the DPWH or the PAP may take the matter to a court of law.
When expropriation proceedings through the court are resorted to by DPWH, the DPWH
will deposit with the court in escrow the whole amount of the replacement cost (100%) it
6



*                                   Resettlement Policy
DPWH
is offering the PAP for his/her land as compensation to allow the DPWH to proceed with
the works. Such amount will be the replacement cost of the assets as determined by an
accredited or licensed independent appraiser applying internationally recognized valuation
standards. The PAP will receive the replacement cost of the assets within one (1) month
following receipt of the decision of the court.
e. The DPWH will compensate the PAP for improvements and structures at replacement
cost as determined by an accredited or licensed independent appraiser applying
internationally recognized valuation standards.
f  If the PAP rejects the compensation at replacement cost offered by the DPWH as
compensation for improvements and other structures, e.g., main structures and/or
miscellaneous structures, plants and trees of commercial value, the DPWH or the PAP
may take the matter to a court of law. When expropriation through the court is resorted to
by the DPWH, the DPWH will deposit with the court in escrow the whole amount of the
replacement cost (100%) it is offering the PAP for such assets as compensation to allow
the DPWH to proceed with the works. Such amount will be the replacement cost of the
assets as determined by an accredited or licensed independent appraiser applying
internationally recognized valuation standards. DPWH would only proceed with the
works after the amount was deposited valuation standards. DPWH would only proceed
with the works after the amount was deposited in escrow. The PAP will receive the
replacement cost of the assets within one (1) month following receipt of the decision of
the court. The PAP may keep the salvageable materials.
g. PAPs losing all of their improvements and structures (e.g., farmland, house), or incurring
partial loss where the remaining assets are economically viable for continues use,
compensation for the affected assets will be paid in cash at replacement cost..
h. In the case of PAPs affected by partial impact on their assets, i.e., less than 20% loss of
land or structures, and where the remaining assets are economically viable for continued
use, compensation for the affected assets will be paid in cash at replacement cost.
i. PAPs who are squatting on the ROW at the Cut-Off Date will be compensated at
replacement cost for the structures, trees of commercial value and crops. To achieve the
objectives of this Resettlement Policy, at the PAPs choice, for the land they are squatting
on they will be provided with a plot of land in an existing municipal resettlement site in
the vicinity or with rehabilitation assistance to maintain their pre-Project standards of
living.
j. Financial assistance to agricultural tenants/settlers/occupants severely affected by the
project equivalent to the average annual gross harvest for the last 3 years but not less than
PhP15,000 per ha (EO1035), aside from the cash payment/compensation of their crops
actually damaged by the project. Disturbance compensation to agricultural lessees
severely affected by the project equivalent to 5 times the average gross harvest during the
last 5 years (EO 1035).
7



*                                      Resettlement Policy
DPWH
k. DPWH will provide the following resettlements assistance to eligible PAPs consistent
with Section 5 of RA 8974:
k.l Disturbance assistance not to exceed PhPI0,000 to each PAP doing business on
severely-affected independent shops (e.g., store, shop, warehouse, and similar
structures) which are constructed on lands that are covered by titles, tax declaration
that can be perfected into a title, or some proof of traditional ownership.
k.2 Disturbance assistance not to exceed PhPIO,000 to each PAP for his/her severely
affected house on land that is covered by full title, tax declaration that can perfected
into a title, or some proof of traditional ownership (such as usufruct when the PAP
belongs to an indigenous community) and who have to shift elsewhere.
k.3 Granting of rehabilitation assistance in the form of special skills training or other
development activities to PAPs whose only source of income is severely impacted and
which will require the PAP to engage in some other income-earning activities. This
rehabilitation assistance may also be granted to vulnerable groups, like indigenous peoples,
women, elderly, etc. DPWH will coordinate closely with concerned government agencies
that have the mandate and the expertise to undertake rehabilitation assistance, such as the
conduct of skills training.
k.4 Transportation assistance (in cash or in kind, depending on the mutual agreement of the PAP
and the DPWH) to PAPs who are relocating, including shanty dwellers in urban areas who
opt to go back to their places of origin (e.g., province) or to shift to government relocation
sites.
1) Replacement of residential and agricultural lands will be as close as possible to the land that was
lost. All replacement land for residence, commerce and agriculture will be provided with secured
tenure status.
m) Where relocation is considered necessary, the lot owner of the proposed relocation site will also
be entitled to compensation for his/her land. The receiving LGU (i.e., the LGU under whose
political jurisdiction the relocation site is located) may apply for assistance with DPWH for
the provision of basic services, such as streetlights and improved access road, for the community
where the relocation site is to be constructed.
n) Plans for the acquisition of land and other assets will be carried out in consultation with the PAPs
who will receive prior information of the compensation options available to them.
o) Any acquisition of, or restriction on access to resources owned or managed by PAPs as a
common property will be mitigated by arrangements ensuring access of those PAPs to equivalent
resources on a continuing basis.
p) Resettlement programs will include adequate institutional arrangements to ensure effective and
timely design, planning, consultation and implementation of compensation and resettlement.
8



4                                      Resettlement Policy
DPWH
DPWH will ensure effective coordination with relevant agencies for the implementation of the
resettlement plan.
q) Adequate arrangements will be made for effective and timely supervision, internal and external
monitoring of the implementation of the RAP.
r) The resettlement transition period will be minimized and the acquisition of assets needed for the
project (by way of a Writ of Possession in the event of expropriation proceedings), as well as all
resettlement activities including compensation, will be completed at least one month prior to the
commencement of construction work.
s) The DPWH will only issue bidding documents for the works once the resettlement has
been completed in accordance with this Resettlement Policy including compensation in full to
all PAPs.
9



*B                                  Resettlement Policy
DPWH
4.  INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK
4.1    Institutional Framework
The overall responsibility for enforcing this Resettlement Policy, including preparation of
necessary Resettlement Action Plans and/or other documents, and for implementing the RAPs,
rests with the DPWH. To ensure that this policy is carried out effectively in a project, DPWH
will designate an 'External Monitoring Agent' to monitor the effectiveness of resettlement
activities. The Department will make special efforts to ensure good community relationship and
to promptly address compensation problems and complaints. The DPWH will ensure that PAPs
are afforded opportunities for active and affective participation in the preparation and
implementation of the RAPs.
Funds for planning and implementing resettlement activities will be provided by the DPWH
based on budgetary requirements established in the RAPs.
4.2    Legal Framework
The overall objective of the Resettlement Policy is derived from the Bill of Rights of the
Constitution of the Republic of Philippines:
Article III, Section 1: No person shall be deprived of life, liberty, or property without due
process of law, nor shall any person be denied the equal protection of the laws.
Article II, Section 9: Private property shall not be taken for public use without just
compensation.
The World Bank's Operational Directive 4.30 concerns for due process and the right to just
compensation for everybody. The guiding principle of OD 4.30 is that adverse impacts by a
development project must be avoided or minimized, with appropriate resettlement measures,
and that affected people are given the opportunity to share project benefits with the rest of the
population.
Other applicable laws, Executive Orders, Administrative Orders, and derivative Department
Orders in the country are provided below.
a) PD 17, Revised Highway Act
* It is illegal to use, occupy and convert any portion of the ROW.
10



*                                 Resettlement Policy
DPWH
b) E0113 (1995) and EO 621 (1980)
* National Roads will have a ROW of at least 20 m in rural areas and may be reduced to
15 m in highly urbanized areas.
* ROW will be at least 60 m in unpatented public land.
* ROW will be at least 120 m through natural forested areas of aesthetic or scientific
value.
c) EO 1035, providing for the conduct of:
* Feasibility study.
* Public information campaign.
* Parcellary survey.
* Assets inventory.
Other features of the Executive Order are:
* Land acquisition based on fair replacement cost to be negotiated between the owner
and the appraisal committee.
* Resettlement/relocation of tenants, farmers and other occupants.
* Financial assistance to displaced tenants, cultural minorities and settlers equivalent to
the average annual gross harvest for the last 3 years and not less that PhP15,000 per
ha.
* Disturbance compensation to agricultural lessees equivalent to 5 times the average
gross harvest during the last 5 years.
* Compensation for improvements on land acquired under Commonwealth Act 141.
*  Government has power to expropriate in case agreement is not reached.
d) PD 1818 (1981)
* Rules that no court can issue restraining orders or preliminary injunction in cases
involving infrastructure and mineral resource development projects of the
government.
e) MO 65, Series of 1983
* Lists various modes for the acquisition and payment of compensation for ROW, such
as:
> Easement of ROW where the owner is paid the land value to use the land but the
owner still retains ownership over the same.
> Quit claim where the Government has the right to acquire 20/60 m of the land
acquired through CA 141. Only improvements will be compensated.
> Expropriation if other options fail. The government agency concerned has the right
to take immediate possession, control and disposition of the property.
11



*                                  Resettlement Policy
DPWH
f) Supreme Court Ruling (1987)
* Defines just compensation as fair and full equivalent for the loss sustained, taking into
account improvements, location, capabilities, etc.
* The value given by the appraisal committee can only serve as a guide for negotiation.
* P.D.76, PD 464 (Section 92), PD 794 (Section 92), and PD No. 1533 (Section 1),
defining the basis for payment of 'just compensation' as the lower of the value
declared by the owner or administrator for private property, were declared
unconstitutional by the Supreme Court in case G.R. No 59602, entitled "EPZA" vs.
CFI, Bn. XVI Lapu-Lapu City and San Antonio Dev. Coop.
g) DO 142 (1995)
Aims to avoid unnecessary delays in civil works.
- Inclusion of parcellary plans and cost estimates for ROW acquisition in detailed
engineering stage.
- EO 1035 and MO 65 will still be followed in matters relating to the acquisition and
compensation of private properties.
h) Republic Act 6389
lProvides for disturbance compensation to agricultural lessees equivalent to 5 times the
average gross harvest in the last 5 years.
i) Republic Act 7279 (1992)
* Prohibits construction of illegal structures on "danger areas".
* Eviction and demolition of such illegal structures without compensation.
* Amended by RA 8368 (1997), which provides that squatter houses built before 1983
are entitled to relocation assistance prior to their displacement.
j) AO 50 (1999)
* Fair compensation to be based on zonal value + 10%.
* If this fails, government agency will initiate expropriation proceedings and the
following parameters will be considered in determining compensation:
>  Classification and use for which the property is suited
> Developmental costs for improving the land
> Value declared by the owner
>  Current selling price of similar lands in the vicinity
> Reasonable disturbance compensation for the removal and/or demolition of certain
improvements on the land and for the value of improvements thereon
> Size, shape or location, tax declaration and zonal valuation of the land
12



*  a                                Resettlement Policy
DPWH
> Price of the land as manifested in the ocular findings, oral as well as documentary
evidence presented
> Facts and events so as to enable the affected property owners to have sufficient
funds to acquire similarly-situated lands of approximate areas as those required
from them by the government, and thereby rehabilitate themselves as early as
possible
k) RA 8974 (2000)
* Negotiated sale between the DPWH and the PAP based on the following standards to
determine the fair market value:
a)      The classification and use for which the property is suited;
b)      The development costs for improving the land;
c)      The value declared by the owners;
d)      The current selling price of similar lands in the vicinity;
e)      The reasonable disturbance compensation for the removal and/or
demolition of certain improvements on the land and for the value for
improvements thereon;
f)      The size, shape or location, tax declaration and zonal valuation of the
land;
g)      The price of the land as manifested in the ocular findings, oral as well as
documentary evidence presented; and
h)      Such facts and events as to enable the affected property owners to have
sufficient funds to acquire similarly-situated lands of approximate areas
as those required from them by the government, and thereby rehabilitate
themselves as early as possible.
*  In the case of expropriation, DPWH shall immediately pay the owner: a) 100 % of the
value of the property based on the BIR zonal valuation, and b) the value of
improvements / structures. If the owner contests the Agency's offered value, the court
shall determine the just compensation within 60 days, taking into account the above
facts mentioned standards.
* Reiteration of the provisions of RA 7279 regarding squatter relocation
1) The provisions of this Resettlement Policy supplement the above legal framework
mentioned in a) to k) above.
13



*                                              Resettlement Policy
DPWH
5.  COMPENSATION MATRIX
The matrix below will be used in the settlement of claims for compensation for lost assets of
PAPs based on the aforementioned principles (Chapter 3) and legal framework (Chapter 4).
Unless otherwise indicated, payment of compensation and other entitlements and the
extension of assistance will be given to PAP households, not individuals.
Type of        Application         Entitled Person                        Compensation
Loss
I   Arable land   Actual area needed  Owners with full     For the portion of the land needed:
by the road project    title, tax declaration    +Cash compensation at replacement cost for the land as
and the remaining   (i.e., legalizable), or   determined by a licensed independent appraiser using
land is still        who are covered by    internationally recognized valuation standards as provided in 2
economically viable   customary law (e.g.,   a and 2 j of the Resettlement Policy.
possessory rights,
usufruct) or other   +Cash compensation for trees of commercial value and crops
acceptable proof of    at market value as provided in 2 j of the Resettlement Policy.
ownership
+PAP will be given sufficient time to harvest crops.
PAPs without title,    For the portion of the land needed:
tax declaration, or are  +PAP will be given sufficient time to harvest crops
not covered by
customary law (e.g.,   +Cash compensation for trees of commercial and crops at
possessory rights,   market value as provided in 2 j of the Resettlement Policy.
usufruct) or other
acceptable proof of    +Financial assistance to make up for land preparation in the
ownership           amount to be determined an independent appraiser based on
cost analysis.
+No compensation for the land.
Remaining land       Owners with full     +Cash compensation at replacement cost for the land as
becomes              title, tax declaration    determined by  a licensed  independent appraiser using
economically not    (i.e., legalizable), or   internationally recognized valuation standards as provided in 2
viable (i.e., PAP    who are covered by    a and 2 j of the Resettlement Policy.
losing >20% of land   customary law (e.g.,
holding or even when  possessory tights,  +Disturbance assistance of PhP 15,000
losing <20% but the   usufruct) or other
remaining land is not  acceptable proof of    +PAP will be given sufficient time to harvest crops
economically viable   ownership
anymore)                                  +Cash compensation for trees of commercial value as
determined by the DENR or the Independent Land Appraiser.
+If relocating, PAP to be provided free transportation
+Rehabilitation  assistance  (skills  training  and  other
development activities) will be provided in coordination with
other government agencies if the present means of livelihood
is no longer viable and the PAP will have to engage in a new
income activity.
+Cash compensation for trees of commercial value and crops
at market value as provided in 2 j of the Resettlement Policy.
14



*                                               Resettlement Policy
DPWH
Type of        Application         Entitled Person                         Compensation
Loss
PAPs without title,    +Financial assistance equivalent to the average annual gross
tax declaration, or are  harvest for the past 3 years but not less than PhP 15,000
not covered by
customary law (e.g.,   +PAP will be given sufficient time to harvest crops
possessory rights,
usufruct) or other   +Cash compensation for trees of commercial value and crops
acceptable proof of    at market cost as provided in 2 j of the Resettlement Policy.
ownership
+ Financial assistance to make up for land preparation in the
amount to be determined an independent appraiser based on
cost analysis
+ Rehabilitation assistance (skills training and other
development activities will be provided in coordination with
other government agencies if the present means of livelihood
is no longer viable and the PAP will have to engage in a new
income activity.
Agricultural lessees    As per RA 6389 and EO 1035:
+Disturbance compensation equivalent to five times the
average of the gross harvest on the land holding during the
five preceding years but not to exceed PhP15,000.
+Cash compensation for trees of commercial value and crops
at market cost as provided in 2 j of the Resettlement Policy.
+PAP will be given sufficient time to harvest crops
+ Rehabilitation assistance (skills training and other
development activities will be provided in coordination with
other government agencies if the present means of livelihood
is no longer viable and the PAP will have to engage in a new
income activity.
c. Temporary use of   All PAPs            +Compensation to be provided for loss of income during the
land                                    period, standing crops, cost of soil restoration and damaged
structures
2.  Residential   a. Actual area needed   Owners with full   For the portion of the land needed:
land and/or    by the road project  title, tax declaration    + Cash compensation at replacement cost for the land as
Commercial     and the remaining   (i.e., legalizable), or   determined by a licensed independent appraiser using
land            land is still viable   who are covered by    internationally recognized valuation standards as provided in 2
for continued use    customary law (e.g.,   a and 2 j of the Resettlement Policy.
possessory rights,
usufruct) or other   +Cash compensation for trees of commercial value and crops
acceptable proof of    at market value as provided in 2 j of the Resettlement Policy.
ownership
This applies whether   For the portion of land needed:
they are squatting on
private or           +No compensation for land
government owned
land                 +Cash compensation for trees of commercial value as and
crops at market value as provided in 2 j of the Resettlement
Policy.
15



*                                                 Resettlement Policy
DPWH
Type of         Application          Entitled Person                          Compensation
Loss
b. Actual area needed   Owners with full    +Cash compensation at replacement cost for the land as
by the road project  title, tax declaration    determined by a licensed independent appraiser using
is greater than 20%   (i.e., legalizeable), or  intemationally recognized valuation standards as provided in 2
of the total and the   who are covered by    a and 2 j of the Resettlement Policy or; 'land for land' will be
remaining land is    customary law (e.g.,   provided in terms of a new parcel of land of equivalent market
still viable        possessory rights,    value, at a location acceptable to PAP, and with long-termn
usufruct) or other    security of tenure. The replacement land should be of
acceptable proof of    acceptable size under zoning laws or a plot of equivalent
ownership             value, whichever is larger, in a nearby resettlement area with
adequate physical and social infrastructure.
+Cash compensation for trees of commercial value and crops
at market value as provided in 2 j of the Resettlement Policy.
This applies whether   +PAPs will be provided with a plot of land in an existing
they are squatting on   municipal resettlement site in the vicinity or with cash
private or            rehabilitation assistance to maintain their pre-Project standards
government owned      of living
land
+Cash compensation for trees of commercial value and crops
at market value as provided in 2j of the Resettlement Policy.
d.  Temporary use    All PAPs               +Compensation to be provided for loss of income during the
of land                                 period, standing crops, cost of soil restoration and damaged
structures
3.  Main           a. Structure, with or    Owners of structure    + Cash compensation at replacement cost for the affected
Structures    without a building     with full title or tax  portion of structure as determined by a licensed independent
(e.g., house,   pemit, partially     declaration (i.e.,    appraiser using intemationally recognized valuation standards
house cum     affected and the      legalizable) to the    as provided in 2 a and 2 j of the Resettlement Policy with no
shops)        remaining structure is  land or those who are  deduction for salvageable building materials.
still viable for      covered by customary
continued use.        law (e.g., possessory    +PAPs who have businesses affected due to partial impact are
rights, usufruct) or  entitled to a subsistence allowance for the loss of income
other acceptable      during the reconstruction period, to be detemiined by the
proof of ownership    independent appraiser.
Owners of structures,  +Compensation in cash for affected portion of the structure,
including shanty     including the cost of restoring the remaining structure, by a
dwellers in urban     licensed independent appraiser using internationally
areas, have no title or  recognized valuation standards as provided in 2 a and 2 j of
tax declaration to the   the Resettlement Policy with no deductions for salvageable
land or other         building materials.
acceptable proof of
ownership. This       +Shanty dwellers in urban areas who opt to go back to their
applies whether they   place of origin in the province or be shifted to government
are squatting on      relocation sites will be provided free transportation.
private or
govemment owned       +Professional squatters will not receive compensation but they
land.                 can collect their salvageable materials
+PAPs who have business affected due to partial impact are
entitled to a subsistence allowance for the loss of income
during the reconstruction period, to be determined by the
independent appraiser.
16



*                                                 Resettlement Policy
DPWH
Type of         Application          Entitled Person                          Compensation
Loss
Renters (tenants) of    +Given 30 days notice on the schedule of demolition
leased affected
structures, including    +For house tenants renting structures outside of, or within the
renters of shanty     ROW, and who have to transfer elsewhere, free transportation
dwellings in urban    will be provided
areas
+Renting shanty dwellers in urban areas who opt to go back to
their place of origin in the province or be shifted to
government relocation sites will be provided free
transportation
b. Entire structure   Owners of structures   +Compensation in cash for the entire structure at replacement
affected or when the    with full title or tax  cost as determined by a licensed independent appraiser using
remaining structure    declaration (i.e.,   internationally recognized valuation standards as provided in 2
becomes not viable    legalizable) to the   a and 2 j of the Resettlement Policy with no deduction for
for continued use,    land or those who are  salvageable building materials
with or without a     covered by customary
building permit       law (e.g., possessory    +Disturbance assistance of PhP 10,000 per PAP (household)
rights, usufruct) or
other acceptable      +If relocation is necessary, free transportation will be provided
proof of ownership
+Rehabilitation assistance in the form of skills training and
other development activities will be provided in coordination
with other government agencies if the present means of
livelihood (e.g., house cum shop) is no longer viable and the
PAP will have to engage in a new income activity.
+PAPs who have business affected due to severe impact will
be entitled to a subsistence allowance for the loss of income
during the reconstruction period not less than their monthly
income or PhP 15,000 for each PAF.
Owners of structures,  +Compensation in cash for the entire structure at replacement
including shanty      cost as determined by a licensed independent appraiser using
dwellers in urban     internationally recognized valuation standards as provided in 2
areas, have no title or  a and 2 j of the Resettlement Policy with no deductions for
tax declaration to the   salvageable building materials.
land or other
acceptable proof of    +Shanty dwellers in urban areas who opt to go back to their
ownership.            place of origin in the province or be shifted to government
relocation sites will be provided free transportation.
+If relocation is necessary, free transportation will be provided
+Rehabilitation assistance in the form of skills training and
other development activities will be provided in coordination
with other government agencies if the present means of
livelihood (e.g., house cum shop) is no longer viable and the
PAP will have to engage in a new income activity.
+Professional squatters will not receive compensation but they
can collect their salvageable materials
+PAPs who have business affected due to partial impact arc
entitled to a subsistence allowance for the loss of income
during the reconstruction period, to be determined by the
independent appraiser.
17



Resettlement Policy
DPWH
Type of        Application         Entitled Person                         Compensation
Loss
Renters (tenants) of    +Given 30 days notice on the schedule of demolition
leased affected
structures, including   +For house tenants renting structures outside of, or within the
renters of shanty    ROW, and who have to transfer elsewhere, free transportation
dwellings in urban   will be provided
areas
+ Renting shanty dwellers in urban areas who opt to go back
to their place of origin in the province or be shifted to
govemment relocation sites will be provided free
transportation.
+Rehabilitation assistance in the form of skills training and
other development activities will be provided in coordination
with other govemment agencies if the present means of
livelihood (e.g., house cum shop) is no longer viable and the
PAP will have to engage in a new income activity.
4   Independent  a. Shops, with or     Owners of structure    +Compensation in cash for the entire structure at replacement
shops        without building      with or without full   cost as determined by a licensed independent appraiser using
(structures)   permit, partially  title or tax          intemationally recognized valuation standards as provided in 2
affected and the     declaration to the   a and 2 j of the Resettlement Policy with no deductions for
remaining structures   land or those who are  salvageable building materials
are still viable for  covered by customary
continued use.       law (e.g., possessory   + PAPs will be entitled to transitional allowance to cover for
rights, usufruct) or    their computed income loss during the demolition and
other acceptable     reconstruction of their shops or an amount not to exceed a one
proof of ownership   month of their computed income to be detem-ined by the
independent appraiser
b. Entire shop       Owner of structure   +Cash compensation at replacement cost for the affected
affected OR when the  with or without full   portion of the structure as determined by a licensed
remaining structure    title or tax       independent appraiser using internationally recognized
becomes not viable    declaration to the  valuation standards as provided in 2 a and 2 j of the
for continued use,   land or those who are  Resettlement Policy with no deductions for salvageable
with or without a    covered by customary  building materials
building permit      law (e.g., possessory
rights, usufruct) or  +Disturbance assistance of PhP 10,000 per PAP (household)
other acceptable
proof of ownership    +Free transportation will be provided if relocating
+Rehabilitation assistance in the form of skills training and
other development activities will be provided in coordination
with other govemment agencies if the present means of
livelihood (e.g., house cum shop) is no longer viable and the
PAP will have to engage in a new income activity.
+Professional squatters will not receive compensation but they
can collect their salvageable materials
c. Shops, with or    Renters              + PAPs will be entitled to transitional allowance to cover for
without building                          their computed income loss during the demolition and
permit, partially                         reconstruction of their shops or an amount not to exceed one
affected and the                          month. of their computed income to be determined by the
remaining structures                      independent appraiser
are still viable for
continued use.
18



*                                               Resettlement Policy
DPWH
Type of        Application         Entitled Person                         Compensation
Loss
d. Entire shop       Renters              +Given 30 days notice on the schedule of demolition
affected or when the
remaining structure                       +Shop renters will be entitled to transitional allowance to
becomes not viable                        cover for their computed income loss during the demolition
for continued use,                        and reconstruction of their shops or an amount of their
with or without a                         computed income to be determined by the independent
building permit                           appraiser of one month.
+Rehabilitation assistance in the form of skills training and
other development activities will be provided in coordination
with other government agencies if the present means of
livelihood (e.g., house cum shop) is no longer viable and the
PAP will have to engage in a new income activity.
+PAPs will be provided free transportation for their families
and belongings, if relocating either temporarily or
permanently.
5.  Other fixed    Loss of, or damage  PAPs                  +Compensation in cash for affected portion of the structure,
assets or    to, affected assets,                       including the cost of restoring the remaining structure, as
structures   partially or entirely                      determined by the concerned appraisal committee, with no
depreciation or deduction for salvaged building materials.
6.  Electric      Loss of, or damage   PAPs                 +Compensation to cover cost of restoring the facilities
and/or water  to, affected assets,
connection    partially or entirely
7.  Public        Loss of, or damage   Concerned agencies    +Compensation in cash at replacement cost to respective
Facilities   to, public                                 agencies.
infrastructure (e.g.,
public water tanks,
tram lines, bus stop
sheds, loading
platform, public
health center,
barangay center,
electric or telephone
lines, etc.)
19



I                                    Resettlement Policy
DPWH
6.  APPLICATION OF THE PARTICIPATORY PROCESS TO THE
PROJECT CYCLE
6.1    Project Preparation Stage
There are 3 main stages in project preparation, namely:
1. Pre-feasibility
2. Feasibility
3. Detailed engineering design
Each main activity has a series of sequential activities where participation is required.
a) Pre-feasibility
Step 1: The URPO, assisted by the Environmental Impact Assessment Project Office
(EIAPO) and the Action Office on Resettlement of Squatter Families (AORSF) will
hold a preliminary meeting with concerned communities. The objectives of this
meeting are to:
a) Explain the general concept of the road project
20



*                                  Resettlement Policy
DPWH
b) Discuss/explain the requirements of the road project and its likely impacts
c) Present tentative schedule of activities
d) Create awareness and appreciation among the communities about the project
e) Set a general orientation meeting with communities at the barangay level.
Step 2: General Orientation of the Community
Before undertaking any survey activity in the community, the Project Team (URPO
with the EIAPO, MMDA and AORSF will conduct a meeting to orient and ensure
that the community understands the nature and extent of the proposed project.
Awareness of the project will facilitate the data-gathering process and ensure the
quality of data provided by the community to the project team.
The community orientation will be facilitated by officials of the barangay who
attended the orientation meeting conducted earlier at the municipal office.
The suggested agenda for the General Community Orientation are:
a) Overview of the project, including overall objectives and merits of the same
b) Identification and discussion of the likely impacts of the project
c) Activities to be undertaken and their schedule, such as technical surveys, water
resources assessment, social impact study, environmental impact assessment,
etc.
b) Expected roles of the community during the conduct of the abovementioned
technical studies.
Step 3: EIA/Social Assessment
The Project Team will assess the positive and adverse impacts of the project,
number of households likely to be affected, types of impacts, tenure status, need for
acquisition of private assets, relocation of people, etc.
c) Feasibility
Step 4: RAP preparation
21



*                                        Resettlement Policy
DPWH
Based on the results of the SIA, a census and a full-blown socio-economic survey of
PAPs1, including among others, an inventory of affected assets, will be conducted as
an important step in drafting an appropriate resettlement action plan (RAP). Said
RAP will include the amount and the process to be employed in the payment of
compensation to PAPs.
Step 5:  Orientation of Stakeholder
Upon completion of the draft RAP, the Project Team will brief concerned
communities (i.e., municipal and barangay level as necessary), with the view that a
general agreement will be achieved on the following:
a) Resettlement program
b) Relocation sites, if needed
c) Role of communities in RAP implementation
Step 6:  Consultation with the Community
Still part of the process to finalize the draft RAP, consultation(s) with affected
communities at the barangay level will be undertaken. For this purpose, the Project
Team shall prepare a Public Information Leaflet containing a brief description of the
project, including compensation policy for affected private properties.
The affected communities will also be informed on the mechanics and procedures
for public participation and consultation, grievance redressal procedures, and the
resettlement program. Likewise, the community's suggestions regarding relocation
site(s) will be solicited, and, where warranted, its preferences for the mode of
compensation for affected fixed assets (i.e., cash or land-for-land).
Step 7: The Project Team will finalize the RAP
d) Finalization of technical design
Step 8: The Project Team will orient the affected communities on the final version of the
RAP and its implementation, the results of the environmental impact study and the
prepared environmental management plan, and the project's detailed engineering
(technical) designs.
6.2     Project Implementation Stage
X Census will be undertaken for all types of PAPs. Census covers general information on the PAP, such as
demographic information and properties affected. Socio-economic surveys will cover only those who are
severely affected by the project. Information to be gathered includes household income, expenditures, skills, etc.
The information gathered will serve as benchmark data for those preparing, implementing, and evaluating the
RAP designed for them.
22



a   w                              Resettlement Policy
DPWH
Step 9:  Setting-up of various Committees as required by the project and the RAP, such as
the Resettlement Implementation Committee (RIC). PAPs will be represented with
full voting power in these committees.
Step 10: Participation in Implementation
Whenever feasible, PAPs will be contracted in the implementation of the various
activities of the project, such as reconstruction of damaged dwelling units and
construction of small infrastructure units, like ripraps and retaining walls.
Step 11: Monitoring of RAP implementation
The Project Team will enlist the participation of PAPs in the monitoring of RAP
implementation. Representation of the PAPs in the internal monitoring of the
implementation of the RAP will provide a more accurate reading of the local
community's feelings and reactions. Specifically, internal monitoring will focus on:
(i) seeing to it that that RAP is implemented as designed and approved, and (ii)
verifying if funds for implementing the RAPs are provided by project authorities in a
timely manner and in amounts sufficient for their purposes, and that such funds are
used in accordance with the provisions of the RAP.
An independent agency or agencies will be retained by the DPWH to carry out
external monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of RAPs. The independent
agencies may be NGOs, academic or research institutions or independent consulting
firms, with qualified and experienced staff and with terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank.
6.3    Post Project Implementation Stage
Step 12: Evaluation of RAP implementation
A composite body of representatives from the Project Team, concerned
communities, the various committees formed, and PAPs will be formed to conduct
an evaluation of the RAP upon completion of its implementation. The coverage of
the evaluation will include RAP preparation and actual implementation. Strengths
and weaknesses of the whole process of the RAP will be identified for the purpose
of drawing lessons from them. Said lessons will guide the DPWH in future projects.
23



iv                                 Resettlement Policy
DPWH
7.  INSTITUTIONAL REQUIREMENTS OF RESETTLEMENT
7.1    DPWH
The URPO is overall responsible for implementing the project. In coordination with relevant
agencies, the URPO will manage and supervise the project, including resettlement activities
and land acquisition. It shall ensure that funds for the timely implementation of the RAP are
available and that expenses are ;properly accounted for. The URPO will be assisted by the
EIAPO in providing technical guidance and support in the implementation of the RAP.
a) Environment Impact Assessment Project Office (EIAPO)
The EIAPO will provide technical guidance and support in the implementation of the RAP
and will be responsible for the following resettlement activities:
a. overall preparation and planning of the RAP;
b. submitting RAP budget plans (to include compensation, relocation costs, operation)
for approval and allocation of needed resources by the DPWH central office;
c. in accordance with the Department's resettlement policies, guiding the Resettlement
Implementation Committees (RICs) in their tasks, such as the verification of PAPs,
final inventory of affected assets, and information dissemination;
d. amending or complementing the RAP in case problems are identified during the
internal and/or external monitoring of its implementation;
e. in collaboration with its counterpart in the region, following-up with the DPWH
Regional Office the processing of compensation claims of PAPs;
f. in collaboration with its URPO, MMDA  monitoring the actual payment of
compensation to PAPs; and,
g. in collaboration with its regional counterpart, preparing periodic supervision and
monitoring reports on RAP implementation for submission to the URPO and the
Bank.
b) Action Office on Resettlement of Squatter Families (AORSF)
Successful implementation of the RAP will require close coordination with the AORSF. The
AORSF will be the principal and regular representative of URPO in the RICs. Together with
the EIAPO the AORSF will extend technical support to the RIC in relation to RAP
implementation.
7.2    Resettlement Implementation Committee (RIC)
The RIC will be set up and shall be composed of the following:
a. Representative of the Municipal/City Government
b. Representative of the PAPs
24



*                                  Resettlement Policy
DPWH
c. Representative of the indigenous people (IP) within the project area, if there are any
d. A senior member of the staff of DPWH District Engineering Office
e. Representative of the concerned Barangay Government
f. Representative from an NGO or people's organization (PO)
The representative of the DPWH from the AORSF will be the RIC's Chairperson and
Convenor. The Committee will have the following functions:
a. assist the EIAPO in (i) validating the list of PAPs; (ii) validating the assets of the
PAPs that will be affected by the project (using a prepared compensation form); and
(iii) implementing the RAP;
b. assist the EIAPO in public information campaign, public participation and
consultation;
c. assist the URPO in the payment of compensation to PAPs;
d. receive complaints and grievances from PAPs and other stakeholders and act on them
accordingly;
e. maintaining record of all public meetings, complaints, and actions taken to address
complaints and grievances;
f. in coordination with concerned government authorities, assist in the enforcement of
laws/ordinances regarding encroachment into the project road corridor.
7.3   Grievance Procedures
Grievance related to any aspect of the or sub-project will be handled through negotiations and
are aimed at achieving consensus following the procedures outlined below:
a) Grievance will be filed by the PAP with the RIC who will act within 15 days upon
receipt thereof, except complaints and grievances that specifically pertain to the
valuation of affected assets, since such will be decided upon by the proper courts;
b) If no understanding or amicable solution can be reached, or if the PAP does not
receive a response from the RIC within 15 days of registry of the complaint,
he/she can appeal to the Office of DPWH URPO Project, through the EIAPO,
which should act on the complaint/grievance within 15 days from the day of its
filing;
c) It the PAP is not satisfied with the decision of the Office of DPWH URPO Project,
he/she, as a last resort, can submit the complaint to a court of law.
PAPs will be exempted from all administrative and legal fees incurred in pursuant to the
grievance redress procedures.
All complaints received in writing (or written when received verbally) from the PAPs will be
documented.
25



*                                       Resettlement Policy
DPWH
8.  ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF DPWH AND THE
COMMUNITIES
Project Process       Participatory Activities and Participants    Responsible Institution
Stage
Preparation
Pre-feasibilitv     1. Meeting with representative of communities  URPO, MMDA, AORSF
affected to give them  an overview  of the  and EIAPO, NCR, Reg.
proposed infra project                      IV-A & District Offices
2. General    Orientation    Meeting    with  MMDA         as    lead,
representative of communities affected at the  supported  by  URPO,
barangay-level preparatory to the conduct of AORSF and EWATO reps
technical, environmental and social studies  NCR,  Reg.  P1-A   &
relative to the proposed infrastructure project    District reps.
3. Conduct of EIA and/or SIA                   EIAPO Central, assisted
by URPO/AORSF,
NCR, Reg. IV-A &
District offices
Feasibilitv          1. RAP preparation, specifically the conduct of a  EIAPO assisted by URPO
census and socio-economic survey of PAPs    and MMDA
2. Consultation with the affected communities on  EIAPO   offices   with
the draft RAP                               stakeholder reps
3. Finalization of RAP                         EIAPO Central with reps
from URPO and MMDA
Finalization o       1. Orientation of affected communities regarding  EIAPO with reps IlRPO,
Technical              the final version of the RAP, including the  MMDA   and  AORSF,
Design                 mechanics of its implementation              NCR, Region IV-A  &
district Offices
Implementation       1. Setting-up  of  the  RAP   Implementation  EIAPO with MMDA &
Committee (with LGU representative)                 URIO
26



*B                                    Resettlement Policy
DPWH
Project Process       Participatory Activities and Participants  Responsible Institution
Stage
2. Comnunity participation in the implementation      - do -
of the RAP and EMIP
3. Internal monitoring of RAP implementation          - do -
Post-               1. Summing-up evaluation of the RAP, to cover its EIAPO assisted by URPO
Implementation          preparation and implementation            and MMDA
27



*                                    Resettlement Policy
DPWH
9. COSTS AND BUDGETS
Each RAP will include detailed cost estimates for compensation and relocation of PAPs, if that
be the case, with a breakdown by category of PAPs; agricultural, residential and business land;
houses, structures and other fixed assets affected; transport assistance when shifting PAPs;
phases of the project and by financial year. Cost estimates will make adequate provisions for
contingencies.
The total cost of the RAP will be included in the cost of the project. In the case of cost overruns
due to unforeseen circumstances or delays, the DPWH will allocate additional funds as
necessary.
On the basis of the approved RAP, funding for the implementation of the resettlement plan will
be forwarded to the District Office, which in turn is tasked to prepare and process the vouchers
for payment of compensation to PAPs, relocation expenses, operational costs, etc.
28



RNpubliKa rg 'PliPinas
KAGAWARAN NG PAGAWAIN AT LANSANGANG PAMBAYAN
AFAOGcPAN NO KALUHIM
Maynria
Mr., .11T-NDRA N\. P,Jl A  il
Seocor Mtwuwr
Trawlipor*  iiiu
V'asi As*a ,and thu raiti,
I ra{lsNCQc'r k     isr.?tl Acquassitton3f I{t< cttkbtnest. aniJd lt111.1d1iuiar:i;f
l Ci !AsR
Dear Mr I3lnjpa
W4! h,trek sU$lmln ic u;,I:                      Io A 1  rarr fis It; LARR i6ir &IMUIL   I RPN iJIL"')
utccn^r?,)aQtt hut;a}?* nuhfcu  - 'w d;bv  on ibetwseen Oi lP' Di I jtn?el .and.-i stut dvt u
thuuduconoreeeon Nhn  C.0
I hank v@n anid xv, .  re    i
'very rN4fL.
SI I IQn 1)31 fl (Nob
'e5 ton.0412tv A?)t j Zm
I lnof A:besiv Fomul-.,
lion. Fienjnmsn Ahzdvoal .:'r \



Resettlement Policy
DPWH
METRO MANILA URBAN TRANSPORT INTEGRATED
PROJECT
POLICY FRAMEWORK
FOR
LAND ACQUISITION, RESETTLEMENT AND
REHABILITATION
Department of Public Works and Highways
Manila, Philippines
May 2001



*                                  Resettlement Policy
DPWH
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.    Introduction
2.     Definition of Terms
3.     Objectives and Principles of the Resettlement Policy
3.1 Overall Philosophy of the Resettlement Policy
3.2 Principles of Resettlement
4.     Institutional and Legal Framework
4.1 Institutional Framework
4.2 Legal Framework
a) PD 17 (Revised Highway Act)
b) E0113 (1995), EO 621 (1980)
c) EO 1035
d) PD 1818 (1981)
e) MO 65, Series Of 1983
f) Supreme Court Ruling (1987)
g) DO 142 (1995)
h) RA 6389
i) Republic Act 7279 (1992) and RA 8368 (1997)
j) AO 50 (1999)
k) RA 8974
5.     Compensation Matrix
6.     Application of the Participatory Process to the Project Cycle
6.1 Project Preparation Stage
a) Pre-feasibility
b) Feasibility
c) Finalization of Technical Design
6.2 Project Implementation Stage
6.3 Post-project Implementation Stage
7.     Institutional Requirements of Resettlement
7.1 DPWH
a) Environment and Social Services (ESS)
b) Regional and District Engineering Offices Of DPWH
7.2 RAP Implementation Committee (RIC)
7.3 Grievance Procedures
8.    Roles and Responsibilities of the DPWH, the Stakeholder and the Communities
9.     Costs and Budget
2



*                                  Resettlement Policy
DPWH
1.  INTRODUCTION
DPWH is aware that in the implementation of MMURTRIP, the following key social
concerns will have to be addressed:
a. Involuntary Resettlement
b. Public Consultation and Participation
c. Protection of Marginalized and Vulnerable Groups
DPWH will, therefore, undertake during the pre-feasibility and environmental screening stage
of project preparation a Social Impact Assessment (SIA) exercise and Land Acquisition
Assessment (LAA) to study the types, degree and scale of impacts of the project. Particular
attention will be paid to adverse impacts to the affected community, such as loss of land and
other fixed assets and the number of persons marginally or severely affected. Where possible,
appropriate modifications to the project will be made in order to avoid or minimize adverse
impacts. However, if adverse impacts are inevitable, appropriate mitigating measures will be
adopted precisely for the purpose of minimizing foreseeable socio-economic effects that a
project will have on the people. To help ensure this, a resettlement action plan (RAP) will be
prepared by the Department.
DPWH has formulated the Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Rehabilitation Policy,
hereinafter called as the 'Resettlement Policy', to govern MMURTRIP projects relative to
land acquisition, compensation, and resettlement of project-affected persons (PAPs) and
vulnerable communities.
This Resettlement Policy will aim to achieve the following:
a. Adverse social impacts of road projects are avoided, minimized, and/or mitigated;
b. PAPs are provided with compensation at replacement cost and assistance for lost
assets which will assist them to improve or at least maintain their pre-Project
standards of living; and
c. Everybody will benefit from the projects.
The LARR Policy will serve as the overall framework in the preparation of RAPs for projects
to be implemented under the World Bank-assisted MMURTRIP. Included in this policy are
the principles and objectives used; a rundown of existing legal, regulatory and policy
framework within which the Policy has to operate; compensation matrix; general procedures
to be followed to ensure public support; and, provisions for internal and external monitoring.
3



*                                   Resettlement Policy
DPWH
2.   DEFINITION OF TERMS
a) Compensation means payment in cash or in kind for an asset to be acquired or affected
by an infrastructure project at replacement cost as provided in Section 2j below.
b) Cut-off Date is the date of commencement of the census of affected persons within the
project area boundaries. Persons not covered in the census are not eligible for claims for
compensation.
c) Disturbance Assistance is the amount given to each PAP who holds full title, tax
declaration or some proof of traditional ownership (such as usufruct when the PAP
belongs to an indigenous community), to the land where his/her severely affected house
stands and who has to shift elsewhere.
d) Financial Assistance is the cash amount paid to agricultural tenants/settlers/occupants
severely affected by the project equivalent to the average gross harvest for the last 3 years
but not less than PhP 15,000 per ha (EO 1035), aside from the cash payment/compensation
of their crops actually damaged by the project. It may also be given to owners of the land
acquired under CA 141 for the area of portion subject to section 112 thereof.
e) Land Acquisition means the process whereby a person is compelled by the Government
alienate all or part of the land he/she owns or possesses, to the ownership and possession
of the government, for public purpose in return for a consideration.
f) Professional Squatters means individual or groups of individuals who squat on publicly
and privately owned land for purposes of renting out to third parties (a) such land whether
for farming or housing plots purposes, or b) structures (houses and businesses) whether
already existing in the land or constructed by them thereon, with full knowledge that they
have no legal right or claim to such land or the use thereof. This definition excludes
individuals or groups that simply rent land and housing from professional squatters or
squatting syndicates. The implementation agency in collaboration with the community
leaders of the Affected Persons will establish and publish in the affected area a list of
persons who fall within this definition. Within thirty (30) days of publication any person
included in such list may petition and seek a review of his/her status through the
grievance procedure referred to in Section 7.3 of this Policy Framework.
g) Project Affected Family (PAP) consists of all members of a household residing under
one roof and operating as a single economic unit, who are adversely affected by the
project. For resettlement purposes, Project Affected Persons (PAPs) will be dealt with as
members of Project Affected Families (PAFs).
h) Project Affected Person (PAP) means a person who on account of the project, would
have his or her: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in
any house, or interest in or right to use any land (including premises, agricultural and
grazing land) or right in annual or perennial crops and trees or any other fixed or movable
4



*                                       Resettlement Policy
DPWH
asset, acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation,
work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently, and
"Project Affected Persons" means, collectively, all persons who qualify as an Project
Affected Person.
i) Relocation means the physical shifting of a PAP from his/her pre-project place of
residence.
j) Replacement Cost means the method of valuation of assets which helps determine the
amount sufficient to replace lost assets and cover transaction costs. In applying this
method of valuation, depreciation of structures and assets should not be taken into
account. The replacement cost is determined by an independent appraiser applying
internationally recognized valuation standards, hired by either the project, or by a court of
law as compensation for:
i. Agricultural or residential land;
ii. Houses and other related structures based on current market prices of materials and
labor with no deductions for salvaged building materials;
iii. Crops based on current replacement cost; and
iv. Trees and other perennials based on DENR or those of the independent
consultant's."
With regard to land and structures, replacement cost is defined as follows: For
agricultural land, it is the pre-project or pre-displacement, which ever is higher, market
value of land of equal productive potential or use located in the vicinity of the affected
land, plus the cost of land preparation to levels similar to those of the affected land, plus
the cost of any registration and transfer taxes; for land in urban areas, it is the pre-
displacement market value of land of equal size and use, with similar or improved public
infrastructure facilities and services and located in the vicinity of the affected land, plus
the cost of any registration and transfer taxes; for houses and other infrastructures, it is the
market cost of the materials to build a replacement structure with an area and quality
similar to or better than those of the affected structure, or to repair a partially affected
structure, plus the cost of transporting building materials to the construction site, plus the
cost of any labor and contractors' fees, plus the cost of any registration and transfer taxes.
In determining the replacement cost, depreciation of the asset and the value of salvage
materials are not taken into account, nor is the value of benefits to be derived from the
project deducted from the valuation of an affected asset.
k) Resettlement means all measures taken to mitigate any and all adverse social impacts of a
project on the PAPs, including compensation and relocation as needed.
I) Social Assessment is a framework for incorporating social analysis and participatory
process in project design and implementation.
5



YE  R                               Resettlement Policy
DPWH
3. OBJECTIVES AND PRINCIPLES OF THE RESETTLEMENT
POLICY
3.1    Overall Philosophy of the Resettlement Policy
This Resettlement Policy is anchored on the philosophy that government projects must serve
the common good. However, in the design and implementation of such projects, all efforts
must be exercised to ensure that:
a) Adverse social and physical impacts are avoided, minimized and/or mitigated;
b) Everybody, including PAPs, will benefit from the projects;
c) PAPs are provided with compensation at replacement cost and assistance for lost
assets which will assist them improve or at least maintain their pre-Project standard of
living; and
d) Project stakeholders (which include PAPs) are consulted regarding the project's
design, implementation and operation.
3.2    Principles of Resettlement
The following principles will be applied in this Resettlement Policy:
a. Acquisition of land and other assets and shifting of people will be avoided or minimized
as much as possible.
b. Only those PAPs found to be residing in, doing business, or cultivating land, or having
rights over resources within, the project area as of the date of the census surveys (i.e., cut-
off date) are eligible for compensation for lost assets.
c. In following the objective of the Resettlement Policy that displaced persons will be
assisted in their efforts to improve their livelihood and standards of living, or at least to
restore them to the pre-project level, and to meet the provisions of World Bank
Operational Directive 4.30 and the provisions of RA 8974, the DPWH will compensate
the PAPs for the affected assets at their replacement cost as the term is defined in 2j of the
Resettlement Policy. The replacement cost would be determined by an accredited or
licensed independent appraiser applying internationally recognized valuation standards.
Proof of ownership over a piece of land may be established through possession of a title
or tax declaration, or customary law (e.g., usufruct, possessory rights) or other acceptable
proof of ownership. The absence of legal title or legal right by PAPs shall not be a bar to
compensation.
d. If the PAP rejects the compensation at replacement cost offered by the DPWH as
compensation for the land, the DPWH or the PAP may take the matter to a court of law.
When expropriation proceedings through the court are resorted to by DPWH, the DPWH
will deposit with the court in escrow the whole amount of the replacement cost (100%) it
6



I                                    Resettlement Policy
DPWH
is offering the PAP for his/her land as compensation to allow the DPWH to proceed with
the works. Such amount will be the replacement cost of the assets as determined by an
accredited or licensed independent appraiser applying internationally recognized valuation
standards. The PAP will receive the replacement cost of the assets within one (1) month
following receipt of the decision of the court.
e. The DPWH will compensate the PAP for improvements and structures at replacement
cost as determined by an accredited or licensed independent appraiser applying
internationally recognized valuation standards.
f  If the PAP rejects the compensation at replacement cost offered by the DPWH as
compensation for improvements and other structures, e.g., main structures and/or
miscellaneous structures, plants and trees of commercial value, the DPWH or the PAP
may take the matter to a court of law. When expropriation through the court is resorted to
by the DPWH, the DPWH will deposit with the court in escrow the whole amount of the
replacement cost (100%) it is offering the PAP for such assets as compensation to allow
the DPWH to proceed with the works. Such amount will be the replacement cost of the
assets as determined by an accredited or licensed independent appraiser applying
internationally recognized valuation standards. DPWH would only proceed with the
works after the amount was deposited valuation standards. DPWH would only proceed
with the works after the amount was deposited in escrow. The PAP will receive the
replacement cost of the assets within one (1) month following receipt of the decision of
the court. The PAP may keep the salvageable materials.
g. PAPs losing all of their improvements and structures (e.g., farmland, house), or incurring
partial loss where the remaining assets are economically viable for continues use,
compensation for the affected assets will be paid in cash at replacement cost..
h. In the case of PAPs affected by partial impact on their assets, i.e., less than 20% loss of
land or structures, and where the remaining assets are economically viable for continued
use, compensation for the affected assets will be paid in cash at replacement cost.
i. PAPs who are squatting on the ROW at the Cut-Off Date will be compensated at
replacement cost for the structures, trees of commercial value and crops. To achieve the
objectives of this Resettlement Policy, at the PAPs choice, for the land they are squatting
on they will be provided with a plot of land in an existing municipal resettlement site in
the vicinity or with rehabilitation assistance to maintain their pre-Project standards of
living.
j. Financial assistance to agricultural tenants/settlers/occupants severely affected by the
project equivalent to the average annual gross harvest for the last 3 years but not less than
PhPl5,000 per ha (EO1035), aside from the cash payment/compensation of their crops
actually damaged by the project. Disturbance compensation to agricultural lessees
severely affected by the project equivalent to 5 times the average gross harvest during the
last 5 years (EO 1035).
7



*                                     Resettlement Policy
DPWH
k. DPWH will provide the following resettlements assistance to eligible PAPs consistent
with Section 5 of RA 8974:
k.l Disturbance assistance not to exceed PhPIO,000 to each PAP doing business on
severely-affected independent shops (e.g., store, shop, warehouse, and similar
structures) which are constructed on lands that are covered by titles, tax declaration
that can be perfected into a title, or some proof of traditional ownership.
k.2 Disturbance assistance not to exceed PhP1O,000 to each PAP for his/her severely
affected house on land that is covered by full title, tax declaration that can perfected
into a title, or some proof of traditional ownership (such as usufruct when the PAP
belongs to an indigenous community) and who have to shift elsewhere.
k.3 Granting of rehabilitation assistance in the form of special skills training or other
development activities to PAPs whose only source of income is severely impacted and
which will require the PAP to engage in some other income-earning activities. This
rehabilitation assistance may also be granted to vulnerable groups, like indigenous peoples,
women, elderly, etc. DPWH will coordinate closely with concerned government agencies
that have the mandate and the expertise to undertake rehabilitation assistance, such as the
conduct of skills training.
k.4 Transportation assistance (in cash or in kind, depending on the mutual agreement of the PAP
and the DPWH) to PAPs who are relocating, including shanty dwellers in urban areas who
opt to go back to their places of origin (e.g., province) or to shift to government relocation
sites.
1) Replacement of residential and agricultural lands will be as close as possible to the land that was
lost. All replacement land for residence, commerce and agriculture will be provided with secured
tenure status.
m) Where relocation is considered necessary, the lot owner of the proposed relocation site will also
be entitled to compensation for his/her land. The receiving LGU (i.e., the LGU under whose
political jurisdiction the relocation site is located) may apply for assistance with DPWH for
the provision of basic services, such as streetlights and improved access road, for the community
where the relocation site is to be constructed.
n) Plans for the acquisition of land and other assets will be carried out in consultation with the PAPs
who will receive prior information of the compensation options available to them.
o) Any acquisition of, or restriction on access to resources owned or managed by PAPs as a
common property will be mitigated by arrangements ensuring access of those PAPs to equivalent
resources on a continuing basis.
p) Resettlement programs will include adequate institutional arrangements to ensure effective and
timely design, planning, consultation and implementation of compensation and resettlement.
8



*                                     Resettlement Policy
DPWH
DPWH will ensure effective coordination with relevant agencies for the implementation of the
resettlement plan.
q) Adequate arrangements will be made for effective and timely supervision, internal and external
monitoring of the implementation of the RAP.
r) The resettlement transition period will be minimized and the acquisition of assets needed for the
project (by way of a Writ of Possession in the event of expropriation proceedings), as well as all
resettlement activities including compensation, will be completed at least one month prior to the
conmmencement of construction work.
s) The DPWH will only issue bidding documents for the works once the resettlement has
been completed in accordance with this Resettlement.Policy including compensation in full to
all PAPs.
9



*                                  Resettlement Policy
DPWH
4.  INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK
4.1    Institutional Framework
The overall responsibility for enforcing this Resettlement Policy, including preparation of
necessary Resettlement Action Plans and/or other documents, and for implementing the RAPs,
rests with the DPWH. To ensure that this policy is carried out effectively in a project, DPWH
will designate an 'External Monitoring Agent' to monitor the effectiveness of resettlement
activities. The Department will make special efforts to ensure good community relationship and
to promptly address compensation problems and complaints. The DPWH will ensure that PAPs
are afforded opportunities for active and affective participation in the preparation and
implementation of the RAPs.
Funds for planning and implementing resettlement activities will be provided by the DPWH
based on budgetary requirements established in the RAPs.
4.2    Legal Framework
The overall objective of the Resettlement Policy is derived from the Bill of Rights of the
Constitution of the Republic of Philippines:
Article III, Section 1: No person shall be deprived of life, liberty, or property without due
process of law, nor shall any person be denied the equal protection of the laws.
Article IL, Section 9: Private property shall not be taken for public use without just
compensation.
The World Bank's Operational Directive 4.30 concerns for due process and the right to just
compensation for everybody. The guiding principle of OD 4.30 is that adverse impacts by a
development project must be avoided or minimized, with appropriate resettlement measures,
and that affected people are given the opportunity to share project benefits with the rest of the
population.
Other applicable laws, Executive Orders, Administrative Orders, and derivative Department
Orders in the country are provided below.
a) PD 17, Revised Highway Act
* It is illegal to use, occupy and convert any portion of the ROW.
10



ivl s                               Resettlement Policy
DPWH
b) E0113 (1995) and EO 621 (1980)
* National Roads will have a ROW of at least 20 m in rural areas and may be reduced to
15 m in highly urbanized areas.
* ROW will be at least 60 m in unpatented public land.
* ROW will be at least 120 m through natural forested areas of aesthetic or scientific
value.
c) EO 1035, providing for the conduct of:
* Feasibility study.
* Public information campaign.
* Parcellary survey.
* Assets inventory.
Other features of the Executive Order are:
* Land acquisition based on fair replacement cost to be negotiated between the owner
and the appraisal committee.
Resettlement/relocation of tenants, farmers and other occupants.
*Financial assistance to displaced tenants, cultural minorities and settlers equivalent to
the average annual gross harvest for the last 3 years and not less that PhP 15,000 per
ha.
* Disturbance compensation to agricultural lessees equivalent to 5 times the average
gross harvest during the last 5 years.
* Compensation for improvements on land acquired under Commonwealth Act 14 1.
* Government has power to expropriate in case agreement is not reached.
d) PD 1818 (1981)
* Rules that no court can issue restraining orders or preliminary injunction in cases
involving infrastructure and mineral resource development projects of the
government.
e) MO 65, Series of 1983
* Lists various modes for the acquisition and payment of compensation for ROW, such
as:
>  Easement of ROW where the owner is paid the land value to use the land but the
owner still retains ownership over the same.
> Quit claim where the Government has the right to acquire 20/60 m of the land
acquired through CA 141. Only improvements will be compensated.
> Expropriation if other options fail. The government agency concerned has the right
to take immediate possession, control and disposition of the property.
_11



Resettlement Policy
DPWH
f) Supreme Court Ruling (1987)
* Defines just compensation as fair and full equivalent for the loss sustained, taking into
account improvements, location, capabilities, etc.
* The value given by the appraisal committee can only serve as a guide for negotiation.
* P.D.76, PD 464 (Section 92), PD 794 (Section 92), and PD No. 1533 (Section 1),
defining the basis for payment of 'just compensation' as the lower of the value
declared by the owner or administrator for private property, were declared
unconstitutional by the Supreme Court in case G.R. No 59602, entitled "EPZA" vs.
CFI, Bn. XVI Lapu-Lapu City and San Antonio Dev. Coop.
g) DO 142 (1995)
X Aims to avoid unnecessary delays in civil works.
* Inclusion of parcellary plans and cost estimates for ROW acquisition in detailed
engineering stage.
E EO 1035 and MO 65 will still be followed in matters relating to the acquisition and
compensation of private properties.
h) Republic Act 6389
* Provides for disturbance compensation to agricultural lessees equivalent to 5 times the
average gross harvest in the last 5 years.
i) Republic Act 7279 (1992)
* Prohibits construction of illegal structures on "danger areas".
* Eviction and demolition of such illegal structures without compensation.
* Amended by RA 8368 (1997), which provides that squatter houses built before 1983
are entitled to relocation assistance prior to their displacement.
j) AO 50 (1999)
*  Fair compensation to be based on zonal value + 10%.
* If this fails, government agency will initiate expropriation proceedings and the
following parameters will be considered in determining compensation:
> Classification and use for which the property is suited
> Developmental costs for improving the land
> Value declared by the owner
> Current selling price of similar lands in the vicinity
> Reasonable disturbance compensation for the removal and/or demolition of certain
improvements on the land and for the value of improvements thereon
> Size, shape or location, tax declaration and zonal valuation of the land
12



*                                   Resettlement Policy
DPWH
> Price of the land as manifested in the ocular findings, oral as well as documentary
evidence presented
> Facts and events so as to enable the affected property owners to have sufficient
funds to acquire similarly-situated lands of approximate areas as those required
from them by the government, and thereby rehabilitate themselves as early as
possible
k) RA 8974 (2000)
* Negotiated sale between the DPWH and the PAP based on the following standards to
determine the fair market value:
a)      The classification and use for which the property is suited;
b)      The development costs for improving the land;
c)      The value declared by the owners;
d)      The current selling price of similar lands in the vicinity;
e)      The reasonable disturbance compensation for the removal and/or
demolition of certain improvements on the land and for the value for
improvements thereon;
f)      The size, shape or location, tax declaration and zonal valuation of the
land;
g)      The price of the land as manifested in the ocular findings, oral as well as
documentary evidence presented; and
h)      Such facts and events as to enable the affected property owners to have
sufficient funds to acquire similarly-situated lands of approximate areas
as those required from them by the government, and thereby rehabilitate
themselves as early as possible.
*  In the case of expropriation, DPWH shall immediately pay the owner: a) 100 % of the
value of the property based on the BIR zonal valuation, and b) the value of
improvements / structures. If the owner contests the Agency's offered value, the court
shall determine the just compensation within 60 days, taking into account the above
facts mentioned standards.
* Reiteration of the provisions of RA 7279 regarding squatter relocation
1) The provisions of this Resettlement Policy supplement the above legal framework
mentioned in a) to k) above.
13



*                                              Resettlement Policy
DPWH
5.  COMPENSATION MATRIX
The matrix below will be used in the settlement of claims for compensation for lost assets of
PAPs based on the aforementioned principles (Chapter 3) and legal framework (Chapter 4).
Unless otherwise indicated, payment of compensation and other entitlements and the
extension of assistance will be  iven to PAP households, not individuals.
Type of        Application        Entitled Person                        Compensation
Loss
1.  Arable land   Actual area needed  Owners with full     For the portion of the land needed:
by the road project    title, tax declaration    +Cash compensation at replacement cost for the land as
and the remaining   (i.e., legalizable), or   deternined by a licensed independent appraiser using
land is still        who are covered by    internationally recognized valuation standards as provided in 2
economically viable   customary law (e.g.,   a and 2 j of the Resettlement Policy.
possessory tights,
usufruct) or other  +Cash compensation for trees of commercial value and crops
acceptable proof of    at market value as provided in 2 j of the Resettlement Policy.
ownership
+PAP will be given sufficient time to harvest crops.
PAPs without title,    For the portion of the land needed:
tax declaration, or are  +PAP will be given sufficient time to harvest crops
not covered by
customary law (e.g.,   +Cash compensation for trees of commercial and crops at
possessory rights,   market value as provided in 2 j of the Resettlement Policy.
usufruct) or other
acceptable proof of    +Financial assistance to make up for land preparation in the
ownership            amount to be determined an independent appraiser based on
cost analysis.
+No compensation for the land.
Remaining land       Owners with full     +Cash compensation at replacement cost for the land as
becomes              title, tax declaration    determined  by  a licensed  independent appraiser using
economically not    (i.e., legalizable), or   internationally recognized valuation standards as provided in 2
viable (i.e., PAP    who are covered by    a and 2 j of the Resettlement Policy.
losing >20% of land   customary law (e.g.,
holding or even when  possessory rights,  +Disturbance assistance of PhP15,000
losing <20% but the   usufruct) or other
remaining land is not  acceptable proof of    +PAP will be given sufficient time to harvest crops
economically viable   ownership
anymore)                                  +Cash compensation for trees of commercial value as
determined by the DENR or the Independent Land Appraiser.
+If relocating, PAP to be provided free transportation
+Rehabilitation  assistance  (skills  training  and  other
development activities) will be provided in coordination with
other government agencies if the present means of livelihood is
no longer viable and the PAP will have to engage in a new
income activity.
+Cash compensation for trees of commercial value and crops
at market value as provided in 2 j of the Resettlement Policy.
14



*                                               Resettlement Policy
DPWH
Type of        Application         Entitled Person                         Compensation
Loss
PAPs without title,    +Financial assistance equivalent to the average annual gross
tax declaration, or are  harvest for the past 3 years but not less than PhP1 5,000
not covered by
customary law (e.g.,   +PAP will be given sufficient time to harvest crops
possessory rights,
usufruct) or other   +Cash compensation for trees of commercial value and crops
acceptable proof of    at market cost as provided in 2 j of the Resettlement Policy.
ownership
+ Financial assistance to make up for land preparation in the
amount to be determined an independent appraiser based on
cost analysis
+ Rehabilitation assistance (skills training and other
development activities will be provided in coordination with
other government agencies if the present means of livelihood is
no longer viable and the PAP will have to engage in a new
income activity.
Agricultural lessees    As per RA 6389 and EO 1035:
+Disturbance compensation equivalent to five times the
average of the gross harvest on the land holding during the five
preceding years but not to exceed PhP 15,000.
+Cash compensation for trees of commercial value and crops
at market cost as provided in 2 j of the Resettlement Policy.
+PAP will be given sufficient time to harvest crops
+ Rehabilitation assistance (skills training and other
development activities will be provided in coordination with
other government agencies if the present means of livelihood is
no longer viable and the PAP will have to engage in a new
income activity.
c. Temporary use of   All PAPs            +Compensation to be provided for loss of income during the
land                                    period, standing crops, cost of soil restoration and damaged
structures
2.  Residential   a. Actual area needed   Owners with full   For the portion of the land needed:
land and/or    by the road project  title, tax declaration    + Cash compensation at replacement cost for the land as
Commercial    and the remaining   (i.e., legalizable), or   deterfined by a licensed independent appraiser using
land           land is still viable   who are covered by    internationally recognized valuation standards as provided in 2
for continued use    customary law (e.g.,   a and 2 j of the Resettlement Policy.
possessory rights,
usufruct) or other   +Cash compensation for trees of commercial value and crops
acceptable proof of    at market value as provided in 2 j of the Resettlement Policy.
ownership
This applies whether   For the portion of land needed:
they are squatting on
private or           +No compensation for land
government owned
land                 +Cash compensation for trees of commercial value as and
crops at market value as provided in 2 j of the Resettlement
Policy.
15



i                                                 Resettlement Policy
DPWH
Type of         Application          Entitled Person                          Compensation
Loss
b. Actual area needed   Owners with full    +Cash compensation at replacement cost for the land as
by the road project  title, tax declaration    determined by a licensed independent appraiser using
is greater than 20%   (i.e., legalizeable), or  internationally recognized valuation standards as provided in 2
of the total and the   who are covered by  a and 2 j of the Resettlement Policy or; 'land for land' will be
remaining land is    customary law (e.g.,   provided in terms of a new parcel of land of equivalent market
still viable        possessory rights,    value, at a location acceptable to PAP, and with long-term
usufruct) or other    security of tenure. The replacement land should be of
acceptable proof of    acceptable size under zoning laws or a plot of equivalent
ownership             value, whichever is larger, in a nearby resettlement area with
adequate physical and social infrastructure.
+Cash compensation for trees of commercial value and crops
at market value as provided in 2 j of the Resettlement Policy.
This applies whether   +PAPs will be provided with a plot of land in an existing
they are squatting on   municipal resettlement site in the vicinity or with cash
private or            rehabilitation assistance to maintain their pre-Project standards
government owned      of living
land
+Cash compensation for trees of commercial value and crops
at market value as provided in 2 j of the Resettlement Policy.
d.  Temporary use    All PAPs               +Compensation to be provided for loss of income during the
of land                                 period, standing crops, cost of soil restoration and damaged
structures
3.  Main           a. Structure, with or    Owners of structure    + Cash compensation at replacement cost for the affected
Structures    without a building     with full title or tax  portion of structure as determined by a licensed independent
(e.g., house,   permit, partially    declaration (i.e.,    appraiser using internationally recognized valuation standards
house cum     affected and the      legalizable) to the    as provided in 2 a and 2 j of the Resettlement Policy with no
shops)        remaining structure is  land or those who are  deduction for salvageable building materials.
still viable for      covered by customary
continued use.        law (e.g., possessory   +PAPs who have businesses affected due to partial impact are
rights, usufruct) or  entitled to a subsistence allowance for the loss of income
other acceptable      during the reconstruction period, to be determined by the
proof of ownership    independent appraiser.
Owners of structures,  +Compensation in cash for affected portion of the structure,
including shanty     including the cost of restoring the remaining structure, by a
dwellers in urban     licensed independent appraiser using intemationally
areas, have no title or  recognized valuation standards as provided in 2 a and 2 j of the
tax declaration to the   Resettlement Policy with no deductions for salvageable
land or other         building materials.
acceptable proof of
ownership. This       +Shanty dwellers in urban areas who opt to go back to their
applies whether they   place of origin in the province or be shifted to government
are squatting on      relocation sites will be provided free transportation.
private or
government owned      +Professional squatters will not receive compensation but they
land.                 can collect their salvageable materials
+PAPs who have business affected due to partial impact are
entitled to a subsistence allowance for the loss of income
during the reconstruction period, to be detennined by the
independent appraiser.
16



jB                                                Resettlement Policy
DPWH
Type of         Application          Entitled Person                          Compensation
Loss
Renters (tenants) of    +Given 30 days notice on the schedule of demolition
leased affected
structures, including    +For house tenants renting structures outside of, or within the
renters of shanty     ROW, and who have to transfer elsewhere, free transportation
dwellings in urban    will be provided
areas
+Renting shanty dwellers in urban areas who opt to go back to
their place of origin in the province or be shifted to
government relocation sites will be provided free
transportation
b. Entire structure   Owners of structures   +Compensation in cash for the entire structure at replacement
affected or when the    with full title or tax  cost as determined by a licensed independent appraiser using
remaining structure    declaration (i.e.,   internationally recognized valuation standards as provided in 2
becomes not viable    legalizable) to the   a and 2 j of the Resettlement Policy with no deduction for
for continued use,    land or those who are  salvageable building materials
with or without a     covered by customary
building permit       law (e.g., possessory   +Disturbance assistance of PhPI0,000 per PAP (household)
rights, usufruct) or
other acceptable      +If relocation is necessary, free transportation will be provided
proof of ownership
+Rehabilitation assistance in the form of skills training and
other development activities will be provided in coordination
with other government agencies if the present means of
livelihood (e.g., house cum shop) is no longer viable and the
PAP will have to engage in a new income activity.
+PAPs who have business affected due to severe impact will
be entitled to a subsistence allowance for the loss of income
during the reconstruction period not less than their monthly
income or PhP 15,000 for each PAF.
Owners of structures,  +Compensation in cash for the entire structure at replacement
including shanty      cost as determined by a licensed independent appraiser using
dwellers in urban     internationally recognized valuation standards as provided in 2
areas, have no title or  a and 2 j of the Resettlement Policy with no deductions for
tax declaration to the   salvageable building materials.
land or other
acceptable proof of    +Shanty dwellers in urban areas who opt to go back to their
ownership.            place of origin in the province or be shifted to government
relocation sites will be provided free transportation.
+If relocation is necessary, free transportation will be provided
+Rehabilitation assistance in the fonn of skills training and
other development activities will be provided in coordination
with other government agencies if the present means of
livelihood (e.g., house cum shop) is no longer viable and the
PAP will have to engage in a new income activity.
+Professional squatters will not receive compensation but they
can collect their salvageable materials
+PAPs who have business affected due to partial impact are
entitled to a subsistence allowance for the loss of income
during the reconstruction period, to be deterniined by the
independent appraiser.
17



*                                               Resettlement Policy
DPWH
Type of        Application         Entitled Person                         Compensation
Loss
Renters (tenants) of    +Given 30 days notice on the schedule of demolition
leased affected
structures, including    +For house tenants renting structures outside of, or within the
renters of shanty    ROW, and who have to transfer elsewhere, free transportation
dwellings in urban   will be provided
areas
+ Renting shanty dwellers in urban areas who opt to go back to
their place of origin in the province or be shifted to
government relocation sites will be provided free
transportation.
+Rehabilitation assistance in the form of skills training and
other development activities will be provided in coordination
with other government agencies if the present means of
livelihood (e.g., house cum shop) is no longer viable and the
PAP will have to engage in a new income activity.
4   Independent   a. Shops, with or    Owners of structure    +Compensation in cash for the entire structure at replacement
shops        without building      with or without full   cost as determined by a licensed independent appraiser using
(structures)   permit, partially  title or tax          intemationally recognized valuation standards as provided in 2
affected and the     declaration to the   a and 2 j of the Resettlement Policy with no deductions for
remaining structures   land or those who are  salvageable building materials
are still viable for  covered by customary
continued use.       law (e.g., possessory   + PAPs will be entitled to transitional allowance to cover for
rights, usufruct) or    their computed income loss during the demolition and
other acceptable     reconstruction of their shops or an amount not to exceed a one
proof of ownership   month of their computed income to be deternnined by the
independent appraiser
b. Entire shop       Owner of structure   +Cash compensation at replacement cost for the affected
affected OR when the  with or without full   portion of the structure as determined by a licensed
remaining structure    title or tax       independent appraiser using intemationally recognized
becomes not viable    declaration to the  valuation standards as provided in 2 a and 2 j of the
for continued use,   land or those who are  Resettlement Policy with no deductions for salvageable
with or without a    covered by customary  building materials
building permit      law (e.g., possessory
rights, usufruct) or  +Disturbance assistance of PhPI 0,000 per PAP (household)
other acceptable
proof of ownership    +Free transportation will be provided if relocating
+Rehabilitation assistance in the form of skills training and
other development activities will be provided in coordination
with other govemment agencies if the present means of
livelihood (e.g., house cum shop) is no longer viable and the
PAP will have to engage in a new income activity.
+Professional squatters will not receive compensation but they
can collect their salvageable materials
c. Shops, with or    Renters              + PAPs will be entitled to transitional allowance to cover for
without building                          their computed income loss during the demolition and
permit, partially                         reconstruction of their shops or an amount not to exceed one
affected and the                          month. of their computed income to be determined by the
remaining structures                      independent appraiser
are still viable for
continued use.
18



4                                               Resettlement Policy
DPWH
Type of        Application         Entitled Person                         Compensation
Loss
d. Entire shop       Renters              +Given 30 days notice on the schedule of demolition
affected or when the
remaining structure                       +Shop renters will be entitled to transitional allowance to
becomes not viable                        cover for their computed income loss during the demolition
for continued use,                        and reconstruction of their shops or an amount of their
with or without a                         computed income to be determined by the independent
building permit                           appraiser of one month.
+Rehabilitation assistance in the form of skills training and
other development activities will be provided in coordination
with other government agencies if the present means of
livelihood (e.g., house cum shop) is no longer viable and the
PAP will have to engage in a new income activity.
+PAPs will be provided free transportation for their families
and belongings, if relocating either temporarily or
permanently.
5.  Other fixed    Loss of, or damage  PAPs                 +Compensation in cash for affected portion of the structure,
assets or    to, affected assets,                       including the cost of restoring the remaining structure, as
structures   partially or entirely                      determined by the concerned appraisal committee, with no
depreciation or deduction for salvaged building materials.
6.  Electric      Loss of, or damage    PAPs                 +Compensation to cover cost of restoring the facilities
and/or water  to, affected assets,
connection    partially or entirely
7.  Public        Loss of, or damage    Concemed agencies    +Compensation in cash at replacement cost to respective
Facilities   to, public                                 agencies.
infrastructure (e.g.,
public water tanks,
tram lines, bus stop
sheds, loading
platform, public
health center,
barangay center,
electric or telephone
lines, etc.)
19



a   w                                Resettlement Policy
DPWH
6.  APPLICATION OF THE PARTICIPATORY PROCESS TO THE
PROJECT CYCLE
6.1    Project Preparation Stage
There are 3 main stages in project preparation, namely:
1. Pre-feasibility
2. Feasibility
3. Detailed engineering design
Each main activity has a series of sequential activities where participation is required.
a) Pre-feasibility
Step 1: The URPO, assisted by the Environmental Impact Assessment Project Office
(EIAPO) and the Action Office on Resettlement of Squatter Families (AORSF) will
hold a preliminary meeting with concerned communities. The objectives of this
meeting are to:
20



*                                  Resettlement Policy
DPWH
a) Explain the general concept of the road project
b) Discuss/explain the requirements of the road project and its likely impacts
c) Present tentative schedule of activities
d) Create awareness and appreciation among the communities about the project
e) Set a general orientation meeting with communities at the barangay level.
Step 2: General Orientation of the Community
Before undertaking any survey activity in the community, the Project Team (URPO
with the EIAPO, MMDA and AORSF will conduct a meeting to orient and ensure
that the community understands the nature and extent of the proposed project.
Awareness of the project will facilitate the data-gathering process and ensure the
quality of data provided by the community to the project team.
The community orientation will be facilitated by officials of the barangay who
attended the orientation meeting conducted earlier at the municipal office.
The suggested agenda for the General Community Orientation are:
a) Overview of the project, including overall objectives and merits of the same
b) Identification and discussion of the likely impacts of the project
c) Activities to be undertaken and their schedule, such as technical surveys, water
resources assessment, social impact study, environmental impact assessment,
etc.
b) Expected roles of the community during the conduct of the abovementioned
technical studies.
Step 3: EIA/Social Assessment
The Project Team will assess the positive and adverse impacts of the project,
number of households likely to be affected, types of impacts, tenure status, need for
acquisition of private assets, relocation of people, etc.
c) Feasibility
Step 4: RAP preparation
21



*                                        Resettlement Policy
DPWH
Based on the results of the SIA, a census and a full-blown socio-economic survey of
PAPs , including among others, an inventory of affected assets, will be conducted as
an important step in drafting an appropriate resettlement action plan (RAP). Said
RAP will include the amount and the process to be employed in the payment of
compensation to PAPs.
Step 5:  Orientation of Stakeholder
Upon completion of the draft RAP, the Project Team will brief concerned
communities (i.e., municipal and barangay level as necessary), with the view that a
general agreement will be achieved on the following:
a) Resettlement program
b) Relocation sites, if needed
c) Role of communities in RAP implementation
Step 6:  Consultation with the Community
Still part of the process to finalize the draft RAP, consultation(s) with affected
communities at the barangay level will be undertaken. For this purpose, the Project
Team shall prepare a Public Information Leaflet containing a brief description of the
project, including compensation policy for affected private properties.
The affected communities will also be informed on the mechanics and procedures
for public participation and consultation, grievance redressal procedures, and the
resettlement program. Likewise, the community's suggestions regarding relocation
site(s) will be solicited, and, where warranted, its preferences for the mode of
compensation for affected fixed assets (i.e., cash or land-for-land).
Step 7: The Project Team will finalize the RAP
d) Finalization of technical design
Step 8:  The Project Team will orient the affected communities on the final version of the
RAP and its implementation, the results of the environmental impact study and the
prepared environmental management plan, and the project's detailed engineering
(technical) designs.
6.2     Project Implementation Stage
' Census will be undertaken for all types of PAPs. Census covers general information on the PAP, such as
demographic information and properties affected. Socio-economic surveys will cover only those who are
severely affected by the project. Information to be gathered includes household income, expenditures, skills, etc.
The information gathered will serve as benchmark data for those preparing, implementing, and evaluating the
RAP designed for them.
22



*                                  Resettlement Policy
DPWH
Step 9:  Setting-up of various Committees as required by the project and the RAP, such as
the Resettlement Implementation Committee (RIC). PAPs will be represented with
full voting power in these committees.
Step 10: Participation in Implementation
Whenever feasible, PAPs will be contracted in the implementation of the various
activities of the project, such as reconstruction of damaged dwelling units and
construction of small infrastructure units, like ripraps and retaining walls.
Step 11: Monitoring of RAP implementation
The Project Team will enlist the participation of PAPs in the monitoring of RAP
implementation. Representation of the PAPs in the internal monitoring of the
implementation of the RAP will provide a more accurate reading of the local
community's feelings and reactions. Specifically, internal monitoring will focus on:
(i) seeing to it that that RAP is implemented as designed and approved, and (ii)
verifying if funds for implementing the RAPs are provided by project authorities in a
timely manner and in amounts sufficient for their purposes, and that such funds are
used in accordance with the provisions of the RAP.
An independent agency or agencies will be retained by the DPWH to carry out
external monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of RAPs. The independent
agencies may be NGOs, academic or research institutions or independent consulting
firms, with qualified and experienced staff and with terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank.
6.3    Post Project Implementation Stage
Step 12: Evaluation of RAP implementation
A composite body of representatives from the Project Team, concerned
communities, the various committees formed, and PAPs will be formed to conduct
an evaluation of the RAP upon completion of its implementation. The coverage of
the evaluation will include RAP preparation and actual implementation. Strengths
and weaknesses of the whole process of the RAP will be identified for the purpose
of drawing lessons from them. Said lessons will guide the DPWH in future projects.
23



I|F                                 Resettlement Policy
DPWH
7.  INSTITUTIONAL REQUIREMENTS OF RESETTLEMENT
7.1    DPWH
The URPO is overall responsible for implementing the project. In coordination with relevant
agencies, the URPO will manage and supervise the project, including resettlement activities
and land acquisition. It shall ensure that funds for the timely implementation of the RAP are
available and that expenses are ;properly accounted for. The URPO will be assisted by the
EIAPO in providing technical guidance and support in the implementation of the RAP.
a) Environment Impact Assessment Project Office (EIAPO)
The EIAPO will provide technical guidance and support in the implementation of the RAP
and will be responsible for the following resettlement activities:
a. overall preparation and planning of the RAP;
b. submitting RAP budget plans (to include compensation, relocation costs, operation)
for approval and allocation of needed resources by the DPWH central office;
c. in accordance with the Department's resettlement policies, guiding the Resettlement
Implementation Committees (RICs) in their tasks, such as the verification of PAPs,
final inventory of affected assets, and information dissemination;
d. amending or complementing the RAP in case problems are identified during the
internal and/or external monitoring of its implementation;
e. in collaboration with its counterpart in the region, following-up with the DPWH
Regional Office the processing of compensation claims of PAPs;
f. in collaboration with its URPO, MMDA monitoring the actual payment of
compensation to PAPs; and,
g. in collaboration with its regional counterpart, preparing periodic supervision and
monitoring reports on RAP implementation for submission to the URPO and the
Bank.
b) Action Office on Resettlement of Squatter Families (AORSF)
Successful implementation of the RAP will require close coordination with the AORSF. The
AORSF will be the principal and regular representative of URPO in the RICs. Together with
the EIAPO the AORSF will extend technical support to the RIC in relation to RAP
implementation.
7.2    Resettlement Implementation Committee (RIC)
The RIC will be set up and shall be composed of the following:
a. Representative of the Municipal/City Government
b. Representative of the PAPs
24



*                                  Resettlement Policy
DPWH
c. Representative of the indigenous people (IP) within the project area, if there are any
d. A senior member of the staff of DPWH District Engineering Office
e. Representative of the concerned Barangay Government
f. Representative from an NGO or people's organization (PO)
The representative of the DPWH from the AORSF will be the RIC's Chairperson and
Convenor. The Committee will have the following functions:
a. assist the EIAPO in (i) validating the list of PAPs; (ii) validating the assets of the
PAPs that will be affected by the project (using a prepared compensation form); and
(iii) implementing the RAP;
b. assist the EIAPO in public information campaign, public participation and
consultation;
c. assist the URPO in the payment of compensation to PAPs;
d. receive complaints and grievances from PAPs and other stakeholders and act on them
accordingly;
e. maintaining record of all public meetings, complaints, and actions taken to address
complaints and grievances;
f. in coordination with concerned government authorities, assist in the enforcement of
laws/ordinances regarding encroachment into the project road corridor.
7.3   Grievance Procedures
Grievance related to any aspect of the or sub-project will be handled through negotiations and
are aimed at achieving consensus following the procedures outlined below:
a) Grievance will be filed by the PAP with the RIC who will act within 15 days upon
receipt thereof, except complaints and grievances that specifically pertain to the
valuation of affected assets, since such will be decided upon by the proper courts;
b) If no understanding or amicable solution can be reached, or if the PAP does not
receive a response from the RIC within 15 days of registry of the complaint,
he/she can appeal to the Office of DPWH URPO Project, through the EIAPO,
which should act on the complaint/grievance within 15 days from the day of its
filing;
c) It the PAP is not satisfied with the decision of the Office of DPWH URPO Project,
he/she, as a last resort, can submit the complaint to a court of law.
PAPs will be exempted from all administrative and legal fees incurred in pursuant to the
grievance redress procedures.
All complaints received in writing (or written when received verbally) from the PAPs will be
documented.
25



*                                       Resettlement Policy
DPWH
8.  ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF DPWH AND THE
COMMUNITIES
Project Process        Participatory Activities and Participants   Responsible Institution
Stage
Preparation
Pre-feasibility     1. Meeting with representative of communities  URPO, MMDA, AORSF
affected to give them  an overview  of the  and EIAPO, NCR, Reg.
proposed infra project                      IV-A & District Offices
2. General    Orientation    Meeting    with  MMDA         as    lead,
representative of communities affected at the  supported  by  URPO,
barangay-level preparatory to the conduct of AORSF and EIAPO reps
technical, environmental and social studies NCR,  Reg.  IV-A  &
relative to the proposed infrastructure project    District reps.
3. Conduct of EIA and/or SIA                   EIAPO Central, assisted
by URPO/AORSF,
NCR, Reg. IV-A &
District offices
Feasibility          1. RAP preparation, specifically the conduct of a  EIAPO    assisted   by
census and socio-economic survey of PAPs    URPO and MMDA
2. Consultation with the affected communities on  EIAPO   offices   with
the draft RAP                               stakeholder reps
3. Finalization of RAP                         EIAPO Central with reps
from URPO and MMDA
Finalization of      1. Orientation of affected communities regarding  EIAPO with reps URPO,
Technical              the final version of the RAP, including the  MMDA   and  AORSF,
Design                 mechanics of its implementation              NCR, Region IV-A  &
district Offices
Implementation       1. Setting-up  of  the  RAP  Implementation  EIAPO with MMDA &
Committee (with LGU representative)                 URPO
26



*v                                     Resettlement Policy
DPWH
Project Process      Participatory Activities and Participants  Responsible Institution
Stage
2. Community participation in the implementation      - do -
of the RAP and EMP
3. Internal monitoring of RAP implementation         - do -
Post-               1. Summing-up evaluation of the RAP, to cover its EIAPO    assisted   by
Implementation         preparation and implementation            URPO and MMDA
27



*                                   Resettlement Policy
DPWH
9. COSTS AND BUDGETS
Each RAP will include detailed cost estimates for compensation and relocation of PAPs, if that
be the case, with a breakdown by category of PAPs; agricultural, residential and business land;
houses, structures and other fixed assets affected; transport assistance when shifting PAPs;
phases of the project and by financial year. Cost estimates will make adequate provisions for
contingencies.
The total cost of the RAP will be included in the cost of the project. In the case of cost overruns
due to unforeseen circumstances or delays, the DPWH will allocate additional funds as
necessary.
On the basis of the approved RAP, funding for the implementation of the resettlement plan will
be forwarded to the District Office, which in turn is tasked to prepare and process the vouchers
for payment of compensation to PAPs, relocation expenses, operational costs, etc.
28



