Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20767-PH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$60.0 MILLION
AND A GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY GRANT
OF SDR 1.0 MILLION (US$ 1.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHI-LIPPINES
FOR THE
METRO MANILA URBAN TRANSPORT INTEGRATION PROJECT
MAY 23, 2001
East Asia and Pacific Region
Tr2nsport Sector Unit



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 23, 2001)
Currency Unit = Philippine Pesos (PhP)
1 PhP = US$0.02
US$1 = PhP50
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                  Asian Development Bank
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
DBM                  Department of Budget and Management
DENR                 Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DPWH                 Department of Public Works and Highways
DOTC                 Department of Transportation and Communications
ECC                  Environmental Compliance Certificate
EDSA                 Epifanio de los Santos Avenue
EIAPO                Environmental Inpact Assessment Project Office
GEF                  Global Environment Facility
GHG                  Greenhouse Gas
ICB                  International Competitive Bidding
LGU                  Local Government Unit
LRT                  Light Rail Transit
MARIPAS              Marikina, Rizal, Pasig
MMDA                 Metropolitan Manila Development Authority
MMURTRIP             Metro Manila Urban Transport Integration Project
MMUTIS               Metro Manila Urban Transportation Integration Study
NCB                  National Competitive Bidding
NCTS                 National Center for Transportation Studies
NEDA                 National Econormic and Development Authority
NGO                  Non-Governmental Organization
NMT                  Non-Motorized Transport
NRIMP-1              First National Roads Improvement and Manag. Project
PMO                  Project Management Office
QCBS                 Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
TEC                  Traffic Engineering Center
URPO                 Urban Roads Project Office
VOC                  Vehicle Operating Cost
Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassun
Country Director:    Vinay K Bhargava
Sector Director:   Jitendra N. Bajpai
Task Team Leader:      Sally L. Burninghiam



PHILIPPINES
METRO MANILA URBAN TRANSPORT INTEGRATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       3
2. Global objective                                                                    3
3. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  9
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      13
3. Benefits and target population                                                     13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      14
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           18
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        19
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           20
2. Financial                                                                          21
3. Technical                                                                          22
4. Institutional                                                                      22
5. Environmental                                                                      23
6. Social                                                                             24
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 26
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     26
2. Critical risks                                                                     27



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   28
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          28
2. Other                                                                            28
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        29
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       29
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        30
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  34
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       43
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                 45
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             54
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     55
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   71
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 72
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                73
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          75
Annex 11: Project Information Brochure                                                 77
Annex 12: Institutional Framework for Traffic Engineering and Transpott Planning       79
Annex 13: Global Environment Facility (GEF) supported Non-Motorized Transport component -  84
Marikina Bicycle Network. Estimation of the benefits deriving from the savings in greenhouse gas
emissions
Annex 14: Global Environment Facility (GEF) supported Non-Motorized Transport component -  93
Marikina Bicycle Network. Incremental Cost Analysis
MAP(S)
IBRD 30420 - Traffic Management and MARIPAS components
IBRD 30421 - Secondary Roads components



PHILIPPINES
Metro Manila Urban Transport Integration Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
Transport Sector Unit
Date: May 23, 2001                                Team Leader: Sally L. Bumningham
Country Director: Vinay K. Bhargava               Sector Director: Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project ID: P057731                               Sector(s): TU - Urban Transport
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Global Supplemental ID: P066509                   Team Leader: Sally L. Burningham
Sector Manager/Director: Jitendra N. Bajpai
Supplement Fully Blended? Yes                     Sector(s): TU - Urban Transport
Program Financing Data
[XI Loan    [ ] Credit    [ Grant      [ Guarantee       [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$60 million
| Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 8                          Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.85% the first four years; 0.75%  Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
thereafter
Financing Plan (US$m): Source                               Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                      36.30           0.00         36.30
IBRD                                                          29.60          30.40         60.00
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                    0.50           0.80          1.30
Total:                                                        58.60          39.00         97.60
BorrowerlRecipient: REPUBLIC OF PHILIPPINES
Responsible agency: DPWH
Department of Public Works and Highways
Address: Bonifacio Drive, Port Area, Metro Manila, Philippines
Contact Person: Mr. Teodoro Encarnacion, Undersecretary for Technical Services
Tel: 63-2-304 3228                Fax: 63-2-304 3485               Email: n/a
Other Agency(ies):
Metro Manila Development Authority
Address: MMDA Building, EDSA Corner Orense Street, Guadalupe, Makati City, Metro Manila, Philippines
Contact Person: Mr. Benjamin S. Abalos, Chairman
Tel: 63-2-882 0908              Fax: 63-2-882 0859               Email: ogm(@mmda.gov.ph
City of Marikina, Metro Manila
Address: Brgy. Sta. Elena, Shoe Avenue, Marikina City, Metro Manila, Philippines
Contact Person: Mayor Bayani Fernando
Tel: 63-2-646 1634            Fax: 63-2-646 5277               Email: marikina@Mozcom.com



Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYXUS$m):
FY         2001   1 i2002   1 0 2003 0  2004   J  2005   I  2006  i
Annual    0.00        1.70      8.23 1   25.60 I 17.35          7.12
Cumulative    0.00       1.70       9.93     35.53      52.88     60.00
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/01/2001  Expected closing date:  09/01/2006
OCS PAD F.w- Rev MmdC, 2
-2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective of the Metro Manila Urban Transport Integration Project
(MMURTRIP) is to assist the Government of Philippines in enhancing the economic productivity and
quality of life of Metro Manila residents by improving the operational efficiency and safety of the transport
system with better opportunities for access to public transport and nonmotorized transport, the dominant
transport modes of low-income residents.
To this end, the project will implement schemes of traffic management to improve access to newly opened
Light Rail Transit stations and transfer opportunities between road-based public transport modes,
pedestrian circulation, road frontage controls, street lighting, and traffic circulation in general. Physical
measures in the project corridors/areas will also improve critical interchanges and provide road access and
missing links. To promote the use of nonmotorized transport, the project will implement a local bike path
network and a supporting awareness campaign. Institutional measures will aim to strengthen the
Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA), the agency responsible for coordinating
development plans and programs, and specifically, traffic management across the 12 cities and five
municipalities of Metro Manila.
2. Global objective: (see Annex I)
The global environment objective of the proposed Nonmotorized Transport Global Environment Facility
(GEF) supported component is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by promoting the use of zero-emission
bicycle and pedestrian transport in the City of Marikina as an alternative to greenhouse gas-emitting
motorized transport. A second objective is to demonstrate and publicize the benefits and viability of
bicycles as an alternative transport mode to encourage replication of this pilot program in other parts of
Metro Manila, elsewhere in the Philippines, and in other countries.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators, to be measured along the project corridors, are:
Objective                    Actions                       Indicators
A. Provide better opportunities  Improve travel conditions,  * Reduced travel time.
for access to public transport   including the related safety and   * Sustained proportion of public
facilities by improved traffic    environmental aspects, along the  transport use.
management.                 three most heavily used public    * Improved satisfaction of public
transport corridors in Metro    transport users.
Manila (along Light Rail Transit
Line 3; EDSA; LRT Line
2-Aurora Boulevard, and the
Southem Corridor).
B. Enhance access from the  Implement a series of projects in  * Reduced travel time.
outer areas to Metro Manila.    Marikina Valley on the key  * Sustained proportion of public
access routes to Metro Manila.  transport use.
* Improved satisfaction of public
transport users.
-3 -



Objective                    Actions                       Indicators
C. Improve operational      Invest in strategic secondary  * Reduced travel time.
efficiency through an improved  roads.                   *  Sustained proportion of public
road hierarchy.                                             transport use.
* Improved satisfaction of public
transport users.
D. Enhance quality of life  Promote the use of nonmotorized Sustained or increased mode share for
through increased use of    transport through a pilot    non-motorised transport trips.
non-motorised transport and  demonstration in one of the local
thereby address air pollution.   government units (LGUs), the
City of Marikina.
E. Improve metropolitan     Strengthen capacity of       * Effective coordination mechanism
governance in traffic matters in  Metropolitan Manila       in place between the key agencies
Metro Manila.               Development Authority           and Local Government Units.
(MMDA) and involve them as   * Effective traffic management and
direct project implementers.   enforcement measures planned
and designed by the relevant
agencies
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R99-55(IFC/R99-46)             Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/04/99
To help the Philippines achieve its overarching goal of poverty reduction, the World Bank Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) policies and programs are directed to seven areas consistent with the Medium-
Term Philippines Development Plan:
1. Address crisis effects and promote economic recovery.
2. Enhance human development and social services for the poor.
3. Accelerate environmentally sustainable rural development.
4. Promote sustainable urban development and combat urban poverty.
5. Develop infrastructure, particularly in the provinces.
6. Enable expansion of the private sector.
7. Improve governance and transparency and combat corruption.
Among medium-term development priorities of the Government of the Philippines, the CAS highlights the
need to target transport problems in Metro Manila. The MMUTRTRIP project will improve and develop the
basic transport infrastructure (item 5) and promote sustainable urban development (item 4) by providing
necessary transport access to fast-growing outer areas, particularly to the low-income population that
depends on public transport modes.
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
The Nonmotorized Transport component is consistent with the objectives of Global Environment Facility
(GEF) Operational Program 11 on Transportation, which states that "GEF will promote, amongst others,
nonmotorized transport technologies and measures, especially in medium-scale growing cities." The
Nonmotorized Transport component will demonstrate that bicycle networks are a low-cost, convenient, and
acceptable alternative method of city transportation over short-to-moderate distances and have excellent
- 4 -



prospects of sustainability. This component has strong local government and nongovernmental organization
support and is a national priority for GEF assistance.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Urban transport congestion, with its related impacts, is one of the most pressing problems in the
Philippines. The key area for concern is Metro Manila, now a massive, gridlocked urban area that
accommodates 10.2 million people (1997), produces over one-third of national GDP, and contains 17 Local
Government Units (LGUs), of which 12 are cities and five are municipalities. By 2015 Manila is expected
to become a massive conurbation of 13 million (MMUTIS 1996). Economic prosperity in recent years has
accelerated motorization and the demand for mobility, causing severe traffic congestion and environmental
problems. Residents perceive traffic congestion as their number one problem, followed by air pollution (the
primary source of which is the transport sector), garbage collection, flood control, and the need for
security.
The level of congestion in Metro Manila is severe enough to cause an average travel speed of 10 kilometers
per hour, only slightly faster than that of Bangkok, which has the slowest travel speed of any major Asian
city (figure B. 1).
Figure B.1 Average travel speed in major Asian cities
35 -                    30.
30 - _ _
25 e2                               - -
20       15        15             15
15
.. -
0
Figure B.2 Typical traffic congestion on EDSA in Metro Manila, May 27, 2000
-5-



The Metro Manila Transportation and Traffic Situation Study Household Interview Survey of the 1996
MMUTIS study involved interviews of 235,000 people, or 50,000 households (about 2.5 percent
sampling). The survey showed that about 20 percent of households in Metro Manila own cars, fewer than
in many other large cities in the region. Despite a trend of rising car ownership in recent years, public
transport has always been the dominant transport mode in Metro Manila, and the population depends
heavily on road-based public transport modes in the form ofjeepneys and more recently FXs, a type of
shared taxi.
Table B.1 Metro Manila socioeconomic profile
Philippines GDP per capita (1999)           US$1,020
Metro Manila GRDP per capita (1996)         PhP 59,580; US$1,490
Population of Metro Manila (1997)           10.2 million
Percentage of households owning cars (1996)  20
Car ownership per 1000 population (1996)    59
Household income, average per month (1996)  PhP 12,356; US$309 per household
Households below poverty line (1996)        6.5 percent
Source Population: World Bank documents; car ownership and poverty: MMUTIS 1996.
Data from the 1996 MMUTIS household interviews show that 79 percent of motorized trips were made by
public transport (41 percent by jeepney, 13 percent by bus, 19 percent by tricycle, 2 percent by light rail
transit, 5 percent by taxi, and a negligible proportion by the Philippines National Railway), while only 21
percent were made by private car or utility vehicle; 20 percent of total trips were walking trips. This split is
unlikely to be influenced by the completion of the two new Light Rail Transit (LRT) Lines 2 and 3. The
existing LRT Line 1 operates at capacity, carrying about 350,000-400,000 passengers per day. The LRT
Line 3 along EDSA opened in December 1999 and currently averages about 65,000 passengers per day.
The LRT Line 2 is under construction and due to open in 2002. The prediction of a dramatic increase in the
percentage of private car use from 22 to 34 percent and decrease in the percentage of public transport use
from 79 to 66 percent (Table B.2) by 2015 is worrying.
Table B.2 Trip modal split in Metro Manila
Transport                        1996                   2015              2015/1996
Motorized    Public      18.5 million/day (79%)    28.9 million/day (66%)     1.56
Private     4.7 mnillion/day (21%)  14.8 million/day (34%)       3.15
Total       23.2 million/day (100%)   43.7 million/day (100%)     1.88
Walking                  6.5 mnillion/day        10.8 million/day             1.66
(22% of total)         (20% of total)
Total                    29.7 million/day       54.5 million/day              1.84
Source: MMUTIS 1996
It is also interesting to note that 30 percent of trips are less than 2 kilometers (Ian) in length and these trips
are thought to be contributing to a large amount of the congestion (Table B. 3).
- 6 -



Table B.3 Motorized tri ps by mode and distance in Metro Manila (1MUTIS study area)
Predominant travel mode       Total trips         Trips < 2 km      Percent of trips<2km
Car + Utility vehicles          4,658,760            1,057,398               22.7
Tricycle-motorized              4,307,129            2,425,283               56.3
Taxi                            1,152,654             184,361                16.0
Jeepney                         9,574,501            3,067,772               32.0
Bus                             3,034,977             126,289                4.2
Light Rail Transit (LRT)         442,164               8,108                  1.8
National Railways                 7,275                 369                  5.1
Total public                    18,518,700           5,812,182               31.4
Total private                   4,658,760            1,057,398               22.7
Grand total                     23,177,460           6,869,580               29.6
Source: MMUTIS 1996
The main sector issues and the Govenmment's strategy to address them are described below.
The need for traffic management. In general, road construction in Metro Manila has not taken into
account the stop and dropoff sites, transfer points, and waiting areas needed by buses, jeepneys, and
tricycle services. The resulting chaotic traffic along major corridors and near road junctions severely
affects the overall traffic flow, causes delays, and increases safety hazards. Because of insufficient
sidewalks and crossings, pedestrians often encounter hostile and dangerous street conditions. Given Metro
Manila's high dependency on road-based public transport (buses and jeepneys), imnproved traffic flows
would directly affect the capacity of the public transport system and related environmental and safety
conditions. Without efficient street-level collection and dispersal of light rail passengers, and efficient
traffic to and from expressways, mega-investments will not be fully effective. Traffic management deserves
the highest priority in the sector and should become the most essential housekeeping function of Metro
Manila. Whereas European cities have done much to encourage the return of walking and cycling through
innovative pedestrianization, traffic-calming schemes, and other initiatives, walking and cycling are being
squeezed out of Asian cities (especially developing Asian cities) through increasingly hostile traffic and
urban environments and lack of policy attention. Currently, only Japan and Singapore are trying to enhance
conditions for these modes.
Such an approach requires strong coordination among the responsible agencies in the Philippines: for
physical improvement -- the Departrnent of Public Works and Highways (DPWH), and Local Government
Units (LGUs); for traffic operations and control -- DPWH, the Metropolitan Manila Development
Authority (MMDA), and LGUs; and for the enforcement of regulations -- the police and the Department of
Transportation and Communications (DOTC). To address this issue, the MMDA was assigned the
responsibility of coordinating traffic operational enforcement. Though the MMDA has made some
progress, there is room for considerable improvement. In addition to adequate hunan and financial
resources in the MMDA, strong Govenmment commitment is needed to streamline the overlapping roles of
national agencies and the MMDA in Metro Manila.
The need for enhanced access from outer areas. As Metro Manila rapidly expands outside the
circumferal boundary of EDSA, the constraints posed by current transport access to these outer areas are
becoming more evident. People seeking work in Metro Manila experience long commutes, and residents
perceive accessibility and public transport services as poor. For example, vehicle ownership in both the
Marikina Valley and Rizal Province, despite lower-than-average household incomes, is 24 percent
compared with about 20 percent in Metro Manila, because people see private transport as a necessity to
- 7 -



combat these constraints. There are approximately 500,000 trips to Metro Manila daily from the Marikina
Valley area, and an additional 135,000 pass through Marikina Valley from eastern Rizal to Metro Manila
for which the primary routes are Marcos Highway and Ortigas Avenue.
The need to improve the road network hierarchy. To facilitate better dispersal of traffic over the
network and reduce traffic on arterial roads, overall netwvork capacity needs improved connectivity and
enhanced capacity of existing secondary roads. These can be achieved by implementing missing links;
rehabilitating pavements, sidewalks, and drainage; and controlling/removing encroachments.
The need to address air pollution: local impacts and global impacts. Residents rate air pollution as the
area's number two quality of life problem, after traffic congestion. Mobile source air pollution from the
transport sector is the major cause of air pollution in Metro Manila. The Government is pursuing a
combination of pricing and administrative control measures to bring mobile emissions down to a healthier
level. The ongoing Metro Manila Air Quality Improvement Sector Development Program, with US$300
million financing from the Asian Development Bank, aims to promote the use of cleaner fuels and a vehicle
inspection program directed mainly toward local impact pollutants. The program includes a motor vehicle
inspection system, an industrial air emissions pollution abatement program, production of cleaner fuels,
introduction of antipollution devices such as catalytic converters, anti-smoke belching, road rehabilitation,
ambient air quality monitoring, public awareness raising, capacity building, and institutional development.
The Air Quality Improvement Program does not address nonmotorized transport. In the less congested
outer areas of Metro Manila, such as the City of Marikina, about 2 percent of all trips are by bicycle, but
the anticipated increase in traffic will likely cause the disappearance of this mode of transportation. This
pattern has already been experienced in inner Metro Manila (and in many other Asian metropolises) where
bicycles have been crowded out by overwhelming traffic, resulting in the loss of a nonpolluting means of
transport.
The contribution of motorized fonns of transport to global greenhouse gases is significant. The Philippines
has ratified the United Nations Framework on Climate Change Convention (UNFCCC) and is a
cosignatory to the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. This reflects the country's strong commitment to addressing its
contribution to GHG emissions. On a global scale, motor vehicles play a significant role in the emission of
GHGs, with the greatest contribution made by carbon dioxide (COC2) , the greenhouse gas so far most
responsible for atmospheric change. Road transport contributes 15 to 20 percent of CO emissions
worldwide. Since the amount of CO2resulting from the combustion of a given quantity of gasoline remains
constant regardless of emission controls, trends in CO2emissions will directly follow increases in the use of
these fuels. Therefore, motor vehicles have the potential to play an even greater role in increasing the
greenhouse gas effect in the future. Thus preserving or reversing the modal split to less polluting and
nonpolluting modes is an important objective from both a local and a global point of view.
The need for implementation of an urban transport strategy in Metro Manila. To date in Metro
Manila, national agencies have sponsored mode-specific plans and policies, with limited regard for
developing an integrated, intermodal transport system. Due to land acquisition and fiscal constraints, road
network expansion has been limited (only about 75 kilometers of new roads have been constructed since
1982). To address infrastructure and development issues that transcend the municipal boundaries of the 17
LGUs comprising Metro Manila, the Government established the MMDA in March 1995. To date, the
MMDA has been less effective in its mandated role in metropolitan transport planning and traffic
operations management. Strengthening under both the Metro Manila Air Quality Improvement Sector
Development Program and the MMURTRIP project will contribute to the efficacy of the MMDA. The
Government approved a reorganization of the agency on March 15, 2000. The MMDA's Letter of Sector
- 8-



Policy outlines its action plan for implementing the MiMIJTIS study (see Annex 11). To develop a
long-term strategy, the Government undertook the Metro Manila Urban Transportation Integration Study
(MMUTIS), sponsored by the Department of Transportation and Communication (DOTC) and funded by
the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). Completed in March 1999, the MMUTIS study
defines a Master Plan to 2015 and a Medium-Term Transport Development Plan from 1999 to 2004.
MMURTRIP is one of the projects recommended in the Medium-Term Transport Development Plan. The
MMDA is the lead agency tasked to coordinate and monitor the implementation of the recommendations of
the MMUTIS.
The need to realize the underutilized asset of the railway (Philippines National Railways). Rail
corridors extend throughout Metro Manila and have significant potential to address the area's congestion
problems. However, these assets are underutilized, and the performance of the Philippines National
Railways is inadequate to serve the needs. The need to preserve this asset is critical to develop sustainable
commuter rail operations both in the north and south of Metro Manila. The Government is pursuing
possible privatization and concession options with the support of United States Technical Development
Assistance and the Asian Development Bank, however little progress has been made.
Coordination of activities in the Urban Transport Sector. In the Urban Transport Sector in Metro
Manila there are several ongoing activities with support from several local sources, foreign donor sources,
and the private sector financing support. Initially the Metro Manila Urban Transportation Integration Study
(MMUTIS) was undertaken under the lead of a Govemment interagency steering committee and with
funding from Japan Intemational Cooperation Agency. This study had been adopted and all prograrns are
in line with the proposals set forward in this study and include the Light Rail Line 3 currently under
construction under Japanese Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC) funding support, the Light Rail
Line 2 which was opened in December 2000 under private sector consortium funding, several fly-overs
under JBIC funding. The MMURTRIP project provides complementary infrastructure to these mega
projects as recommended in the MMUTIS study. As an example the MMUJRTRIP project will provide road
based interchange facilities at the last station on the Light Rail Line 3. The Government has also
implemented an upgrade of traffic signals with a SCATS system under Australian aid financing. The
NMIVURTRIP project will finance further such signals linked into the current system to expand coverage.
The Urban Air Quality Management Strategy in Asia - Metro Manila Report (URBAIR) study was
undertaken with funding from the World Bank and the recommendations of the study were used to develop
the ongoing Metro Manila Air Quality Improvement Sector Development Program with funding support
from the Asian Development Bank. The GEF component of MMURTRIP will addresss global emissions
which are not covered by this Air Quality Program.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Among the various sector issues, the MMURTRIP project will address:
The need for traffic management by improving jeepney, bus, and light rail transit interchange on the LRT
Lines 2 and 3 corridors and at the interchanges on the South Super Highway.
The need for enhanced access from outer areas by implementing a series of projects on the key accesses
to the Marikina Valley situated to the east of Metro Manila.
The need for an improved road network hierarchy by investing in strategic secondary roads.
The need to address air pollution by means of a nonmotorized transport component that will test and
-9-



demonstrate the benefits of pedestrian and bicycle facilities in selected areas.
The need for implementation of an urban transport strategy in Metro Manila by developing the
capacity of the Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA) in the area of traffic management.
Developed by an interagency committee led and chaired by the MMDA, the MMURTRIP project has been
a vehicle to allow the MMDA to undertake its mandated role as the metropolitan transport planning
agency. To further develop this capacity and to allow the MMDA to maintain its strategic role in the
development of the project and other related activities, the Government is strongly committed to the role of
the MMDA in project implementation, including planning and coordinating strategic metrowide
investments and formulating and implementing strategic traffic management and enforcement measures. A
stronger, well-equipped MMDA would enhance the effectiveness of the present project and in turn further
strengthen the role of the MMDA in Metro Manila. The MMDA has little experience in managing
implementation of works contracts. The project will give the MMDA the opportunity to develop this
capacity. Such an authority should have the role of implementing traffic management works.
The strategic choices made in MMURTRIP's development include a focus on:
* Including the MMDA as an implementing agency.
*  Complementing the ongoing Metro Manila Air Quality Improvement Sector Development Program
and not repeating efforts underway in that project. Issues related to local air pollution and the
railways are not addressed under MMIJRTRIP, since these are being addressed by projects with
the financial assistance of other donors.
*   Corridors that carry the heaviest traffic and public transport passengers.
*   Interventions that complement the committed megaprojects rather than implementing further major
investments.
*  Project components that encourage public transport.
*  Development of improved access to Metro Manila from the outer areas.
*  Project components that minimize resetflement and land acquisition. All components that involved
major resettlement were removed at the project concept stage. The two remaining components
involving land acquisition are the Marikina Bridge and Access Road component and the Don
Mariano Marcos Avenue Extension component.
*   Limiting the nonmotorised transport component to one city for a demonstration effect. Since
political commitment is the key to the success of such initiatives, the component was pursued on
the basis of a proposal from the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) and the
Urban Roads Project Office (URPO), as well as a subsequent direct request from the Mayor of the
City of Marikina. The nonmotorized transport component was not promoted by the World Bank,
but rather initiated by the parties in the country themselves. While a barrier to such implementation
exists at the country level, local support is being tapped to address this barrier. The proposal has
been endorsed and confirmed as a national priority for GEF assistance by the GEF Focal Point in
the Department of Environment and Natural Resources of the Philippines.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The Metro Manila Urban Transport Integration Project (MMURTRIP) project includes the following
components in the 12 cities and 5 municipalities making up the Metro Manila area:
- 1 0 -



A.    Traffic Management Improvements on the Light Rail Transport (LRT) Line 2 corridor; the
EDSA (Epifanio de los Santos Avenue)-LRT Line 3 corridor; and the Bicutan and Alabang interchange on
the southern corridor. Project components include public transport improvements such as integration of
modes; improvement of interchange facilities and measures to introduce public transport priority; traffic
management both at and between intersections; measures to control inappropriate frontage activity;
measures to improve road safety for pedestrians by providing sidewalks, pedestrianized areas, and traffic
calming; and provision of bicycle access and pedicab bicycle parking at stations.
B.    Marikina, Rizal, Pasig (MARIPAS) Access Improvements in the Marikina Valley, including the
Marikina Bridge and Access Road component and the Marcos Highway and Ortigas Avenue Extension.
C.    A Secondary Roads Program for 15 road sections (listed in annex 2), including pavement
rehabilitation, drainage and sidewalk improvements, traffic management, and construction of missing links
for comprehensive corridor treatment so that secondary roads can fulfill their function on the road
hierarchy.
D.    Nonmotorized Transport in the City of Marikina in Metro Manila under Global Environment
Facility funding.
E.    Institution Building/Technical Assistance to establish and strengthen institutions responsible for
future urban transport management in Metro Manila. The institution building component will strengthen
the capacity of the Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA) to effectively carry out the
traffic engineering and management responsibilities it was given under the MMDA Act. The MMURTRIP
project will complement the assistance extended under the Metro Manila Air Quality Improvement Sector
Development Program by supporting a capacity building program for 2001 to 2005. The MMDA, in
consultation with the DPWH, has developed a year-by-year institutional plan including a description of its
expanding functions and staffing requirements.
Components A, B and C include the installation of traffic signals. A total of 75 intersections will receive
new signals or an upgraded system which will link into the recently installed SCATS system. The design of
the project components addresses the desire of the Local Government Units to install signage, provide street
lighting along the LRT corridors, and introduce their respective city motifs in the beautification and design
of sidewalks and medians. Project components include the greening and landscaping plans of the MMDA,
the Local Govemment Units, and the Metro Manila Green Ladies (spouses of the 17 Metro Manila
mayors). These components aim to improve the urban environment in the heavily trafficked areas to make
them more user friendly for pedestrians and public transport users. As 22 percent of car journeys and 32
percent ofjeepneyjoumeys are less than 2 kilometers long, a better urban environment and walking areas
might persuade people to walk rather than drive or take transport. These short trips, many of them on the
main arterial network, are considered a major contributor to local traffic congestion (MMURTRIP
Feasibility Study, 1997).
- 11 -



Inidicative            Bank      %of      GE        Wof
Component   S.ctor                      Cost* ;     of    financing   Ba      filfl       GEF
.Sm)    : Tta         l       ln {UM)  financing  (US$M) 9 c
A. Traffic Management       Urban Transport                    0.0                0.0      0.00     0.0
Improvements
LRT Line 2 Corridor      Urban Transport        5.50        5.6    4.00         6.5     0.00      0.0
EDSA-LRT Line 3          Urban Transport        5.70        5.8    3.90         6.3     0.00      0.0
Corridor
Southern Corridor-Bicutan  Urban Transport      0.60        0.6    0.50         0.8     0.00      0.0
Interchange Improvements
Southern Corridor-Alabang Urban Transport       1.70         1.7    1.30        2.1     0.00      0.0
Interchange Improvements
B. MARIPAS Access           Urban Transport                    0.0                0.0      0.00      0.0
Improvements
Marikina Bridge and      Urban Transport       23.30       23.9   11.20        18.1     0.00      0.0
Access Road
Marcos Highway           Urban Transport       19.70       20.2   13.90        22.5     0.00      0.0
Ortigas Avenue Extension   Urban Transport      5.20        5.3    4.40         7.1     0.00      0.0
C. Secondary Roads                               32.70        33.5   19.20       31.0      0.00      0.0
D. Nonmotorized Transport   Urban Transport        1.50        1.5    0.00         0.0     1.30    100.0
(NMT)
E. Institution              Institutional          1.10         1.1     1.0        1.6     0.00      0.0
Building/Technical Assistance  Development   .
Total Project Costs                     97.00        99.4   59.40       96.0      1.30   100.0
Front-end fee  ___                  0.60         0.6    0.60        1.0     0.00      0.0
Total Financing Required                      97.60       100.0   60.00       96.9      1.30    100.0
Note: Discrepancies in project costs are the result of figures being rounded. The cost of detailed engineering design,
supervision, Project Management Office engineering overhead, and advisory services is included in the cost of each component
la. Description of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) supported component:
Global Environment Facility (GEF) grant funding will support the design and implementation of a system
of bikeways and related facilities designated for the Nonmotorized Transport component in the City of
Marikina, one of the cities of Metro Manila. This incremental component of the overall MiMURTRIP
project will demonstrate the benefits of this alternative mode of transport. Nonmotorized transport here
includes bicycle lanes for both bicycles and pedicabs (nonmotorized passenger transport) and facilities for
walking trips. The Nonmotorized Transport component will include the following:
*   A network of about 66 kilometers of bikeways of which 50 kilometers will be developed along
existing roads and 16 kilometers of bikeways along the Marikina River banks. The network will
connect the residential areas with the main trip attractors (factories, schools, hospitals, market
areas and shopping malls) and public transport terminals including the new LRT Line 3 stations.
* Traffic calming and pedestrianization measures and facilities around schools and market areas and
provision of bicycle parking facilities.
* Street lighting where necessary to ensure safety after hours.
* Training and Capacity Building for the staff of the Marikina Bikeways Program Office, with
particular focus on planning capacity and monitoring and evaluation activities.
*   Education and public awareness carnpaigns targeted to potential users as well as car users and
- 12 -



city's traffic management/enforcement personnel.
*  Replication campaigns targeted to neighboring Municipalities and other cities that are suitable for
bikeway development.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
A central theme of the project is the need to coordinate relevant institutional roles and physically integrate
various modes. With this view, the project will demonstrate the role of Government and the importance of
complementary investments in enhancing the full potential of public or private investments.
Recognizing that metropolitan governance is critical for Metro Manila, the project will strengthen local
government functions and serve as a vehicle to allow the Metropolitan Manila Development Authority
(MMDA) to play its mandated role by addressing the sector issues listed above. The MMi4DA is the
metropolitan authority for the 17 Local Government Units of the Metro Manila area. During the project
preparation phase, coordination was initiated among the key agencies of the DPWH, the DOTC, the
MMDA and the National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA), with the MMDA chairing the
project development commnittee. Although the coordination mechanism was maintained over the preparation
period, the effectiveness of the MMDA needs further strengthening. The MMIRTRIP project will address
this need through institution building and charging the MMDA with the ultimate responsibility for
implementing civil works contracts.
In addition, policy changes in the road sector and the DPWH as a whole are being pursued through the
parallel World Bank funding assistance of the First National Roads Improvement and Management Project
(NRIMP-1), which will help the Government of the Philippines in commercializing the road sector and
separate road sector-specific policymaking and regulation from operations. The NRIMP-1 project, effective
March 2000, will also help the DPWH build capacity and develop its operations, including procurement
and financial management systems, as well as provide support to the Environmental Impact Assessment
Project Office (EIAPO). These actions will further support the implementation of the MMURTRIP project.
Physical integration of various modes is most clearly demonstrated in the recently opened LRT Line 3,
developed under private sector financing arrangements. The MMURTRIP project will develop the
complementary access infrastructure, such as pedestrianized areas and interchange for jeepney and LRT
passengers. Moreover, the project stresses the importance of traffic management measures as a
cost-effective way to reduce congestion.
3. Benefits and target population:
Travel time savings. The project's major quantified benefit would be travel time savings as a result of the
proposed interventions (see para. El). For example, on the LRT Line 2 corridor, the overall travel speed on
Aurora Boulevard/R. Magsaysay Boulevard would rise from the present average of about 8 kilometers an
hour to 13 kilometers an hour. Similarly, on the EDSA-Line 3 corridor (one of the busiest bus corridors in
the world) the total delay for buses that pass through all intersections between North Avenue and Roxas
Boulevard would be 15 minutes once the proposed measures are in place. This is an overall improvement in
bus journey times of around 35 percent. Vehicle operating cost savings have also been quantified. (Source:
MMUTRIP Feasibility Study, 1998)
Improved urban environment. A major unquantified benefit of the project will be an improved urban
environment and increased safety. The LRT schemes will generate considerable access/egress at the
- 13-



stations. But inadequate facilities will expose pedestrians to road traffic, causing a safety hazard and
disrupting road traffic. The project will provide facilities to safeguard pedestrians in and around these
stations.
Public transport users. The project is targeted at public transport users, many of whom are poor "captive"
users. Although almost all households use public transport in some form, the lower-income groups
primarily use buses and jeepneys. Based on the 1996 MMUTIS Study, for example, people with household
income under PhP3,000 per month (US$100, or US$1,200 per year) make 85 percent of total trips by
public transport. People with household income of PhP40,000 to PhP50,000 per month (US$1,333 to
1,667, or US$ 16,000 to 20,000 per year) make fewer than 50 percent of trips by public transport. These
numbers indicate the strong link between poverty and public transport use in Metro Manila. While there is
a growing concentration of wealth in Metro Manila, with the average household income estimated at
PhP1 73,600, a little over twice the national average, 31 percent of the population in Metro Manila live
below the poverty line of PhP1 1,230 per capita per year (US$1,826 per household per year). The 1997
Traffic Survey indicates that "Socio-economic class is a very significant factor in differentiating the
conunuting experience. Among ABC Metro Manilans, or the rniddle class and up, 62% use their own
vehicle for commuting to work and only 38% use public transportation. Those who take public
transportation for going to work, are 86% among Class D, and 82% among Class E." (Social Weather
Station, Bulletin 97-22).
Lower income groups. A significant impact of the project will be access improvements for the Marikina
Valley (MARIPAS area), where the average family income is lower than that in the central parts of Metro
Manila. Only one of the 17 M TUTIS traffic zones in the Marikina Valley has an average household
income higher than the Metro Manila average of PhP 13,968 per month, and ten of the 17 zones have an
average household income of less than PhP10,000 per month (US$340, or US$4,000 per year). In central
Metro Manila lower-income groups and squatters are not concentrated in any particular geographic area
but rather spread throughout the city. Therefore, project components could not be geographically targeted
in these areas.
Pedestrians. Space for pedestrians will make it possible for people to switch short-distance trips to walking
trips, potentially reducing motorized congestion, and allow safe access to employment and other facilities
for the large percentage of the poor who walk.
3a. Global benefits of the GEF supported component:
The direct benefits of the Nonmotorized Transport component will be less motorized traffic and congestion
and the consequent decrease in emissions of greenhouse gases and other pollutants relative to the situation
without the project. This reduction is estimated at more than 30,000 tons of carbon dioxide equivalent per
year (see Annex 13 for a detailed quantitative analysis of direct benefits). An indirect benefit of no less
value will be a demonstration of the advantages and viability of bicycle and nonmotorized transport so that
similar facilities might be adopted/developed elsewhere in Metro Manila and in the Philippines. The
benefits of this form of transport (sustainability, lack of pollution, low cost, good altemative for
commuting) may thus be realized over a wider area.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period. Five years, from September 2001 to September 2006.
Project concept development. The project has been developed and agreed by an interagency steering
- 14 -



committee led and chaired by the Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA), and endorsed by
the Council of Mayors' of Metro Manila, also under the chairmanship of the MMDA. The interagency
steering committee was co-chaired by the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) which has
been designated as the overall executing agency for the project.
Project implementation. There are three implementing agencies for the project. Each will undertake its
own procurement and award of contracts, have its own financial management, have its own special
account, produce its own Project Management Reports (PMRs), and monitor the impact of its own
components against defined monitoring criteria. Each will procure its own consultant services for
construction supervision and for advisory services related to these components. The three implementing
agencies are:
*   The Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH)-Urban Roads Project Office (URPO) is
responsible for the MARIPAS Access Improvements components and for 10 of the Secondary
Roads Program components. Established in 1973 as a special projects office, the URPO has
extensive project implementation experience. It also has a good understanding of World
Bank-funded projects, having been involved in such Bank-assisted projects as the Metro Manila
Urban Transport Strategy Planning Project (MMUSTRAP) and Metro Manila Urban
Transportation Project (MUTP) phase 1. The DPWIH-Traffic Engineering Center (TEC) is
responsible for the traffic signals package to be applied to most project components.
*  The Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA) is responsible for the Traffic
Management Improvements components, for five of the Secondary Roads Program components,
and for the Institution Building component. A project implementation team headed by the Assistant
General Manager for Operations will manage the implementation of the components and coordinate
the procurement of works, goods, and services to be undertaken by existing units of the MMDA.
*  The City of Marikina is responsible for the Nonmotorised Transport component. The City is one of
the 17 Local Government Units of the Metro Manila area and an autonomous unit headed by a
democratically elected mayor. The City has established a Bikeways Program Office (BPO), which
will be part of the City Administrator's Office. The BPO will be in charge of coordinating the
implementation and the monitoring of the program. In particular, it will coordinate with the
relevant departments of the City, with the NGOs and with the other stakeholders. The BPO will
also be responsible for the monitoring and evaluation activities. The evaluation activities in
particular will focus on the project as well as on the methodology applied to estimate the benefits
derived from the resulting savings in greenhouse gas emissions. A five-year plan for the
development of the bikeways is also part of the responsibilities of the BPO.
Participating Local Govemment Units (LGUs) have created local project implementation and monitoring
teams under the coordination of the MMDA project implementation team. These LGU teams have been
active in detailed engineering and in mobilizing public participation in their constituencies. The teams will
be responsible for field supervision and monitoring of the Secondary Roads Program components.
Project execution. The DPWH will assume the role of overall executing agency for the project, through
its Urban Roads Project Office (URPO). DPWH will monitor works and activities to be undertaken by the
DPWH, MMDA and the City of Marikina (figure C. 1). The DPWH will report quarterly to the steering
committee on the progress of works. A memorandum of agreement has been signed between the DPWH,
MMDA, and the City of Marikina outlining their various responsibilities.
- 15 -



Figure C.1 VMM'URTRIP project implementation structure
l~~~~        ~oa Goenenlnt
IDPWH SecretrI
Steering Comoiittee
MMDA (chairs),
D     (chair),DPWH  (co-chair),
DPWH  -       Urban   DOTC, NEDA, DBM,
Roads Project Of fice   NCTS, Marikina
(UTRPO) Executing
Agency
noTraffic Engineering Centert Proj  O        |       i 
t  LocalGovet nmentUnits     c
l   LGUsl
Monitoring. The interagency steering committee will monitor and direct the project during project
implementasion. The relevant Metro Manila LGUs will be invited to join this advisory committee. The
interagency steering cornmiittee consists of representatives from the MMDA (chair), the DPWH (co-chair),
the Departmnent of Transportation and Conununications (DOTC), the National Economic and Development
Authonty (NEDA), the Department of Budget and Management (DBM), the Nabional Center for
rransportaiion Studies (NCTS) and the City of Maikina. The comjlittee shall meet at least quarterly to
discuss and resolve implementation issues and conceins.
.nvironment. The Enviroi n ent Impact Assessment Project Office (EeO) in the DPWH has undertaken
the Environmental Assessment and documentation for the MMURTRIP and has secured the clearances for
the project from  the Departwent of Enviroinnent and Natural Resources (DENR). The EIAPO will be
responsible for monitoring project compliance with the envirodnental assessment for all project
components. The unit has the capacity to undertake such work and has been strengthened under the First
National Roads Impnflicted  alw   othereimProvject (NRIMP-1) supported by the World Bank.
Project ofplementation plan. The DPWH and tiMDA jointly prepared the project implementation plan
of May 2001 (see project files), which will be used to guide the implementation.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
To combat the rapidly growing imbalance between transport capacity and demand, the Gove2ment of the
Philippines has embarked on building several light rail lines and expressways, mostly with fnancing from
private developers. Although only three of these megaprojects are under imnplementation, from the outset
they have conflicted physically with other irmprovements undertaken by sector agencies, namely the
Departmnent of Transportation and Cormmunicafions (DOTC), the Department of Public Works and
Highways (DPWVH), and private sponsors. Specifically, the megaprojects have paid lirnited attention to:
*Transfers between Light Rail Transit (LRT) Lines I and 2 and Lines 2 and 3.
*The need for LRT terminals as major transfer stations between LRT and bus, jeepney, and tricycle
- 16 -



services.
*   Safe and efficient access and egress at LRT stations.
* Safe and efficient access and egress at expressway interchange points.
* Better general traffic flow along major corridors to improve the efficiency of bus, jeepney, and
other traffic.
The Metro Manila Urban Transport Integration Project (MMURTRIP) will address the above issues by
developing measures to complement the megaprojects so as to ensure maximum benefit and better service
for the traveling public. An alternative option, financing further megaprojects, was rejected because other
donors, particularly the Japanese Bank for International Cooperation, are investing in such projects, and
their continued sole application is not considered a long-term solution without complementary measures. In
addition, the almost impossible task of implementing resettlement and land acquisition in Metro Manila
eliminated components that require major construction. The use of an adaptable program lending (APL)
facility was not considered to offer any advantages over a specific investment loan (SIL).
la. Alternative GEF supported components considered and reasons for rejection:
In the framework of the MMURTRIP, other possible components that could have received GEF support
would have been a system of emissions control for both private and public transportation modes in the
entire metropolitan area and a strategy to promote and introduce cleaner fuel and improved engine
technology. The Government of the Philippines is already promoting initiatives in emissions control with
the support of a US$300 million program loan from the Asia Development Bank. The second more
technically complex possible component of cleaner fuel, improved engine technology, and emissions control
would have required an extensive preparation period, thus affecting the timetable of the whole
MMURTRIP. Therefore it was decided to focus on a simpler component, which is innovative in the
Philippines and in Asian and is potentially more rewarding, particularly in terms of changing the approach
to transportation policy and travel behavior.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
= _                Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                  (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed proiects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
The need for management systems in   First National Roads           S            S
the DPWH for effective management of Improvement and Management
the national roads network        Project (NRIMP-1): US$150
million
Private participation in infrastructure  IFC/MIGA-Manila North
development                       Tollways Corporation-North
Luzon Expressway: IFC loan of
up to US$46 million.
- 17-



IFC-Philippines International
Air Terminals Company, Loan
of up to $150 million to
construct, operate and maintain
a new international passenger
terminal, Terminal III, at the
Ninoy Aquino Intemational
Airport (NAIA) in Manila.
Other development agencies
Urban air pollution and the harmful    Metro Manila Air Quality
effects of mobile source air pollution   Improvement Sector
Development Program: US$300
million from the Asian
Development Bank
Replacement of poorly functioning  SMART signal project:
traffic control system            Australian Aid Grant
Lack of an urban transport strategy    MMUTIS transport study:
JICA
Imbalance between transport capacity  LRT Line 2 development:
and demand                        JBIC
Private participation in infrastructure   LRT Line 3 development:
development                       Private financing
IPIDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
During the past decade, the World Bank has not provided any funding support in the Metro Manila urban
transport sector. Projects funded by other agencies have indicated the difficulties of resettlement in Metro
Manila. The components of this project have therefore sought to minimize the need for resettlement, and
several projects components which would have involved resettlement have been deleted from the original
project proposal.
The World Bank has experience with urban transport projects throughout the world. Several of these
projects have demonstrated the benefits of traffic management in improving urban congestion, including
high rates of return. An Urban Transport Improvement Project that started in November 1998 in Vietnam
consists solely of traffic management interventions.
3a. Lessons learned and reflected in the GEF-supported component design:
The experience of cities in Japan, the Netherlands, Germany, and several other European and Latin
American nations demonstrates that modernizing urban transportation requires not total motorization but
the appropriate integration of walking, nonmotorized transport, and motorized transport. People in these
cities make most of their trips on foot or by bicycle. Nonmotorized transport could also play an important
role in the urban transportation system of Metro Manila in the coming decades. However, the future of
nonmotorized transport in Manila and in many Asian cities is threatened by growing motorization, loss of
street space for safe nonmotorized vehicle use, and changes in urban form prompted by motorization with
major negative effects on air pollution, energy use, urban sprawl, and the employment and mobility of
low-income people.
- 18-



4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
The MMU.RTRIP project was first proposed in 1997 by an interagency steering committee chaired by the
Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA) and including the MMDA, DPWH, DOTC, DOF
and NEDA. Subsequent workshops of this committee and consultations with Metro Manila Local
Government Units developed a list of investments that now form the key components of the project. A
feasibility study was completed with Policy and Human Resources Development (PHIRD) grant funding
and an initial project proposal was presented to the Investment Coordination Committee (ICC) of the
NEDA Board in July 1998. The ICC endorsed a detailed project proposal in August 1999, subject to the
more direct involvement of the MMDA. Subsequent proposals for the involvement of the MMDA have
been endorsed. Political commitment to the project is strong, particularly in support of the development and
involvement of the MMDA. The ICC approved the project on March 28, 2000. The DPWH included the
MMURTRIP project in its three-year rolling priority investment program for 1999-2001.
The Local Governments Units of Marikina, Rizal, and Pasig, in an association called MARIPAS, drew up
a plan with the DPWH regional office to tackle their comrnon transport problems. The MMURTRIP
project will implement the Marikina Bridge and Access Road, Marcos Highway, and Ortigas Avenue
Extension components of this plan.
4a. Indications of recipient commitment and ownership of the GEF supported component:
The Nonmotorized Transport component of MMURTRIP was proposed by the Department of Public
Works, Urban Roads Project Office and subsequently endorsed by the mayor of the City of Marikina in a
request to the World Bank for GEF funding support for this incremental cost. The City of Marikina
administration demonstrates exceptional comrnitment to nonmotorized transport and related environmental
improvements. It has funded preliminary diagnostic work on the component and set up a counterpart team
composed of staff of the various city offices (Settlement, Health, Engineering, Administration). This team
will be responsible for liaison and coordination among the various adrministrative units and with the
consultants and contractors.
To inform the public of the design process and implementation of the Nonmotorized Transport component
of the project, focus group discussions have been held wNith  stakeholders from the communities and
businesses that will be affected by the component. The discussions have confirmed strong support for the
use of bicycles and the need for appropriate facilities. The local newspaper has published an article on the
so-called Marikina Bicycle Network. The information campaign that is envisaged as part of the component,
as well as continued promotion and awareness building, will help maintain momentum.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
The value added of World Bank support has been to stTess the importance of multimodalism, traffic
management, and supporting institutional arrangements at the metropolitan level, at a stage when the
government had committed to several megaprojects and the transport sector regularly confronted poor
traffic management, fragmented institutions, and physical conflicts between rail and highway projects and
privately and publicly funded projects. The World Bank has supported urban transport projects in many
large cities of developing countries. The Operations Evaluation Department (OED) of the World Bank,
recommends in its Country Assistance Review that the World Bank remain active in the transport sector
because of the sector's important strategic role, institutional weaknesses, and need for public investment, as
well as the considerable experience of the World Bank in transport. The value of global support in this
project lies in supporting an innovative incremental project component that otherwise would likely not find
- 19 -



funding.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$ 1063 million; ERR = 137 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Incremental Cost
O Other (specify)
Methodology.        The economic evaluation of the components was carried out using a standard
cost-benefit analysis with a 15 percent discount rate. In accordance with standard practice in evaluating
transport projects, the benefits are derived from vehicle operating cost (VOC) savings and from value of
time (VOT) savings. The benefits arising from accident cost savings have not been included because of the
difficulty of this type of calculation. However, improved safety will result from fewer potential conflicts
between vehicles and pedestrians, and will lead to more benefits. The costs of the project include initial
construction costs, right-of-way acquisition costs, and future maintenance costs.
Benefits.    The greatest benefits of the project are derived from VOT savings, with relatively fewer
benefits from VOC savings. The VOT savings include the valuation of work travel time, commuting travel
time, and leisure travel time. Comnuting and leisure time has been valued at 50 percent of work time.
Assigning a value to leisure travel time is in line with World Bank practice in evaluating urban transport
projects. Local evidence indicates that the seemingly high value of 50 percent (the usual average is 25-30
percent of work time) is not unwarranted in the Manila context. The value of work time ranges from PhP41
to 52 per hour (at 1997 prices of US$1 = 29.4 PhP, US$1.39-$1.76 per hour) and is based on Metro
Manila Urban Transportation Improvement Study (MMUTIS) 1996 household interview survey data.
Assumptions. The analysis assumes a 5-year life span for traffic management improvements, mainly on
Light Rail Transport (LRT) Line 2 and EDSA, and a 20-year life span for the more substantial
components. The assumed traffic growth rate of 2 percent within and along the EDSA corridor and 5
percent outside the EDSA corridor reflects the current situation, population growth differentials, and
network capacity constraints.
Results.     The results of the analysis (Table E. 1) show high returns. World Bank experience with
similar traffic management projects in other countries shows that such projects consistently produce high
returns because of their significant benefits, such as improvements generated with relatively small
investments.
- 20 -



Table E.1 Econonic evaluation summary
Component                Cost      Cost   Length   EIRR    EIRR   NPV (15%)
(milions  (millions   (km)   (VOC)  (VOC/        (PhP)
of US$)  of PhP)            (VOC)    (oT)
A. Traffic management improvement
LRT Line 2 Corridor                 5.5       275      12       64         142     980.8
EDSA-LRT Line 3 Corridor            5.7       285      18        18        155   1,025.8
Bicutan Interchange                 0.6        30     n/a       37         192     489.6
Alabang Interchange                 1.7        85     n/a       56         119     407.5
B. MARIPAS Access Improvements
Marikina Bridge and Access Road    23.3      1165     n/a        4          19      808.8
Marcos Highway                     19.7       985     4.6       22         162   5,575.6
Ortigas Avenue Extension            5.2       260     6.8      133         565   7,485.7
C. Secondary Roads Program           32.7      1634     69.1       52         133  36,400.8
Project total                      94.4      4720               37         137    53,145
a
Economic Internal Rate of Return.
* n/a=not applicable.
Note:Se ction length is not so relevant in certain sections because works are concentrated at points. For example, the traffic
management improvements are largely at LRT stations, and the Bicutan and Alabang Interchange improvements are
concentrated at the interchange. EIRR was calculated excluding taxes.
1-A. GEF supported component (see annex 14):
A GEF Project Development Fund Block A Grant partly financed a pre-feasibility study to determine the
economic viability of the project. The preliminary results of the study and the data collected were used as
input for a simple incremental cost analysis (see annex 14). This analysis focuses on the cost of achieving
the main global benefits (reduced greenhouse gas emissions) by implementing the Nonmotorised Transport
component (the GHG case) compared with a baseline case in which the component is not implemented.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
No financial evaluations of the components were carried out since this is not appropriate for the project.
Fiscal Impact:
Both the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH:) and the Metropolitan Manila Development
Authority (MMDA) are national government agencies. The DPWH was organized and established through
Executive Order 124 (1987), and the MMDA through Republic Act 7924 of 1995. Both agencies receive
project funds through the annual budget allocations. Funds are not on-lent to these agencies. The
Department of Budget and Management (DBM) included provision for the MMURTRIP project in the
DPWH budget allocation for the fiscal year 2001. The project is included in the 3-year rolling budget cycle
of the agencies, as required by the DBM. The full project cost (that is, both the Government of the
Philippines part and the Loan proceeds) is included in the Forward Obligational Authority (FOA) issued by
the DBM (FOA No. E-01 -002-3 dated 10 May 2001) which indicates the amount that will be proposed by
the President of the Republic to the Philippine Congress to cover the total Loan proceeds and peso
counterpart required by MMURTRIP. About PhP 187.0 million (US$ 3.7 million) is assigned for DPWH
- 21 -



for MMURTRIP for 2001. For 2002, PhP362.2 million (US$7.2 million) is proposed by DPWH and PhP
273.0 million (US$5.5 million) by MMDA for MMURTRIP (table E.2).
Table E.2 Project budget for 2001 and 2002
Agency                                   2001                        2002
PhP million   US$ million   PhP million   US$ million
DPWH
Total agency                   34,700.0       694.0        46,000.0       852.0
MMURTRIP                         187.0         3.70         362.2          7.2
MMDA
Total agency                    1,719.0        34.4        3,432.0         68.7
of which National gov't. subsidy  639.5        12.8         1,616.0        32.3
MMURTRIP                           -            -           273.0          5.5
Notes: Budget for 2001 is the re-enacted 2000 budget. Budget for 2002 to be confirmed when budget is
approved by Congress in April 2002. Exchange rate used is US$1=PhP50.
Source: Department of Budget and Management.
3. Technical:
A feasibility study on all project components was completed in July 1998 under Policy and Human
Resources Development (PHRD) grant funding from the Japanese Government. The detailed engineering
for half the project components is complete. The detailed engineering for the remaining project components
will begin in October 2001. The project aims to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of traffic management
measures to reduce congestion. Little of this approach has been used to date in Metro Manila, where most
investments have been on megaprojects. Traffic management is a recognized tool in urban transport for
maximizing the efficiency of existing road space and is suitable where the scope for expanding road space
is limited due to cost and environental concerns. A road safety audit is included for all project
components.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) is the designated executing agency and will be
responsible for reporting to the World Bank and to the project steering committee. The DPWH-Urban
Roads Project Office (URPO) will implement about 77 percent, the MMDA will implement about 23
percent, and the City of Marikina will implement about 2 percent of the value of civil works. The DPWH-
Traffic Engineering Centre (TEC) is responsible for the signals equipment package. The project is
implemented by existing structures of the agencies. No special offices have been set up for the project.
4.2 Project management:
The Director of the DPWH-URPO, under the Undersecretary for Operations of the DPWH, will be
responsible for managing the DPWH components. The Assistant General Manager for Operations, under
the General Manager of the MMDA, will be responsible for managing the MMDA components. Both the
DPWH-URPO and the MMDA will be assisted by a project advisor (funded by the project) who will report
to the director of the DPWH-URPO and of the MMDA.
4.3 Procurement issues:
World Bank staff undertook a procurement assessment (see project file) of the DPWH-URPO, the MMDA
- 22 -



and the City of Marikina as the implementing agencies. The assessment was fully discussed and agreed
with the agencies in May 2000. The DPWH-URPO prepared a Microsoft Project procurement
implementation schedule (see project file) for the whole project. Overall risk assessment: Average Risk
category (see annex 6).
4.4 Financial management issues:
World Bank staff undertook a financial management assessment (see project file) of the DPWH-URPO, the
MMDA, and the City of Marikina as the implementing agencies. The assessment was fully discussed and
agreed with the agencies in May 2000. Each implementing agency will have a special account for the
components for which they are responsible. The overall financial management of the DPWH (and
DPWH-URPO), the MMDA, and the City of Marikina satisfies the World Bank minimum financial
management requirements. Project Management Report (PMR)-based reporting will be implemented.
However, PMR-based disbursement is targeted at a later stage in the project execution to coincide with the
improvement of financial management for DPWH as a whole under the assistance of the NRIMP project.
(see Annex 6).
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project is rated category B since there is limited resettlement and land acquisition and since the project
is not expected to have negative environmental impacts. Rather the project aims to:
*  Improve the urban environment for pedestrians and public transport users.
*  Improve public transport service ancillary facilities, which would have a positive impact on the
environment.
*   Include landscaping and greening programs. DPWH Order No 15, Series of 2000 requires Tree
Planting along National Roads. This will be included in all project corridors.
All project components comply with all environmental clearance requirements of the Government of the
Philippines and World Bank Operational Policy OP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment. The
Environmental Impact Assessment Project Office (EIAPO) of the DPWH, in conjunction with an
independent environmental consultant, has produced an Environmental Assessment report covering each
project component. The Government of Philippines Department of Environment and Natural Resources
(DENR) has cleared all project components by either issuing Certificates of NonCoverage or
Environmental Compliance Certificates as applicable. The Environmental Assessment (see project file) was
disclosed in the World Bank Infoshop, the World Bank Office in Manila Public Information Center, and
publicly in-country by the DPWH and local newspapers on August 14, 2000. The World Bank requested
supplemental information on air and noise impacts for two project components, namely the Marikina
Bridge and Access Road component and the Marcos Highway component. The DPWH has undertaken
work on this and submitted draft reports to the World Bank. The reports are however still incomplete and
the Government has agreed to complete the reports to the satisfaction of the World Bank and to adopt the
recommendations as a condition of Loan Effectiveness.
With regard to urban air quality and transport, the Metro Manila Air Quality Improvement Sector
Development Program (refer to the Asian Development Bank Project Report of November 1998, RRP: PI
30480) is ongoing. Leaded gasoline was phased out in Metro Manila on April 1, 2000 in line with the
Clean Air Act and as part of the ongoing work on the air quality project. The Air Quality project also
promotes the use of cleaner fuels (particularly important for the jeepneys, which run on diesel and are a
- 23 -



major cause of particulate pollution) and a vehicle inspection and anti-smoke-belching program.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
All construction contracts for the project components have appropriate clauses dealing with the short-term
environmental impacts during construction. The supervision consultants are responsible for ensuring that
the provisions of the DPWH with respect to environment are enforced on site. The supervision documents
include appropriate clauses, and the supervision consultant includes a social/environment specialist in the
team.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: July 31, 2000
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The Environmental Assessment and the two Resettlement Action Plans were announced in local
newspapers on August 14, 2000. The institutional framework for the project has ensured the full
involvement of Local Govemment Units in the development of the project. The DPW"  developed a plan for
stakeholder consultation, the Operational Framework for Public Participation and Consultation, DPWH,
EIAPO, April 2001, for the MMURTRIP project.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The Environmental Impact Assessment Project Office (EIAPO) in the DPWH is mandated to monitor the
environmental impacts of the project. In accordance with DPWH Department Order (DO) 220 of
November 9, 1999, the EIAPO is mandated as the environmental service arm of the DPWH to provide
environmental and social assessment support and to implement and oversee the Environmental Management
Plan (EMP) for projects. The supervision consultants are also required to report on compliance with the
EMP.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Resettlement and Land Acquisition. All project components are identified and have had feasibility studies
completed. Only two project components involve resettlement and land acquisition. A Resettlement Action
Plan (RAP) for each (see project file) was disclosed in the World Bank Infoshop, World Bank Office in
Manila Public Information Center, and publicly in-country by the DPWH and in local newspapers on
August 14, 2000. The final versions have been disclosed in the InfoShop. The project components
involving resettlement and land acquisition are:
*  The Marikina Bridge and Access Road component. The resettlement and land acquisition is
documented in the Resettlement Action Plan (final version April 2001) and currently the
resettlement of 56 Project Affected Families is being implemented and will be completed prior to
commencement of works on this component under the project.
*  The Don Mariano Marcos Avenue Extension Secondary Roads component. This is currently a
"missing link" in a road. This involves only land acquisition of one piece of land from one
landowner of approximately 500 m X 38 m. No resettlement is involved as no parties live on the
land. In accordance with the Resettlement Action Plan (final version October 2000) the land
- 24 -



acquisition will be completed prior to commencement of works on this component. The component
cost is PhP40 million (about US$1 million) and land acquisition about PhP 230 million (US$4.6
million).
The Resettlement Action Plans comply with World Bank Operational Directive 4.30 on Involuntary
Resettlement. The RAPs have been prepared in accordance with the comprehensive DPWH Policy
Framework for Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Rehabilitation for MMURTRIP, April 2001,
satisfactory to the World Bank and endorsed by DPWH prior to negotiations. The final version of the
"Resettlement Policy" has been disclosed in the World Bank InfoShop. Any additional resettlement and land
acquisition issues encountered during implementation of the MMURTRIP project will be dealt with in
accordance with the above policy framework.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The development of the MARIPAS Access Improvements component has been based on consultations
among the Local Government Units of Marikina, Rizal, and Pasig. These units have formed an association
called MARIPAS and with the DPWH regional office have drawn up a plan to tackle their various common
transport problems. Parts of this plan will be implemented under the project.
The mayors and officials of the Local Government Units (LGUs) are key stakeholders in the project. The
MMDA has played a key role in ensuring their participation. Each LGU has set up a counterpart team for
the project. The Environmental Assessment documents the consultation meetings with local government
officials. The LGUs have participated actively in the detailed designs of the project. Their common
priorities are the installation of signage, street lighting along the LRT corridors, and use of their respective
city motifs in the design and beautification of sidewalks and medians. The LGUs have consulted affected
commercial and other establishments on the designs to ensure their acceptance before construction.
The DPWH submitted the Environmental Assessment and the two Resettlement Action Plans for public
review on August 14, 2000. The availability of the documents was announced in at least one local
newspaper and one national newspaper. The DPWH requires at least two public meetings to invite
comments and discussion from stakeholders and affected individuals. The DPWH developed a plan for
stakeholder consultation, the Operational Framework for Public Participation and Consultation, DPWI-,
EIAPO, April 2001, for the MMURTRIP project.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Each Local Govemment Unit is responsible for consultation with the affected members of the public and
beneficiaries of the MMURTRIP project with the assistance of MMDA and EIAPO. The mayor of each
LGU is democratically elected in a 3-year election cycle. Focus group discussions and user surveys were
conducted for the Nonmotorized Transport component of the MMURTRIP project. These are documented
separately in the Feasibility Study for the Marikina Bikeways Network.
For the phase I project components, the LGUs are consulting regularly with civil society. Each Local
Government Unit has a defined system of consultation and information dissemination. The consultative
system of Quezon City, documented in the Environmental Assessment, is an example. The planning officer
of Quezon City has developed clear guidelines for consultations including the following:
*  A community relations office to handle routine inquiries, with a staff member assigned as a
full-time information officer to answer inquiries. Every Monday the Mayor's office sponsors
a "People's Hour," a kind of open townhall meeting where the public can raise issues.
*   Information provided by the planning office routinely at no cost, or by a lending service that
- 25 -



releases documents temporarily so that users can make copies. The planning office helps users
find documents from other agencies that are not in their records. Some maps are also
available on request.
The project will follow the existing consultation systern It will expand this system when necessary beyond
simple information dissemination to soliciting public feedback to improve the design process.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been H .;,ided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The institutional arrangement (see Figure C. 1t ensures the direct involvement of the MMDA local
government units in the project, thus serving ,3s a bridge between the national government agency, the
DPWH, and the local level. This arrangemenit, strongly promoted by the National Economic and
Development Authority (NEDA), has already shown benefits during project preparation and will ensure
that the project achieves its social development outcomes by incorporating local needs.
6.5 How will the project monitor perfonnance in terms of social development outcomes?
The Environmental Impact Assessment Project Office in the DPWH will monitor the social development
outcomes of the project.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do anY of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                     ApplicXbility
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)    _                          * Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)           0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to enstire compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The Environmental Impact Assessment Project Office in the DPWH will monitor compliance of the project
with the Environmental Assessment Operational Policy and the Involuntary Resettlement Operational
Directive.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project aims to demonstrate the effectiveness of traffic management measures, however, the
sustainability of these measures will depend on the willingness and effectiveness of the Metropolitan
Manila Development Authority (MMDA), Local Government Units (LGUs), and related agencies in
enforcing traffic management measures. The effectiveness of the MMDA during and after project
implementation is a critical risk for the sustainability of the project. To mitigate this risk, the MMDA's
participation was ensured throughout the project preparation. The risk is weighed against the considerable
benefits derived from the involvement of MMDA.
- 26 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Risk that the MMDA and related             M         The MMDA's participation was ensured
responsible agencies and Local                       throughout project preparation. The MMDA is a
Government Units of Metro Manila do                  direct participant in project implementation and
not implement complementary traffic                  thus a key stakeholder that will have an inter,-sL
enforcement measures such as control of              in ensuring the project impact and its
frontage activities, adherence to traffic            sustainability.
rules, proposed traffic circulation
strategies, and general traffic
management.
Risk that the LGUs of Metro Manila do      M         The MMDA is a direct implementing agency of
not continue to be consulted regularly,              the project. Since MMDA is a "governing body'
involved in project implementation, and              for the 17 LGUs of the Metro Manila area, this
empowered to provide their                           direct involvement of MMDA will support the
input/feedback for specific project                  institutional link to the Local Government Units.
actions through the coordination
mechanisms.
Risk that the City of Marikina does not    M         The City of Marikina is an implementing agency
continue its commitment to socially and              in the project and a direct recipient of a GEF
environmentally sustainable transport                Grant for the project. A Bikeways Project Office
policies and planning.                               is located in the City.
From Components to Outputs
Risk of delay on some key components of    M         Institution-building support will be provided to
the project under MMDA since they have               the MMDA. Components of the current Air
no experience implementing a project                 Quality Project are implemented by the MMDA,
under World Bank funding with its related            and institution-building activities under that
requirements.                                        project will aid the MMURTRIP project.
Risk of procurement delays under both      M         The DPWH is revising its procurement systems
the Department of Public Works and                   (under NRIMP) and the Government systerr, as
Highways (DPWH) and the MMDA.                        a whole will streamline procurement. Changes
include using post-qualification instead of
prequalification, which should speed
processing. The World Bank Manila office
provides direct assistance and training. A
detailed procurement schedule will be developed.
Timely availability of counterpart funds.  M         The country team reviews the Government
budget situation. Counterpart funding is part of
the multi-year program discussions of the
DPWH and the Government in their annual
review and consultations.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 27 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
While no controversial aspects are identified for the project specifically it is noted that corruption is a
concern in the Philippines. The World Bank report "Combating Corruption in the Philippines" (May 3,
2000) indicates that of the total corruption complaints received by the Ombudsman's Office from 1993 to
1998, 27 percent (1,762 complaints) were about the Department of Public Works and Highways
(Ombudsman' Office 2000). Procurement in the DPWH is typically done for large and complex works, and
difficulties do arise. Under the NRIMP project the department is making a major effort to develop and
streamline transparent systems of procurement and financial management, which will be expanded
nationwide. Under the MMURTRIP project all contracts are subject to prior review by the World Bank.
Although the World Bank report mentioned above does not address the MMDA, all contracts in the
MMDA will also be subject to such prior review. The institutional framework of the MMURTRIP project
(a steering committee and the involvement of the MMDA and local government units) will also contribute
to transparency.
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
1.    The standard effectiveness condition of the legal opinion from the Philippines Department of
Justice applies. The following are specified as additional matters, to be included in the legal opinion or
options to be furnished to the World Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by Metropolitan Manila
Development Authority (MMDA), is legally binding upon MMDA in accordance with its terms.
(b) that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and MMDA,
and is legally binding upon MMDA and the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
(c) that the Resettlement Policy and Resettlement Action Plans for Marikina Bridge and Access Road
component and the Resettlement Action Plan for Don Mariano Marcos Avenue Extension
component are legally binding upon DPWH and MMDA in accordance with its terms.
2.    that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and MMDA.
3.    that the GEF Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered.
4.    that the Supplemental Environmental Assessment and Mitigation and Monitoring Plans for each
the Marikina Bridge and Access Road component and the Marcos Highway component has been adopted
by the DPWH (see paragraph 5.1).
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
In addtion to the standard legal covenants on financial management, audit, reporting and performance
indicators the following are project specific legal covenants:
1.    (a)    The Borrower shall maintain the Steering Committee to monitor the progress of the Project
and to coordinate its components.
(b)    The Borrower shall maintain the Project Management Office in each of DPWH and
MMDA headed by a Project Director with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the World
- 28 -



Bank, assisted by such other competent staff in adequate numbers having such functions,
responsibilities, funds and other facilities as shall be required to enable the Project Management
Office to undertake the overall supervision and monitoring of the Project.
2.    (a)    The Borrower will implement the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation
Plan; and
(b)    The Borrower will only amend the Project Implementation Plan in agreement with the
World Bank.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
El 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
O 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
!. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Sally L. Bumingham                  Jitendra N. Bajpai                   Vinay K. Bhargava
Team Leader                         Sector Director                      Country Director
Senior Transport Engineer
- 29 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
PHILIPPINES: Metro Manila Urban Transport Integration Project
Hirach  o Ojetves                 niator             Moni0toing &; Evauaion94;l Critical  supio4ns
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
CAS Objective: Poverty                                                          Maintenance of favorable
reduction: "Develop                                                             macroeconomic environment.
infrastructure"and "Promote
sustainable urban
development."
Sector-related CAS Goal:    *  Improved transit        * Traffic and public
Improve deteriorating urban    capacity and modal         transport studies and
transport situation in Metro   integration in Metro       surveys in Metro
Manila.                        Manila.                    Manila.
GEF Operational Program:
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
To improve the operational  * Reduced travel time      * MMUTIS initial and    Effective coordination
efficiency and safety of the   experienced by public      monitoring data on    between the DPWH, local
transport system of Metro      transport users on the     mobility pattems, travel govemment units, the DOTC,
Manila, with better            project corridors.         time/costs, and modal   and the MMDA.
opportunities to use public                               shares in Metro Manila
transport and nonmotorized                                and other specific
transport, the dominant                                   surveys.
transport modes of
low-income residents.
*  Sustained current      * Public transport
proportion of public      operators and
transport use on the      association records,
project corridors.        data, and annual reports
*  Improved satisfaction of   * Public opinion and
public transport users on  transport usage surveys
the project corridors.    to be conducted at
project inception and
one year after works
completion on project
corridors. Responsible
agency: MMDA.
- 30 -



Key Performance
Mierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
A. Traffic Management        *  Improved level of       * Travel time surveys on  The MMDA's participation
Improvements                    service of the corridors   project corridors at  was ensured throughout
Complementary traffic           measured by average        project inception and    project preparation. The
enforcement measures such as   travel speed of all         one year after works    MMDA is a direct participant
control of frontage activities  through-vehicles along     completion. Responsible in project implementation and
and adherence to traffic rules,  the corridors.            agency: MMDA.         thus a key stakeholder that
proposed traffic circulation                                                     will have an interest in
strategies, and general traffic    *  Improved level of  *  Modal share surveys on  ensuring the project impact
management implemented by       service for bus and        project corridors at  and its sustainability.
the MMDA and related           jeepneys along the          project inception and
responsible agencies and        corridors measured in      one year after works
LGUs have improved the          terms of productive        completion. Responsible Local Government Units of
effectiveness of the corridors  capacity average.          agency: MMDA.         Metro Manila continue to be
and their elements, including                                                    consulted regularly, involved
intersections, public transport   *  Improved level of                           in project implementation,
interchanges, and passenger     service of walkways and   *  Specific surveys at  and empowered to provide
and pedestrian facilities.      public transport queuing   project inception and    their input/feedback for
areas.                     one year after works    specific project actions
completion. Responsible through the coordination
agency: MMDA with    mechanisms.
DPWH-TEC.
B. MARIPAS Access            *  Decreased average
Improvements have               travel time and cost
improved the accessibility of   (across modes) for trips
the Marikina Valley.            with Origin-Destination
in the Marikina Valley.
C. Efficient organization of    *  Increased level of
the Secondary Roads in a        service of the secondary
hierarchy has improved          roads measured by
traffic dispersal and increased  average travel speed of
capacity.                       all through-vehicles.
*  Increased capacity at
intersections between
secondary roads and
project corridors.
- 31 -



D. Development of            *  Increased nonmotorized   * Travel surveys and    The City of Marikina remains
Nonmotorized Transport         transport mode share for    traffic counts for the    committed to socially and
Facilities has improved public  trips within Marikina      City of Marikina to be   environmentally sustainable
transport accessibility and     and nonmotorized           conducted at project    transport policies and
mobility of low income users.   transport-public          inception and one year  planning.
transport combined         after works completion.
mode share for trips       Responsible agency:
originating in Marikina.   City of Marikina with
the assistance of
MMDA.
E. Increased Institutional   *  Effective coordination  *  Regular travel and
Capacity has improved           mechanism in place        traffic surveys
metropolitan governance and     between the key            (including users'
strengthened local              agencies and Local         satisfaction indicators)
government functions.           Government Units.          along major corridors
and at intersections and
*  Effective traffic          public transport
management and             facilities by the relevant
enforcement measures       agencies.
planned and designed by
the relevant agencies.
- 32 -



Key Peel ormance
Hierachy of Objecves             Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
A. Traffic Management                 US$13.5 million   *  Supervision reports    Institution-building support is
Improvements                                              from supervision      provided to the MMDA,
consultants           which demonstrates sufficient
implementation capacity
despite lack of experience
with World Bank projects.
B. MARIPAS Access                     US$48.2 million   * Quarterly Project     Revision of procurement
Improvements                                              Management Reports   systems, under way in the
(PMRs) from           DPWH, and the Government
implementing          system as a whole, streamline
agencies .            procurement .
C. Secondary Roads Program            US$32.7 million
D. Nonmotorized Transport              US$1.5 million   *  Project audit reports    Timely availability of
counterpart funds.
E. Institution Building                US$1.1 million
TOTAL                                 US$97.0 million
- 33 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
PHILIPPINES: Metro Manila Urban Transport Integration Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$13.50 million
PhP675 rnillion including all physical and price contingencies.
A.    Traffic Management Improvements.
Implementation arrangements. The Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA) is the
implementing agency for these Traffic Management Improvements components. MMDA will undertake
their own procurement and award of contracts, have their own financial management, have their own
special account, produce their own Project Management Reports (PMRs), and monitor impact of these
components against defined monitoring criteria. MMDA will procure their own consultant services for
construction supervision and for advisory services related to these components. The procurement methods
are indicated in Annex 6.
Aspects to be addressed.   The project components (Table 2. 1) include public transport improvement
measures comprising integration between modes, improvement of interchange facilities, and measures for
introducing public transport priority; traffic management (both at and between intersections); measures for
controlling inappropriate frontage activity and measures for improving road safety for pedestrians by
providing sidewalks and other facilities; measures for bicycles and pedicabs; and safe bicycle parking at
stations. Landscaping and greening will be included on all project components.
Table 2.1 Components of Traffic Management Improvements
LRT Line 2 corridor-CM       City of Manila, San    MMDA        12       5.5       275
Recto to Marcos Bridge       Juan, Quezon City,
(Santolan)                   City of Marikina, and
Pasig City
EDSA LRT Line 3 corridor-     Quezon City,          MMDA        18       5.7       285
North Avenue to Roxas        Mandaluyong, Makati,
Boulevard                    and Pasay City
Southern corridor-Bicutan    Paranaque              MMDA    n/a          0.6        30
interchange improvements
Southern corridor-Alabang    Muntinlupa             MMDA    n/a          1.7        85
interchange improvements
Total                                     13.5        675
Note "Agency" indicates the agency implementing the civil works.
*  LRTLine 2 corridor - CMRecto-Marcos Bridge (Santolan). This component aims to integrate at
street level the current investments on the Light Rail Transit (LRT) Line 2 under Japanese Bank
for International Cooperation (JBIC) financing. In the environs of Recto Station, the project will
improve pedestrian access between the station and surrounding attractions, including bus terminals,
- 34 -



Quiapo Church and the nearby LRT Line 2 corridor; improve roads used for bus and jeepney
circulation in the area; and improve interchange arrangements between LRT Line 2 and passing
jeepney routes. In the environs of Legarda Station, the project will improve pedestrian routes
between the station and surrounding land uses (predominantly universities); enhancements include
possible closure of the road leading to the station to create a pedestrianized station approach. From
Nagtahan to Araneta, the project will provide pedestrian crossings and sidewalks with an emphasis
on the Nagtahan intersection, where existing pedestrian facilities are inadequate. The project will
improve the Old Santa Mesa intersection (the confluence of two busy jeepney routes and the site of
the Stop and Shop jeepney terminal) and the Araneta intersection. From Araneta to Cubao, Cubao
to Katipunan, and Katipunan to Marcos Bridge, the project will improve pedestrian facilities,
institute trafflc management measures at intersections, and improve access to the LRT stations.
*  EDSA LRT Line 3 corridor - North Avenue to Roxas Boulevard. This component aims to integrate
at street levels the LRT 3 system, which started operating in December 1999. This system was
implemented under private financing arrangements. The objective of this project component is to
reduce delays to public transport by generally improving intersection operations and bus stopping
arrangements.
*   Southern corridor - Bicutan interchange improvements. This interchange on the South Super
Highway currently functions as major public transport interchange between bus services on the
expressway and jeepney feeder services on the adjacent service roads and other major access
routes. The project proposals center on traffic management improvements to facilitate the modal
transfer and improve sidewalk provision and crossings for pedestrians interchanging at these
points.
*  Southern corridor - Alabang interchange improvements. This interchange on the South Super
Highway currently functions as major public transport interchange between bus services on the
expressway and jeepney feeder services on the adjacent service roads and other major access
routes. The project proposals center on traffic management improvements to facilitate the modal
transfer and improve sidewalk provision and crossings for pedestrians interchanging at these
points.
Project Component 2 - US$48.20 million
PhP2,410 million, including all physical and price contingencies.
B.    MARIPAS Access Improvements.
Implementation arrangements. The Department of Public Works and Highways - Urban Roads Project
Office (URPO) is the implementing agency for these MARIPAS Access Improvements. DPWH-URPO will
undertake their own procurement and award of contracts, have their own financial management, have their
own special account, produce their own Project Management Reports (PMRs), and monitor impact of these
components against defined monitoring criteria. DPWH-URPO will procure their own consultant services
for construction supervision and for advisory services related to these components. The procurement
methods are indicated in Annex 6.
Aspects to be addressed. The MARIPAS-Marikina Valley area is characterized by large commuter flows,
as local residents seek work in central and western parts of Metro Manila. The Local Government Units
(Marikina City, Rizal province, and Pasig City) jointly produced a plan to tackle their various common
- 35 -



transport problems. The components emerging from the plan (Table 2.2) will be addressed under the
project. Landscaping and greening will be included on all project components in line with DPWH Order No
15, Series of 2000 which requires Tree Planting along National Roads.
Table 2.2 Components of MARIPAS Access Improvements
Component       ~~~OICa Government    Aey         km      cost       Cs
Marikina Bridge and          Marikina, Quezon City   DPWH       n.a     23.3       1165
Access Road (linking C5 to                          URPO
Marcos Highway)
Marcos Highway               Marikina, Pasig,       DPWH       4.6      19.7       985
(Marcos Bridge/Santolan to   Cainta, Antipolo       URPO
Masinag)
Ortigas Avenue Extension     Pasig, Cainta, Taytay    DPWH      6.8      5.2       260
(C5-Manggahan-Tikling)                              URPO
Total                                      48.2      2410
Note. "Agency" indicates the agency implementing the civil works. n.a.= not applicable.
9  Marikina Bridge and Access Road component (linking C5 to Marcos Highway). This link is an
alternative route between the C-5 circumferential route and the Marcos Highway. The alignment
runs from the E. Rodriquez Avenue/Boni Serrano intersection to Marcos Highway in the vicinity of
the Marcos Bridge/Santolan LRT Line 2 station. The scheme will relieve the Marcos
Highway/Aurora Boulevard corridor and provide an alternative route for C-5, thus improving
access to the east of Metro Manila. LRT Line 2 is being constructed as far as the terminal/depot at
Santolan (adjacent to the Marcos Highway); the project proposes to ensure that jeepneys can
function as feeder services to this station. Four hundred jeepneys an hour pass the site in each
direction. Once the station is established, at least 100 jeepneys an hour should be able to turn
around at the station, thus acting as a feeder service to the LRT rather than going all the way
downtown. The project therefore includes jeepney dropoff and turnaround facilities.
-  Marcos Highway (Marcos Bridge/Santolan to Masinag). This component begins adjacent to the
final station of the LRT Line 2, Santolan station and extends to Sumulong Highway at Masinag.
The proposal is to establish an at-grade traffic management scheme which, together with priority
measures for public transport, will act as an efficient conduit for traffic to and from Metro Manila.
It will also assist public transport vehicles to access the LRT terminal, thus providing greater
integration between road-based and rail-based public transport services. It is intended that the
roadway be widened to 4 lanes in each direction, with additional lanes as required at intersection
approaches. The designs include a cross-section to allow for sidewalks, bicycle lanes, covered
drains, tree lining and a 4-meter-wide median for future eastward expansion of the LRT 2 line.
This road extension is one of the most critical in the whole Marikina Valley and provides one of the
few access roads to the eastern areas of Metro Manila. The designs include automated and
coordinated traffic control systems, and intersection and corridor management measures including
adequate sidewalks, pedestrian crossings, and public transport priority. The results of TRANSYT
runs indicate that as significant increase in overall traffic speed could be achieved by a properly
managed coordinated traffic signal system. Existing system AM peak 8.5 kilometers per hour and
with management improvements 16 kilometers per hour.
- 36 -



*   Ortigas Avenue Extension (CS-Manggahan-Tikling). This road section is one of the most critical
in the whole Marikina Valley and provides one of the few access roads to the eastern areas of
Metro Manila. Proposed improvements include automated and coordinated traffic control systems,
and intersection and corridor management measures including adequate sidewalks, pedestrian
crossings, lighting, and public transport priority.
Project Component 3 - US$ 32.70 million
PhP1,635 million, including all physical and price contingencies.
C.    Secondary Roads Progranm
Implementation arrangements. The Department of Public Works and Highways - Urban Roads Project
Office (URPO) is the implementing agency for ten of the Secondary Roads Program components as given
in Table 2.3 below. DPWH-URPO will undertake their own procurement and award of contracts, have
their own financial management, have their own special account, produce their own Project Management
Reports (PMRs), and monitor impact of these components against defined monitoring criteria.
DPWH-URPO will procure their own consultant services for construction supervision and for advisory
services related to these components. The procurement methods are indicated in Annex 6.
The Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA) is the implementing agency for five of the
Secondary Roads Program components as given in Table 2.3 below. MMDA will undertake their own
procurement and award of contracts, have their own financial management, have their own special account,
produce their own Project Management Reports (PMRs), and monitor impact of these components against
defined monitoring criteria. MMDA will procure their own consultant services for construction supervision
and for advisory services related to these components. The procurement methods are indicated in Annex 6.
Aspects to be addressed.   The proposed interventions of this program (Table 2.3) component, on
about 70 km of secondary roads, include a wide range of actions for comprehensive corridor treatment to
allow secondary roads to fulfill their function in the road hierarchy. These actions include pavement
rehabilitation, drainage and sidewalk improvements, traffic management measures, and construction of
missing links. While proposals for major widening and major right-of-way acquisition issues have been
removed from the project, the project includes the remaining set without major widening but with missing
links, on the basis of the priority drawn up by the DPWH. One road link, the Don Mariano Marcos Avenue
Extension, involves acquisition of a strip of land 18 meters by 500 meters from a commercial landowner.
This will complete a missing link between major roads. Landscaping and greening will be included on all
project components.
Table 2.3 Components of the Secondary Roads Program
Component              Local Government      Agency    km        cost       Cost
Units involved                        (US  M)   (Pmp))
D. Romualdez                 City of Manila         DPWH        1.44      0.2        10
Legarda                      City of Manila         DPWH        0.97      0.2        10
Quezon Boulevard             City of Manila         DPWH        1.28      0.2        10
Pasong Tamo                  Makati                 MMDA        2.42      2.9        145
Pedro Gil/New Panaderos      City of Manila         DPWH        5.17      1.9        95
- 37 -



Tayurnan                     City of Manila         DPWH        1.37      0.9        45
M. de la Fuente (Trabajo)    City of Manila         DPWH        2.14      0.1        5.0
Jacobo Fajardo               City of Manila         DPWH        1.00      0.1        5.0
South Super Highway          Pasay, Paranaque,      DPWH        14.3      7.3       365
West/East Service Road       Muntinlupa                         12.9
Quirino Highway              Quezon City            DPWH        11.8      6.8       340
10 th Avenue                 Caloocan               DPWH        2.83      1.1        55
Don Mariano Marcos Ave Ext   Quezon City            MMDA        1.00      6.9       345
Antonio Amaiz Avenue         Makati                 MMDA        2.01      1.0        50
Sen. Gil Puyat Avenue        Makati                 MMDA        5.43      1.6        80
Banaue Avenue                Quezon City            MMDA        3.00      1.5        75
Total                             69.1     32.7       1,635
Note "Agency" indicates the agency imnplementing the civil works
Project Component 4 - US$1.50 million
PhP 75 million, including all physical and price contingencies.
D.    Nonmotorised Transport (NMT) component.
The City of Marikina will implement this component and the Global Environment Facility (GEF) will
provide funding support. The City of Marikina will undertake their own procurement and award of
contracts, have their own financial management, have their own special account, produce their own Project
Management Reports (PMRs), and monitor impact of this component against defined monitoring criteria.
Background. The DPWH proposed a pilot component for a nonmotorized pedestrian and bicycle path in
Marikina Valley to connect communities with employment centers and LRT stations. This proposal
stemmed from the work of the DPWH-Urban Roads Project Office (URPO) with the NGO Green Forum.
Statistics show that 20 percent of total trips are walking trips in the MARIPAS area, where the component
is proposed. People in this area make more trips on foot and by tricycle than on average throughout Metro
Manila. Twenty-two percent of all trips are made on foot and 30 percent by tricycle, compared with 20
percent on foot and 14 percent by tricycle in Metro Manila, where tricycles are banned on many major
cornidors.
The City of Marikina, one of the 17 municipalities of Metro Manila, is a medium-size city of about
360,000 people situated at the eastem border of the Metro Manila administrative area. Metro Manila has a
population of 9,447,156, of which Marikina accounts for 357,231 (MMUTIS 1995). Because the city is
located somewhat on the periphery of Metro Manila, levels of congestion have not yet reached the
intolerable levels of inner Metro Manila. About 2.9 percent (10,500) of all trips in Marikina are made by
bicycle, compared with 1.7 percent (160,200) in Metro Manila. In terrns of ratio to population, 1.7 percent
of the Metro Manila population uses bicycles for trips compared with 2.9 percent in Marikina. But
predicted increase in traffic will likely cause the level of bicycle use in Marikina to decline to the current
levels in most of Metro Manila. In Metro Manila 20 percent of households own cars, while in Marikina
only 15 percent of households own cars.
Objective. Given Marikina's current high and accepted bicycle use and lower levels of congestion, the
project considers it an ideal city in which to irnplement a bicycle network to preserve this mode of transport
- 38 -



in the face of the inevitable creep of congestion by motorized transport. This pattem has already been
experienced in inner Metro Manila and many other Asian metropolises, where bicycles have been crowded
out as a viable mode of transport. The net result of the dominance of motor vehicles in Metro Manila has
been severe congestion accompanied by air pollution and severe constraints on transportation, especially
for the poor, who then become captive users of unpleasant, expensive, and unreliable public transport.
Benefits. Given the present growth trends in transport demand and motorization, the direct benefits of
developing the bikeway system proposed under the project will be a reduction in expected traffic and
congestion and a consequent decrease in emissions of pollutants compared with the situation without the
project. An additional indirect benefit, of no lesser value, will be to demonstrate the benefits and viability
of bicycles and nonmotorized transport so that similar facilities might be adopted/developed elsewhere in
Metro Manila and in the Philippines once people recognize that this form of transport is sustainable,
nonpolluting, inexpensive, and a good altemative for commuting.
Description. The Nonmotorised Transport (NMT) component in the City of Marikina will include the
following:
* A network of about 66 kilometers of bikeways of which 50 kilometers will be developed along
existing roads and 16 kilometers of bikeways along the Marikina River banks. The network will
connect the residential areas with the main trip attractors (factories, schools, hospitals, market
areas and shopping malls) and public transport terminals including the new LRT line 3 stations.
* Traffic calming and pedestrianization measures and facilities around schools and market areas and
provision of bicycle parking facilities.
* Street lighting where necessary to ensure safety after hours.
* Training and Capacity Building of the Marikina bicycle officials working staffing the Bikeways
Program Office, with particular focus on planning capacity and monitoring and evaluation
activities.
3 Education and public awareness campaigns targeted to potential users as well as car users and
city's traffic management/enforcement personnel.
3 Replication campaigns targeted to neighboring Municipalities and other cities that are suitable for
bikeway development.
The 66 kilometer bikeway network will connect residential communities with schools, employmnent centers,
the new LRT station, and other public transport terminals, where appropriate parking facilities will be
created. Its development will help prevent the crowding-out of nonmotorized transport seen in other large
cities. Moreover, the connection with public transport terminals will promote the use of nonmotorized
transport combined with LRT/bus for trips between Marikina and the rest of Metro Manila. A series of
pedestrianized areas and traffic calming measures will preserve walking trips. Street lighting in some areas
will improve the safety of both cyclists and pedestrians.
The current road network within the municipal boundary covers 300 kilometers. The 66 kilometer bicycle
network connecting key attractors, schools, industrial sites, the new LRT metro terminal, markets, and
malls will be implemented in three phases over three years. The proposed network will include 49.7 k
ilometers on existing roads, of which 30.8 kilometers are within the existing roadway width and 18.9
kilometers require some road widening to accommodate the bicycle lanes. 16 kilometers will be along the
banks of the Marikina River (connecting to the LRT station), of which 8.4 kilometers are new construction
and 8.2 kilometers involve upgrading existing walking paths.
The bicycle lanes will be physically separated from other traffic but largely within the existing roadway,
- 39 -



with flow largely on each side of the road on two-way roads and on one side on one-way roads. The lanes
will be 1.5 meters wide, with a physical barrier provided between adjacent traffic and the bicycle lanes
(figure 2.2). Traffic counts done at seven strategic locations in the City of Marikina in October 1999
showed about 70 bicycles in the peak hour. Thus the proposed 1.5 meter width is considered sufficient (the
Netherlands recommnends 1.5 meters for 0-150 bicycles per hour in peak hour). Issues of roadside access to
shops and properties will be addressed during the detailed design stage. Where pavement has deteriorated,
reconstruction may be necessary. Green asphalt or concrete will be used to designate the bicycle lanes.
Where necessary some new facilities will be constructed to facilitate access, for example in the access to
the new LRT station on the southern boundary of the City of Marikina. This facility will link to the main
components of the MMURTRIP project, namely the Marikina Bridge and Access Road component and the
Marcos Highway component.
Figure 2.2 Typical cross section, Bayan-Bayaanan Road (metres)
15.6
1.5                     12.6                     1.
Training, Capacity Building, Education and Replication Campaigns. The City of Marikina has
established a Bikeways Program Office (BPO) within the City administration. The BPO will consist of a
core team of six people including a Program Manager, an Education Program and Coordinator, and an
Events and Promotions Coordinator. These officers will be assisted and trained so that they can properly
develop, implement, and monitor the Bikeways Program. Moreover, they will coordinate the educational
and promotion campaigns that will be carried out in Marikina as well as in its neighboring municipalities
and in other Philippines cities. These campaigns will be prioritized and will first target cities that are well
suited for bikeway development. These will be cities that are similar to Marikina in terms of modes of
transport, high-density building, lack of space, and where a bicycle culture already exists. The BPO in
collaboration with local NGOs will carry out a Baseline Research which will provide inputs for the
implementation of the Bikeways Program as well the foundation for the monitoring and evaluation
activities. The evaluation activities in particular will focus on the project as well as on the methodology
applied to estimate the benefits deriving from the resulting saving in greenhouse gas emissions. A five-year
plan for the development of the bikeways will also be part of the responsibilities of the BPO. Consultant
services will be provided to enhance the capacity of the BPO to the mentioned planning and monitoring and
evaluation activities.
Costing. The cost of the Nonmotorized Transport component is estimated at US$1.51 million, of which
Global Environment Facility (GEF) grant financing is US$1.26 million. The City of Marikina will provide
the counterpart (Table 2.4). The breakdown of the costs is given in the table below. The cost of detailed
engineering design, surveys costs and supervision is estimated at 10 percent of the cost of the works and
included in the cost of the component. Works will be executed by local contractors , so taxes are estimated
at 20 percent of the total amount of works and 7 percent of the services. This will be paid by the
Administration so a total of about 16 percent of project costs will be covered by the City of Marikina. In
particular 20 percent of the cost of the public dissemination and bicycle safety campaign will be covered by
the City of Marikina. This work will be done by the Bikeways Prograrn Office staff and considered as their
- 40 -



counterpart to the project cost.
Table 2.4 Components of the Nonmotorised Transport component
Component          Sector      Indicative      GEF           City of       City of
costs (US$m)   financing      Marikina      Marikina
(US$m)        (US$m)          (%)
Bikeways (66       Urban              1.08          0.92          0.16           15%
kilometers)        Transport
Traffic calming and   Urban           0.18          0.14          0.04          22%
pedestrianisation   Transport
Lighting           Urban              0.10          0.08          0.02          20%
Transport
Training and capacity Urban           0.05          0.04          0.01          20%
building at the BPO   Transport
Education Campaigns Urban             0.05          0.04          0.01          20%
_____ ____ ____ Transport_                                  _ _  _ __   _  _ _  _  _
Replication        Urban              0.05          0.04          0.01          20%
Campaigns          Transport
Total                                  1.5          1.26          0.25         16.5%
Beneficiaries. A series of focus group discussions were held on successive weekends in October 1999 to
gauge public perceptions of bicycling in the City of Marikina and of the proposals for a bicycle network.
Residents use bicycles significantly and clearly voiced the benefits of this mode of transport. They
considered this mode beneficial for the poor. The participants in the discussions felt that congestion in
Marikina was still relatively low, making cycling a still-viable mode of transport. Having seen other parts
of Metro Manila, however, they felt this situation would not last. Some already felt that cycling was
hazardous (few women cycle, for that reason), and felt strongly that bicycle lanes physically protected from
other traffic were needed. Participants also strongly demanded a bicycle safety and education campaign.
Residents said they would be prepared to pay fees for bicycle parking and security facilities.
The Marikina City Workers Affairs Office surveyed 12 companies involved in food manufacturing; shoe
manufacturing; marketing, sales, and rental of heavy equipment; and other sectors in October and
November 1999. The surveys found that 53 percent of the workers in these companies live within the City
of Marikina and the rest in adjacent municipalities. Thus the average travel distance in Marikina is within
what is considered viable for bicycle travel (bicycle trips up to 6 or 7 kilometers long are considered
viable). The current modal share of trips of workers in Marikina (table 2.5) is 1 1 percent bicycles, 3
percent pedicabs, and 28 percent walking.
- 41 -



Table 2.5 Modes of transport to work used by Marikina workers
Mode of Transportation to work    Number of trips by mode            Percentage
Company shuttle                           48                             1
Public transport                         1,479                          41
Tricycle (motorized)                      309                            9
Pedicab (nonmotorized)                    111                            3
Bicycle                                   410                           11
Walking                                  1,019                          28
Others                                    239                            7
Total                                    3,615                          100
Source: Marikina City Workers Affairs Office 1999.
Project Component 5 - US$1.10 million
PhP55 million, including all physical and price contingencies
E.    Institution Building/Technical Assistance component.
The Metro Manila Air Quality Improvement Sector Development Program supported by the Asian
Development Bank includes a component to strengthen the MMDA's traffic management function in 2000
to 2004. The MMURTRIP project will complement this program by supporting capacity building in 2001
to 2005. The MMDA (in consultation with the DPWH) has developed a year-by-year institutional plan,
including a description of its expanding functions and staffing requirements. Moreover, this component
aims to ensure that effective coordination mechanisms are in place between the key agencies and LGUs.
This coordination will favour the balanced integration among modes, including Nonmotorised Transport
(NMT).
-42 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
PHILIPPINES: Metro Manila Urban Transport Integration Project
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                 US $million    US $million    US $million
A. Traffic management improvements                                                      0.00
LRT Line 2 corridor                                      2.20          2.40          4.60
EDSA LRT Line 3 corridor                                 2.50          2.50          5.00
Southern corridor-Bicutan interchange improvements       0.30          0.30          0.60
Southern corridor-Alabang interchange improvements       0.70          0.70          1.40
B. MARIPAS Access Improvements                                                          0.00
Marikina Bridge and Access Roads                        14.40          5.60         20.00
Marcos Highway                                           8.90          7.30         16.20
Ortigas Avenue                                           1.60          3.20          4.80
C. Secondary Roads Program                                  16.50        10.20         26.70
D. Nonmotorised Transport (NMT) pilot                       0.80          0.70          1.50
E. Technical Assistance/Institution Building                 1.00         0.00          1.00
Total Baseline Cost                                        48.90         32.90         81.80
Physical Contingencies                                     2.90           1.70         4.60
Price Contingencies                                        7.60          3.00         10.60
Total Project Costs              59.40         37.60         97.00
Front-end fee                     0.60          0.60
Total Financing Required               59.40         38.20         97.60
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                 US $million    US $miilion    US $miflion
Civil Works                                                  39.90          24.30         64.20
Equipment                                                     0.50           5.90          6.40
Services                                                      2.80           7.20         10.00
PMO engineering overhead and Land Acquisition;               16.40           0.00         16.40
Operations and Maintenance
Total Project Costs     59.60          37.40         97.00
Front-end fee                     0.60          0.60
Total Financing Required      59.60          38.00         97.60
Note: Discrepancies in project costs are the result of figures being rounded.
The component costs are made up of construction costs, provision of street lighting, and provision of traffic
signals. The costs include all detailed engineering design costs, construction supervision costs, project
management office engineering overhead, advisory services and local taxes.
l. Detailed engineering cost for phase I was PhP23,053,200 (about US$576,330 equivalent at the
time of the contract)
2. Detailed engineering costs for phase II are estimated at 6 percent of civil works costs.
3. Construction supervision costs are estimated at 10 percent of civil works costs.
4. Project Management Office engineering overheads are estimated at 3.5 percent of civil works costs.
5. Advisory Services are estimated at 3 percent of civil works costs.
6. Operations and Maintenance costs during the project implementation period are included in the
project costs.
7. Local taxes and duties on works are estimated at 20 percent (based on a study of actual contracts
- 43 -



under the Highway Management Project), on services at 7 percent, and on vehicles and computers
at 30 percent.
8. Civil works: Foreign cost: 40 percent; local cost: 60 percent (for Traffic Engineering Center related
works local cost is 100 percent)
9. Services: Foreign cost: 80 percent; local cost: 20 percent; Project Management Office engineering
overhead, 100 percent local cost.
10. Signal equipment: Foreign cost: 100 percent.
11. Foreign inflation is estirated at 3 percent per annum (based on the World Bank's Development EC
Planning Assumptions Note November 2000); local inflation rate is estizmated at 7 percent per
annum.
12. Land acquisition costs are estimated at total of US$ 13.5 million for two project components.
13. World Bank cost sharing lirmit for Loans for the Philippines is 75 percent of total project cost, net
of taxes.
14. Front end fee is 1 percent of World Bank Loan amount.
Identifiable taxes and duties are 12.7 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 83.6 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 71.77% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 44 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
PHILIPPINES: Metro Manila Urban Transport Integration Project
The economic evaluation has been carried out utilizing a standard cost benefit analysis (CBA). The
evaluation covers the Project's major investment components: Traffic Management Improvements,
MARIPAS Access Improvements, and Secondary Roads Program. These components account in total for
about 94 percent of the project cost. Given their specific nature, two other components are not considered
in this analysis: Nonmotorized Transport (NMT) Pilot and Institution Building/Technical Assistance. The
Nonmotorized Transport component was the subject of a detailed incremental cost analysis (ICA), which
is described in Annex 14.
In the framework of the CBA approach, the investments in each of the project's subcomponents were
evaluated separately to ensure that each is economically viable. The results were then aggregated at project
level. Whenever possible, costs and benefits were quantified by comparing "with" and "without" project
scenarios. Benefits are derived from vehicle operating cost (VOC) and value of time (VOT) savings. Costs
include initial construction costs, right-of-way acquisition and future maintenance costs.
The basic data, main assumptions, and methodology used in the evaluation, as well as an example of their
application and the results of the evaluation (table 4.1), are summarized in the following sections. Full
details of the economic evaluation can be found in the MMURTRIP Feasibility Study carried out in 1998
by local and international consultants (see project file).
Table 4.1 Costs and benefits of the MMIRTRIP project (US$ million)
Benefits                               1063*
Costs                                   94
Net Benefits                            969
Internal Rate of Return             137 percent
*Present value of flows discounted at 15 percent.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Data Sources
The evaluation relies heavily on the data available from the Japan Bank for International Cooperation
(JICA)-funded Metro Manila Urban Transportation Integration Study (MMUTIS) from March 1997.
These data are recent and comprehensive and cover most of the needs for the CBA approach. The
MMUTIS study includes the whole of Metro Manila together with the surrounding municipalities that
make up the Greater Manila metropolitan area.
The main types of data used from this source are origin-destination (O-D) trips, including land-use and
socioeconomic information; cordonline and screenline vehicle and passenger counts; public transport (bus
and jeepney) frequency data; public transport boarding, alighting, and terminal use data; and travel speed
data.
For the evaluation of some specific components, MMURTRIP Study consultants used more detailed traffic
data than is available from MMUTIS. These data include traffic counts at signalised and nonsignalised
- 45 -



intersections obtained from the Traffic Engineering Center (TEC) of the DPWH.
Transport Models
MMUTIS developed a state-of-the-art recursive transportation model for Metro Manila. In this model, the
network conditions were specified separately for each of the vehicle types, allowing bus lanes and truck
bans to be modeled. However, the capacity restraint procedures in the model could refer only to network
links, and delays at junctions were not simulated for individual turning movements. There were also some
limitations in the way the model dealt with the choice between different transport modes.
Moreover, at the time of this economic evaluation the model was not sufficiently developed to be of use in
analyzing travel demand pattems in the MMIURTRIP corridors. Therefore, the MMURTRIP Study
consultants integrated the information of the MMUTIS model with a series of basic assumptions to
quantify the existing transport situation along the project corridors and to make predictions about the
future. These assumptions are summarized in the next sections.
Transport Demand Forecasts
While basing its conclusions on present-day transport requirements in Metro Manila, the MMURTRIP
Study addresses the impact of future changes in distribution of land uses and pattem of transport provision
in order to evaluate the feasibility of the proposed components. However, as noted above, neither the
development of future land use scenarios nor the development of the analytical transport model were
sufficiently advanced for the purposes of the economic evaluation. Therefore the evaluation was based on
figures for future transport demand pattems estimated by the MMURTRIP Study Team, assuming the
possible development scenarios considered by MMUTIS. Generally this has amounted to applying simple
growth factors and ad hoc analyses of the diversionary effects of new transport infrastructure, tempered by
professional judgment and detailed knowledge of the existing situation.
Intersection Analysis
The TRANSYT/10 suite of programs was used extensively to analyze signalised intersections, calculate
revised signal timing/phasing, and test the impact of revised geometric layouts for the design of the new
installations. The outputs included accumulated delay and other performance indicators, which provided
useful inputs to the evaluation.
Main Assumptions:
Traffic Flows
The estimation of benefits depends on the traffic flows through each project. Given the lack of a model
capable of assessing either traffic growth or reassignment resulting from network modifications, it has been
necessary to use uniform growth factors inside Epifanio de los Santos Avenue (EDSA) and outside to
estimate future traffic flows. Traffic within EDSA is assumed to grow at a 2 percent rate, and traffic
outside EDSA at a 5 percent rate. This assurnption is based on past experience with different schemes in
Metro Manila.
In accordance with normal practice, these growth rates have only been applied up to the point where the
existing network can accommodate traffic flows. The growth rate assumption is conservative, because it
ignores the benefits enjoyed by road users who take up the additional capacity provided by the project.
Hence it reduces the possibility of overestimation of benefits.
In the case of road projects, the study used Metro Manila Urban Transportation Integration Study
(MMUTIS) "unlinked" trip survey data to analyze travel patterns in the relevant corridor, together with
- 46 -



simple diversion curves to predict reallocation of corridor traffic to new roads. For the public/private modal
split, the study assumed the overall growth would not change the respective modal shares of private and
public transport, even with growing car ownership. This assumption is justified by the fact that
improvements to the public transport system to be implemented in future years would enhance the
attractiveness of public transport services, which in turn is expected to offset higher car ownership levels.
In the corridors where new fixed public transport facilities were installed between 1997 and the project
implementation date, the flows have been assessed holding the assumption of a simple 30 percent reduction
in the road-based public transport line flows at the introduction of the new rail services. This assumption is
justified by the fact that corridor-specific mode changes relate to corridors where new light rail transit
(LRT) lines would be introduced, such as the LRT2 and LRT3 corridors. Hence, some reduction in bus or
jeepney traffic is expected once the LRT lines becomes operational.
The actual level of transfer onto the rail services will of course depend critically on interchange possibilities
and convenience, and on fare levels and integration. This factor is slightly lower than the passenger
transfers to LRT Line 1 observed on its opening, but reflects the potential for load factor reductions on
existing services.
The above assumptions remain relatively crude and ignore the possibility of trip generation with new
schemes. Moreover, no allowance for trip redistribution was made because of the lack of local evidence.
But the congested state of the network reduces the possibility of overestimation of traffic flows.
Intersectfons
A metrowide project (SMART) to replace all existing signal equipment and to install new signals is under
way in Manila. This project will include optimization of the signal settings (including synchronization of
some junctions) and will be completed by the end of 2000. SMART phasing has yet to be determined, but
for the purposes of the evaluation it was assumed that signals would be installed and working optimally in
the relevant corridors before the MMURTRIP actions are undertaken. Hence, benefits from the
MMURTRIP project would be incremental and would depend on geometric improvement and improved
management of intersections rather than improved signal timing. Where management improvements alone
were involved, the evaluation depended on a demonstration that only very small per vehicle time savings
would be required to achieve economic viability.
Peak and Off-peak Periods
Peak and off-peak periods were modeled separately where possible, as data was often available. Since the
majority of traffic counts were for less than 24 hours, suitable factors were adopted to convert these to
daily and annual values. Where benefits were deemed to accrue over the whole day, a factor of 1.3 was
used to convert the 14-hour counts, obtained from the DPWH-Traffic Engineering Center, to average
weekday flows.
At intersections, the analysis of time savings was carried out for three distinct time periods: AM peak (four
hours), PM peak (four hours) and inter-peak (six hours). Aggregate benefits were then accumulated over
the same 14-hour period.
Other components, such as pedestrian and public transport improvements, were also evaluated over this
14-hour period. In addition, an annualization factor of 330 was used to reflect the fact that most available
traffic data relates to an average weekday, not an average day.
Value of Time
The Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) and the World Bank have different approaches
to benefit estimation (particularly in the valuation of time). Rather than parallel appraisals for each project
- 47 -



component, a simple comparison of the two evaluation methods was made. The assumptions of each
methodology are discussed in detail in the relevant chapters of the MMUTIS study. The main differences
between the two methodologies are the computation of vehicle operating costs, namely fuel and oil
consumption, spare parts, and maintenance labor costs. Other differences concem vehicle occupancy
factors, vehicle use characteristics, and the value of time.
Another difference concems the factors used to estimate distribution of trip types: The DPWH model only
considers work trips and commuting trips to have a value. However, World Bank practice is to assume that
people place a value on all time spent traveling. Hence "leisure" trips are also included in the evaluation.
Leisure trips include all nonwork and noncommute trips, for example, shopping, school, and church trips.
This difference made the DPWH model and its coefficients less appropriate then the altematives adopted by
the consultants for the application in an urban context.
Therefore, in the evaluation the travel time savings included the valuation of business travel time,
commuting travel time, and leisure travel time (table 4.2). Commuting and leisure time were valued at 50
percent of business time. Local evidence indicates that this seemingly high value is not unwarranted in the
Manila context (the average normally used is 25 to 30 percent of work time).
Table 4.2 Value of time (US$ and PhP per hour)
Users                       Work time               Commuting and leisure time
US$ per hour     PhP per hour    US$ per hour  PhP per hour
Car drivers (nonprofessional)     1.77              52             0.89           26
Car passengers                    1.64              48             0.82           24
High-occupancy vehicle/taxi       1.64              48             0.82           24
passengers
Jeepney passengers                 1.40             41             0.70          20.5
|Bus passengers                    1.40             41              0.70          20.5
Note: US$1=PhP29.3 (1996)
Other assumptions
Additional assumptions were made for interest charges, GDP growth and project life. To reflect the current
interest rate and assumptions about future movements,the evaluations assumed an interest rate of 15
percent throughout. This rate was based on the National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA)
assumptions of the opportunity cost of capital. Real GDP per capita was assumed to increase by 2 percent
per annum. The value of time was assumed to increase in line with the growth in per capita GDP.
Project life assumptions vary according to component. Traffic engineering schemes were assumed to have a
5-year life, whilst most infrastructure was assumed to have a 20-year life. Bridges were assumed to have a
30-year life and asphalt road surfaces were assumed to need significant rehabilitation after seven years.
Cost provisions were made for the bridge and asphalt roads assumptions where relevant. The evaluation
excluded some nonquantifiable benefits, such as accident reduction or enhanced accessibility to particular
development areas. This exclusion should preclude undervaluation of overall scheme benefits.
- 48 -



Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Methodology
Approach. The MMURTRIP Study team developed a common framework for assessing costs and benefits.
In many cases the "without projects" scenario would not be the same as the actual situation, because other
actions were expected to occur before project implementation. Where this was the case, subcomponents
were not assessed against a "do-nothing" situation but against the most likely prior situation. Nevertheless,
the various components of the MMURTRIP project, each with a range of benefits, was complex to
evaluate. For example, some benefits could not be quantified, and in many situations costs are so small
that, given the large number of users of the facility, the benefits for each would only have to be very small
(that is, 15 percent) to achieve a satisfactory economic intemal rate of return (EIRR). Therefore, the
project components that have been evaluated are those in which evaluation was simple, costs are large, or
benefits are not obviously very large. The main benefits stem from time savings rather than vehicle
operating cost savings. On links between intersections, time savings were estimated with reference to
changes in volume/capacity ratio (the extent to which proposed actions lead to increased road capacity).
Time savings at intersections (or groups of intersections) were assessed using the TRANSYT suite of
traffic signal design programs.
Where relevant, or useful to understand the evaluations, a top-down approach was adopted by estimnating
the number of vehicles that would generate enough savings to achieve a 15 percent rate of return. This
approach is particularly useful where benefits are very high (for example, corridor improvements along the
EDSA or LRT Line 2 corridors) or where development (or traffic generation and redistribution) is expected
(for example, on the MARIPAS radial roads).
The following section summarizes the evaluation of benefits of different typologies of project
subcomponents.
Application to Specific Scheme Types
Improvements to bus stops and off-road jeepney and FX waiting areas. The purpose of these interventions
is to improve waiting conditions for passengers at the roadside and to remove the people and stopping
vehicles from the carriageway. This will improve traffic flow on the section of road and reduce the risk of
accidents. Benefits are computed on the basis of the total number of passengers using the facility and the
estimated value each of these passengers places on the improvement. The benefits also come from the
increased traffic speed once pedestrians are removed from the road. The benefits are assessed on the basis
of the time saving to vehicles resulting from increased road capacity and higher travel speeds, compared
with the do-nothing altemative.
Intersection improvements and bus priority schemes at intersections. The purpose of these components is
to improve the flow of traffic through an intersection and reduce overall delay at the signals. The bus
priority schemes are designed to use road space more efficiently, maximizing the passenger throughput of
the intersection and ensuring the attractiveness of public transport. They will also reduce the time taken for
public transport vehicles to traverse each intersection, compared with private vehicles. The benefits are
estimated on the basis of the reduced delay to vehicles at the intersection. "With-project"travel delays at the
intersections are estimated on the basis of TRANSYT simulations, with optimal signal timings. Co-
- 49 -



ordination of adjacent signals is considered, where appropriate. The time savings are then converted into
vehicle operating cost and occupant time savings using the Consultant's revised model. Where signal
coordination is considered, scheme evaluation is performed at an "aggregate" level, over all the
intersections involved. Where the junctions are not signalised, or where traffic enforcers are used, estimates
of travel demand in the "without project case cannot be made reliably. In these cases, the top down
approach is used.
Sidewalk improvements, prohibition of on-street parking, and provision of off-street truck parking. The
purpose of these components is to improve the flow of traffic by reducing the interaction between
pedestrians or parked vehicles and moving vehicles. While at intersections it is assumed that these benefits
are modeled in the optimized signal timings. Between intersections the benefits are derived from moving
pedestrians off the carriageway and onto sidewalks, and moving car parking from the curbside lane. This
is assumed to increase roadway capacity and increase average vehicle speeds. On-site observations have
been used to estimate the extent of the road space that could be released by sidewalk improvements and
prevention of parking. Benefits are assessed on the basis of the time saving to vehicles brought about by
the increased road capacity and higher travel speeds, compared with the
"do-nothing" alternative.
Pedestrian bridges. Pedestrians currently cross many roads in Metro Manila at grade. This can be time
consuming (as pedestrians are forced to wait for a safe gap in the traffic flow) and dangerous (since traffic
and pedestrians are forced to share road space). MMURTRIP will to introduce some pedestrian bridges
between intersections and near the Light Rail Transit stations. These will make crossing safer and eliminate
the waiting. It is acknowledged that the actual crossing time for the pedestrian may be higher with the
bridge, but the reduction in waiting time will outweigh this, especially on wide roads with high traffic
flows. The benefits of the bridge are determined by the number of people crossing in the vicinity of the
bridge site and the extent of their wait. Given average pedestrian bridge costs, a certain number of
pedestrians is required to ensure that the internal rate of return on the project would be greater than 15
percent, at which point the project could be justified in economic terms. Other benefits will accrue to
vehicular traffic that experiences less delay when pedestrians are removed from the roadway. Before
deciding the to provide a pedestrian overbridge, alternative options have been explored such as signalised
at-grade crossings, where the pedestrian signal timings are coordinated with those of upstream or
downstream signalised intersections. These can often be more convenient to pedestrians, while not adding
significantly to vehicle joumey times. However, in many cases the benefit to pedestrians will be outweighed
by the disbenefit to public transport passengers. Exceptions to this rule include locations where public
transport vehicles are stopped anyway (bus stops, jeepney terminals), and those close to major signalised
intersections.
Upgrading of existing roads - The purpose of these interventions is to improve the flow of traffic, reduce
the wear and tear on vehicles and improve ride quality and passenger comfort. On most of the roads to be
upgraded (e.g. secondary roads), there will be a variety of actions ranging from pavement rehabilitation to
sidewalk and public transport improvements - in line with the overall MMIURTRIP objectives. The benefits
therefore come from a combination of increased speed and reduced surface roughness (i.e. reduced
operating costs). Benefits are assessed by comparing vehicle operating costs and time savings in the "with
scheme"and "without scheme" situations. Savings in maintenance expenditure are estimated from average
maintenance costs for different surface types and conditions provided by the DPWH Bureau of
Maintenance.
New road infrastructure. The purpose of these components is to provide missing links in the network,
relieve alternative routes, and increase accessibility in the city. The benefits are estimated on the basis of
reduced travel time (and operating costs) for the users of the route compared with those on the most direct
- 50 -



alternative. There will also be benefits (for example, reduced congestion and travel time) for users who
remain on the alternative routes. The time and vehicle operating cost savings are then used as the basis of
the evaluation.
Evaluation Summary of the LRT 2 Line Corridor
To clarify the methodological approach used in the economic evaluation, this section outlines the detailed
findings of the LRT2 Line Corridor. The section briefly spells out the evaluation approach and its inputs
and presents the economic internal rate of return (EIRR) and net present value (NPV) figures for the
component project, together with the benefit and cost streams.
Approach. Benefits are derived from sidewalk improvements and intersection management improvements.
The sidewalk improvements valued are only those along major roads in the corridor (Claro M.Recto,
Legarda, R. Magsaysay and Aurora Boulevard) where extensive pedestrian infringement of the
carriageway has been observed. Typically pedestrians do not impinge on the carriageway for more than
about 100 meters in any one location, since they bunch around attractions such as bus stops or pedestrian
bridges. The evaluation reflects this. Elsewhere sidewalk improvements are proposed to improve the quality
of existing sidewalks or allow pedestrians to walk along the sidewalk rather than on frontage parking areas.
Such improvements have no quantifiable benefits, although pedestrian safety will be enhanced and the
general environmental improvements for pedestrians will also be important.
Improvements to side roads are designed to allow better operation of the main intersections along the
corridor or to allow for safe public transport interchange. However, for consistency, since traffic counts are
not always available in these locations, none of these benefits was evaluated. With the existing traffic flows
the corridor is at capacity, and no traffic growth was therefore assumed. This will tend to underestimate
benefits because traffic generation or reassignment from other routes would be expected to accompany
improved travel conditions in the corridor.
Benefits from the sidewalk improvements were derived from a reduction in carriageway infringement and
hence improved speeds for traffic through the road section involved. Benefits from the improved
management of intersections were assessed from TRANSYT analysis of individual intersections, assuming
that management actions will increase saturation flows by about 10 to 15 percent. Public transport priority
measures are provided between C-3 and C-2 only.
The project will be undertaken in two stages, relating to the opening of the LRT Line 2 project. Cubao to
Katipunan projects will be constructed between July 2000 and June 2001 (opening in July 2001), and
projects from Cubao to Recto will be built during 2001 and early 2002 (opening in April 2002).
Benefits accrue from July 2001 for the Cubao to Katipunan section and from April 2002 for the Cubao to
Recto section. No additional maintenance costs are incurred and the improvements are evaluated over five
years.
- 51 -



Results
Table 4.3 outlines the summary of the economic evaluation and costs and benefit for the subcomponent.
Table 4.3 Cost benefit analysis summary for the LRT 2 Corridor
(PhP million undiscounted)
Year   Without    With scheme    Savings        Total                Net
scheme                               VOC and Total cost economic
VOC  VOT  VOC  VOT  VOC  VOT    VOT                          benefits
______  ______    ______  savings  _ _ _ __  _ _ _ _ _
2000                                                       2.2       -2
2001                                                      102.9    -103
2002  60.0  225.7  44.4  167.1  15.6  58.6    74.2        119.5     -45
2003  250.7 1608.8 172.9  737.2  77.8  331.6   409.4                 409
2004  244.5 1283.5 167.4  878.6  77.1  404.9   482.0                 482
2005  263.8 1288.2 180.5  881.4  83.3  406.8   490.1                 490
2006  283.8 1292.8 194.1  884.1  89.7  408.7   498.4                 498
2007  232.6 1059.8 133.0  605.7  99.7  454.1   553.8                 554
2008  42.4  207.2  27.5  134.3  14.9  72.9    87.9                    8
Summary  NPV =980.8
EIRR= 142%
Sensitivity Analysis
A sensitivity analysis was performed to test the robustness of the results as well as the appropriateness of
the approach. Again, given the different nature of the subcomponents and the complexity of some of them,
the sensitivity tests were conducted only for those subcomponents in which the sensitivity analysis was
simple to undertake, the costs are large, or the benefits are not obviously very large. The sensitivity test
assumptions used were:
-  The subcomponent is implemented one year earlier.
:  The corridor is open one year later.
*The costs are 10 percent higher than predicted.
* The benefits total 10 percent less than expected (every year).
The individual results for each of the sub-component analyzed are presented in the MMURTRIP Study.
These results indicate in general a strong viability and confrm the correctness of the approach.
Project Results
The results of the cost benefit analysis (table 4.4) show in general high returns for each of the
subcomponents and for the project as a whole. Whether considering VOC savings only, or combined
VOC/VOT savings, the rate of return is well above the 15 percent threshold. World Bank experience with
similar traffic management projects in other countries demonstrates that such projects consistently produce
high returns because of the significant benefits, particularly in term of VOT savings, and that they generate
with relatively small investmnents.
- 52 -



Table 4.4 Economic evaluation summary
Cost     Cost   Length   EIRR         EIRR        NpVb
Component               (US$ m)  (PhP m)   (km)   (VOC)  (VOCI VOT   (15%)
.(percent)  (percent)    hP)
A. Traffic Management Inprovement
LRT Line 2 corridor                    5.5       275   12           64          142      980.8
EDSA LRT Line 3 corridor               5.7       285   18           18          155    1,025.8
Bicutan interchange                    0.6        30   n.a.         37          192     489.6
Alabang interchange                    1.7        85   n.a.         56          119      407.5
B. MARIPAS Access Improvements
Marikina Bridge and Access Road       23.3      1165   n.a.          4           19      808.8
Marcos Highway                        19.7       985   4.6          22          162    5,575.6
Ortigas Avenue Extension               5.2       260   6.8         133          565    7,485.7
C. Secondary Roads Program:
D. Romualdez                           0.2        10  1.44           8           30       96.2
Legarda                                0.2        10  0.97          63          117       27.2
Quezon Boulevard                       0.2        10  1.28         135          243     428.8
Pasong Tamo                            2.9       145  2.42          45           57      216.1
Pedro GilJNew Banaderos                1.9        95  5.17         180          288      409.8
Tayuman                                0.9        45   1.37         39           41       68.3
M. de la Fuente (Trabajo)              0.1         5  2.14          n.a          15       30.5
Jacobo Fajardo                         0.1         5  1.00         n.a.          15        2.4
SSHWest/East Service Road              7.3       365  27.2          95          II1    1,179.9
Quirino Highway                        6.8       340   11.8         79          248   33,145.1
10th Avenue                            1.1        55  2.83          47           58       16.7
Don Mariano Marcos Ave Extension       6.9       345   1.00         35          107      692.7
Antonio Arnaiz Avenue                  1.0        50  2.01         n.a.          15       30.5
Sen.Gil Puyat Avenue                   1.6        80  5.43          99          118       19.1
Banaue Avenue                          1.5        75  3.00         n.a.          15       37.5
Project total                94.4     4720  69.1           37         137    53,145
a                          b
n.a.= not applicable. Economic internal rate of return. Net present value.
Note: Costs exchange rate is US$1 = PhP50 (2001)
Note: The economic analysis was done excluding taxes.
- 53 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
PHILIPPINES: Metro Manila Urban Transport Integration Project
Year Ending
December 31
United States Dollar (USD) million
| Year 1| Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          10.0      13.4       35.8      27.3       10.8       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         10.0      13.4       35.8      27.3       10.8       0.0       0.0
Front-end fee    0.6        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing             10.6      13.4       35.8      27.3       10.8       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  0.8       10.5      21.4       19.5       7.8       0.0        0.0
Government                8.5        2.9      14.4        7.8       3.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers-GEF         1.3        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    10.6      13.4       35.8      27.3       10.8       0.0       0.0
Philippine Pesos (PhP) million
Y Year I    Year 2    Year 3 l  Year 4  l Year 5    Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         500.0     670.0    1790.0    1365.0       540.0       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs        500.0     670.0    1790.0    1365.0       540.0       0.0       0.0
Front-end fee   30.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing           530.0      670.0    1790.0    1365.0       540.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                 40.0      525.0    1070.0      975.0     390.0       0.0        0.0
Government              425.0      145.0     720.0      390.0      150.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers-GEF        65.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing   530.0     670.0    1790.0    1365.0       540.0       0.0       0.0
- 54 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PHILIPPINES: Metro Manila Urban Transport Integration Project
Procurement
Procurement of all works and goods under the project will follow the Guidelines-Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits published by the World Bank in January 1995, and revised January and August
1996, September 1997, and January 1999.
Procurement of all services under the project will follow the Guidelines-Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers published by the World Bank in January 1997 and revised
September 1997 and January 1999.
Procurement for the Global Environment Facility grant for the Non-Motorised Transport component is
required to follow all World Bank procurement guidelines as above.
Procurement will be undertaken by the project's implementing agencies as follows:
-   The Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH)-Urban Roads Project Office (URPO).
The DPWH-Traffic Engineering Center will manage procurement of one package of traffic signal
equipment.
e   The Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA).
*   The City of Marikina Local Government Unit will undertake procurement for the Nonmotorised
Transport, GEF- financed, component of the project.
Summary of the Procurement Capacity Assessment. World Bank staff undertook a procurement
assessment of the implementing agencies. The procurement assessment (see project files) was fully
discussed and agreed with the agencies in May 2000. A MS Project-based procurement implementation
schedule for the whole project was prepared by DPWH-URPO (see project files). Overall risk assessment
for the project: average risk category.
The Departmrent of Public Works and Highways (DPWHI-)-Urban Roads Project Office (URPO). The
assessment found that the procurement capacity is in the average risk category. The results of the
assessment indicated that although DPWH can be considered a professional organization in terms of
executing projects funded by the World Bank, both URPO, and the Traffic Engineering Center (TEC),
have only implemented limited World Bank projects before. They have implemented World Bank assisted
projects, such as the Metro Manila Urban Transport Strategy Planning Project (MMUSTRAP) and the
Metro Manila Urban Transportation Project (MMUTAP)-Phase I, and other foreign assisted projects, and
therefore are not new to this business. For efficient implementation, the MMvIURTRIP project will need to
strengthen the procurement functions in the URPO and TEC. Formal and hands-on training in World Bank
procurement guidelines, policies, and procedures will be undertaken by the procurement staff of each of the
units. It should be emphasized to all personnel involved that the procurement process to be followed for the
project must be in accordance with the loan agreement, procurement side letter and World Bank
procurement guidelines.
The Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA). The assessment found that the procurement
capacity is in the average risk category. The MMDA, which will be implementing a World Bank-funded
project for the first time, has however implemented numerous locally funded traffic-related projects and is
- 55 -



becoming involved in projects funded by other international funding institutions. Contracts presently
implemented by the MMDA under Asian Development Bank and local financing are in the same cost range
as those to be financed under the MMURTRIP project. Hence, in terms of contract amounts, MMDA staff
should not have difficulty implementing this project. Based on the assessment, it is clear that the capacity
of the MMDA to undertake procurement of the components of the MMURTRIP project requires formal
and hands-on training in procurement guidelines. Overall, efficient implementation of the project will
require strengthening of the procurement function in the MMDA. Such training has been started by the
World Bank Manila office and will be facilitated by the appointment of a project advisor in the MMDA.
The City of Marikina. The assessment found that the procurement capacity is in the average risk category.
The performance of the city government has been satisfactory in the implementation of the two Global
Envirorment Facility (GEF) grants for the project, and no difficulty is anticipated in procurement for the
relatively small proposed Nonmotorised Transport component of US$1.4 million (the funding authority
from GEF is US$1.26 million). The maximum contract that the city government has implemented
amounted to about US$ 1.0 million. This amount is larger than the contracts expected for the project, so no
difficulty is expected related to contract size in the implementation of the project.
Conflicts between the procurement procedures of the Government of the Philippines and procedures
acceptable to the World Bank Several such conflicts, related to national competitive bidding and
procurement of consultant services, are fully addressed in the Supplemental Letter, Representations and
Assurances on Procurement to the Loan Agreement, as well as in the Project Implementation Plan. The
Borrower is required to conform with this agreement and waive all procedures unacceptable to the World
Bank.
The following procedures will apply to all goods and works contracts to be financed by the World Bank for
the above-noted project following the Philippines National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures:
a. National competitive bidding opportunities, including those which are invited by local government
units, shall be advertised in national newspapers of general circulation, with sufficient time for bidders
to prepare offers, which is normally 30 days, unless different venues and time are specifically agreed
upon by the World Bank.
b. Foreign suppliers and contractors from eligible countries will be allowed to participate, if interested,
without first being required to associate or enter into a joint venture with local firms.
c. Except for major or complex works, where prequalification is required, prequalification of
contractors may be conducted upon prior concurrence of the World Bank.
d. If any bidder is denied access to the bidding process for reasons unrelated to its financial and
technical qualifications to perform the contract, the World Bank shall be consulted prior to such denial.
e. Bid submission deadlines, times, and location specified in the bidding documents will be strictly
adhered to; and bids submitted after the specified date and time and location shall be returned unopened
to the bidder.
f. The World Banks domestic or regional preferences will not be applied in the evaluation of bids, and
other preferences in effect in the Philippines will not be used except with the prior concurrence of the
World Bank.
- 56 -



g. Bracketing and ceiling will not apply, unless specifically agreed by the World Bank in advance of
bidding.
h. Single responsive bids will not be rejected without prior World Bank concurrence, and rebidding will
not be mandatorily required when fewer than three responsive bids are received.
i. Bid opening shall be open to those who wish to attend; and the deadline for submission of bids should
be the same as that for bid opening, or immediately thereafter.
j. Suppliers and contractors will not be required to purchase local goods or supplies or to hire local
labor, except unskilled labor.
k. Explicit bid evaluation criteria will be set forth in the bid documents.
1. Material modifications of contract scope and conditions during implementation require prior World
Bank concurrence.
The Philippines further assures that, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the World Bank, the following
procedures will be adhered to in respect of the procurement of all works contracts to be financed by the
World Bank for the MMURTRIP project and procured according to national competitive bidding
procedures:
a. Prior registration, licensing, and/or other Goverrment authorization will not be a requirement for
purposes of participating in bidding competitions; such registration, licensing, and/or other Govemment
authorization may, however, be required from the selected bidder as a prior condition to signing the
contract.
b. All contractors will be allowed to compete for contracts to the upper limit of their classification.
The Philippines also assures that, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the World Bank, the following
procedures will be adhered to in respect of the procurement of consultant services to be fmanced by the
World Bank for the MMURTRIP project:
a. Mandatory joint venture or association with Philippine consulting firms will only be required if (i)
there are sufficient number of capable domestic firms available to allow reasonable freedom of choice
for the invited foreign firms; (ii) the desirable contribution by either firm will not be constrained by any
prescribed manner or extent or participation; and (iii) association with specified named firms selected
by the borrower will not be required.
b. Qualified consulting firms that come to the attention of the agency requiring services by means other
than a specific expression of interest in response to an announcement of a future project for consulting
services will also be eligible for the shortlist.
c. When circumstances warrant and with prior World Bank no objection, consulting firms may be
asked to continue working on a project beyond the phase for which their services were originally
contracted.
d. Price adjustments in consultant contracts will remain in effect whether budgetary funds are available
or not; in addition, there will be no ceiling on price adjustments under World Bank-financed contracts.
- 57 -



e. The World Bank's Standard Formns of Contract for Consultants' Services for Complex Time-Based
Assignments and for Lunp Sum Remuneration shall be used for contracts financed by the World Bank.
f. The "percentage of construction" cost method will not be used to determine the compensation of
World Bank-financed consultancy services.
g. When consultancy services include the provision of vehicles, their origin shall not be restricted to
Philippine sources.
A General Procurement Notice will be updated annually in the Development Business. The first General
Procurement Notice was published 30 April 2000 in Issue No 533. Specific Procurement Notices for
Supervision Services were published 16 May 2000 in Issue No 534 and for Civil Works on 16 December
2000 in Issue No 548.
Procurement methods (Table A)
1.    Works: about US$64.20 million (PhP 3,210 million), including contingencies.
Intemational competitive bidding (ICB) will be used for all civil works contracts greater than US$2.5
million equivalent per contract (about US$52.7 million including contingencies). National competitive
bidding (NCB) may be used for works less than US$2.5 million equivalent per contract (approximately
US$10.3 million for IBRD-funded works and US $1.4 million for GEF-funded works) where these are
localized works of small value and unlikely to attract foreign contractors. Foreign contractors are, however,
not excluded from participating. For two contracts below this US$2.5 million limit, ICB procedures will
still apply as defined in the procurement assessment.
The following works contract packages (table 1) will be procured under the project both by ICB and NCB
procedures.
*  The DPWH-URPO will procure eight civil works packages (six ICB and two NCB packages) with
a total value of about US$ 45.5 million (PhP 2275 million), plus DPWH-TEC will procure NCB
packages for related signal installation with a total value of about US$ 3.9 rmillion (PhP 195
million), all equivalent to about 77 percent of the total value of all civil works components.
*  The MMDA will procure nine civil works packages (two ICB and seven NCB packages) with a
total value of about US$ 13.7 rnillion (PhP 685 million), equivalent to about 21 percent of the total
value of all civil works components.
*  The City of Marikina will procure five civil works packages (five NCB packages) with a total
value of about US$1.2 million (PhP 60 million), equivalent to about 2 percent of the total value of
all civil works components. The average contract size is expected to be about US$200,000 each for
the contracts. The contracts are split up since they will be implemented at different times.
World Bank Standard Bidding Documents will be used for all works contracts as follows:
*  The Procurement of Works document, January 1995, revised January 1999 and revised May 2000,
applicable for contracts over US$10 mnillion, will be used for one ICB package, the Marikina
Bridge and Access Road under the DPWH-URPO.
*  The Procurement of Works: Smaller Contracts document, January 1995, (with Corrigendum No. 1
- 58 -



to No. 4) will be used for all other ICB works. The same document will be used for all NCB
works, modified for NCB use.
* The Standard Bid Evaluation Form, Procurement Goods or Works, April 1996, will be used for all
works.
* The Standard Prequalification Document for Procurement of Works, September 1999 revised
March 2000, will be applied for the one contract with prequalification.
Prequalification will be used for one civil works contract, for Marikina Bridge and Access Road, since it is
valued over US$ 10 million and considered complex because of the bridge construction involved.
Postqualification will be applied for all other civil works contracts.
2.    Goods: about US$6.40 million (PhP320 million), including contingencies.
The following goods contract packages will be procured under the project:
* The DPWH-URPO will procure vehicles with a total value of about US$ 100,000 and computer
equipment with a total value of about US$50,000. These will be procured by National Shopping.
* The MMDA will procure vehicles with a total value of about US$ 100,000 and computer
equipment valued with a total value of about US$50,000. These will be procured by National
Shopping.
These above packages are not grouped since they will be procured by two independent implementing
agencies.
*  The DPWH-TEC will procure traffic signal equipment under one contract with a total value of
about US$5.9 million (PhP 295 million), under ICB procedures.
World Bank Standard Bidding Documents will be used for the goods contracts as follows:
*  The World Bank's Standard Bidding Documents Supply and Installation of Equipment, November
1997, revised January 1999, will be used for the procurement of the traffic signal equipment.
*  The Standard Bid Evaluation Form, Procurement of Goods or Works, April 1996, will be used for
all goods.
3.    Services: about US$10.0 million (PhP 50 million), including contingencies.
The following consultant services will be procured under the project:
*  The DPWH-URPO will procure four consultant services contracts with a total value of about US$
6.1 million (PhP 305 million) under Quality-and-Cost-Based-Selection (QCBS) procedures. The
consultants will be tasked with the following:
1. Construction supervision of DPWH-URPO components of phase I - Marikina Bridge and
Access Road (ICB-3), Marcos Highway (ICB-4) Ortigas Avenue Extension (ICB-5) and D.
Romualdez/Legarda/Quezon Boulevard (NCB-3).
2. Construction supervision of DPWH-URPO components of phase II - ICB-6, ICB-7, ICB-8,
NCB-5.
3. Advisory services.
4. Detailed engineering design of phase II components.
- 59 -



*   The DPWH-TEC will procure one consultant service contract through sole-source selection for a
lump sum amount not to exceed US$50,000.
*   The MMDA will procure three consultant services contracts with a total value of about US$ 1.6
million (PhP 60 million) under Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedures. The
consultants will be tasked with the following:
1. Construction supervision of MMDA components of phase I - LRT Line 2 corridor (ICB-1);
EDSA LRT 3 corridor (ICB-2), Pasong Tomo (NCB-4).
2. Construction supervision of MMDA components of phase II - NCB-1, NCB-2, NCB-6,
NCB-7, NCB-8, NCB-9.
3. Advisory services.
*   The MMDA will procure consultant services for the Institution Building component with a total
value of about US$1.1 million (PhP million) under Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS)
procedures and Selection of Individual consultant procedures.
*   The City of Marikina will procure consultant services contracts valued at about US$0.2 million
(PhP 10 million) for the Nonmotorized Transport component. There is provision for recruitment of
individual consultants or sole-source recruitment for the Nonmotorised Transport component. Four
such consultants will be recruited under separate contracts ranging in value from US$50,000 to
US$100,000, with a cumulative maximum of US$0.4 million. The selection of individual
consultants will be based on their qualifications for the assignment (see section V of the
Guidelines). Consultants may be selected on the basis of references or through comparison of the
qualifications of people expressing interest in the assignment or approached directly by the
borrower. Sole-source recruitment may be applied for tasks that represent a natural continuation of
previous work carried out by the firn, or where only one fimn is qualified or has experience of
exceptional worth for the assignment.
The World Bank's standard documents will be used.
*   Standard Request for Proposals-Selection of Consultants, July 1997 and updated April 1998 and
July 1999, will be used for all consultant contracts. All contracts above US$200,000 will be
advertised in Development Business requesting expressions of interest prior to developing a
shortlist.
*   Standard Sample Form of Evaluation report may be used for the evaluation of proposals at the
Borrower's discretion.
There is provision for single-source selection for contracts less than US$ 100,000, for tasks that represent a
natural continuation of previous work carried out by the firrn, or where only one firm is qualified or has
experience of exceptional worth for the assignment.
4.    Project Management Office Engineering Overhead, Land Acquisition, and Operations and
Maintenance: about US$16.4 million (PhP 820 million), including contingencies).
About US$2.3 million (PhP 115 million) is allocated to cover the incremental Project Management Office
engineering overhead operating costs related to managing the project, including staff travel and office
utilities. These would be procured according to normal commercial procedures. Expenditures will be
financed 100 percent by the Government of the Philippines. About US$13.5 million (PhP 675 million) is
allocated to cover the cost of land acquisition. Land will be acquired for two project components and will
be paid in accordance with the relevant Resettlement Action Plans. Expenditures will be financed 100
- 60 -



percent by the Government of the Philippines. About US$ 0.6 million (PhP 30 mnillion) is allocated to cover
Operations and Maintenance expenditures incurred on infrastructure implemented under the project and
incurred during the project implementation period. Expenditures will be financed 100 percent by the
Govemrnment of the Philippines.
Procurement arrangements for each of the components of the MMUTRTRIP project are given in table 6. 1.
Table 6.1 Procurement arrangements and packaging (including contingencies)
Package    Contract package    Local     Cost    Cost  Implementing   Procurement  Ratio   WB
No.                        government (millions (millions  unit         method            Review
unit    of US$) of PhP)
involved
1.   Works
ICB-1  LRT 2 Corridor           /a       3.3               MMDA            ICB        n.a.  Prior
_________  _______              Small Works /b
ICB-2  LRT 3 Corridor           /c       3.8               MMDA            ICB        n.a.  Prior
Small Works
ICB-3  Marikina Bridge and    Marikina    16.3          DPWH-URPO          ICB        n.a.  Prior
Access Roads                                                   Large Works /d    _
ICB-4  Marcos Highway        Marikina    8.2            DPWH-URPO          ICB        n.a.  Prior
Large Works
ICB-5  Ortigas Avenue           /e       2.2            DPWH-URPO          ICB        n.a.  Prior
Extension                                                       Small Works
NCB-3  D. Romualdez/          Manila    0.4              DPWH-URPO         NCB        n.a.  Prior
Legarda/Quezon Blvd.                                            Small Works
NCB-4  Pasong Tamo            Makati    1.5                MMDA            NCB        n.a.  Prior
Small Works
NCB-1 Bicutan                Paranaque   0.4                MMDA           NCB        n.a.  Prior
Small Works
NCB-2  Alabang              Muntinlupa   1.3               MMDA            NCB        n.a.  Prior
Small Works
ICB-6  Pedro Gil/Tayuman/     Manila    2.3             DPWH-URPO          ICB        n.a.  Prior
M.dela Fuente/J.                                                Small Works
Fajardo
ICB-7  South Super Highway      /f       6.7            DPWH-URPO          ICB        n.a.  Prior
______   _______                Small Works
ICB-8  Quirino Highway        Quezon     5.3            DPWH-URPO          ICB        n.a.  Prior
Small Works
NCB-5  10th Avenue           Caloocan    1.0             DPWH-URPO         NCB        n.a.  Prior
Small Works
NCB-6  Don Mariano Marcos    Quezon       0.5              MMDA            NCB        n.a.  Prior
Avenue Extension                                                Small Works
NCB-7  Antonio Arnaiz         Makati    0.6                MMDA            NCB        n.a.  Prior
Small Works
NCB-8  Gil Puyat              Makati    1.1                MMDA            NCB        n.a.  Prior
Small Works
NCB-9  Banawe                 Quezon      0.8              MMDA            NCB        n.a.  Prior
Small Works
6 NCB s Nonmotorized                      1.0               City of         NCB        n.a.  Prior
Transport                                          Marikina     Small Works
I Total works                     64.2    3210              .
- 61 -



2.   Goods
ICB-9  Traffic signal                  5.9            DPWH-TEC       ICB-SIPE    n.a.  Prior
equipment
NS-1  Vehicles                         0.1           DPWH-URPO       National    n.a.  Post
Shopping
NS-2  Computers                       0.05           DPWH-URPO       National    n.a.  Post
Shopping
NS-3  Vehicles                         0.1              MMDA         National    n.a.  Post
Shopping
NS-4  Computers                       0.05              MMDA         National    n.a.  Post
Shopping
Subtotal                        6.4    320
3.   Services
CS-IA  Construction                     x             DPWH-URPO    QCBS /g   80/20  Prior
supervision phase I
CS-IB  Construction                     x               MMDA           QCBS      80/20  Prior
supervision phase I
DE-II  Detailed engineering            1.5           DPWH-URPO        QCBS       80/20  Prior
phase 11
CS-IIA  Construction                    x             DPWH-URPO        QCBS      80/20  Prior
supervision phase 11
CS-IIB  Construction                    x               MMDA           QCBS      80/20  Prior
| tsupervision phase 11                                        _ l
AS-A  Advisory services -              1.2            DPWH-UJRPO      QCBS       80/20  Prior
DPWH               L_I
AS-B  Advisory services -              0.4              MMDA          QCBS      80/20  Prior
MMDA
Various Institution building            1.0              MMDA          QCBSI      n.a.  Prior
-MMDA                                                       Individual Con.
Various Nonmotorized                    0.4           City of          QCBS/      n.a.  Prior
transport          l_  l_l_Marikina                         Individual Con.
SubTotal                        10.0    500
4.   PMO engineering                 16.4    820
overhead; land
acquisition
5.   Front-end Fee                   0.60     30
|_____ |Grand total cost                97.6   4880
Note: n.a. = not applicable.
/a Local Government Units covered include Manila, San Juan, and Quezon City
/b Small works refers to Smaller Contracts in the World Bank Standard Bidding Documents for
Procurement of Works.
/c Local Government Units covered include Quezon City, San Juan, Mandaluyong, and Makati
/d Large Works refers to World Bank Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement of Works (used for
contracts estimated to cost US$10 million and over).
/e Local Government Units covered include Pasig, Cainta, and Taytay.
/f Local Government Units covered include Pasay, Paranaque, and Muntinlupa.
/g QCBS refers to the World Bank's Quality-and Cost-Based Selection procedures for selection of
consultants.
- 62 -



Annex 6
METRO MANILA URBAN TRANSPORT INTEGRATION PROJECT (MMURTRIP)
Procurement Implementation Schedule
ID  Task Name                                                  Duratb.n       Start    A|M|J J JAIS |O|NFIMIJ MA IJJAS JOIN|D|J |FMA|MJ JA IS |OINID|J IF |MIA|M|J JAS ON D IJ IFIMIAIMIJ J AsoNDJFMA      JASONJ F
I   DPWH                                                     2107 days    Thu 4127100
2      Detailed Design, Phase I                               484 days      Mon 6/5/00    rI
3      Construction Supervision, Phase I         .            1673 days     Thu 4/27/00
4      Advisory Services (DE and Monitoring)                 2107 days    Thu 4/27/00                          -                                                             =
5      Marikina Bridge and Access Road                        1644 days      Fri 5/26/00
6      Marcos Highway (Katipunan Avenue to Masinag)            922 days    Thu 1/17/02
7      Ortigas Avenue Extension (C-5 to Tikling)              1021 days   Thu 11/23/00               *         *** -***         __
8      Legarda/Quezon Blvd./D. Romualdez                       555 days   Thu 11/23/00                    
0      Detailed Design, Phase II                               636 days     Mon 4/2/01
10     Construction Supervision, Phase II                     1041 days      Thu 1/2/03 '
11     Quirino Highway                                         798 days    Tue 6/24/03
12      SSH West/East Service Roads                            805 days    Tue 8/26/03
13      P. Gil/Panaderos, M. dela Fuente, J. Fajardo, Tayuman  615 days   Tue 11/25/03
14      10th Ave.                                              616 days   Mon 10/27/03
15     Traffic Signalization (DPWH)                           1912 days      Thu 9/7/00
16  MMDA                                                  .1280 days         Sun 7/1/01
17     Construction Supervision, Phase I                      1072 days      Sun 7/1/01                           L ,     N       N K_
18      Don Marano Marcos Avenue                               523 days     Wed 1/1/03
19      LRT Line 2 Corridor                                    708 days      Mon 4/1/02
20      EDSA Corridor                                          708 days      Tue 1/1/02
21      Pasong Tamo                             .              485 days       Sat 8/4/01
22      Construction Supervision, Phase II                     809 days   Tue 10/15/02                            .      .                                      'J                        . _
23      Bicutan                                                523 days     Tue 10/1/02
24      Alabang                                                708 days      Fri 1/24/03
25      Banaue                                                 523 days    Tue 10/1/02
20     Antonio Amaiz                                           708 days      Wed 1/1/03
27      Gil Puyat                                              708 days      Wed 1/1/03
Proejel Projectl              CQI Work.s                   Cossutanscy        ~        Procurement
Date. Wed 5123/01



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure category .   EX               iProcuremnit Method
Wor k;s00gory                     ICBa            NCB    ;     OtherT        N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Works                            52.70           10.30          0.00          1.20       64.20
(37.10)         (7.40)         (0.00)       (0.00)      (44.50)
2. Goods                            5.90             0.00          0.40          0.10        6.40
(5.90)          (0.00)        (0.30)        (0.00)      (6.20)
3. Services                         0.00             0.00          9.80         0.20        10.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (8.70)       (0.00)        8.70)
4. Project Management Office        0.00             0.00          16.40         0.00       16.40
Engineering Overhead; Land         (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
Acquisition; Operations &
Maintenance
5. Front-end fee                    0.00             0.00          0.60         0.00         0.60
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.60)        (0.00)      (0.60)
Total                            58.60            10.30         27.20         1.50       97.60
(43.00)         (7.40)         (9.60)       (0.00)      (60.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and
(i) incremental operating costs of the project management offices related to managing the project of about
US$ 2.3 million,
(ii) land acquisition costs of about US$ 13.5 million and
(iii) operations and maintenance costs of about US$ 0.6 million.
N.B.F = Non-Bank Financed NMT component of US$ 1.5 million with GEF financing of USS 1.3 million
equivalent. The GEF financing will be World Bank-Executed.
- 64 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category I QOBS   QaS      SFB     LCS      CQ      Other   N.BS.F.   otl Cost'
A. Firms               9.80    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00       9.80
(8.70)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)    (8.70)
B. Individuals         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.20       0.20
(0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)
Total  9.80    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.20      10.00
_  (8.70)   (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (8.70)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F = Non-Bank Financed NMT component of US$ 1.5 million with GEF financing of US$ 1.3
million equivalent. The GEF financing will be World Bank-Executed.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
1. Works. Each civil works contract will be subject to the World Bank's prior review. Prior review for
works will cover 100 percent of the combined value of works. Prior review of civil works includes bidding
documents including detailed designs, cost estimates and technical specifications, evaluation reports, and
draft contracts.
2. Goods. Each goods contract of more than USS 200,000 equivalent per contract will be subject to the
World Bank's prior review. This will involve the review of one contract, namely that for traffic signal
equipment. Prior review for goods will cover 95 percent of the combined value of goods. Prior review of
goods includes bidding documents, evaluation reports, and draft contracts. There will be no prior review of
the contracts for vehicles and computer equipment.
3. Services. Each consultant contract of more than US$50,000 equivalent per consultant contract and
estimated to total about US$9.8 million equivalent, and each contract of firns more than US$200,000
equivalent per contract and estimated to total US$0.2 million will be subject to the World Bank's prior
review. All terms of reference, request for proposals, shortlist, evaluation reports, draft negotiated
contracts, sole-source contracts, contracts of a special nature for consultant services, and final contracts
with substantial differences to the original draft will be subject to prior review.
- 65 -



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
:Con7 7 f ftractValue;f 7001Contft4   s ubject to
::0:    ;0Thresh tld    )  000X: Procurement   Prior Review
I Expenditre Cateor        US j   U(thouands)         Method0*l000  ..0     (USS mil.os) _
1. Works                    All contracts      Intemational and National        63.0
Competitive Bidding
2. Goods                        200            Intemational Competitive         5.90
Bidding
3. Services                     200               Quality Cost Based            9.30
Selection
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   90 percent of all
contracts
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
- 66 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The World Bank financing will cover a maximum of 75 percent of the project cost net of taxes in line with
financing guidelines for countries receiving IBRD financing.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in USSmillion          Financing Percentage
1. Works
MMDA                                    9.40             70 percent of eligible expenditures
DPWH                                   29.40             70 percent of eligible expenditures
2. Goods                                    0.00
MMDA                                    0.10            100 percent of foreign expenditures;
70 percent of local expenditures
DPWH                                    5.50            100 percent of foreign expenditures;
70 percent of local expenditures
3. Services
MMDA                                    2.50             100 percent of eligible expenditures
DPWH                                    6.50             100 percent of eligible expenditures
4. Project Management Office                0.00                        0 percent
engineering overhead; land acquisition;
operations and maintenance
5. Unallocated                              6.00
Total Project Costs                         59.40
Front-end fee         0.60                        100 percent
Total                                       60.00
Table C-1: Allocation of Global Environment Facility Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in USS milion          Financing Percentag
1. Works                                    0.80             80 percent of eligible expenditures
2. Goods                                    0.10             100 percent of foreign expenditures;
70 percent of local expenditures
3. Services                                 0.30             100 percent of eligible expenditures
4. Project Management Office                0.00                        0 percent
engineering overhead
5. Unallocated                              0.10
Total                                       1.30
Note: The GEF Grant Agreement is expressed in Special Drawing Rights (SDR) of one million. The exchange rate at the time of
negotiations was 1.27227 giving US$ amount of approximately US$1.3 million rounded equivalent
- 67 -



Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
The Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) method will be used. SOE limits are for Civil Works, US$1 million;
Goods, US$200,000; and Consultant Services, US$200,00 for Firms and US$ 50,000 for Individuals.
Special account:
There will be three Special Accounts, two for the World Bank Loan, (one for the DPWH and one for the
MMDA), and one for the GEF grant, for the City of Marikina for the Nonmotorized Transport component.
To facilitate loan disbursements, the DPWH, MMDA, and City of Marikina will each open and maintain a
separate dollar special deposit account in a commercial bank specifically authorized for this purpose by the
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the World Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure, and attachment. The Special Accounts will cover the World Bank's share
of eligible expenditures in all disbursement categories. Applications to replenish the Special Accounts,
supported by appropriate documentation, will be submitted regularly by each (preferably monthly, but not
less than quarterly) or when the amounts withdrawn equal 50 percent of the initial deposit.
The DPWH Special Account will have an authorized allocation amounting to US $3.0 million with an
initial withdrawal of US$1.5 million to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special
Account. The balance shall be withdrawn when the amounts disbursed and committed total US $18.0
million.
The MMDA Special Account will have an authorized allocation amounting to US $1.0 million with an
initial withdrawal of US$0.6 million to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special
Account. The balance shall be withdrawn when the amounts disbursed and committed total US$5 million.
The City of Marikina Special Account will have an authorized allocation amounting to US $100,000 with
an initial withdrawal of US$100,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited in the Special
Account.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements:
Financial Management Assessment. World Bank staff undertook a Financial Management Assessment of
the DPWH-URPO, MMDA, and City of Marikina as the implementing agencies. The assessment (see
Financial Management Assessment, June 2000 in project files) was fully discussed and agreed with the
agencies in May 2000. Overall the financial management of the DPWH (and its Project Management
Office), the MlMDA, and the City of Marikina satisfies the World Bank minimum financial management
requirements. Project Management Report (PMR)-based reporting will be implemented. However, the
project does not have in place an adequate project financial management system that can provide, with
reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project as required by the World
Bank for Project Management Report (PMR)-based disbursements. PMR-based disbursement is targeted
at a later stage in project execution to coincide with the improvement of financial management implemented
for the DPWH as a whole under the assistance of the NRIMP project.
- 68 -



Financial Management Action plan. Certain issues found in the Financial Management Systems of the
agencies have been addressed prior to World Bank Board approval by remedial actions as described below.
Financial Management Action Plan - DPWH-Urban Roads Project Office (URPO)
Issues                                  Remedial actions
1. The Finance and Budget Section of the URPO is  1. The Finance and Budget Section of the URPO
staffed by engineers and there are no accountants.  hired two accountants.
2. There is no documented manual on policies and   2. A Financial Management Manual acceptable to
procedures for financial management.        the World Bank was prepared.
3. There are inherent deficiencies in the DPWH  3. The Interim Financial Management System used
financial management system under the       for the NRIMP was adapted and the URPO was
Comptrollership and Financial Management     made part of overall financial management
Service.                                    improvement under the NRIMP.
Financial Management Action Plan - Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MIDA)
Issues                                  Remedial actions
1. The financial management rank and file lacks    1. The financial management function, including
capacity due to inappropriate background and  assignment of the necessary people as specified in
experience.                                 the assessment report, was organised.
2. There is no documented manual on policies and   2. A Financial Management Manual acceptable to
procedures for financial management.        the World Bank was prepared.
3. The accounting system is manual and financial   3. A simple interim computer system to handle the
reports are delayed because two sets of books are   project's separate books of accounts as well as its
maintained and because of lack of capacity.  own reports, both the regulatory and the PMRs was
installed.
4. Procurement is under the Treasury.        4. Procurement was made independent of finance.
5. The internal audit function is under the Finance   5. Have an internal audit function for the project
and Administration Service.                  and the MMDA as a whole report to the Chairman
of MMDA or, preferably, the Council. (This will be
done six months after Loan effectiveness).
Reporting Arrangements. Even before the Project Management Report (PMR) based disbursement system
is effective, each implementing agency will prepare in accordance with the World Bank's Loan
Administration Change Initiative handbook the following reports: (i) summary uses and sources of funds
(Report 1-A of PMR); and (ii) Procurement Monitoring Reports (Reports 3 A, B, C, and D). When the
PMR disbursement-based system is in force, each implementing agency will also produce a report on the
use of funds by project activity (Report 1-B). DPWH Controllership and Financial Management Services
will always have the responsibility of consolidating these reports and producing an annual Project Balance
Statement.
Auditing Arrangements. The Government of Philippines Commnission on Audit will be responsible for
annual audit of the implementing units' consolidated financial statements, withdrawal applications and
supporting Statement of Expenditures, documentation of the operations of the Special Account, and the
PMRs when operational. The audited financial statements will be submitted to the World Bank within six
months of the end of the project financial year. The annual audit will be conducted in accordance with the
requirements of the Audit Manual for World Bank Financed Projects issued by the East Asia and Pacific
- 69 -



Region of the World Bank in July 1998.
Funds Flow and Disbursement Arrangements. For loan proceeds, funds will flow, upon approval by the
Department of Budget and Management, from the coffers of the Bureau of Treasury of the Department of
Finance to the Special Accounts. The counterpart fund of the Government of the Philippines will go to a
separate bank account and will not be mixed with the Loan proceeds. In the DPWH, expenditures for the
project will be paid from the Comptrollership and Financial Management Service to contractors, suppliers,
or consultants either upon incurrence or through replenishment, whereby the Department advances the
money first. The latter would generally be the mode of disbursement.
- 70 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
PHILIPPINES: Metro Manila Urban Transport Integration Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      23                           30
First Bank mission (identification)             11/02/98                     11/02/98
Appraisal mission departure                     10/01/2000                   10/05/2000
Negotiations                                    10/10/2000                   05/15/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   09/01/2001
Prepared by:
Departrnent of Public Works and Highways, Urban Roads Project Office and Traffic Engineering Center;
and Metropolitan Manila Development Authority and the 12 cities and five municipal Local Government
Units of Metro Manila including the City of Marikina. The Transport Sector Unit of the East Asia and the
Pacific Region of the World Bank.
Preparation assistance:
A Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant of US$ 1.0 million provided by the Japanese
Government was used largely for the feasibility study that developed the project components. Detailed
engineering design for phase I was funded under the World Bank Loan for the Highway Management
Project, which closed June 30, 2000, and the First National Roads Improvement and Maintenance Project,
which became effective July 7, 2000.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Jitendra N. Bajpai                Principal Transport Specialist, Sector Director
Sally Burninghiam                 Senior Transport Engineer, Task Team Leader
Rene SD. Manuel                   Procurement Officer
Joseph Reyes                      Operations Officer - Financial specialist
Maya Villaluz                     Operations Officer - Environment
Zhi Liu                           Senior Transport Economist
Francesco Addis                   Transport economist
Karen Alexandra Hudes             Senior Counsel
Carlos Escudero                   Chief Counsel
Hung Kim Phung                    Senior Disbursement officer
Glenn Morgan                      Senoir Environmental Specialist, Environmental and Social clearance
Chaohua Zhang                     Sr. Social Sector Specialist, Resettlement and Land Acquisition clearance
Paul Guitink                      Senior Transport Specialist, Peer Reviewer
Kenneth Gwilliam                  Economic Advisor, Peer Reviewer
Gerhard Menckhoff                 Peer Reviewer
Christopher De Serio              Program Assistant
- 71 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
PHILIPPINES: Metro Manila Urban Transport Integration Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan, May 2001
Procurement Implementation Schedule, May 2001
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Procurement Assessment July 31, 2000
Financial Management Assessment July 31, 2000
World Bank mission Aide-memoire November 2-7, 1998
World Bank mission Aide-memoire February 16-23, 1999
World Bank mission Aide-memoire May 10-14, and June 1-11, 1999
World Bank mission Aide-memoire November 8-12, 1999
World Bank mission Aide-memoire February 7, 8 and 17, 18, 2000
World Bank mission Aide-memoire May 8-12, 2000
World Bank mission Aide-memoire Appraisal October 5-13, 2000
C. Other
Feasibility Study for MMURTRIP, Halcrow Fox, Volumes I and II, July 1998
Detailed Engineering for MMURTRIP, Inception Report, DPWH, June 30, 2000
Detailed Engineering for MMURTRIP report, DPWH, October 2000
Environmental Impact Assessment of MMJURTRIP, EIAPO-DPWH, July 2000
Resettlement Action Plan, Marikina Bridge and Access Roads component, April 2001
Resettlement Action Plan, Don Mariano Marcos Avenue Extension component, October 2000
Policy Framework on Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Rehabilitation, MMURTRIP, EIAPO-DPWH,
May 2001
Operational Framework for Public Participation and Consultation, MMURTRIP, EIAPO-DPWH, April
2001
Project information brochure in English and Tagalog
Institutional Plan and Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance, MMDA, December 20, 2000
Marikina Bicycle Network, Feasibility Study, December 1999, National Center for Transportation Studies,
Philippines
Marikina Bicycle Network, Inception Report, Interface for Cycling, July 8, 2000
Operational Program 11, Global Environment Facility
Global Environment Facility (GEF)supported NMT Component - Marikina Bicycle Network. STAP
Review.
Metro Manila Urban Transportation Integration Study (MMUTIS), Final Report, DPWH, ALMEC,
Philippines, March 1999
Metro Manila Air Quality Improvement Sector Development Program, Asian Development Bank Project
Report, November 1998 RRP: PHI 30480
A 1997 Survey about Traffic, November 1997, Social Weather Station Bulletin 97-22
*Including electronic files
- 72 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
PHILIPPINES: Metro Manila Urban Transport Integration Project
May-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Orginal Amount in US$ Millions                                 disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                          IBRD         IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frm Rev'd
P066069        2001 LAND ADMIN & MANAGEMENT                             4.79       0.00                  0.00       0.00       4.49       0.00       0.00
P039019        2000 FIRST NATL ROADS IMPROV.IMGNT. PROJECT            150.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     140.76       9.10       0.00
P059933        2000 COASTAL MARINE                                      0.00       0.00                  1.25       0.00       1.17       0.68       0.00
P065113        2000 PH-SOCIAL EXPENDITUFE MANAGEMENT                  100.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     6W.01       25.03       0.00
P058842        2000 PROJECT                                            2750        0.00                  0.00       0.00      24.82       2.82       0.00
P057598        1999 MiNDANAO RURALDEV                                 150.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     118.17      63.17       0.00
P056524        1999 RURAL FINANCE III                                 300.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     200.00     2W.00        0.00
P039022        1999 BANKG SYS REF (FSAL                                23.30       0.00                  0.00       0.00      19.07       7.37       0.00
P048588        1999 PHIL-LGU URBAN WATER & SANITATiON PROJ            100.00       0.W0                  0.00       0.00      96.40       8.57       0.00
P051386        1998 PHIL-LGU FINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT           10.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00       0.93       0.93       0.00
P004595        1998 SZOPAD SOCIAL FUND                                 50.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      45.51      20.01       0.00
P004576        1998 COMMUNTY BASED RESO                                56.80       0.00                  0.00       0.00      35.45      46.92       5.15
P004566        1998 PHIL-WATER DISTRCTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT            19.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      15.92       5.92       0.00
P040981        1997 PH-EARLY CHILD DBE.                                60.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      51.44      51.44       2.80
P004602        1997 SECOND SLBIC BAY                                  113.40       0.00                  0.00      20.10      81.17      73.67       0.00
PD04613        1997 PH-THIRD ELEMENrARY EDUCATiON                      58.00       0.00                  0.00       7.27      33.75      34.96      -0.36
P037079        1997 WATER RESOURCES DEVE                               50.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      17.50       0.04       0.00
P004571        1996 AGRARIAN REFCRM COMM                              250.00       0.00                  0.00      45.52      93.95     109.56      29.82
P004611        1996 TRANS GRID REIWFORCE                               57.00       0.00                  0.00       9.00      44.66      52.34       4.11
P004614        1996 PHIL-MANILA SEWERAGE PROJECT II                   150.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00       8.73       5.07       0.00
P004s67        1995 RURAL FINANCE 11                                   18.00       0.00                  0.00       4.30       5.10       8.74       3.94
P004403        1994 PH-WOMENS HEALTH & SAFE MOTHERHOOD                  0.00       0.00                  0.00       2.00       6.08       9.95       0.00
P004568        1993 CONS. OF PRiORITY PR                                0.00      70.00                  0.00      20.16      15.49      38.84      10.42
PH-URBAN HEALTH & NUTRiTION
Total:     1747.79      70.00                 1.25      108.34     1140.60     775.16      55.89
- 73 -



PHILIPPINES
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1980/82/89/90/94/95  AACT                        0.00    1.70    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.70    0.00    0.00
1996              All Asia Growth                0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00
1996              All Asia Manager               0.00    0.04    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.04    0.00    0.00
1996              All Asia Venture               0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00
2000               Asian Hospital               14.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
BPI Philippines              22.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
0/97/98            Bataan P/E                   30.00    0.00   10.00  138.00   30.00    0.00   10.00  117.25
1997              Drysdale Food                 15.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    9.60    0.00    0.00    6.40
1998              General Milling                0.00    0.65    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.65    0.00    0.00
1979/90           H&Q PV III                     0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.74    0.00    0.00
1998              H&QPV-I                        0.00    0.61    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.61    0.00    0.00
1989              H&QPV-II                       0.00    1.43    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.43    0.00    0.00
1993              MERALCO                        1.76    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.76    0.00    0.00    0,00
1967188           Mariwasa                      11.04    0.00    3.00    0.00   11.04    0.00    3.00    0.00
1970/72/00        Mindanao Power                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993/94           Pagbilao                      39.00   10.00    0.00    5.40   39.00   10.00    0.00    5.40
1993              Pilipinas Shell               0.00    1.56    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.56    0.00    0.00
1992              PlantersBank                  15.00    0.00    8.71    0.00   15.00    0.00    8.71    0.00
2000               Pryce Gases                  10.00    0.00    3.00    5.00   10.00    0.00    3.00    5.00
1998               STRADCOM                     12.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Sual Power                   29.35   17.50    0.00  182.06   29.35   17.50    0.00  182.06
1995              TRP                            0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00
1999              UPPC                          30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   30.00    0.00    0.0o    0.00
1999               Union Cement                  1.40    5.63    0.00    1.00    1.40    5.63    0.00    1.00
1992              Walden Mgmt                    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00
1994              Walden Ventures                0.00    3.75    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.75    0.00    0.00
1994              ePlanters                      0.00    0.21    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.12    0.00    0.00
2000
Total Portfolio:      231.19   54.69   24.71   341.46   177.15   50.84   24.71  317.11
Approvals Pending Conmuitment
FY Approval       Company                          Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
2000              Asian Hospital                   0.00      0.00      0.00     5.00
1999              Cepalco                         16.00      6.00     0.00      0.00
1998              Far East Bank II                 0.00      0.00     0.00     15.00
2000              LTO Project                      0.00      8.00      0.00    20.00
2000              MFI MEP                          0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
2001              Manila Tollways                 46.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
1997              PT&T                            30.00      0.00     5.00     30.00
Total Pending Commitment:       92.00    14.00      5.00     70.00
- 74 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
PHILIPPINES: Metro Manila Urban Transport Integration Project
East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Asia &   middle- 
Philippines    Pacific  Income       Development diamond'
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                        76.8      1.837     2,094                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                     1.020     1.000      1.200
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                        78.0     1,833     2.513
Av*rag* annual growth, 1993-99
Population f%1                                           2.2       1.2        1.1
Laborforce (%)                                           2.7       1.3        1.2     GNP                               Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (iabost year availbls. 1993-99)                                  capita                        enrotimeni
Poverty (1 of population beow national povorty line)     37
Urban population (1 of total population)                 58         34        43
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         69         69        69
Infant mortalit (per 1,000 live births)                 32         35        33
Child malnutrition (1% of children under 51              30         22        15                 Access to safe water
Access to improved water source f% of poputetioni        83         84        86
Illiteracy I% of population ao 15+)                       5         15        16
Gross primarv enrollmnent (%of school-age population)   117        119       114         -    h,lrppnes
Maie                                                             121       114               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                           121       116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1          999
Economic ratios'
GOP (USs billions)                            27.4      42.6      65.5       76.6
Gross domestic investmsntUGDP                 33.2      21.6      20.2       18.6                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP             21 6      28.5      51.9      51.2
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    28.1      19.8      13.6       19.6
Gross national savinqslGDP                    29.7      21.1      18.6       25.1
Current account balancelGOP                    -5.5     -3.4       7.7       14.7     Domestic
Interest cavmentslGDP                          1.8       3.9       3.0        2 5     Sains                         Investment
Total debtlGDP                                48.4      67.2      73.0       68.2      avigs
Total debt service/exports                    24.6      25.9      10.3       10.8
Present value of debUGDP                                          69.2
Present value of debtlexports                                     90.5
Indebtedness
1979-89  19SS-99     1998       1999   19S9-03
(average annual growth)
GOP                                   0.8      3.0      -0.8       3.2        4.3         -    hilippmes
GNP per capita                       -20       113      -2.0       1.3        2.3               Lower-middle-income group
ExDorts of qoods and services         4.1      7.8    -21.0        3.6        9.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of Investment and GOP 1%)
(% of GDP)                                                                            20
Aqriculture                                   27.4      22.7      17.4       17.7
Industrv                                      37.0      34.9      31.3       30.3     1D
Manufacturing                                25.1     24.9       21.8      21.5                   o  T-p
Services                                      35.6      42.4      51.3       52.0    -1.       4    ss   sr   97
Private consumption                           62.5      70.6      73.1       67.4    -20 
General qovernment consumption                 9.4       9.5      13.2       12.9                    GDi        :  GDP
ImDorts of aoods and services                 26.6      30.3      58.5      50.2
1979 89  198999       1998       1999     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    0.9       1.4      -7.3        6.2    20
Industry                                      -1.2       3.0      -2.1        0.3     1
Manufacturing                                -0.3      2.7       -1.1       1.6
Services                                       2.6       3.8       3.5       4.1      o
54   95    w      7 
Private consumption                            1.9       3.9       6.9        0.4    -u
General government consumption                 -0.2      3.5       -1.9       5.3
Gross domestic investment                     -4.1       3.5     -16.3       -2.9    1o20
Imports of qoods and services                  2.0      8.9      -14.7      -2.8               Exports         m mports
Gross national product                         0.6       3.7       0.2        3.5
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv tin bold) compared with its income-group averaqe, If data are missinqg the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 75 -



Philippines
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Inflation (%)
DomesUc prices
(% change)                                                                        15
Consumer prices                               ..    12.2         9.8      6.6     16
Implicit GDP deflator                       14.8      9.0       11.3      8.2
5
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               o
Current revenue                               ..    16.5       26.9      25.6            94   95   9g   97   98    o
Current budget balance                         ..     1.0       4.5       2.7                  GDP deflator 4 0  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..    -2.1        -0.9     -2.7
TRADE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ milffions)
Total exports (fob)                                 7,821    29,496    35,081    45,000
Coconut oil                                  ..    377
Sugar                                                89                         30.00
Manufactures                                 ..   5,192    25,866   31,097
Total imports (c6)                             ..  10,419    31,848   36,276
Food                                         ..    521       1,774    1,982     1
Fuel and energy                              ..   1,397      2,148    3,395
Capital goods                                ..   2,424    12,818    14,555         o
93  94  s9  Qs  97  98  99
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..       88
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..       86         .                            Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..    103
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millitons)
Exports of goods and services              5,678   10,674    43,413   47,886      1 -1
Imports of goods and services              7,305   11,845    42,302   41,179
Resource balance                          -1,627   -1,171      1,111    6,707     10
Net income                                  -223   -1,332     3,530    4,104       s
Net current transfers                        355    1,045       435       481      0
Current account balance                    -1,495   -1,458     5,076   11,292                         96  97  96  99
Financing items (not)                      1,811    1,758    -3.717   -7.351       s
Changes in net reserves                     -316    -300    -1,359   -3,941    -10
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)         ..      ..   10,684    14,988
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS1              7.4    21.7        40.9     39.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(USS millions)                                                                    Compositlon of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      13,282   28,653    47,817   52,212
IBRD                                       731    3,492     4,311     4,040            G:7.185      A:4,311205
IDA                                         32      102       205      206                                    c:205
Total debt service                          1,584    3,244     5,166    6,026
IBRD                                        86      536       654      642                                      0: 3,456
IDA                                          0        2         4         4
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             58      380       184
Official creditors                         427      874         -6      -38
Private creditors                          703    -275        419    3,991                                     E: 12,237
Foreign direct investment                    7      563      1,713                F: 18,855
Portfolio equitV                             0      253       454
World Bank program
Commitments                                273      801       679       128     A- IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              213      465       301       163     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                        25      269       389       387     C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                  188      196       -88      -224
Interest payments                           61      269       268      259
Net transfers                              127      -73      -356      -483
Development Economics                                                                                             915/2000
- 76 -



Republic of the Philippines
The total project cost is estimated at 2.9 billion pesos,  The role of the local government units (LGUs) in the
broken down as follows:                                  project is critical. The LGUs will actively participate in       METRO MANILA URBAN TRANSPORT
Project Costs (in milflins(            the implementation of the project, particularly in right of      INTEGRATION PROJECT (MMURTRIP)
way acquisition, resettlement and enforcement of traffic
WrlJd Bank Gonirnert  Total
US $    Pesos    Pesos   US 5           management schemes.
LRT2 Corrida       3.1    53.2    177.5   4 4
EDSA Carida        3.2    55.5   1852     4 6                                                                                                                    -ROMANiAVOWWANPOR 
SothoirConida     20.5    351.4  1.171 3    29.3                                                                      Kola                           vif.4kI   "
MARIPAS           I10      27 4   51.3    2 3          The MMURTRIP has evolved from a feasibility study                                                AE
SeonndwyRoads     189     4292  1,185.6   296          supported by the World Bank in 1997. Extensive
TA                 13             400      1.0         consultations among national government agencies and
TOTAL             49.6    916.7  29000    72.5        lately with the LGUs of Metro Manila are on-going to
further define the scope of the project. The current
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) has indicated      package has been approved by the Technical Board of
possibility  of  co-financing  the  pilot  bikeways      the inter-agency Investment Coordination Commitee                               -v
component of the project (the GEF is supporting the      (ICC). Full approval is expected after the requirements
conduct of the Feasibility Study of the proposed pilot   of the ICC are addressed, namely an evidence of                  a 
bikeways project).                                       commitment by the LGUs to the project, and a formal                                                     RI;    co
agreement on the implementation program defining the
role of the 2 implementing agencies - the DPWH and
the MMDA. The project is scheduled for MMDA Council                                                            Q
The Departent of Pubic Works ad  Highways  review while the Memorandum of Agreement among 
(DPWH) has been tasked as overall Executing Agency       DPWH, MMDA and theLG)Us isben preed.                                                                      _ e)
for the project.  In line with its mandated role as         ..
metropolitan transport planning agency, the MMDA will        .                                            -.A.
implement key components of the project, particularly                                                                                                              -    C
those involving traffic management improvements.                                                                                                                   3
At the DPWH, the Project Implementation Team
composed of the Urban Roads Project Office (URPO),
the Traffic Engineering  Center (TEC), Bureau of
Desin (BOD)ff an(EIAPO) will managl detaled              For more information about the project, please contact:
Asessment poffiemn  (EaPn ) wosrcilmnag.    etie
design, procurement and construction .                   Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH)
Contact: Teodoro Encamacion                                                                                   to. 
At the  MMDA, a project team  from  the Traffic          Undersecretary for Planning                         f                                                          wwam      X
Operations  Center, the  Engineering  Office  and        Bonifacdo Drive, Port Area                                                                                      t
Planning Office will be organized specifically for       Metro Manila, Philippines
MMURTRIP implementation.                                 Tel: 632-5274808                                                       E
Fax: 632 - 527 4105
Prjoje Stes6no COMssliee-0
I N.D^ Mnk5Me*   I                    Metro Manila Development Authority
Contact: Violeta Somera Seva
ExecutingAgency1                    General Manager
OPWH   I                         Orense St., Makati City                                                                                        l
Tel: 632-                                                  A Project of the Department of Public Works and
OPvfti|         MbtDA    Lous                Fax: 632 -                                                    Highways, Metropolitan Manila Development
Authority, Local Government Units and the World
The World Bank. Resident Mission Philippines                                     Bank
i TEC   u| o   URPOei bon| Pl.rrri9     |        23 Floor, The Taipan Place
Construction is expected to commence early 2001,         Emerald Avenue, Pasig City
particularly  those  involving  traffic  management.     Tel. (63-2) 637-5855                                                                                           l
Detailed designs for these components will start in      Fax (63-2) 637-5870                                                         February 2000
April 2000.                                                                                                                                                             l



I _  _   -                      A Secondary Roads Program to better disperse traffic
To its more than 10 million inhabitants, transport                                                              over the road network and reducing congestion in
congestion is the number one problem in Metro Manila.  The project aims to:                                    arterial roads. MMURTRIP will introduce pavement
And for good reason: On a weekday along EDSA,                                                                  rehabilitation, drainage and sidewalk improvements,
vehicles travel no faster than 15 kph. People who live  *  demonstrate the effectiveness of traffic            and construction of missing links in the following roads:
outside of but work in Metro Manila experience long        management measures                                               Component          Locatlon/LGU
commuting time. The growing number of cars and         .   improve the effectiveness of larger projects such as       D. Romualdez Sr            City of Manila
simultaneous implementation of road projects and           the MRT, LRT2 and Skyway, and                              Legarda                    Cityof Manila
private  developments  cause  the  severe  traffic     .  increase road access to outer areas particularly            Pasong Tamo                  Makati
congestion.                                                outside EDSA                                               Quezon Boulevard           City of Manila
Antonio Anaiz Avenue         Makati
Sen. Gil Puyat Avenue        Makati
Banaue Avenue              Quezon City
The project will include:                                     Quirino Highway             Quezon City
South Super Highway      Pasay, Paranaque
0  public transport improvement measures, such as               West/East Service Road    Muntinlupa
Major projects such as the MRT, LRT Line 2 and             integration between modes, improvement of                  Pedro Gil/New Panaderos    Mandaluyong
Skyway are being constructed to improve the transport      interchange facilities and measures for introducing        Tayuman                    City of Manila
situation. However, the designs of these projects have     public transport priority                                  10 th Avenue                Catoocan
not fully considered the needs of other public transport  *  traffic management, both at and between                  M. de la Fuente (Traajo)   City of Manila
modes  like jeepneys, tricycles  and  buses. For           intersections                                              Jacobo Fajardo             City of Manila
example, stop and drop locations, transfer points and      measures for controlling inappropriate frontage
waiting areas along these facilities are not taken into  *      ana                                             Bicycle and pedestrian Dathways in Marikina Valley.
account. Thus, chaotic traffic conditions prevail along          . actvi s fn d                                MMURTRIP will pilot a bikeways project in Marikina to
major avenues particularly around road junctions.          by provideng sidepwalksrnoadsafety for pedestrians  connect communities with employment centers and
by povidng sdewaks ad oter fciliiesLRT stations. There are more trips on foot and by
To address these  issues, the  MMURTRIP  was                                                                   tricycle in Marikina than on average throughout Metro
developed by an inter-agency committee under the                                                               Manila, suggesting a potential for increased  non-
lead of the Metro Manila Development Authority                                                                 motorized transport in the area. 22% of all trips are
(MMDA). Based mostly from a study funded by the        Traffic management improvements along the EDSA,         made on foot and 30% by tricycle compared with 20%
World Bank, the project overall aim is to improve the  LRT2 and South  Luzon Expressway corridors to           and 14% respectively in Metro Manila where tricycles
connectivity and capacity of the existing transport,   improve street level collection and dispersal of MRT    are banned along many major corridors.
network in Metro Manila.                               and LRT2 passengers and in the expressways.
Component         Project LocationlLGU           Certain components originally in the project proposal
are now excluded from the World Bank loan package.
LRT 2 Corridor - Recto to  Manila, San Juan, Quezon     These include a new road link (Radial Road 3 that will
Marcos Hiway (Santolan)  City, Mankina, Pasig           pass through Pasig, Cainta and Taytay), the Sucat
interchange improvements component and 3 secondary
EDSA (MRT) Corridor - North  Quezon City, Mandaluyong  roads, namely Don Mariano Marcos Ave. Ext., Moriones
The project is targeted at public transport users who  Ave. to Roxas Blvd.       Makati, Pasay City            and Aurora Blvd. These components can be supported
make 75% of all trips in Metro Manila. These transport                                                         by a supplemental World Bank loan once the right of
users belong mostly to the poverty groups. It also     South Luzon Expressway:                                 way has been secured and the affected families and
represents one of a series of measures necessary to      Bicutan Interchange      Paranaque                    establishments satisfactorily relocated.
improve the current situation and complements the Air    Alabang Interchange        Muntinlupa
Quality Project that is being funded by the Asian      Marikina-Rizal-Pasig (MARIPAS) Access Improvements      In addition, the Project will address issues such as:
Development k.                        identified by the local govemments of Marikina City,           .                     .
I____________________                        Rizal province and  Pasig  City to  be critical to      *   refining urban transportpolicies and objectves
addressing their common transport problems. These       *   planning and operational standards for roads,
The project intends to:                                include the Marikina Bridge and access road, and             pedestrian facilities, terminals, parking truck routes
*  improve the street level interchange between        corridor improvements along Ortigas Ave. Ext. and       *   private sector participation  in providing public
buses, jeepneys and LRT lines, and                 Marcos Highway.                                              transport services
*  manage  traffic congestion  experienced  by
transport users.



Additional
Annex 12
PHILIPPINES: Metro Manila Urban Transport Integration Project
Institutional Framework for Traffic Engineering and Transport Planning
1.    Introduction
As highlighted in a recent policy study,' the planning, implementation, operation, maintenance, and
regulation of city transport is a complex process encompassing numerous modes, users, and agencies.
Above all, urban transport is a highly political and visible activity. Failure to deliver an acceptable
transport system is immediately evident to transport system users-symptoms such as passenger queues,
traffic congestion, slow journey times, accidents, and an ugly traffic-related environment are immediately
evident. Concems by users of poor-quality transport systems are usually high on the list of complaints
against a city administration.
Achieving an adequate balance between competing transport modes and interests requires competent
transport institutions working within a clearly defined framework of responsibilities. While there is no
single ideal or model institutional framework for traffic and transport administration, any urban area should
in broad terms have an organizational framework that deals with the basic functions of:
* Strategic transport planning - development of transport strategies in the urban development context
leading to realistic policies, short- and long-term investment programs and so on.
* Infrastructure for transport - planning, design, financing, construction, and maintenance of road,
public transport, and other related infrastructure.
* Public transport - development of the public transport system, including planning, design,
management, regulation, licensing, franchising, and, in some cases, operation.
*   Traffic operations and management - management of roads and road use for all vehicular and
nonvehicular modes, including Nonmotorised Transport. Traffic operations and management
activities include planning, design, implementation, operation, and maintenance of the traffic
management systems and facilities.
-   Regulations - enforcement of traffic regulations, driver and vehicle licensing, vehicle testing, and so
on.
These functions can be addressed in many ways. The institutional structure for any urban area is
determined by its particular political and cultural context and its size. Changes depend very much on
current institutional arrangements or "starting point" in a city. The range of organizational arrangements is
almost infinite: govemment ministries and departments, metropolitan transport authorities, public transit
authorities, independent commissions, institutes, municipal departments, local/district agencies, task forces,
and many other agencies are used. Agencies need not, and most do not, carry out all functions themselves-
many functions are outsourced while remaining under the supervision of the responsible agency.
2.    Current responsibilities in Metro Manila
In Metro Manila most transport planning and traffic management responsibilities have been shared by the
national Departments of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) and Transportation and Communications
(DOTC), the Philippine National Police, local governments, and the Metropolitan Manila Development
- 79 -



Authority (MMDA).
The prime responsibility of the DPWH is the construction and maintenance of main roads throughout the
Philippines. In Manila, the DPWH is also charged with traffic engineering functions. Over the years, the
department has built up an effective Traffic Engineering Center (TEC), which among other measures
developed and operated a centrally controlled traffic signal system.
The DOTC is responsible for motor vehicle registration, driver licensing, and bus route franchising, in
accordance with the Land Transportation and Traffic Code of 1964. The DOTC establishes national
policies, enforces its regulations, and oversees public transport provision, including rail mass transit and
the setting of fares.
The National Police are responsible for enforcing traffic rules and issuing fines. The local government units
have overall responsibility for local roads, pedestrian facilities, and bikeways; they also issue the operating
permits of pedicabs and motorized tricycles.
The MMDA was established in 1995 and took over several functions of the earlier Metro Manila
Authority. In the transport field its new responsibilities included such key aspects as traffic engineering,
education, and enforcement and the formulation of policies of urban transport in general, including the
provision for mass transport. Its functions are to be carried out over the entire area of Metro Manila, but
the MMDA Act also specifies that the new functions not imply the "diminution of the autonomy of the
local government units concerning purely local matters."
The past decade has seen an explosion of rail mass transit and expressway "megaprojects," which were
largely financed and built by private developers. In most cases, either the DOTC or DPWH carried out
some planning of the facilities and awarded long-term concessions to the private sector companies. Despite
its wide-ranging powers over metropolitan transport, the MMDA has played a minor role in planning and
operational supervision of these megaprojects.
Governance issues in Metro Manila transport sector management
Managing Metro Manila is at least as complex as the problems facing it. It is composed of 17 autonomous
cities and municipalities. This autonomy allows each local government to respond to problems such as
traffic management based on its own plans, priorities, and programs.
Local Government Units play a significant role in developing the transport and traffic environments in their
respective areas. But this role is not exercised uniformly, as local transport investments must respond to
local needs and priorities. Some local government units take on the responsibility for public transport
terminals, regulating their use and providing the necessary infrastructure. Others provide terminals only on
a temporary basis, pernitting vehicles to use sidewalks and other road space as terninals.
The absence of a development framework in the past has resulted in uncoordinated development and
contributed to widespread congestion and environmental degradation. Also, many inappropriate residential,
commercial, and other developments are allowed to proceed unchecked, which has further weakened the
ability of the authorities to manage the traffic situation. A 20-year Metro Manila Physical Framework Plan
was completed in 1996, followed three years later by a transport plan produced by the Metro Manila Urban
Transport Integration Study (MMUTIS).
- 80 -



The recent government focus on large projects has left critical activities like traffic management and
enforcement and public transport regulation lacking attention and funding. Plans and policies have
normally been mode-specific, as they were sponsored by national government agencies with little regard for
the development of an integrated multimodal transport system.
Because of the absence of an effective transport planning framework at the metropolitan level, the
responses to Manila's traffic and transport crisis have consisted largely of stop-gap measures and
opportunistic financing solutions. A number of impressive flyovers and interchanges have been built to
solve traffic congestion at particular critical points with the effect in some cases of shifting the congestion
to other points. The absence of comprehensive planning has resulted in sometimes insurmountable
problems when elevated rail structures could no longer be fitted satisfactorily through recently built road
interchanges.
Reliance on private finance for major transport investments makes thorough transport planning and
coordination all the more important, lest future governments find themselves loaded with heavy contingent
liabilities. A recent background paper prepared as part of the World Bank's new urban transport strategy
stresses the importance of adequate preparation of rail mass transit projects and of integrated rail and
urban development. With reference to Manila, this paper states:
Private sector participation focuses on the most lucrative routes, leaving less attractive ones to the public sector,
which tends to lead to a "piece-by-piece" approach. Although private provision of rail services is desirable in
appropriate cases, given the govemmental financial constraints, the piece-by-piece approach may result in
inconsistency or a lack of coordination across modes and systems, both technical and institutional (e.g., in terms of
operational integration, interline transfer, fare coordination, and diseconomies of scale).  The Philippine
Govemment has used govemment guarantees to motivate private sector lending by mitigating risks that the private
sector either cannot evaluate or will not bear. These guarantees have been an integral feature of private sector
participation and, in helping to solve the country's power crisis, has been extended to transport projects. The
government must of course be adequately prepared to meet contingent liabilities should they arise. Some observers
have argued that such guarantees are too onerous for the government and effectively transfer the risk from the
private sector back to the public sector. It may also consign the govemment to redeeming ill-conceived projects.
Moreover, in creating an attractive environment for private participation in ventures that require high capital costs,
the principles of private sector risk can be eroded. When costs rise unexpectedly and ridership levels are
disappointing, exacerbated further by fare increases, the govemment, which was keen to involve private capital,
can in this way become liable for debt repayments. The private sector may realize returns on its investment but the
government may be left with an expensive scheme that does not adequately serve its citizens.
The Government has recognized that the inadequate planning and institutional framework are largely
responsible for Manila's worsening intemal accessibility and mobility. In July 2000 it approved the
conclusions of a comprehensive transport study, which endorses the MMDA's role as coordinator of
metropolitan-wide transport planning and development.
3.     Future role of the Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA)
Two pillars support the expanded functions that the MIMDA will carry in Manila's transport development.
The first is the MMDA Act, which became effective in 1995, and the second is the recently completed
MMUTIS study. Both the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank will assist in financing the
strengthening of the MMDA in two parallel lending operations: this proposed MMURTRIP project and the
Metro Manila Air Quality Improvement Sector Development Program assisted by Asian Development
Bank funding.
-81 -



As mentioned, the MMDA Act gives the MMDA wide-ranging responsibilities for traffic engineering and
transport planning in Metro Manila, in addition to other functions such as general development planning,
urban renewal, land-use planning, solid waste management, flood control, drainage, sewerage management,
and abatement of environmental pollution. The act defines MMDA's services to include "transport and
traffic management which includes the formulation, coordination and monitoring of policies, standards,
programs and projects to rationalize the existing transport operations, infrastructure requirements, the use
of thoroughfares, and promotion of safe and convenient movement of persons and goods; provision for the
mass transit system and the institution of a system to regulate road users; administration and
implementation of all traffic enforcement operations, traffic engineering services and traffic education
programs, including the institution of a single ticketing system in Metropolitan Manila"
With regard to street traffic, the MMDA is responsible for policy formulation and "shall coordinate and
regulate the implementation of all programs and projects concerning traffic management, specially
pertaining  to enforcement, engineering and education ...." Until now, however, the centralized traffic
signal system and most other traffic engineering functions have been canried out by the TEC of the DPWV.
It was agreed during project preparation to define a timetable prior to appraisal for transferring the TEC's
function to the MMDA. This transfer is consistent with a memorandum of understanding signed by the
DPWH and MMDA in 1995 stating that "[the] primary aim of the DPWH and MMDA [was] to transfer
the existing TEC Operation and Maintenance functions and facilities of the TEC/TEAM-PMO including
such appropriations, funds, record, equipment, or other assets and personnel as may be necessary to sustain
the operation and maintenance of the Metro Manila Traffic Control System completed under the TEAM
Projects (Phases I, II and III) except for such equipment, facilities, appropriations, funds and personnel
which by mutual agreement shall be retained by the DPWH."
4
In its chapter on project implementation, the Final Report of the MMUTIS study confirms that the MMDA
should be the central metropolitan agency for the implementation of the Master Plan. This chapter
recommends that "transport and development planning process should be established, mega projects
coordinated, public transport regulatory process improved, city officials trained, institutional fragmentation
rectified. An adequate set of database and planning tools are also needed. An increasingly important
approach to infrastructure development is the integration of transport modes and facilities as well as
between transport and urban planning and development."
The new transport-related responsibilities represent a great challenge to the MMDA's management and
staff, and it is one of the functions of multilateral institutions to provide assistance in this vital
capacity-building process. The training component of this project includes technical assistance to the
MMDA to build up its capacity in this regard. In addition, the Government has established a year-by-year
institutional plan, which the World Bank's supervision missions will closely monitor during project
implementation.
The MMDA is also receiving assistance from the Asian Development Bank of US$ 25.47 million as part of
a sector investment project aimed at reducing air pollution emanating from mobile and stationary sources in
5
Metro Manila. About 59 percent of total base costs are assigned to physical improvements for traffic
engineering and road rehabilitation, and 3 percent (US$2.4 million) for technical assistance to the MMDA
for traffic engineering and management training, and for public transport and traffic policy studies. The
technical assistance component is expected to commence in early 2001; the termns of reference for the
MMDA assistance under the MMURTRIP project complements the training component assisted by Asian
Development Bank funding.
- 82 -



4.       Institutional program  and policy letter
The underlying goal of this project, which aims to improve traffic and environmental conditions and
increase the use of public transport, is to establish and strengthen institutions responsible for future urban
transport management in Metro Manila. The project thus addresses the following two key issues:
*    How to strengthen the Metropolitan Manila Development Authority's capacity to effectively carry
out its traffic engineering and management responsibilities under the MMDA Act.
*    How to improve the framework of overall urban transport planning and decisionmaking, including
the integration of various public transport systems and the development of investment and policy
priorities.
Regarding the first issue, the Metro Manila Air Quality Improvement Sector Development Program
supported by the Asian Development Bank includes a component to strengthen the MMDA's traffic
management function for 2000 to 2004. The MMURTRIP project will complement this program  by
supporting capacity building for 2001 to 2005. The MMDA (in consultation with the DPWH) has
developed a year-by-year institutional plan, including a description of its expanding functions and staffing
requirements.
Regarding the second issue, the recently completed MMUTIS study was finalized at a workshop in May
2000 and officially approved by the Government in July 2000. Based on the findings of the MMUTIS and
earlier studies, the Govermnent is expected to define its future transport strategy-including the institutional
functions and coordination among key players such as the DOTC, DPWH, MMDA, and others. The
Govemment is drafting a policy letter on its intended future actions with regard to transport investments
and policy measures.
Cracknell, J. 2000. Experience in Urban Traffic Management and Demand Management in Developing Countries, Background Paper for World
Bank Urban Transport Strategy Review, prepared with funding from the U. K. Department of Intemational Development (draft).
2
Republic of the Philippines, Office of the President, Metropolitan Manila Development Authority. 1996. An Act Creating the
Metro Manila Development Authority, Defining its Powers and Functions, Providing Funding therefore andfor other Purposes
(R.A. 7924). (Effective June 8, 1996.)
3
PADECO Co. Ltd. 2000. Study on Urban Transport Development, Draft Final Report, conducted with financial support from the Japanese
Government, Tokyo, July 2000.
4
ALMEC Corporation, Pacific Consultants Intemational and Yachiyo Engineering Co., Ltd. March 1999. Metro Manila Urban Transportation
Integration Study, Final Report, prepared for the Republic of the Philippines and the Japan International Cooperation Agency.
S
Asian Development Bank. November 1 998.Pr oposed Loans and Technical Assistance Grant, Metro Manila Air Quality Improvement Sector
Development Program, Report and Recommendation of the President to the Board of Directors, Manila.
- 83 -



Additional
Annex 13
PHILIPPINES: Metro Manila Urban Transport Integration Project
Global Environment Facility (GEF)-supported Nonmotorized Transport component
Marikina Bicycle Network
Estimate of benefits deriving from the resulting savings in greenhouse gas emissions
Growth in population, employment, and scholastic enrollment will increase both inter- and intra-zonal
transport demand in the City of Marikina. The increased demand, coupled with increased car ownership,
will boost greenhouse gas emissions unless alternative measures to control these emissions are developed
and successfully implemented at an early stage. The Marikina Bikeways Project (MBP) supported by the
Global Environment Fund (GEF) will help contain the increase of emissions by promoting the shift of the
newly generated transport demand toward less polluting modes.
To help evaluate the feasibility of the project, emissions were analyzed. The objective of the analysis was to
estimate the global benefits in terms of greenhouse gas emissions reduction through the GEF project.The
reduction was computed by comparing the level of emissions in two scenarios: baseline or
business-as-usual and with implementation of the Marikina Bikeways Project.
Greenhouse gas emissions reduction is calculated by applying the ASIF methodology. This methodology
analyzes the following four components: (i) transportation Activity (A), modal Shares (S), energy Intensity
(1) of each mode, and the Fuel (F) mix of each mode with its greenhouse gas emissions characteristics.
This application of the methodology developed a transport simulation model based on traffic data from
recent studies and on a simple set of assumptions for the City of Marikina and the broader metropolitan
area of Manila. The simulation estimates future Activities and modal Shares in terms of transport demand,
vehicle trips, and average distance by mode. The estimates are combined with the relevant values for energy
Intensity and fuel Mix of each mode. As a result, approximate levels of transport-generated greenhouse gas
emissions are obtained. By varying the set of assumptions while simulating the GEF and the base case, the
model allows some sensitivity analysis to assess the robustness of the findings. The previous section
describes an attempt to evaluate benefits in terms of reduced levels of Global Warming Damage (GWD), as
2
expected in the framework of the global overlays assessment approach. This annex describes the details of
the analysis, the simulation model, and the underlying assumptions. A flow diagram illustrating the factors
used in the model and their relationships is presented in figure 13.1.
- 84 -



Figure 13.1 Flow diagram of the transport simulation model
GLOBAL WARMING COSTS
[$]
l Global Wartming Potential                 Global Warming Damage
(GWP) Equivalent Factors                     Equivalent Factors
[Kg of pollutant =KG C02]                      [Kg of C02 =$
Intensity                    TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS
and                                 [Kg]
Fuel Mix
Average Distance    TripsmysMode
by mode                   Factors by Mode
Average Travel
Time by mode
[h]
Average Speed                Fuel Eff iciency by
by mode                         Mode
[Km/h]                         [Kmll]
MODAL SHARE
Share                       [Vehicle Trips by Model
Modal Split                Occupancy Factors
[Person Trips by Mode]      _     [Person/Veh.]
TRANSPORTATION DEMAND
Activity                       [No. of Person Trips]
Mobility Demand
[Tfips/Person]
POPULATION
- 85 -



1.    Forecast of Travel Demand to Estimate Activity (A)
Population growth. The metropolitan area of Manila has been growing rapidly. Its population of less than
2 million in 1950 increased to 5.9 million in 1980 and 9.5 million in 1995. Total population today is
estimated to be above 10 million. This increase in population has been coupled with an expansion of the
urbanized area, which today has reached about 800 square kilometers, far exceeding the 636 square
kilometers of the metropolitan administrative area (or Metro Manila). The total population of the broad
metropolitan area, including the adjoining urbanized areas, is about 16 million today. Population growth is
expected to continue and the total population of the wide metropolitan area to reach 25 million by 2015, 13
million living in Metro Manila and 12 million in the adjoining areas.
As Manila becomes more densely populated, commercial developments intensify, and the living
environment degrades further. Land use in the central areas, once very densely inhabited, gradually
changes. Dwellers move to outer areas while commercial and business developments take their place.
Manila has experienced this movement since the 1980s. The number of trips and trip distances increase as
more households opt to live outside the inner area, and as jobs and school are farther away.
The City of Marikina, situated at the eastem border of Metro Manila, exhibits all the features of this
urbanization trend. Its population between 1980 and 1995 increased faster then the Metro Manila average
(table 1).
Table 1 - Trends in Population
Area                        No. ('000)           Avg. Growth 1995-
1995     2000    2015       2015 (%peryear)
Metro Manila (excl. Marikina)     9,097    9,897   12,744           1.7%
Adjoining Areas                   4,914    6,212   12,550           4.8%
Marikina                          357       418      670            3.2%
Source: NSO and City of Marikina
Trends in passenger travel demand. Population growth is associated with increased demand for mobility,
both within Marikina's administrative borders and to and from central and other districts of Manila.
Changes in the social composition and in the car ownership ratio, which tend to level to the values for the
inner urbanized areas, contribute to further amplify the upward trends.
In 2015 the population of the City of Marikina is expected to be 5.1 percent of that of Metro Manila,
compared with from 3.8 percent in 1996. Total travel demand for Marikina is expected to be about 6
percent of the total demand generated in the Metro Manila area, compared with only 2.8 percent in 1995.
Between 1995 and 2015, the compounded effect of increased population and mobility will result in a 4.7
percent yearly growth rate of passenger travel demand generated in Marikina (table 2, expressed in
passenger trips per day). These figures are based on the estimates of the Metro Manila Urban
Transportation Integration Study (MMUTIS), whose databases provide detailed travel demand figures by
origin and destination for the broad metropolitan area.
- 86 -



Table 2 - Expected Passenger Travel Demand
Area                 No. of Passenger Trips per Day  Avg. Growth 1995-2015
('000)                  (% per year)
1995     2000      2015
Metro Manila (excl. Marikina)      17,258    18,925   22,367             1.2%
Adjoining Areas                    6,842     8,697    18,845             5.2%
Marikina                            496       710      1,274            4.7%
Source: Project Team Elaboration based on MMUTIS data.
2.     Modal Split (S)
Assumptions and scenarios construction. In the absence of city-specific forecasts of the future distribution
of transport demand between the various modes, the first key assumption is that mobility in Marikina will
follow patterns similar to those experienced in the inner residential districts of Metro Manila without
specific measures favoring the utilization of some modes.
Modal shares will be similar to those now experienced in Metro Manila central residential areas without a
project such as the Marikina Bicycles Project, which would induce a change in the mobility patterns.
Consequently, two scenarios for modal distribution are simulated to evaluate the effect of the development
of the project. A first scenario (baseline) envisages no significant changes in traffic management policy in
the City of Marikina. A second scenario (GEF Alternative) represents a situation in which the Marikina
Bikeways Project has been successfully developed, at a minimum maintaining the current share of
Nonmotorized Transport traffic and likely inducing its increased use.
An additional assumption is applied in the case of the GEF Alternative, to take into account the effect of
the project on interzonal trips modal split. This assumption is that the more efficient intermodal
connections between the bicycle and the bus/rail modes resultingfrom the development of the project will
favor the use of the bus/rail modes as an alternative to the use of cars and jeepneys. Finally, to perform
some sensitivity analysis and assess the robustness of the findings, three different modal compositions
(Low, Medium, and High cases) resulting from more or less successful project developments are considered
for the GEF Alternative.
Modal composition. Essentially, the project will affect intrazonal modal split by maintaining or increasing
the current shares of nonmotorized modes and reducing the modal shares of the alternative modes,
particularly two-/three-wheel motorized, car, taxi, and jeepney. The project will also affect interzonal
modal split with increased shares for the light rail transit and public bus modes (table 3).
Vehicle occupancy factors and average trip distance and speed. The greenhouse gas emissions level is a
function of vehicle trips and average trip distance. The model computes vehicle trips by mode by dividing
the number of passenger trips by mode by the assumed vehicle occupancy factors for each mode. The main
assumption is still held. The average trip distance is the product of the average travel speed times the
average travel time. MMUTIS data were used to calculate the actual and expected figures for these
averages (table 4). The main assumption is still valid, meaning that, with time, all these factors will tend to
level off to the current values registered in the central residential areas.
- 87 -



Table 3 - Current and assumed Modal Split Composition
(% of Passenger Trips by Mode)
2000                          2015
Mode           Current       Baseline            GEF Alternative
Scenario      Low    Medium       High
Private
Bicycle                1.6            0.0         2.0       2.8       3.5
Motorcycle             0.7            0.7         0.7       0.7       0.7
CarlJeep/UV           17.5           20.5        19.2      18.5      16.4
Truck                  2.4            2.4         2.3       2.2       2.1
Semi Public
Taxi                   4.9            5.4         4.9       4.8       4.7
HOV Taxi               1.6            2.2         1.7       1.5        1.2
Private Bus            2.5            2.5         2.3       2.0        1.9
Public
N.M. Tricycle          0.3            0.0         1.2       1.5       2.0
M. Tricycle           11.8            7.0         6.0       6.0       6.0
Jeepney               41.9           42.9        41.5      39.3      38.3
Bus                   14.9           14.4        16.2      18.2      20.2
LRT                    0.0            2.0         2.0       2.5       3.0
Total                   100.0          100.0       100.0     100.0     100.0
Source: Project Team Elaboration based on MMUTIS and Feasibility Study Data.
Table 4 - Vehicle Occupancy and Average Travel Speed and Time
Mode                       2000                                 2015
Vehicle    Average    Average       Vehicle    Average   Average
Occupancy    Speed      Travel      Occupancy    Speed       Travel
(PaxNeh)   (Km/h)    Time (h)       (Pax/Veh)   (Km/h)    Time (h)
Private
Bicycle                 1.0          12       0.30            1.0         13      0.53
Motorcycle              1.1          18       0.44            1.1         18      0.44
Car/JeeplUV             2.2          14       0.97            1.8         12      1.13
Truck                   2.1          14       1.04           2.1          13      1.04
Semi Public
Taxi                    2.2          14       0.47           2.2          13      0.53
HOV Taxi                4.7          16       0.55           4.7          16      0.70
Private Bus            22.3          16       0.75          22.3          16      0.95
Public
N.M Tricycle            2.5          12       0.30           2.5          13      0.47
M. Tricycle             2.5          12       0.30           2.5          12      0.30
Jeepney                15.1          11       0.72          15.1          11      0.72
Bus                    46.5          11       1.30          46.5          15      1.03
Source: Project Team Elaboration based on MMUTIS and Feasibility Study D ata.
- 88 -



3.      Energy Intensity (I) and Fuel Mix (F)
Assumptions on average fuel efficiency and emission factors.The greenhouse gases considered by the
model are carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N20), carbon monoxide (CO), nonmethane
volatile organic compounds (NMVOCs), and nitrogen oxides (NOx). The main effect of this latter group of
gases is to contribute to increasing tropospheric ozone, an important greenhouse gas. Greenhouse gas
emissions are related to the efficiency of the vehicle engine and the type of fuel used. Therefore, an
additional set of assumptions is made for the shares of fuel/engine type for each mode and for the average
fuel efficiency. These assumptions are based on MMUTIS data on the vehicles circulating in Manila and
on traffic counts conducted in Marikina during the execution of the Marikina Bikeways Project feasibility
study.
Since knowledge of emission factors representative of the present technology level of Asian cities is limited,
to select the emission factor this analysis collected references from the Metro Manila Report, prepared in
the framework of the Urban Air Quality Management Strategy in Asia (URBAIR). Average emission
factors were selected and used in the simulation (table 5). These factors fall in the ranges tabulated in the
4
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Guidelines for the inventory of greenhouse gas emissions.
Table 5 -Fuel/Engine type shares by mode, Average Fuel Efficiency and Ernission Factors
% of mode by    Avg. Fuel
Mode              fuel/engine type    Efficiency      Average Emission Factors (g/Km)
(Km/1)
2000   2015   2000  2015    NOx  CH4  NMVOC  CO    N20   CO2
Private
Bicycle                     100%   100%      0.0    0.0   0.00 0.000      0.0   0.0  0.000      0
Motorcycle 2-stroke          90%    50%    41.7   37.5   0.05 0.100       6.5  10.0  0.001    57
4-stroke         10%    50%    19.6   17.6   0.30 0.200       3.9  20.0  0.002   120
Car/Jeep+UV   Non-Catalyst      50%    10%    12.0   10.8   2.30 0.070       4.5  19.0  0.005   200
Catalyst         40%    80%    11.8   10.6   0.50 0.020       0.5   2.9  0.005   260
Diesel           10%    10%    13.7   12.3   0.70 0.005       0.2   0.7  0.010   190
Truck                       100%   100%      3.3    3.0  10.00 0.060      1.9   9.0  0.030   770
Semi Public
Taxi       Non -Catalyst     30%    10%    12.0   10.8   2.30 0.070       4.5  19.0  0.005   200
Catalyst         70%    90%    11.8   10.6   0.50 0.020       0.5   2.9  0.005   260
HOV Taxi                    100%   100%      7.4    6.7   2.90 0.080      6.1  37.0  0.006   535
Private Bus                 100%   100%     7.4    6.7   2.90 0.080       6.1  37.0  0.006   535
Public
N.M Tricycle                100%   100%      0.0    0.0   0.00 0.000      0.0   0.0  0.000      0
M. Tricycle 2-stroke         90%    50%    25.0   22.5   0.08 0.150      16.0  22.0  0.002    95
4-stroke         10%    50%    19.6   17.6   0.30 0.200       3.9  20.0  0.020   120
Jeepney                     100%   100%      4.0    3.6   1.32 0.150      6.4  35.8  0.023   601
Bus                         100%   100%      3.3    3.0  10.00 0.060      1.9   9.0  0.030   770
LRT                          -      -       -      -       -     -      -       -      -      -
4.      Calculation of Enissions
Based on the previous figures (Travel Demand, Vehicle Occupancy factors, Average Travel Speed and
Time, and Average Emission factors) the daily emissions associated with each subcategory (mode, fuel, and
emissions control technology type) can be obtained. These can then be aggregated to estimate total
emissions from mobile sources.
- 89 -



This process can be expressed formulaically as:
Total Daily Emissions = I (Efem x Vfem x Dfem)
Where:   E           =   Average Emission Factor
V          =   Vehicle Trips per Day
D          =   Average Distance Driven per Trip
f              fuel type (diesel, gasoline, non motorized)
e              emission control technology (catalyst, non catalyst),
m              mode (type of vehicle)
The calculation is repeated for the year 2000 current situation and for the four 2015 forecast conditions:
the baseline and the three different cases (high, low, medium) under the GEF Altemative scenario.
The effectiveness of a specific greenhouse gas warmning the atmosphere depends on both its concentration
and on the amount of time it remains in the atmosphere. The contribution of a greenhouse gas to global
warming is measured by its global warming potential (GWP), a ratio of the global warming effect from one
kilogram of a greenhouse gas relative to that from one kilogram of CO2 over a specified period of time. To
estimate the combined GWP impact of greenhouse gas transport-related emissions, all mass emissions of
these non-CO2 greenhouse gases are converted into an equivalent mass amount of CO2 emissions, using the
GWP factors recommended by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (table 6).
Table 6 - Global Warming Potential of transport related GHGs
NOx      CH4   NMVOC   CO    N20             CO2
1       24.5      1        1     320         1
Source: IPCC Guidelines for N ational Greenhouse Gas Inventories.
Table 7 below summarizes the result of the simulation and conversion. Aggregate greenhouse gas (GHG)
emission is expressed in terms of Kg per day of C02 equivalent.
- 90 -



Table 7 -GHG Emissions Kg per day of C02 equivalent
2000                           2015
GHG Type           Current        Baseline        GEF Alternative Scenario
Scenario       Low    Medium    High
NOx                  2,994          6,231       5.983     5,842     5,517
CH4                  2,306          4,545       4,261     4,115    3,852
NMVOC                  5,516         10,368       9,599     9,279    8,670
CO                  20,060        42,162       39,329    37,729    34,923
N20                  4,311          8,731       8,369     8,122     7,695
C02                434,475        925,316     877,290   848,040   792,893
Total                   469,660       997.353      944.832   913,127   853,550
5.     Estimation of Global Warming Damages
The estimate of the emissions obtained from the simulation allow computation of an estimate of the GWD
expressed in monetary terms, which can be used to carry out a conventional cost-benefit analysis in the
framework of a global overlay assessment approach. For the Marikina Bikeways Project, the cost of
implementation is strictly compared with the incremental global benefit of greenhouse gas emission
reduction in Marikina. This essentially involves comparing negative and positive project impacts in the
form of monetary costs and benefits. Project benefits have to be expressed in monetary terns, as nearly as
possible. To deternine the monetary values of reduced climate change damages, the GWD conversion
factor was used. The GWD factor is the equivalent expected damage in US$ caused by an additional ton of
CO2 emitted. For the value of this factor there is no single figure, since the global climate has not yet
given any scientifically (or consensus) based value. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
considers on the basis of a 1995 study a range of values from US$2.7 to 67.5 per ton of CO2. Another
6
study suggests that higher order damages like famine and war may be considerable and should be included
in the damage estimates. The studies suggest a much higher value of US$91.8 per ton of CO2. A third,
7
more recent study suggests that "a range of US$2 to 20 per ton of CO2 seems reasonable... .most of the
estimates tend, as an order of magnitude, towards US$10 per ton of CO2 ." This analysis considers the
latter assumption. Therefore, the simulation assumes that the damage or cost of an additional kilogram of
CO2 in the atmosphere is US$0.01.
To carry out the analysis, estimated values in kilograms per day of CO2 for the baseline and the other four
cases are annualized and converted in monetary values through the GWD factor. The difference between
the annual total cost of greenhouse gas emissions in the baseline case and in the three With Project cases
(figure 13.2) is an avoided cost and therefore a benefit. Its value is then compared with the total cost of the
project. In this simplified analysis the monetary values are not discounted.
The following assumptions are made to perform a simplified analysis:
* The total cost of the project is US$2.1 million.
* The economic life of the project is 20 years (2001 to 2020).
* The increase in the emissions is assumed linear for the first 15 years.
*   The level of emissions is then considered constant for the remaining 5 years of economic life.
- 91 -



Figure 13.2 Yearly values for GWDs avoided during the
economic life of the project for three scenarios.
600,000 -
High Case
000,000 
400,O00 
Medium Case
20000
Low Case
100,00
9..99..,99,..9999..9.9..
Year
The difference between the aggregate value of the avoided GWDs and the cost of the project development
in the global overlay assessment would be equal to the project benefit (table 8).
Table 8 - Comparison between Costs and Aggregate Benefits (US$)
GEFAlternative cases of             Low          Medium          High
Aggregate Benefits of reduced emissions     2,457,983     3,941,777      6,729,980
Cost of the Project                        2,100,000      2,100,000      2,100,000
Difference                                   357,983       1,841,777     4,629,980
Schipper, L., and Ce1ine Marie-Lilliu. 1998. Transportation and CO Emissions: Flexing the Link A Path for the World Bank
Draft paper. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
2
Halsnaes K., A. Markandya, and J. Sathaye J. 1999. Transport and the Global Environment: Global Overlays for the
Transportation Sector. Draft report. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
3
Metro Manila Report. 1997. URBAIR. World Bank Technical Paper N. 380. Washington D.C.
4
Intergovemmental Panel on Climate Change. 1996. Revised 1996 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories.
Vol. 3, IPCC WGI Technical Support Unit, Bracknell, U.K.
5
Fankhauser, S. 1995. Valuing Climate Change: the Economic of the Greenhouse. London: Earthscan.
6
Friederich, R., P. Bickel, and W. Krewitt, eds. 1998. The External Costs of Transport. Band 46, IER, University of Stuttgart,
Germany.
7
Delucchi, M. 1998. Summary of the Non Monetary Externalities of Motor Vehicle Use. Institute of transportation Studies,
University of Califomia, Davis.
- 92 -



Additional
Annex 14
PHILIPPINES: Metro Manila Urban Transport Integration Project
Global Environment Facility (GEF)-supported NonMotorized Transport component
Marikina Bicycle Network
Incremental Cost Analysis
1.    Development Goals and Global Environmental Objectives
Metro Manila is a massive urban area that is made up of 17 municipalities, of which 12 are cities, and
accommodates about 10.2 million people (1997). Its population has grown rapidly in recent years. By 2015
Metro Manila is expected to become a massive conurbation of 13 million (MMUTIS 1997). This increase
in population has accompanied expansion of the urban area, which today covers about 800 square
kilometers, far exceeding its administrative area. As Metro Manila becomes more and more densely
populated, commercial developments intensify and the living environment degrades further. Land use in city
centers, once densely inhabited, gradually changes. Dwellers move to outer areas while commercial and
business developments take their place. With more households opting to live outside the inner area of Metro
Manila, and with jobs and schools farther away, the number of trips and trip distances are expected to
increase.
Moreover, economic prosperity has accelerated motorization and the demand for mobility, causing severe
traffic congestion and serious air pollution, particularly in the inner areas. Without effective action, these
problems will worsen over time as the area continues to grow. Residents currently rate traffic congestion as
the number one quality of life problem, and air pollution, mainly caused by motor vehicles, as problem
number two.
The City of Marikina, one of the 17 municipalities of Metro Manila, is a rapidly growing municipality of
about 360,000 people on the eastern border of the Metro Manila administrative area. Marikina shows all
the features of the urbanization trend described above. Its population increased from 1980 to 1995 faster
pace than the Metro Manila average. Marikina's growth in population is associated with an increased
demand for mobility, both within its administrative borders and to central and other districts of Metro
Manila. The number of passenger trips is expected to increase from the current average of 496,000 a day to
about 1,200,000 a day. At the same time, changes in social composition influence the car ownership ratio,
which tends to level to compare with the values for the inner areas.
Increased demand coupled with increased car ownership will boost greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions unless
alternative measures to control these emissions are developed and successfully implemented at an early
stage. Moreover, while more than 2 percent of all trips in the City of Marikina are now by bicycle, the
anticipated increase in traffic and pollution will likely cause the disappearance of this mode of
transportation. This pattern is already experienced in inner Metro Manila (and in many other Asian cities),
where bicycles have been crowded out.
The contribution of motorized forms of transport to global greenhouse gases is significant. The Philippines
has ratified the United Nations Framework on Climate Change Convention and is a cosignatory to the 1997
Kyoto Protocol. These acctions reflects the government's strong commitment to addressing its contribution
to greenhouse gas emissions. The main greenhouse gases are carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), and
nitrous oxides (N,O). Others include carbon monoxide (CO), nonmethane volatile organic compounds
(NMVOCs), and oxides of nitrogen (NOx).
- 93 -



On a global scale, motor vehicles play a significant role in the emissions of greenhouse gases, with the
greatest contribution made by CO2, the greenhouse gas that so far has had the greatest effect on
atmospheric change. Road transport contributes 15 to 20 percent of CO2 emissions worldwide. Since the
amount of CO2 resulting from the combustion of a given quantity of gasoline remains constant regardless of
emission controls, trends in CO 2emissions will directly follow increases in the use of these fuels. Therefore
motor vehicles can play an even greater role in the enhanced greenhouse effect in the future. ("Transport
and the Global Environment,"1 1 November 1999, p. 52).
Road transport also contributes 1 percent of methane emissions worldwide. The contribution of road
transport to nitrous oxide emissions is small but significant. General Motors Research Laboratories have
concluded that vehicular emissions of nitrous oxide are about 200,000 tons worldwide, corresponding to
about 3 percent of global nitrous oxide emissions.
Other emissions of motor vehicles, nitrogen, volatile organic compounds, and carbon monoxide, contribute
to increasing tropospheric ozone, which is an important greenhouse gas. Therefore motor vehicles are
indirect contributors to global warming. Ozone in the free troposphere above the boundary layer (beyond
1,500 meters) is steadily increasing on a global scale. These background levels have doubled over the last
century, and global monitoring programs have revealed that long-term ozone concentrations are increasing
by about 2 to 3 percent a year in the higher troposphere of the western hemisphere (Volz and Kley, 1988;
Ciborowski, 1989). Concentrations of ozone in the troposphere are approaching levels at which
environmental damage occurs, further contributing to global climate change.
2.    The Metro Manila Urban Transport Integration Project
With funding from the World Bank and the Government of the Philippines, the Metro Manila Urban
Transport Integration Project (MMURTRIP) is being prepared to address the deteriorating urban transport
situation and the resultant detrimental environmental situation. The development objective of the
MMURTRIP project is to reduce congestion and travel time and improve environmental and safety
conditions, particularly for public transport users, most of whom are poor "captive" users. This objective
will be achieved through implementing effective traffic management measures along major travel corridors.
These measures include improving street-level interchange among buses, jeepneys, and light rail transit
(LRT) lines together with increasing access to outer areas and improving the road network hierarchy. At
the sarne time, the project aims to demonstrate the value of such traffic management measures as
cost-effective ways to reduce congestion along the main travel corridors, thus enhancing the use of public
transport and the efficacy of private sector-sponsored "megaprojects."
The major quantified benefit of the MMURTRIP project will be reduced congestion and travel time along
the main travel routes, leading to more use of public transport. A major unquantified benefit of the project
will be an improved urban environment and increased safety. The project would provide facilities to
safeguard pedestrians in and around LRT stations and other public transport interchanges, where
pedestrians disrupt road traffic and are exposed to safety hazards because of inadequate facilities.
The Govemment of the Philippines has pursued a combination of megaprojects and flyovers to solve traffic
congestion, with limited results. The aim of the MMURTRIP project is to demonstrate altematives to these
measures. National government planners currently resist such altemative measures as bus lanes,
concentration on traffic management, integration of modes, and priority for public transport trips. By
demonstrating the efficacy of these altematives the project hopes to overcome this resistance, which until
now has been difficult to do because such examples did not exist in the Philippines. Ideally the public will
demand such approaches once they see their impact.
- 94 -



Moreover, the policy thrust of the project is to bring into focus at the planning stage the need to coordinate
relevant institutional roles, physically integrate various modes, and consider environmental and safety
hazards. By demonstrating the government's role and the importance of complementary investments to
enhance the full potential of public or private investments, the project hopes to remove barriers to
recognizing the importance of metropolitan govemance and complementary traffic management measures
to realize the potential of public or private investments.
3.    The Proposed GEF-Supported Component
The proposed Global Environment Facility (GEF)-supported project, or the GEF Alternative, will be
implemented as a component of the broader MMURTRIP project. The GEF Alternative consists of
designing and operating a system of bicycle trails and designated lanes for nonmotorised transport (NMT).
These trails and lanes will connect residential conununities with schools, employment centers, the new
metropolitan train station, and other public transport terminals, where appropriate parking facilities will be
created. The project's development will help keep bicylces form being crowded out of the urban area.
Furthermore, connection to the public transport terminals will promote the use of NMT combined with
trains and buses for trips between Marikina and the rest of the Manila metropolitan area.
The global benefits of the project consist of a reduction in expected traffic and congestion and a consequent
decrease in emissions of greenhouse gases and other pollutants compared with those Metro Manila faces
today. An additional indirect benefit, of no less value, will be to demonstrate the benefits and viability of
bicycles and nonmotorized transport. The project hopes that recognition of the sustainability, lack of
pollution, and low cost of this form of transport for commuting will encourage the adoption and
development of similar facilities elsewhere in Metro Manila and in the Philippines.
4.    Role of the GEF Alternative in removing barriers to the use of nonmotorized transport
The project requests GEF support to overcome barriers in addressing global emissions from motorized
transport by making nonmotorised transport a viable alternative means of transportation. The primary
objective of the GEF bicycle network project component is to contain the increase of greenhouse gas
emissions by maintaining the current share served by nonmotorised modes and by shifting some of the new
transport demand toward less polluting modes. A secondary objective is to demonstrate and publicize the
benefits and viability of bicycles as an altemative transport mode to encourage replication of this pilot
program in other parts of Metro Manila, elsewhere in the Philippines, and in other countries.
Under the GEF Alternative, the City of Marikina would modify its transport development program, which
currently focuses exclusively on road expansion and improvement, to actively promote greater use of
bicycles and walking as alternatives to motorised transport, and thereby to encourage a shift from
motorised transport to these environmentally-friendly options. The barriers to this shift are travelers'
perceptions and the reality that bicycles and walking are relatively slow, inconvenient, and sometimes
unsafe transport options. These barriers are largely caused by the lack of appropriate facilities for
bicyclists and walkers. With GEF support, the project would overcome these barriers by constructing a
pilot network of bicycle and pedestrian lanes and paths along well-traveled commuter routes (adjacent to
existing roads and public access areas) in low-income areas, installing bicycle storage facilities at light rail
stations to make these transport modes safer and more convenient, and publicizing and promoting these
alternative transport modes through an awareness campaign and safety program.
Other barriers to a move to environmentally-friendly nonmotorized transport include the failure of accepted
transport economic analysis to capture environmental externalities when assessing the feasibility of such
investments and political pressure and planning mentality that encourage investing in expanding motor
vehicle road capacity rather than bicycle facilities to alleviate congestion. Both the Philippines National
- 95 -



Economic and Planning Agency (NEDA) and the World Bank consider that transport economic benefits
derive from vehicle operating cost savings of existing and future traffic, time cost savings, and accident
cost savings. Current methodologies that focus on evaluating motorized traffic options use only vehicle
operating cost savings and time cost savings. These analytical methods do not capture other
transport-related externalities caused by congestion and pollution.
There have been several attempts to promote analytical consideration of other benefits, such as social
benefits and benefits form nonmotorised transport. Although most people accept that nonmotorized
transport has environmental benefits, no accepted method exists to justify these benefits. The MURTRIPP
project aims to develop a methodology for calculating the benefits from savings in greenhouse gas
emissions, to implement a bicycle network and to demonstrate its impact on motorized traffic levels.
Because both agencies require a minimum 15 percent economic rate of return (ERR) for any investment
based on accepted methods, this viable mode of transport is excluded in many countries and World
Bank-financed projects. The opportunity to reduce and limit the increase in greenhouse gas emissions from
transport is therefore lost.
The GEF Altemative will help remove additional barriers to the use of nonmotorized transport and its
consideration and acceptance at planning stage. In Metro Manila and the City of Marikina these barriers
include travelers' perceptions and the danger and dominance of motorized transport that make bicycles and
walking unsafe without appropriate facilities for bicyclists and walkers and solutions to traffic congestion.
Under the GEF Alternative, the City of Marikina would modify its transport development program, which
currently focuses exclusively on road expansion and improvement, to include developing appropriate
facilities and promoting greater use of bicycles and walking as alternatives to motorised transport.
The development of the GEF Alternative will help demonstrate that nonmotorized expansion has an impact
on motorized traffic levels and helps limit the increase in greenhouse gas emissions without negatively
affecting generalized transport costs (time and operating costs) and mobility. The model developed to
estimate emissions based on current and future transport activities and the monitoring activities envisaged
as part of the GEF-supported project will help establish an alternative, more comprehensive framework for
the economic analysis of transport operations in general and for transport operations that include
components that support the expansion of nonmotorized transport in particular.
5.    Global Environment Facility (GEF) Strategic Context
The Nonmotorised Transport Global Environment Facility-supported component of MMURTRIP was
proposed by the Department of Public Works, Urban Roads Project Office and subsequently endorsed by
the mayor of the City of Marikina in a request to the World Bank for assistance with GEE funding for
incremental cost. The project made a strategic choice to limit the bicycle network intervention to one city
for a demonstration effect. Since political commitment is crucial for the success of such initiatives, the City
of Marikina was chosen for the exceptional commitment to nonmotorized transport and related
environmental issues shown by its current administration. Marikina has funded preliminary diagnostic work
on the component and has set up a counterpart team composed of staff of various city offices (Settlement,
Health, Engineering, and Administrative). This team will be responsible for liaison and coordination among
the various units of the administration and with consultants and contractors to encourage a shift from
motorized transport to these environmentally friendly options.
6.    Incremental Cost Analysis
The incremental cost of achieving the global benefits of the GEF Alternative is based on developing a
system of bicycle trails and designated lanes for nonmotorized transport (the GEF case) compared to the
- 96 -



base case.
Base case scenario
Although the anticipated MNMURTRIP components to be implemented in the City of Marikina take into
consideration modal integration and environmental and safety hazards, they do not specifically address
nonmotorized transport. Moreover, the current city transport development plan does not include any
investment in bikeways or other nonmotorized transport facilities. Therefore, without GEF support to
remove the barriers to a transport policy approach in favor of nonmotorized transport, and development of
adequate facilities to encourage bicycle use, the changes described in the previous section will produce a
modal choice pattern similar to the present modal composition in the inner residential districts of
metropolitan Manila.
By 2015 the combined effect of increased transport demand and modal split changes in favor of motorized
transport will sharply increase congestion and pollution, and will probably force the disappearance of
bicycles and other forms of nonmotorized transport. Car and utility vehicles trips are forecast to increase
from the actual average of 53,000 trips a day to more than 120,000. Walking trips are expected to drop
significantly, with more pedestrians choosing to use semipublic modes such as taxis or private buses and
jeepneys, which will further increase traffic congestion.
In the base case scenario, the daily emissions of greenhouse gases are forecast to almost double, reaching
about 1 million tons of carbon dioxide (CO2). This will happen even if the average fuel efficiency of the
motorized vehicle fleet improves considerably and people use public transport more efficiently.
GEF case
The GEF grant and the contribution of the City of Marikina will fund the development of bikeways and
related facilities. The Nonmotorised Transport component in the City of Marildna will include:
a   Fifty kilometers of bikeways on existing roads and 16 kilometers of bikeways along the Marikina
River banks, connecting to the new LRT station.
:   Traffic calming and pedestrianization around schools and market areas and provision of bicycle
parking facilities.
*   Street lighting where necessary to ensure safety after hours.
*   Public awareness.
*   Bicycle safety.
The 66-kilometer bikeway network will connect residential communities with schools, employment centers,
the new light rail transit station, and other public transport terminals. On all sections and main attractors of
the bikeways system, road and surface markings will be traced, signs placed, and parking and safety
facilities installed. A series of pedestrianized areas and traffic calming measures will increase the safety of
the bikeway network and help preserve walking trips. Street lighting in some areas will improve the safety
of both cyclists and walkers.
The city administration will launch a public awareness campaign, including a monitoring component. The
campaign, which will begin at project preparation stage and continue through the development of the
project, will promote the use of bicycles and other nonmotorized transport and receive feedback from users.
A safety campaign will sensitize motorized vehicle drivers and encourage them to respect bikers and other
nonmotorized transport users.
The incremental cost of the component is estimated at US$1.5 million, of which US$1.3 million will be
- 97 -



financed by the GEF grant. The City of Marikina will provide the US$0.2 million counterpart funds.
(Table 14.1).
Table 14.1 Total costs of the Metro Manila Urban Transport
Integration Project (US$ million)
1. Traffic Management Improvements     13.5        9.73.
2. MARIPAS Access Improvements         48.2       29.5                18.7
3. Secondary Roads Program             32.7        19.2               13.5
4. Non-Motorized Transport              1.5                  1.3      0.2
4.1. Bikeways (66 kilometers)      1.08          -       0.92     0.16
4.2.Traffic calming and            0.18          -      0.14      0.04
pedestrianisation
4.3. Lighting                      0.10          -      0.08      0.02
4.4. Training and capacity building  0.05        -      0.04      0.01
at the BPO
4.5. Education Campaigns           0.05          -      0.04      0.01
4.6. Replication Camnaigns         0.05          -       0.04     0.01
5. Institution Building/Technical      1.1         1.0       -        0.1
Assistance
Front end fee                          0.60        0.6
Total Costs                            97.6       60.0       1.3     36.3
The development of the GEF-supported component will help remove barriers to the use of bicycles and
other nomnotorized transport. The City administration will consider nonmotorized transport in its transport
policy and will give priority to integrating bicycles with public transportation. Nornmotorized transport
users will have a safe and efficient system for mobility over short and medium distances, and this mode of
transport will not be crowded out. Parking facilities and cnnections with public transport terminals will
promote the use of nonmotorized transport combined with light rail and bus for trips between Marikina and
the rest of the metropolitan area.
Implementation of the GEF supported component is expected to shift the modal choice pattern away from
that experienced in the inner district of Metro Manila and many Asian cities where nonmotorized transport
shares are declining or disappearing. The nonmotorized transport modes will maintain or increase their
quota as well as that of public transport on light rail and buses. Consequent avoidance of many car trips
outside the area and many jeepney trips over short-medium distances will help reduce congestion and,
together with other traffic calming measures, make nonmotorized transport even more attractive, thus
triggering a virtuous cycle that will be exportable to other areas of Metro Manila or other medium cities in
the Philippines and abroad.
Global benefits
By 2015 the daily emissions of greenhouse gases in the GEF case scenario are forecast to increase
substantially less than under the base case scenario. With some reasonable assumptions, the savings in
- 98 -



greenhouse gas emissions (only for the City of Marikina) are estimated at about 100 tons of CO2 equivalent
a day. Assuming that the project has an economic life of 20 years (2001-2020) and a linear increase of
transport demand during the first 15 years, the greenhouse gas savings are estimated at about 400,000 tons
of CO2 equivalent (see annex 4).
Local environmental benefits
In the GEF case scenario, additional local benefit will result from reduced motor vehicle-produced
pollutants other than greenhouse gases (oxides of sulfur [SO4], lead, benzene, and ethylene), leading to
lower ambient levels of pollution in the project area.
Incremental cost matrix
The incremental cost analysis can thus be summarized (table 14.2).
Table 14.2 Incremental cost matrix of the Metro Manila Urban Transport Integration Project
Base case                 GEF case                            Increment
Description     With an increase in       The actual quota of nonmotorized
motorized traffic and     transport will be maintained or      n.a.
congestion, the use of    increased.
nonmotorized transport will
decline and eventually
disappear by 2015.
Global         None                       Greenhouse gas emissions will decrease
environmentb                              by about 400,000 tons of CO,         n.a.
enefits                                   equivalent during the 20-year life span
of the project.
Local           None                      Reduced motor vehicle-produced
environment                               pollutants other than greenhouse gases
benefits                                  will lead to lower ambient levels of  n.a
pollution in the project area.
Indirect       None                       Demonstration of nonmotorized
benefits                                 transport as a sustainable, nonpolluting,
and inexpensive form of transport and
as a viable altemative for commuting
will induce the development of similar
facilities elsewhere in the Philippines
and in other countries.
Costs           0                         US$ 1.5 million                      US$ 1.5
million
- 99 -



City to have
bike lanes
iBy Ike CrD 
rhe Cr y              Dr  1-10
M;urkind   h2Seh     zla
tesrr rtwe rsrffc4  re
UtNC9 S FruOadatio" I"  !0
i,rwdy  WDtM    ieasrPahVe y at
OeCsierl.f y P nCeiw   k at
tinyl irnedg tar!tO  aIt- O4TtP
Iwe^:dwr ad ts st'i
Ogrnt   lns are tR     e
con,cted tsy Mhyoi
rcrints. 11w n   at CrCt$ h   IO-r     ! wt"' a flwPwny  c?ntc    tIr t'tie -   -
Ciilec,  is ottlC 18a  ltyo"nainlg
CcC .t at,   a-Id e-atP ifonte.1-
tr.r..ndly aip.ltte-nve (neOnS 1,1
t1ranSpOrt F3y W>DirInKgM SPrCO
lo, biry'r1e Wites Kr iAitc
FE2tRUARY 2is. 2Wd0                                             ROVERi  CllY(607fCs
e~pIcec.cdittI~arm asnerotnntatBoldt line                 are5 the    It5t t
Chty to haaae Fao .                                                                     p     f -t  -
Th   rtEti    SCC"  lo  t'tOOI4 M,,. r    ttntnt  ol   eiltIl , s.- I -~, of -~-inC 
ty->ida Ihrkreea    t a.rr.     ttloin-'ttca -etit-t at a? k..t"s  i stt  sstkr>i aciix
itotCr3trtCC tinsdinto          an-s t pedeSi3nsteC is 49  , rk S C e Cet c iNen. .l MCy .0  itC,
h!-r Cies tpesai     h shtofl the     fal le,, t ttantSt t  , krn 2,s l MO On'S era    Ca  s0509 alegi
dsati   tD    to  Ih- Ilo.rrrisislD>sigd; U3es2ie C                   I-  ?  cily  
WO 'k ,t3htS        a   tInt'd  asphai      kt     s  at aitt   CSCCIZIt sa               t -
dro3rft'lfon?s! owergn snhi ie-, lftc. ss.lyt:4road  wo,"irtu   Dw3i,,sa te   j'M !{!t 
city                            rhe ti.erside de-attts        wal      .nant I           2 i,
The  prs.-.t., o  n   ofats o o,ie tnn . retabdititt,t, am   er,,,
,lysside bifk-ay I -rk,  i                  lOf 83 2 k,5 Of  feb le   Thd            Oiaect i5 0
F    owSh2 if vinerSCs03gr4   Sxsi.    , Gjingt3i,2  werws  exirects  ,i  Ien   -e  r 
laoe cum bAmq,rsy worgn Mtt   a,,d thFe caw,31,csisl0 P of! rDfth  n!   Iftee., cosltn,,  aw
22A3ki,om6ei  st.ra't"t n Di wAtF  addrir.nai e I knn5. of  ne.    sr-.-  PFM M         homt ul- 
side$ DI if e Mfariftg Riser   !as*le ,V tl  Frer 
The totGs firrglE  r3f re"ahnq;    fk1 f       tpi    tnhhs pn jecli
I 100-



MAP SECTION






IBRD 30420
To Evlacon, Pampon go,      10'This maop o- jprodood` by
To Sulacon, Pamponga ~    1 21  0 th. Mop Desig. Unit of The
PHILIPPINES                                                 tk     Zombales Tarlac, Eoco0                      Wo, d Bob. The bo-doriet,
METRO MANILA URBAN TRANSPORT                                                              LaUnion  BancuehProvinces   /                 colorydenoionoood
-.o this -op do not ;.ply, on
INTEGRATION PROJECT (MMURTRIP)                                                                 BGLR ANC                 /                oopo,o onyjufdg mTento oh
LOCATION OF PROJECT CORRIDORS    '                                                        PR'            NE'"                      or ooy endter or
00                                                                          --pf. |    ^   f   OOCe nce of -ch
r ZB clscon, Pampongc-
Union anBone Provces                                                                     Nova
NAV,S t 0   \-                                                               /   aoR                                      RIZAL
14040'                                                                                                                             PROVINCE  14A40'
KONAT RtaQ                            n,
\ ) . 7 I 11 -I r ~~~~~~~~~~Mariikino Bridge &
r  " * I 1 149 /ad LogunAccess Rovads
rcos Bridg   u6oo                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To Rizat, Queozon,
M anila                                                             ;i 2 ' w En H t~ ancl Laguna Provinces
>}l wA =\ 1J<. ~~~~~~~~~Mas nag|
|Bay,>Fw                                                                                   Laguna Bay
,Baton gas, and                                                                                                 Qe_
/'   Loguno Provinces                                                                                             Pr<  /
'EDSA"  ~ ~         ~         ~        ~        Aaltg nerhn           E     teni.
v-   /  l                                    " _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECTCORRIDORS, f
t   u                                      -        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRliMARY ARTERiAL ROADS
Santos Avenue)-                                                              SEONDARY ARTERIAL ROADS
LR *T* L                                                                     LIGT RAIL TRANSiT
CAV IT E    P ROVI N CE                  j                                                                          LIGHiT RAIL TRANSIT UNDERCCONTR iCTION
,,     i/>                                  '  l~~~~~~~~~---+   PF-ilUPPINE NAIlONAL RAILWAY
! ., li &. C _ ~~~~~~~~~~SELECTED RIVERS
i       .30                                                       MUNICIPAL  O0UNDARIES
0       2      4       6       8       10               .*      To Laguna, Batan gas, Quezan,                -         PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
I      I        I      i                          f   gI 1          and Bicol ProvLnces     \
- 1420'   KILOMETERS         121301>t  LAGU ,NsA PROVINCEP    A2ERAL0 ROADS
14020SELEn00Cr-OT RIV2ER
OCTOBER 2000






IBRD 30421
To Belacan, Pompao9,          /    ^ This -p wos produced by
PHILIPPINES                                                    Z BacanmPampangao                 121 10' the Map Design Unit of The
PHILIPPINE5                          Zomboles Tarlac, llocos,                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Book. The bo.ndor;es,
METRO  MANILA  URBAN  TRANSPORT                                                       aonionana BanaveProvinces      /           coos deo,oino-tion shsd
INTEGRATION PROJECT (MMURTRIP)                                                            BULACAN                               the p of The WopdSrk
PROVINCE                        -y ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~judgrn-t on 4
LOCATION OF PROJECT CORRIDORS  r''    '*                                                RON           '" or  entrrimnt or
.1.  -                                         occo~~~~~~~~~-pt-sc, of such
To Bulon, Pampanga,                                         - j                          '                          oudre
Tls orlJcs lloco,    xt-  
ar (Jn    Banaue Proice     ti    +'r                 N8tt
\    | 1 0trh AvenuiW i  z V A I  aQ UEZO N                        ;~~~~~~no  arcs Aenu
\,~~~~~~~~~ ~  ~~~~~~~~ PR,AR ARTRIA ROADS Iw
\4t   u<IT 1r_t                 | Ba~~~~~~~~naue Aeue       J         D1
NAVO ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LGTRAIZTALSI
_ 40                                                                                                                        PROVIA V   PROVINCE  14U40'-T
I.~ ~ ~~~KN
cobo Fa21rd                                                                                                              To    10    a o  RizalanQas,zQuezon,  RiES
M    la Fuente (Tra                                              and                                                       Laguna Provinces
EleRs                                                   GUN       Pr                                           anc LagunE Provinces
Ped~r F  > o Gil/N
Sen.GiIPuya                                                                                                       1 t  c v
|Antonio ArnaizAvne                                      /,                                                b
Manila Boy                                                                        3                          -
14-00                                                                                                                                           14,3010-
/,  0/8 < zs  i /   Laguno Boy                      200
/               ~~~~~~~~Baton,qas and    0                                      _        
J                 ~~~~~~~~~Laguno Provinces    s <   X      }E
, / t , i ~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT CORRIDORS 6
-   .Xz                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRliMARY ARTERIAL ROADS
F       :        MUNTI    LIPA                                     -     SECONDARY ARTERIAL ROADS
2   .   .                                    -  *  @ U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LGHT RAIL TRANSIT
CAVITE    PROVINCE                           j                                                       -- UGHT RAILTRANSIT UNDERCONSTRUCTIN
'. p /< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PHILIPPINE NATIONAL RAILWAY
!  . . o  19N    f                   - -   -  ~~~~~~~~SELECTED RIVERS
j .} X 5 a ~~~~~~~~~~MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
0  12  4  6   3      10         i    ^'     r~~~~~~~~~~~~~ o togunda,3BtonalseeoS0       |      PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
KILOMETERS                  L200\AGUNA PROVINCE\--.t0
-14020'   -._ -t                                                                                                                                 1420'
OCTOBER 2000



