Report No. PID7461
Project Name                     Philippines-Metro Manila Urban Transport (@)
Integration Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Urban Transport
Project ID                       PHPE57731
Supplemental Project             PHGE66509
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF PHILIPPINES
Address DPWH
Department of Public Works and Highways
Address: Bonifacio Drive, Port Area,
Metro Manila, Philippines
Contact Person: Mr. Teodoro Encarnacion,
Undersecretary for Technical
Services
Tel: 63-2-304 3228
Fax: 63-2-304 3485
Email: n/a
Metro Manila Development Authority
Address: MMDA Building, EDSA Corner
Orense Street, Guadalupe, Makati City,
Metro Manila, Philippines
Contact Person: Mr. Benjamin S. Abalos, Chairman
Tel: 63-2-882 0908
Fax: 63-2-882 0859
Email: ogm@mmda.gov.ph
City of Marikina, Metro Manila
Address: Brgy. Sta. Elena, Shoe Avenue, Marikina City,
Metro Manila, Philippines Contact Person: Mayor Bayani
Fernando Tel: 63-2-646 1634 Fax: 63-2-646 5277 Email:
marikina@Mozcom.com Environment Category              B
Date PID Prepared                March 22, 1999, updated June 22, 1999,
February 2, 2000, September 11, 2000 March 21, 2001, and
May 25, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         October 2000
Projected Board Date             June 21, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Urban transport congestion, with its related impacts, is one of the most
pressing problems in the Philippines. The key area for concern is Metro
Manila, now a massive, gridlocked urban area that accommodates 10.2
million people (1997), produces over one-third of national GDP, and
contains 17 municipalities, of which four are cities. By 2015 Manila is
expected to become a massive conurbation of 13 million (MMUTIS 1996).
Economic prosperity in recent years has accelerated motorization and the
demand for mobility, causing severe traffic congestion and environmental
problems. Residents perceive traffic congestion as their number one



problem, followed by air pollution (the primary source of which is the
transport sector), garbage collection, flood control, and the need for
security. The level of congestion in Metro Manila is severe enough to
cause an average travel speed only slightly faster than that of Bangkok,
which has the slowest travel speed of any major Asian city.
2. Objectives
The project development objective of the Metro Manila Urban Transport
Integration Project (MMURTRIP) is to enhance the economic productivity and
quality of life of Metro Manila residents by improving the operational
efficiency and safety of the transport system, with better opportunities
to use public transport and nonmotorized transport (NMT), the dominant
transport modes of low-income residents. In support of this objective, the
project will: Improve travel conditions, including the related safety and
environmental aspects, along the three most heavily used public transport
corridors in Metro Manila--Light Rail Transit (LRT) 3-Epifanio de los
Santos Avenue (EDSA), LRT2- Aurora Boulevard, and the Southern Expressway.
Enhance transport access in outer areas in the east (Markina Valley).
Improve traffic conditions within the city through better use of the
secondary road network.Promote the use of NMT through a pilot
demonstration in one of the local government units (LGUs), the City of
Markina. Strengthen metropolitan governance in the management of
traffic.    To this end, the project will implement schemes of traffic
management to improve access to newly opened light rail transit (LRT)
stations and transfer opportunities between road-based public transport
modes, pedestrian circulation, road frontage controls, street lighting,
and traffic circulation in general. Physical measures in the project
corridors/areas will also improve critical interchanges and provide road
access and missing links. To promote NMT use, the project will implement a
local bike path network and a supporting awareness campaign. Institutional
measures will aim to strengthen the Metro Manila Development Authority
(MMDA), the agency responsible for coordinating development plans and
programs, and specifically, traffic management across the 17
municipalities of Metro Manila.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The value added of World Bank support has been in stressing the
importance of multimodalism, traffic management, and supporting
institutional arrangement at a metropolitan level, particularly at a stage
when the government had committed several megaprojects and the sector
regularly confronted poor traffic management, fragmented institutions,
and physical conflicts between rail and highway projects and privately and
publicly funded projects. The Bank has supported urban transport projects
in many large cities of developing countries. The Operations Evaluation
Department (OED) of the World Bank, recommends in its Country Assistance
Review that the World Bank remain active in the transport sector because
of the sector's important strategic role, institutional weaknesses, and
need for public investment, as well as the considerable experience of the
World Bank in transport. The value of global support in this project lies
in supporting an innovative incremental project component that otherwise
would likely not find funding.
4. Description
The Metro Manila Urban Transport Integration Project (MMURTRIP) has been
agreed by the interagency project steering committee, the Department of
- 2-



Public Works and Highways (DPWH) as the executing agency, and the Metro
Manila Development Authority (MMDA), and endorsed by the Council of the
Mayor of Metro Manila under the chairmanship of the MMDA. The project
includes the following components in the 5 municipalities and 12 cities of
the Metro Manila area: Project components include public transport
improvements such as integration of modes; improvement of interchange
facilities and measures to introduce public transport priority; traffic
management both at and between intersections; measures to control
inappropriate frontage activity; measures to improve road safety for
pedestrians by providing sidewalks, pedestrianized areas, and traffic
calming; and provision of bicycle access and pedicab bicycle parking at
stations. The design of the project components addresses the desire of
the local government units (LGUs) to install signages, provide street
lighting along the LRT corridors, and introduce their respective city
motifs in the beautification and design of sidewalks and medians. Project
components include the greening and landscaping plans of the MMDA, the
LGUs, and the Metro Manila Green Ladies (wives of the 17 Metro Manila
mayors). These components aim to improve the urban environment in the
heavily trafficked areas to make them more user friendly for pedestrians
and public transport users. As 22 percent of car journeys and 32 percent
of jeepney journeys are less than 2 kilometers long, a better urban
environment and walking areas might persuade people to walk rather than
drive or take transport. These short trips, many of them on the main
arterial network, are considered a major contributor to local traffic
congestion (MMURTRIP Feasibility Study, July 1998). The Institution
Building/Technical Assistance component aims to establish and strengthen
institutions responsible for future urban transport management in Metro
Manila. This is the underlying goal of the project to improve traffic and
environmental conditions and increase use of public transport. The
institution building component will strengthen the capacity of the MMDA to
effectively carry out the traffic engineering and management
responsibilities it was given under the MMDA Act. The MMURTRIP project
will complement the assistance extended under the Metro Manila Air Quality
Improvement Sector Development Program by supporting a capacity building
program for 2001 to 2005. The MMDA, in consultation with the DPWH, has
developed a year-by-year institutional plan including a description of its
expanding functions and staffing requirements. This MMURTRIP project is
complements the ongoing Metro Manila Air Quality Improvement Sector
Development Program and therefore does not repeat efforts underway in that
project. A feasibility study on all these components was completed in
July 1998 under preparation and Human Resources Development Grant funding
from the Japanese Government. The project has two phases. The detailed
engineering for the phase I components will be completed in October 2000
for appraisal. The detailed engineering for the remaining phase II
components will begin in October 2001.
A. Traffic Management Improvements
LRT Line 2 Corridor
EDSA-LRT Line 3 Corridor
Southern Corridor-Bicutan Interchange Improvements
Southern Corridor-Alabang Interchange Improvements
B. MARIPAS Access Improvements
Marikina Bridge and Access Roads
Marcos Highway
Ortigas Avenue
C. Secondary Roads
-3-



D. Nonmotorized Transport (NMT)
E. Institution Building/Technical Assistance
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT 36.3
IBRD 60
IDA
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY 1.3
Total Project Cost 97.6
6. Implementation
Implementation period. Five years, from September 2001 to September 2006.
Project concept development. The project has been developed and agreed by
an interagency steering committee led and chaired by the Metropolitan
Manila Development Authority (MMDA), and endorsed by the Council of
Mayors' of Metro Manila, also under the chairmanship of the MMDA. The
interagency steering committee was co-chaired by the Department of Public
Works and Highways (DPWH) which has been designated as the overall
executing agency for the project.Project implementation. There are three
implementing agencies for the project. Each will undertake its own
procurement and award of contracts, have its own financial management,
have its own special account, produce its own Project Management Reports
(PMRs), and monitor the impact of its own components against defined
monitoring criteria. Each will procure its own consultant services for
construction supervision and for advisory services related to these
components. The three implementing agencies are:The Department of Public
Works and Highways (DPWH)-Urban Roads Project Office (URPO) is responsible
for the MARIPAS Access Improvements components and for 10 of the Secondary
Roads Program components. Established in 1973 as a special projects
office, the URPO has extensive project implementation experience. It also
has a good understanding of World Bank-funded projects, having been
involved in such Bank-assisted projects as the Metro Manila Urban
Transport Strategy Planning Project (MMUSTRAP) and Metro Manila Urban
Transportation Project (MUTP) phase 1. The DPWH-Traffic Engineering Center
(TEC) is responsible for the traffic signals package to be applied to most
project components. The Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA)
is responsible for the Traffic Management Improvements components, for
five of the Secondary Roads Program components, and for the Institution
Building component. A project implementation team headed by the Assistant
General Manager for Operations will manage the implementation of the
components and coordinate the procurement of works, goods, and services to
be undertaken by existing units of the MMDA. The City of Marikina is
responsible for the Nonmotorised Transport component. The City is one of
the 17 Local Government Units of the Metro Manila area and an autonomous
unit headed by a democratically elected mayor. The City has established a
Bikeways Program Office (BPO), which will be part of the City
Administrator's Office. The BPO will be in charge of coordinating the
implementation and the monitoring of the program. In particular, it will
coordinate with the relevant departments of the City, with the NGOs and
with the other stakeholders. The BPO will also be responsible for the
monitoring and evaluation activities. The evaluation activities in
particular will focus on the project as well as on the methodology applied
to estimate the benefits derived from the resulting savings in greenhouse
gas emissions. A five-year plan for the development of the bikeways is
-4 -



also part of the responsibilities of the BPO. Participating Local
Government Units (LGUs) have created local project implementation and
monitoring teams under the coordination of the MMDA project implementation
team. These LGU teams have been active in detailed engineering and in
mobilizing public participation in their constituencies. The teams will be
responsible for field supervision and monitoring of the Secondary Roads
Program components.Project execution. The DPWH will assume the role of
overall executing agency for the project, through its Urban Roads Project
Office (URPO). DPWH will monitor works and activities to be undertaken by
the DPWH, MMDA and the City of Marikina (figure C.1). The DPWH will report
quarterly to the steering committee on the progress of works. A memorandum
of agreement has been signed between the DPWH, MMDA, and the City of
Marikina outlining their various responsibilities.Monitoring. The
interagency steering committee will monitor and direct the project during
project implementation. The relevant Metro Manila LGUs will be invited to
join this advisory committee. The interagency steering committee consists
of representatives from the MMDA (chair), the DPWH (co-chair), the
Department of Transportation and Communications (DOTC), the National
Economic and Development Authority (NEDA), the Department of Budget and
Management (DBM), the National Center for Transportation Studies (NCTS)
and the City of Marikina. The committee shall meet at least quarterly to
discuss and resolve implementation issues and concerns.Environment. The
Environment Impact Assessment Project Office (EIAPO) in the DPWH has
undertaken the Environmental Assessment and documentation for the MMURTRIP
and has secured the clearances for the project from the Department of
Environment and Natural Resources (DENR). The EIAPO will be responsible
for monitoring project compliance with the environmental assessment for
all project components. The unit has the capacity to undertake such work
and has been strengthened under the First National Roads Improvement and
Management Project (NRIMP-1) supported by the World Bank.     Project
implementation plan. The DPWH and MMDA jointly prepared the project
implementation plan of May 2001 (see project files), which will be used to
guide the implementation.
7. Sustainability
The project aims to demonstrate the effectiveness of traffic management
measures, however the sustainability of these measures will depend on the
willingness and effectiveness of MMDA, LGUs and related agencies in
enforcing traffic management measures. Lack of MMDA's effectiveness
during and after the project implementation is a critical risk for the
sustainability of the project. To mitigate this risk, MMDA's
participation was ensured throughout the project preparation.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
During the past decade, no World Bank operation was undertaken in the
Metro Manila urban transport sector. Projects funded by other agencies
have indicated the difficulties of resettlement in Metro Manila. The
components of this project have therefore sought to minimize the need for
resettlement; several subprojects have been deleted from the original
project proposal. The World Bank has specific experience in urban
transport projects throughout the world. In particular, several urban
transport projects have demonstrated the benefits of the traffic
management approach to improving urban congestion and the high rates of
return of such projects. An Urban Transport Improvement Project started in
November 1998 in Vietnam consists solely of traffic management
- 5-



interventions.3a. Lessons learned and reflected in the GEF supported
component design: The experience of cities in Japan, the Netherlands,
Germany, and several other European and Latin American nations
demonstrates that modernizing urban transportation requires not total
motorization but the appropriate integration of walking, nonmotorized
transport (NMT), and motorized transportation. People in these cities make
a major share of trips on foot or by bicycle, and NMT could play an
important role in the urban transportation system of Metro Manila in the
coming decades. The future of NMT in Manila and in many Asian cities is
threatened by growing motorization, loss of street space for safe
nonmotorized vehicle use, and changes in urban form prompted by
motorization with major negative effects on air pollution, energy use,
urban sprawl, and the employment and mobility of low-income people.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The project is rated category B since there is
limited resettlement and land acquisition and since the project is not
expected to have negative environmental impacts. Rather the project aims
to: Improve the urban environment for pedestrians and public transport
users.Improve public transport service ancillary facilities, which would
have a positive impact on the environment.Include landscaping and greening
programs. DPWH Order No 15, Series of 2000 requires Tree Planting along
National Roads. This will be included in all project corridors. All
project components comply with all environmental clearance requirements of
the Government of the Philippines and World Bank Operational Policy OP
4.01 on Environmental Assessment. The Environmental Impact Assessment
Project Office (EIAPO) of the DPWH, in conjunction with an independent
environmental consultant, has produced an Environmental Assessment report
covering each project component. The Government of Philippines Department
of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) has cleared all project
components by either issuing Certificates of NonCoverage or Environmental
Compliance Certificates as applicable. The Environmental Assessment (see
project file) was disclosed in the World Bank Infoshop, the World Bank
Office in Manila Public Information Center, and publicly in-country by the
DPWH and local newspapers on August 14, 2000. The World Bank requested
supplemental information on air and noise impacts for two project
components, namely the Marikina Bridge and Access Road component and the
Marcos Highway component. The DPWH has undertaken work on this and
submitted draft reports to the World Bank. The reports are however still
incomplete and the Government has agreed to complete the reports to the
satisfaction of the World Bank and to adopt the recommendations as a
condition of Loan Effectiveness.With regard to urban air quality and
transport, the Metro Manila Air Quality Improvement Sector Development
Program (refer to the Asian Development Bank Project Report of November
1998, RRP: PHI 30480) is ongoing. Leaded gasoline was phased out in Metro
Manila on April 1, 2000 in line with the Clean Air Act and as part of the
ongoing work on the air quality project. The Air Quality project also
promotes the use of cleaner fuels (particularly important for the
jeepneys, which run on diesel and are a major cause of particulate
pollution) and a vehicle inspection and anti-smoke-belching
program.Resettlement and Land Acquisition. All project components are
identified and have had feasibility studies completed. Only two project
components involve resettlement and land acquisition. A Resettlement
- 6 -



Action Plan (RAP) for each (see project file) was disclosed in the World
Bank Infoshop, World Bank Office in Manila Public Information Center, and
publicly in-country by the DPWH and in local newspapers on August 14,
2000. The final versions have been disclosed in the InfoShop. The project
components involving resettlement and land acquisition are: The Marikina
Bridge and Access Road component. The Don Mariano Marcos Avenue Extension
Secondary Roads component. The Resettlement Action Plans comply with
World Bank Operational Directive 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement. The
RAPs have been prepared in accordance with the comprehensive DPWH Policy
Framework for Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Rehabilitation for
MMURTRIP, April 2001, satisfactory to the World Bank and endorsed by DPWH
prior to negotiations. The final version of the "Resettlement Policy" has
been disclosed in the World Bank InfoShop. Any additional resettlement and
land acquisition issues encountered during implementation of the MMURTRIP
project will be dealt with in accordance with the above policy framework.
Beneficiaries Public transport users. The project is targeted at public
transport users, many of whom are poor captive" users. Although almost all
households use public transport in some form, the lower-income groups
primarily use buses and jeepneys. The 1997 Traffic Survey indicates that
"Socio-economic class is a very significant factor in differentiating the
commuting experience. Among ABC Metro Manilans, or the middle class and
up, 62t use their own vehicle for commuting to work and only 38t use
public transportation. Those who take public transportation for going to
work, are 869 among Class D, and 829 among Class E." (Social Weather
Station, Bulletin 97-22).Low income groups. A significant impact of the
project will be access improvements for the Marikina Valley (MARIPAS
area), where the average family income is lower than that in the central
parts of Metro Manila. Only one of the 17 MMUTIS traffic zones in the
Marikina Valley has an average household income higher than the Metro
Manila average of PhP 13,968 per month, and ten of the 17 zones have an
average household income of less than PhP10,000 per month (US$340, or
US$4,000 per year). In central Metro Manila lower-income groups and
squatters are not concentrated in any particular geographic area but
rather spread throughout the city. Therefore, project components could not
be geographically targeted in these areas. Pedestrians. Space for
pedestrians will make it possible for people to switch short-distance
trips to walking trips, potentially reducing motorists.
11. Contact Point:
The World Bank Resident Mission Philippines
23 Floor, The Taipan Place
Emerald Avenue, Pasig City
Telephone:   (63-2) 637 - 5855
Fax:   (6-32) 637 - 5870
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:
Fax:   (202) 522-3573
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
- 7 -



The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending June 1, 2001.
- 8 -



