Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF029804 PH 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement related 
to Loan Number 7058 PH
Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Metro Manila Urban Transport Integration Project)
among
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
THE CITY OF MARIKINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated August 8, 2001
GEF Trust Fund Grant No. TF029804 PH 
Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement
AGREEMENT, dated August 8, 2001 among THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES, THE CITY 
OF MARIKINA (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) 
in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the 
Bank as participants of the GEF. 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed 
the Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2); 
(C)
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the basis 
set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (Resolution No. 98-2);
(D)
the Republic of the Philippines and the Recipient, having satisfied 
themselves as to the feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement (the Project), have requested assistance from the resources of the 
GEF Trust Fund in the financing of Part D of the Project, and said request having been 
approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the Establishment of 
Page  2
the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under Resolution No. 94-2, and 
to be funded from contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 98-2, which 
may include funds carried over from the first replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund 
under Resolution No. 94-2, and the Bank has determined that such assistance would be 
in accordance with the provisions of Resolution No. 94-2 and Resolution No. 98-2 
referred to above; 
(E)
the Republic of the Philippines  has also requested the Bank to provide 
additional financing assistance towards the financing of Parts A, B, C and E of the 
Project and by a Loan Agreement of even date herewith  between the Republic of the 
Philippines and the Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such 
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equal to sixty million dollars 
($60,000,000) (the Loan); and
(F)
the Republic of the Philippines intervenes in this Agreement to provide 
its concurrence with the making of the GEF Grant to the Recipient for the purposes set 
forth in this Agreement.
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this 
Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02(e), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, and 10.03; 
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the 
term "Bank" shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity;
Page  3
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account;
(vii)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: "Except 
as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods 
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of 
the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations"; 
(viii)a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (j) in Section 6.02 
of the General Conditions, as follows: "an extraordinary situation 
shall have arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF";
(ix)
Section 10.01 of the General Conditions is modified as follows: 
The first sentence of Section 10.01 is deleted; and 
(x)
Section 10.04 is amended to read: "Any dispute arising out of or 
relating to this Agreement which is not settled by agreement of 
the parties shall be finally settled by arbitration in accordance 
with the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules in force on the date of this 
Agreement.  The place of arbitration shall be Washington, D.C.  In 
the event of a conflict between the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules and 
the terms of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall 
govern."  
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the  
Republic of the Philippines and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be 
amended from time to time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 
1995 (as amended through October 6, 1999), as applied to such agreement, and all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement. 
(b)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Bank and MMDA, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(c)
"Category" means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(d)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.  
(e)
"Environmental Management Plan" means the Recipient’s plan of actions to 
mitigate adverse effects for each Project component, satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE II
Page  4
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to one million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
1,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out Part D 
of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of Part D of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank specifically 
authorized for this purpose by the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2007 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
Part D of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate transport, administrative and financial practices and with due regard to 
ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for said Part D of the 
Project. 
(b)
 Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out Part D of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for Part D of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of Part D of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
Section 3.04.  The Recipient shall implement the Environmental Management Plan 
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part D of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out Part D of the 
Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: 
Page  5
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient 
shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Subject to subparagraph (b) of this paragraph:
(i)
the right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of any grant 
or loan made to the Recipient for the financing of the Project 
shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor, 
or
(ii)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(b)
Subparagraph (a) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Recipient 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
(i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Recipient to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and 
(ii)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Recipient from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement.
Page  6
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of 
the General Conditions, namely all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the 
Loan Agreement have been fulfilled. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Mayor of the City of Marikina is designated as representative 
of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Mayor of the City of Marikina
City Hall, Sta. Elena, Marikina City
Metro Manila,  Philippines
Facsimile:
(63-2) 646-277
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Jose Isidro Camacho
Authorized Representative
CITY OF MARIKINA 
By /s/ Ma. Lourdes C. Fernando
Authorized Representative
Page  7
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility 
By /s/ Robert Vance Pulley
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works under Part D 
    600,000
80% 
      of the Project
(2)
Goods under Part D
     80,000
100% of foreign ex-
of the Project
penditures; 100% of local 
expenditures (ex-factory 
cost)  and 70% of local 
expenditures  for other items 
procured locally 
(3)
Consultants’ services 
    220,000
100%
      under Part D of the 
      Project
(4)
Unallocated
    100,000
TOTAL
  1,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; and 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a)
civil works and goods under contracts costing less than $200,000 
equivalent each; and
(b)
consultants’ services under contracts with: (i) firms costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; and (ii) individuals costing less than $50,000 equivalent 
each; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
Page  8
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Republic of the Philippines in 
enhancing the economic productivity and quality of life of residents of Metro Manila 
by: (a) improving the operational efficiency and safety of the transport system; and 
(b) enhancing the use of public transport and non-motorized transport. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Republic of the Philippines and the Bank may agree upon from time to 
time to achieve such objectives: 
Part A:
Traffic Management Improvements 
1.
Carrying out of civil works for traffic management improvement, including public 
transport priority, integration among modes, improvement of interchange among buses, 
jeepneys, LRT lines, and pedestrians and other measures for introducing public 
transport priority, traffic management at and between intersections, measures for 
reducing congestion, controlling vendors and other inappropriate frontage activity and 
other measures for improving road safety for pedestrians, and measures for bicycles in 
the following corridors: (i) LRT Line 2 corridor; (ii) EDSA LRT Line 3 corridor; (iii) 
Southern corridor - Bicutan interchange; and (iv) Southern corridor - Alabang 
interchange.
2.
Provision of traffic signal facilities for the corridors mentioned in Part A.1 
above.
Part B:
MARIPAS Access Improvements 
Carrying out of civil works and provision of traffic signal facilities to 
improve access to the Marikina Valley, including: (i) the Marikina Bridge and Access 
Road; (ii) the Marcos Highway; and (iii) the Ortigas Avenue Extension.
Part C:
Secondary Roads Program
1.
(a)
Carrying out of civil works to provide comprehensive corridor treatment 
that will establish priority for secondary roads, including pavement rehabilitation, 
drainage and sidewalk improvements, and measures to safeguard pedestrians and improve 
street level interchange between public transport for the following road links:  (i) 
Pasong Tamo, (ii) Don Mariano Marcos Avenue Extension, (iii) Antonio Arnaiz Avenue; 
(iv) Sen. Gil Puyat Avenue; and (v) Banaue Avenue. 
(b)
Provision of traffic signal facilities for the secondary roads mentioned 
in Part C.1 (a) above.  
2.
Carrying out of civil works and provision of traffic signal facilities to 
provide comprehensive corridor treatment that will establish priority for secondary 
roads, including pavement rehabilitation, drainage and sidewalk improvements, and 
measures to safeguard pedestrians and improve street level interchange among public 
transport modes, for the following road links: (i) D. Romualdez-San Marcelino, (ii) 
Legarda, (iii) Quezon Boulevard; (iv) Pedro Gil/New Panaderos, (v) Tayuman, (vi) M. de 
la Fuente (Trabajo), (vii) Jacobo Fajardo; (viii) South Super Highway West/East 
Service Road; (ix) Quirino Highway, and (x) 10th Avenue. 
Part D:
Non-Motorized Transport 
Construction of a bicycle lane network in the City of Marikina, including 
approximately 50 km of bikeways on existing roads and 16 km of bikeways along the 
Marikina river banks, provision of physical barriers for adjacent traffic, designation 
of bicycle lanes, and pedestrianization around schools and market areas, provision of 
bicycle parking facilities, lighting, a public awareness campaign, and a bicycle 
safety program.
Part E:
Institution Building
Strengthening MMDA’s capacity for project implementation, coordination of 
transport development plans and programs, and management of traffic in the cities and 
municipalities of Metro Manila. 
Page  9
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
1.
The Recipient shall maintain its Bikeways Program Office  headed by a Project 
Manager with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, assisted by such 
other competent staff in adequate numbers having such functions, responsibilities, 
funds and other facilities as shall be required to enable the Bikeways Program Office 
to undertake the implementation and overall supervision and monitoring of Part D of 
the Project.
2. 
The Recipient shall: carry out Part D of the Project in accordance with the 
Project Implementation Plan, and shall not amend, delete, suspend, or waive any part 
of the Project Implementation Plan without the prior approval of the Bank.
3.
The Recipient shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out Part D of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about September 30 of each year, commencing September 30, 2002, the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out Part D of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out Part D of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by October 31, 2005 or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report of September 30, 2005 referred to in subparagraph (b) of 
this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of Part D of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views 
on the matter.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods  shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
Page  10
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Republic of the 
Philippines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply with respect to the following contracts:
(i)
Each contract for works; and
(ii)
Each contract for goods.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 above, of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
Page  11
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely of national consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for Selection
1.
Individuals
Services that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individuals in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
Page  12
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)and (3), set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of Part D 
of the Project; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part D of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time 
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $100,000 
to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
Page  13
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated 
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
