Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7058 PH
Project Agreement
(Metro Manila Urban Transport Integration Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
Metropolitan Manila Development Authority
Dated August 8, 2001 
LOAN NUMBER 7058 PH
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 8, 2001 between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and METROPOLITAN MANILA DEVELOPMENT 
AUTHORITY (MMDA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Republic of the 
Philippines (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower 
an amount equal to sixty million Dollars ($60,000,000) on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that MMDA agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
(B)
by a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
MMDA, a portion of the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will 
be made available to MMDA on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS MMDA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.
Page  2
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) MMDA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Parts A.1, C.1(a) and E of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, 
social and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and MMDA shall otherwise agree, MMDA shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to the 
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of works, 
goods and services required for Parts A.1, C.1(a) and E of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) MMDA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts A.1, 
C.1(a) and E of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, MMDA shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and MMDA, a plan on the execution and initial 
operation of Parts A.1, C.1(a) and E of the Project; its cost and 
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by 
MMDA and the Bank of their respective obligations under the 
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Loan; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
MMDA on said plan.
Section 2.04. MMDA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary  
Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, MMDA shall not take or concur in 
any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving 
the Subsidiary  Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) MMDA shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts A.1, C.1(a) and E of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary  
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
MMDA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A.1, C.1(a) or E of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by MMDA of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary  Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of MMDA 
Section 3.01. MMDA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and technical practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
Section 3.02. MMDA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and technical practices. 
Page  3
Section 3.03. MMDA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. MMDA shall comply with environmental impact assessment procedures 
that have previously been agreed with the Bank in the Environmental Management Plan in 
the procurement and implementation of all works carried out under Parts of the 
Project. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  MMDA shall establish not later than December 31, 2001 and 
thereafter maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and 
prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable 
to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial 
condition and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
MMDA shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for such year as so audited and (B) the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement, MMDA  shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank 
for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) 
of said Section 4.01  in order to enable MMDA, not later than December 31, 2001, or 
such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management 
Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for Parts 
A.1, C.1(a) and E of the Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for said components of the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and 
(B) shows separately expenditures financed out of that portion of 
the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report 
and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of that portion of 
the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in implementation of Parts A.1, 
C.1(a) and E of the Project, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report, and (B) explains variances between the 
actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under Parts A.1, C1.(a) and E 
of the Project and expenditures under contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the period covered by 
said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
Page  4
this Section, MMDA shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank 
and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, 
a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of MMDA 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction 
  and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or         (202)477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Metropolitan Manila Development Authority:
MMDA Building, EDSA Corner Orense Street,
Guadalupe, Makati City, 
Metro Manila, Philippines 
Facsimile:
(63-2) 882-2630
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of MMDA, may be 
taken or executed by the Chairman of the MMDA or by such other person or persons as 
MMDA shall designate in writing, and MMDA shall furnish to the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Page  5
Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
 AND DEVELOPMENT 
By /s/ Robert Vance Pulley
Authorized Representative
Metropolitan Manila Development Authority
By /s/ Rogello Uranza
Authorized Representative
