Dokxnat of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Reprt No. 12873
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANKAR
SECOND RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1385-BA)
MARCH 23, 1994
Agriculture and Natural Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the perfornce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bankl authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
(Kyats per US$)
Year                               Exchange Rate
1983-84                                  7.80
1984-85                                  8.25
1985-86                                  8.45
1986-87                                  7.48
1987-88                                  6.48
1988-89                                  6.35
1989-90                                  6.60
1990-91                                  6.45
1991-92                                  6.50
1992-93                                  6.24
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
English/US Units                            Metric Units
1 (mile) (mi)                                  1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)                                    0.405 hectares (ha)
1 long ton (lg ton) (2240 lb)   =              1016 kilogram (kg)
1 lb per acre                    =             1.12 kg/ha
2 imperial pints                 =             1.14 liters
2 U.S. pints                     =             0.95 liters
1 lb                                           .4535 kg
1 furlong                        =             220 yards
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AC       -  Agricultural Corporation
ARCPC    -  Applied Research Center for Plantation Crops
CTA      -   Chief Technical Advisor
drc      -   Dry rubber content
EAlAN    -  Agriculture and Natural Resources Operations Division
ERR      -   Economic Rate of Return
IDA      -   International Development Association
FAO      -   Food and Agriculture Organization
K/day    -   Kyats per day
M        -  million
MAF      -  Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
MAS      -  Myanma Agriculture Service
MFE      -  Myanma Farms Enterprise
MPF      -  Ministry of Planning and Finance
NBK      -  Nyaung Binkwin Rubber Estate
NP       -  New Planting
P-M      -   Person-months
PCD      -   Plantation Crops Division
PCR      -   Project Completion Report
RP       -   Replanting
RS       -   Rubber Section
RSS      -   Ribbed Smoked Sheet Rubber
SAR      -   Staff Appraisal Report
S/2 D/2  -  Half spiral alternate day tapping system
SVRE     -   Sittang Valley Rubber Estate
TBZ      -  Thanbyuzayat Rubber Estate
UNDP     -  United Nations Development Program



FOR OICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-Generl
Operations Evaluation                                     March 23, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Myanmar
Second Rubber Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1385-BA)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Myanmar - Second Rubber Rehabilitation
Project (Credit 1385-BA). Parts I and m were prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
and Part H by the Borrower.
The project achieved its objectives of establishing 8,000 acres of rubber on existing
government estates, bringing to maturity 4,500 acres established under the first project, establishing a
new 3,000 acre estate, and improving the facilities and equipment of these estates. The project also
provided improved planting material for smallholders, in response to local interest, which had not
been planned. The restimated ERR was 18% compared to 17% estimated at appraisal, mainly due to
reduced costs. This outcome is considered satisfactory. Project completion was delayed by three
years, primarily because of political disturbances and insurgency. Sustainability is considered likely,
provided civil disorder is not renewed.
In collaboration with the project, UNDP supported highly effective long-term technical
assistance and a training program. Significant improvements in management and technical skills were
achieved, and institutional development was substantial.
The Borrower, in Part II, notes the value of field visits and the exchange of views on
technical matters during supervision.
The completion report provides an adequate account of project implementation. No
audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR 
Second Rubber Rehabilitation Prolect
(Credit 1385-BA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pace No.
Preface     .     .    .     .    .     .     .     .     .     .    .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .    .     .     .    .     .    .     .     .     .     .     .     .  i
Evaluation  Summary   . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .                                   iii
PART  I    PROJECT REVIEW  FROM BANK'S  PERSPECTIVE
Project  Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                    1
Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                     1
Project  Objectives  and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . .                                   2
Project  Design  and Organization    . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                  3
Project  Implementation  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                   3
Project  Results    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                   8
Project  Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                    9
Bank  Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                   10
Borrower  Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                   10
Project  Relationship  . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                  10
Consulting  Services    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                  10
Project  Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                   11
Findings  and Lessons  Learned  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                 11
PART  II   PROJECT  REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S  PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . .                                    12
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Loans  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .                                  15
Project  Timetable    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                 15
Credit Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                    16
Project Implementation
Key  Indicators  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                  16
Project Cost and Financing
A.  Project  Costs  . .  . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               17
B.  Project  Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                 17
Project Results
A.  Direct  Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                 18
B.  Economic  Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                 18
C.  Studies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                  19
Status  of  Covenants    .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .                               19
Use of Bank Resources
A.  Staff  Inputs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                 20
B.  Missions    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                 20
APPENDIX
Table    1   .      .     .    .    .     .    .     .    .     .    .     .    .    .    .    .     .    .    .    .    .    .    .     .    .  21
Table    2   .      .     .    .    .     .    .    .     .     .    .     .    .    .    .    .     .    .    .    .     .    .    .    .     .  22
Table  3   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                   23
Table    4   .      .     .    .    .     .    .    .     .     .    .     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .     .    .     .    .    .  24
Table    5   .       .     .    .    .     .    .    .     .     .    .     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .     .    .     .    .    .  25
Table    6   .      .    .     .    .    .     .    .     .     .    .     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .     .  26
MAP IBRD 17009R1
This docwment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Second Rubber Rehabilitation Proiect
(Credit 1385-BA)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Rubber
Rehabilitation Project in Myanmar, for which Credit No. 1385-BA in the amount of
SDR 8.4 million was approved on June 14, 1983. The Credit was closed March 31,
1993, three years behind schedule. The undisbursed balance of SDR 384,612.12 was
cancelled August 30, 1993, the date of the final disbursement.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by a staff member of the
Agriculture and Natural Resources Operations Division, Country Department I, East
Asia and Pacific Regional Office (EAlAN) . It incorporates information obtained
from the usual Bank documents and supervision reports; and draft reports prepared
by staff of the Plantation Crops Division (PCD) of Myanma Farms Enterprise (MFE)
and the new retired Chief Technical Adviser (CTA).  It was reviewed by EAlAN
staff.
The Borrower prepared Part II which provided information on
developments and achievements since the final supervision mission.   These
comments have been incorporated in the PCR.
The Asia Regional Office wishes to express its appreciation to the
officials of the Borrower for their valuable assistance in preparing the PCR.






- iii -
PROJZCT COMPLZTION REPORT
Second Rubber Rehabilitation Proiect
(Credit 1385-BA)
Evaluation Sumnarv
Obiectives
1.        The main objectives of this Second Rubber Rehabilitation Project in
Myanmar were to build on the foundation laid down in the first project, expanding
rubber production on government estates promoting exports and foreign exchange
earnings, continuing institutional strengthening and establishing the necessary
supporting infrastructure that would pave the way for future participation by the
private sector.   The main components were establishing 11,000 acres of high
yielding rubber on government estates, bringing to maturity 4,500 acres planted
during the first project, technical assistance and local and overseas training.
Proiect Implementation
2.        The project was jointly supported by an IDA credit of SDR 8.4 million
(equivalent to US$ 9.00 million at Board approval) and an initial UNDP grant of
US$ 0.9 million which was subsequently increased to US$1.0 million.
3.        Actual IDA disbursement was SDR 8.015 million which yielded US$10.48
million due to the depreciation of the US dollar. Total project cost was Kyats
97.73 million (about US$14.7 million), about 8% below the appraisal estimate.
4.        The project got off to a good start.  Implementation was generally
satisfactory during the first three years except for the usual problems of slow
procurement. By the end of the fourth year actual planting was only ten percent
below the cumulative appraisal target.   Thereafter,  there were three major
setbacks, including indictment on criminal charges of the estate manager of a new
estate (he was subsequently exonerated but not before the management suffered
considerable  damage);      political  disturbances  which  disrupted  project
implementation in 1988; and the burning by insurgents of 1,575 acres of newly
planted rubber on the new estate in 1991. As a consequence, the credit closing
date was extended three times for a total of three years.
5.        The major areas of concern were procurement, field maintenance and
tapping and processing. In common with all Myanmar projects, procurement was
affected by cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. However, Government eventually
took positive steps to break the major bottleneck by splitting the Technical
Specifications Committee into three sub-committees and separating out routine
procurement of fertilizers and other estate supplies which affected project
implementation. Problems arose in field maintenance because of labor shortages
and the inability to adopt a contract system of weeding to overcome labor
shortages.   Tapping and processing standards varied widely.   The dry rubber



- iv -
content (drc) of rubber was low on some estates and it was obvious that pilferage
of latex was taking place on some estates. Project Managers are now testing new
systems of remuneration to reduce the incidence of pilferage. Some success is
being achieved as drc levels were within the normal range on the estates visited
during the last supervision mission.
Project Results
6.        Project implementation was generally satisfactory despite the setbacks
that were encountered between 1988 and 1991. The most direct achievement of the
project was the successful establishment of 11,153 acres of high yielding rubber
trees on government estates, slightly above the appraisal target of 11,000 acres.
Also, as a result of the project, the introduction of 20 new rubber clones, the
overhaul of nursery practices and innovations in planting techniques and field
maintenance should serve to increase planting success of more vigorous high
yielding trees and produce a long term beneficial effect in increasing rubber
production on government estates. However, what is even more significant is the
support given to smallholders through limited training and the supply of improved
planting material (at cost), and the stimulus this has given to rehabilitation
of the industry. It is interesting to note that as a result of the impact of the
project replanting by smallholders has risen from about 196 acres in 1988 to over
1,000 acres in each of the three succeeding years, to 7,500 acres in FY 1992-93.
Government has approved a program for planting 127,500 acres of rubber over the
three year period FY 94/95 to FY 96/97. In preparation for this the private
sector is establishing nurseries; project management is training additional clone
identifiers; and nurseries are being registered to protect the integrity of the
planting material and ensure the orderly development of the industry.
7.        The technical assistance component of the project was also successful.
The industry has now progressed from total reliance on imported clonal seeds
through bare-rooted brown-budded stumps to poly-bagged tree budding and young
budding at the nursery level.   In the field, innovations have included deep
planting and controlled pruning.   The net result of these innovations is to
produce more vigorous higher yielding trees, better able to survive the harsh
climatic conditions, which will come into production in about 7-8 years instead
of the 8-9 years estimated at appraisal.
8.        The local and overseas training programs were successful.  All except
one trainee successfully completed the fellowship program and returned to work
in the industry.   The short courses and study tours overseas were equally
successful and served to expose project staff and six private rubber growers to
the latest developments in the rubber industry. Local training raised the level
of husbandry significantly not only for government staff but also among private
rubber growers.
9.        The economic rate of return (ERR) re-estimated for the PCR was about
18% compared to 17% calculated at appraisal.  The slight increase in the ERR
compared to that calculated at appraisal is due mainly to reduced investment in
imported equipment, vehicles and civil works.



-v 
Sustainability
10.       There is little doubt as to the technical sustainability of the
project because of staff training and the improved technologies that have been
adopted on government estates. Even more important is the demonstration effect
in rekindling the interest of the private sector in rubber.
11.       The main project risks relate to pilferage of latex and the low
international price of rubber. Project management is already having some success
in combating pilferage through wage incentives. Myanmar is a low cost producer
of rubber and the industry should remain viable even at the forecasted low
prices.
Findings and Lessons Learned
12.       The following lessons were learned in the course of implementing this
project:
(a) Having a full-time resident technical advisor with practical
field experience played a major role in staff development and
improvement of agroeconomic practices;
(b) Budgrafts were superior to clonal seeds;
(c) Moving from bare-root budded stumps to polybagged planting
material counteracted the harsh effects of the weather;
(d) Moving eventually from brown-budding to green-budding and young-
budding increased the number of buddings per person per day while
achieving a higher percentage of budding success;
(e) Tapping training needs to be emphasized prior to trees coming
into production to ensure efficient and long-term exploitation;
and
(f) Successful rehabilitation of the government estates provided a
demonstration effect for smallholder rubber rehabilitation.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMMR
Second Rubber Rehabilitation Project (CREDIT 1385-BA)
Part 1: Project Review from Bank's Perspective
1.          Project Identity
Name: Second Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Credit Number: 1385-BA
RVP Unit: East Asia and Pacific
Country: Union of Myanmar
Sector: Agriculture
Subsector: Tree Crops
2.          Background
2.1         Agriculture has traditionally been the dominant sector in the economy
of Myanmar.   At the time of project appraisal in 1982 agriculture accounted
directly for about 45% of GDP, 65% of the labor force and 80% of total exports.
Rice was the major agricultural and export commodity.   It was also the most
important source of government revenue through implicit taxation from government
controlled pricing and exportation.   Rice was planted over 50% of the total
cultivated area (25 million acres) and accounted for about one-third of total
agricultural output.   Other main crops included sesame  (15%), pulses  (8%),
groundnut (5%) and industrial crops (5%) . Plantation crops consisting mostly of
rubber accounted for about 4% of the total area.
2.2         Rubber had been introduced in the far south of Myanmar about 100
years earlier and the total area at appraisal (1982) was about 200,000 acres.
The industry, which was severely disrupted during World War II, suffered even
greater disruption due to insurgency activity after independence in 1948 and
particularly following the Land Nationalization Acts of 1948 and 1953. Although
smallholder operation was allowed, productivity fell because of inadequate
maintenance  and failure to replant and re-invest  in the industry.   Both
smallholders and the remaining large private estates were reluctant to
rehabilitate fields or factories, primarily because of the fear of future
nationalization, and also because of the general lack of incentives due to low
government procurement prices for rubber, and lack of long term credit facilities
or a proper rehabilitation program. As a result of the low procurement prices
for rubber and an over-valued currency, smuggling of rubber overland into
Thailand and by sea to Malaysia was rampant and the government was reluctant to
provide indirect grants which could be recovered by a cess as was done in the
case of Thailand, Malaysia and Sri Lanka. Since there was no agency capable of
administering long term credit to rubber producers, replanting was neglected,
maintenance standards fell and the rubber industry lapsed into a state of decay.
2.3         Recognizing the need to diversify the economy and to find additional
sources of foreign exchange, Government sought Bank assistance to rehabilitate



the industry.   However, given the constraints to rehabilitating the private
sector, Government and the International Development Association (IDA) agreed
that the first project should be restricted to the state sector, which would
provide for the creation of a competent staff well trained in modern techniques
of rubber production; introduce improved planting material; and establish the
necessary supporting infrastructure that would pave the way for future
participation by the private sector.
2.4         At the time of appraisal of the first project (1977), Government
controlled and operated 15 estates on 40,000 acres accounting for about 20% of
total rubber area. Smallholdings of less than 100 acres accounted for 54% and
large private estates 26% of area.
2.5         The first project with an IDA Credit of US$ 4.5 million, supplemented
by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) assistance was approved in March
1979. That project was successful in establishing high yielding rubber on 4,500
ac on government estates, in rehabilitating existing processing facilities, in
providing training and in introducing modern management practices. The Credit
closed on December 31, 1985.
3.          Proiect Objectives and Description
3.1         The objective of the second project was to build on the foundation
laid down in the first project, expanding rubber production and promoting
exports  and  foreign  exchange  earnings  while  continuing  institutional
strengthening. This would be achieved by bringing to maturity the 4,500 acres
of high yielding rubber established in the first project, through further
rehabilitation of government-owned estates, staff-training and research.  The
principal features of the project were:
(a)   Estate Rehabilitation
(1)   establish  8,000  acres  of high yielding  rubber  on eight
existing government estates;
(ii)  establish a new 3,000 acres estate;
(iii) provide machinery, equipment, vehicles, processing facilities,
offices and staff quarters.
(b)   Completion of Phase I
Bring to maturity the 4,500 acres planted under the first project.
(c)   Technical Assistance and Training
Provide:
(i)   40 person-months of technical assistance
(ii)  96 person-months of post-graduate training
(iii) 16 person-months of short courses overseas
(iv)  35 person-months of group training, conferences and seminars
overseas.



-3-
(d)   Research
(i)   establish a foliar analysis laboratory
(ii) implement a program of adaptive research
(iii) conduct a socio-economic survey of rubber smallholders.
4.          Project Desiqn and Organization
4.1         The project design was simple and its implementation was expected to
benefit from the experience gained from the earlier project. The project had a
clear conceptual  foundation which fitted in well with Government's goals of
diversifying the economy and increasing production and export earnings from
rubber. As with the earlier project, the implementing agency was the Rubber
Section (RS) of the Plantation Crops Division (PCD) of the Agricultural
Corporation (AC), subsequently renamed Myanma Agriculture Service (MAS) . MAS was
reorganized during 1990 and the PCD was transferred to the Myanma Farms
Enterprise (MFE), another agency under the Ministry of Agriculture.
4.2         As with the first project, UNDP funded a Technical Assistance Project
(MYA/81/008) executed by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) to support
the project. It provided for 34 person-months of foreign consultant services
including a Chief Technical Adviser (CTA) and short term consultants. Under the
first project the technical assistance program was sub-contracted by FAO to an
international consulting firm. The project coordinator was resident for only the
first year, with periodic visits thereafter. The consulting firm provided high-
level technical expertise and successfully engaged in preparing technical manuals
and training of staff.  However, some dissatisfaction was expressed by local
project staff that the consultants tended to produce a "visiting agent" type of
report, recording criticisms without providing enough on-the-spot assistance for
solving problems.
4.3         It was therefore agreed between IDA, UNDP and Government that UNDP
would provide a Chief Technical Adviser (CTA) for 24 months during which time he
would be continuously resident in Myanmar. It was also agreed that the person
selected would be a highly experienced, field-oriented rubber specialist, with
special knowledge of plantation development and practical experience in clonal
material production, nursery management and field maintenance. He would also be
expected to play a major role in staff development with attention being paid to
the development of management skills as well as to agronomic practices.  The
successful candidate was previously the CTA for the successful rubber
rehabilitation program in Thailand.
5.          Proiect Implementation
5.1         Project Cost and Financinq.  Actual total project cost, Kyats 97.73
M, was about 8% below the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) estimate of K 106.66
million due mainly to reduced expenditure on civil works, equipment and vehicles.
5.2         The project was jointly supported by an IDA credit of SDR 8.4 million
(equivalent to US$9.00 million at Board approval) and an initial UNDP grant of
US$ 0.9 million which was subsequently increased to US$1.0 million.   Due to
depreciation of the US dollar, the IDA credit of SDR 8.015 million ultimately



-4-
yielded US$10.48 million. It is interesting to note, however, that during the
project period between 1983 and 1993, the official exchange rate for the Myanmar
currency, the Kyat (K), actually reflected an appreciation in value relative to
the US dollar rising from US$1.00 = K 7.8 to US$1.00 = K6.24, while the parallel
market rate of the local Kyat fell to about US$1.00 = K 80-100.
5.3         The Credit Agreement was amended for the following reasons:
(i)   to reduce the allocations for civil works, estate supplies
and chemicals, and equipment and vehicles, which had been
overestimated at appraisal;
(ii) to eliminate the provision of US$70,000 for Technical
Assistance which was entirely provided through increased
funding by UNDP;
(iii) to provide funding for importation of petroleum for the
project, because of local shortages; and
(iv) to provide additional funding for field operating costs, which
were difficult to separate from estate supplies and chemicals
in project accounts.
5.4         Prolect Schedule.  The project got off to a good start.  It achieved
its planting target for the first year and by the end of the fourth year it was
only ten percent short of the cumulative target. Thereafter, it suffered three
major setbacks. First, management problems developed on the new estate due to
the indictment on criminal charges of a very successful estate manager, who was
subsequently acquitted but not before estate management had suffered considerable
damage. Then, political disturbances broke out throughout the country in 1988
and disrupted project implementation. Finally, insurgents destroyed 1,575 acres
on the new estate in 1991.
5.5         As a consequence, the credit closing date was extended three times
for a total of three years to complete project planting, to procure essential
estate supplies and chemicals which had been delayed due to cumbersome
procurement procedures, and to help maintain the momentum which the project had
given to private replanting in the absence of support to smallholders.
5.6         The total area planted in the project as a whole was 12,728 acres;
11,153 acres survived. Details of project planting are shown in Tables 1 and 2
of the Appendix.
5.7         Planting Development. About 42% of the planting material used in the
first project was obtained from clonal seeds imported from Malaysia partly
because suitable budwood was not available locally and partly because local staff
lacked experience in budgrafting. However, local staff obtained training and
experience in using budded stamps during the first project and the decision was
taken to rely entirely on budgrafted material in the second project.
5.8         Considerable  difficulty was  experienced at  first  in achieving
planting success largely because the bare-rooted brown-budded material being used



- 5 -
could not withstand the unfavorable climatic conditions. By the end of the third
project year, however, the difficulties with budgrafting were overcome and a
shift was also made from brown-budding to polybag green-budding and young budding
with remarkable success.
5.9         Other cultural practices which have been successfully introduced to
further enhance the establishment and growth of the rubber plant include deep
planting and controlled pruning. By planting deep, the root system can reach
moisture reserves sooner and can draw water to survive the six month dry period.
Controlled pruning helps to produce shorter and healthier plants.
5.10        The clonal composition suggested at appraisal has been varied to
allow for the introduction of other newer clones which are good in growth, yield
and tolerance to Phytophora leaf disease. BPM 24, one of the new clones performs
well in Thailand and RRIC 100 and RRIC 110 are very high yielders in Sri Lanka
and Cote d'Ivoire. A comparison of the clonal composition suggested at appraisal
and the actual clones used by the project is as follows:
Clone                                               Appraisal         Actual
(%)             (%)
GT 1                                                          50              25
RRIM 600                                                      10              20
PB 235                                                        10               8
PB 260                                                        10              12
PR 255                                                        10               5
PR 261                                                        10               5
RRIC 100, RRIC 110, BPM 24, PB 5/51, etc.                      0              25
100             100
5.11        Field Maintenance.  The level of field maintenance has not kept pace
with the achievements in nursery management and planting.   Problems existed
throughout the project period due to labor shortages, late supplies of herbicides
and fertilizers and the inability to adopt a contract system of weeding to
overcome the labor problems. The customary method of weeding on a daily rate is
slow, costly and inefficient. Yet management did not succeed in introducing a
system of contract weeding. With the problems being experienced with labor, it
is essential for management to introduce a system of contract weeding at least
for the first year, with the application of chemicals to control weed growth
thereafter. Since Credit closing, Government has introduced a contract system
of weeding on some estates. This is working well.
5.12        Problems associated with the cumbersome procurement procedures which
plagued the first project also affected the current project. There has been some
improvement since 1991 when the Technical Specification Committee, which had been
the major bottleneck, was split into three sub-committees in an effort to improve
processing and clearance.   On several occasions fertilizer application and
spraying of weeds had to be delayed or postponed. In spite of the many problems
in field maintenance, however, the growth of rubber trees has been satisfactory.
Rubber trees on most estates are expected to reach tapping size 7-8 years after
planting instead of the 8-9 years estimated at appraisal. This gain of one year



-6-
is a result of better field supervision, the use of suitable and fast growing
clonal material, and the adoption of innovative cultural practices.
5.13        Tapping and Processing.   Tapping and processing standards varied
widely on project estates. Wounding, bark consumption, absence of monthly inch-
marking on panels, tapping cuts going beyond the rear guidelines, absence of cup-
hangers and spouts, and the use of coconut shells or small latex cups were
noticed in the newly mature fields on some project estates. The situation was
particularly severe where there were shortages of skilled labor and tappers.
These occurrences need to be rectified urgently to prevent irreparable damage to
the rubber tree which would reduce its productive life. A training program on
tapping and processing to rectify this is being implemented for field staff,
factory supervisors, workers and private rubber growers.
5.14        Another area of concern is the low dry rubber content (drc) which was
being obtained on several estates. The latex on some estates had a drc of under
15% which is less than half the normal level of field latex (30-35% when tapped
on s/2,d/2 intensity practiced on project estates). The unusually low drc is
evidence of pilferage and dilution of latex.   Such wide-spread pilferage poses
serious problems for the future as it most likely involves a substantial section
of the local population.   If not eradicated it could eventually ruin the
government estates financially.   A similar occurrence was experienced on two
estates in the previous project and it was only stopped after strong action was
taken by PCD headquarters.   Once again strong action is urgently required.
Management has been urged to institute a system of spot checks to establish yield
norms to expose the perpetrators and to take effective action to help to prevent
or at least to reduce the loss of rubber. Project managers are now testing new
systems of remuneration to reduce the incidence of pilferage. As a result the
drc on the estates visited was within the normal range during the last
supervision mission.
5.15        Civil Works.  The civil works program was revised to eliminate items
which were not needed urgently and expenditure on civil works was reduced by
about 50% of the appraisal estimate, which was overestimated.  The total number
of houses was reduced from 103 to 76; seven proposed new offices were eliminated,
and the total number of buildings for factories, smoke houses, packing sheds and
godowns were reduced from 28 to 21.
5.16        Technical Assistance.    IDA allocated US$  70,000  for technical
assistance but this was not utilized because the GOM preferred grants.  UNDP
increased its allocation from US$ .9 million to US$ 1.0 million to finance the
Technical Assistance Project (MYA/81/008) to support the project. This provided
44.3 person-months of foreign consultant services including a Chief Technical
Adviser (CTA) , 147 months of overseas training for 32 local personnel and
provision of office and laboratory eqlipment  and vehicles.    This program
succeeded in improving the management, and technical and training skills of local
counterparts. On-the-spot guidance and supervision of nursery and field planting
activities were particularly effective as can be seen from achievements in the
nursery and in the fields. Unfortunately, the 1988 political unrest slowed down
planting activities.   It also caused destruction of the atomic absorption
spectrophotometer, which was provided under the UNDP project and which was
temporarily installed at the Land Use Department at Gyogone, Yangon, for the



- 7 -
purpose of training staff on soil and leaf, sample analyses. This unfortunate
incident made it impossible for the project to establish a unit for soil and
foliar analysis.   However,  there were other activities which made positive
impacts in achieving project objectives as follows:
(a)   Socio-Economic Survey.
The survey was successfully carried out by the Institute of
Economics of the University of Yangon on a sub-contract basis. It
identified the problems, needs and factors affecting rubber
smallholders  in two sample districts.   Recent changes made by
Government to adopt an open-market policy and to encourage the
private sector following the survey have stimulated the interest and
enthusiasm of smallholders. A third Rubber Rehabilitation Project
with special emphasis on smallholders was also identified but
processing ceased after the political disturbances in 1988.
(b)   Establishment of Applied Research Center for Perennial Crops
The need for an Applied Research Center for Perennial Crops (ARCPC)
in Myanmar was identified under the project, which formulated and
produced the project document for the establishment of the Center.
The Center has now been constructed with UNDP/FAO assistance and a
program of research is being developed (para. 6.6).  Government
proposes to pursue smallholder development with its own resources
and with assistance from UNDP/FAO.
(c)   Local Training
Training courses were organized for staff, workers and rubber-
growers on topics such as nursery establishment and maintenance,
bud-grafting, planting, tapping and field up-keep.  Provision was
made to train 480 staff; but, in fact, the project was able to train
1,112 staff. In addition 559 smallholders and some field staff from
the Ministry of Defence and the Agency for the Development of the
Frontier Area were trained in tapping and other aspects of rubber
husbandry.
(d)   Overseas Training.
The UNDP/FAO project made provision for 147 person-months (P-M) of
overseas training for 32 persons, involving four post-graduate
fellowships, eight short courses, and group training and study tours
for 20 persons.   Of the four selected for fellowships,  three
successfully completed their training and returned to work in the
Myanma Agriculture Service (MAS). The fourth candidate who went to
the USA failed the TOEFL test and had to return without enrolling in
the M. Sc. course. Two earlier post-graduate candidates in Plant
Pathology and Weed Science who were sent abroad from PCD through
other sponsors successfully completed their courses and resumed
duties in PCD (now a part of MFE), while the candidates who were
trained under the UNDP fellowships resumed duties in MAS.   Nine



- 8 -
persons participated in the short courses and returned to contribute
to the work of the division. Twenty persons including a group of
six private rubber growers participated in group training activities
overseas. All in all, the overseas training program was implemented
successfully and has contributed immensely to the development of the
rubber industry in Myanmar.
(e)   Research
Small-scale adaptive research programs were included in both Phase
I and  Phase  II Rubber Rehabilitation  Projects.    Most  of  the
experiments carried out in Phase I had limited success as the staff
involved were untrained and inexperienced and were not yet ready to
undertake complicated research work. A great degree of success was
achieved under the present project by concentrating on establishing
trials with imported rubber clones and with various types of
planting material and various planting dates. Although it is still
too early to draw conclusions from any of the trials, preliminary
records show interesting and promising results.   The ARCPC will
continue to manage these experiments after the credit closes. The
program  of  advanced  research  proposed  at  appraisal  proved
inappropriate and the covenant relating to annual review was not
pursued.
6.          Project Results
6.1         The most direct result of the project is the successful establishment
of 11,153 acres of high yielding rubber trees on government estates, slightly
above the appraisal target of 11,000 acres. Under the project, the introduction
of 20 new rubber clones, the overhaul of nursery practices and innovations such
as one time planting, deep planting and controlled pruning should increase
planting success of more vigorous high yielding trees and produce a long term
beneficial effect in increasing rubber production on government estates.
However, what is even more significant is the support given to smallholders
through limited training and the supply of improved planting material (at cost),
and the stimulus this has given to rehabilitation of the industry.
6.2         There  has  been  a  tremendous  resurgence  of  interest  among
smallholders.   The project provided the vehicle through which Government has
responded to and encouraged this response. Replanting by smallholders has risen
from about 196 acres in 1988 to over 1,000 acres in each of the three succeeding
years.   Private farmers planted 7,500 acres in FY 1992-93.   Government has
approved a program for planting 127,500 acres over the three year period FY 94/95
to FY 96/97.
6.3         In 1988, IDA identified and initiated preparation of a Smallholder
Rehabilitation Project, which would have been the successor to this project; but
processing was suspended because of the domestic situation. In the meanwhile,
UNDP/FAO has funded a project for establishment of an Applied Research Center for
Plantation Crops. Under the project, Government of Myanmar is trying to recruit
a short term consultant to advise on Smallholder Development and Development
Support Communication.



- 9 -
6.4         The private  sector  is already establishing private  nurseries.
Project management is training additional clone identifiers; and arrangements
were made for registration of nurseries to ensure the orderly development of the
industry and to preserve the integrity of the new planting material. Ten clone
identifiers have been trained and will be assigned to inspection of private
nurseries.  Seven private nurseries have been registered already and six are in
the process of registration.
6.5         Preliminary data collected for the first four years of Phase-i mature
plantations indicate that yields from those trees are about 15W higher than
appraisal estimates for this project. With the innovations introduced in this
project and improvement in the level of tapping, yields should go even higher.
But, evidence of pilferage and dilution of latex was noted during earlier
supervision missions.   Although management is taking steps to control this
problem and drc readings within the normal range were observed on the estates
visited during the last supervision mission, it was felt prudent to use the more
conservative yield estimates from the appraisal report in re-estimating the
Economic Rate of  Return (ERR) for the PCR.   On this basis the ERR for the
project re-estimated for the PCR is about 18% compared to 17% calculated at
appraisal.   The slight increase in the ERR compared to that calculated at
appraisal is due mainly to reduced investment in imported equipment, vehicles and
civil works.
6.6         The establishment of the UNDP/FAO funded Applied Research Center for
Plantation Crops (ARCPC) is a development resulting from the implementation of
this project. This center will undertake applied research on innovative rubber
planting technologies, nursery establishment, clone tests and assessment, field
maintenance, fertilizer applications, pests and disease control, tapping and
processing, and also on other tree-crops introduced from foreign countries. In
addition to research works, it will also serve as a training center for trainers
on applicable new technologies for effective dissemination at the farm level.
6.7         The environmental impact of the project was minimal.  The project
replaced old rubber trees with new higher-producing clones. Less than 10% of the
area needed terracing to prevent run-off and soil erosion, and the scattered
nature of the planting limited the impact of such run-off. Where the land was
sloping, contour lines were established before planting took place. Also a mixed
cover crop consisting of Calopocronium and Centrosema species was planted between
the contour lines to prevent erosion. Only small amounts of agro-chemicals were
used, with no known adverse environmental effects.
7.          Project Sustainability
7.1         There is little doubt as to the technical sustainability of this
project. Some of the best clones have been introduced. The trees have been well
established. Improved technologies have been introduced and the staff has been
properly trained.   What is even more important is that the interest of the
private sector which accounts for about 80% of the industry has been rekindled.
Government has been supplying the private sector with planting materials at cost
and a limited amount of training is being given.



- 10 -
7.2         The main project risks relate to the low drc of latex and the low
international price of rubber. There is little doubt that the low drc of latex
is evidence of large scale pilferage.   Project management is attempting to
control this with some degree of success.   Government has introduced a new
incentive system by treating tappers virtually as share-croppers by paying them
a percentage of the crop. Security has also been increased.
7.3         Low international rubber prices pose further problems.  The price of
rubber in 1990 constant dollars fell from US$2.26 per kg in 1980 to a low of
US$0.94 in 1993. Prices are expected to rise gradually to US$1.14 per kg. by the
year 2000, falling off again to US$1.13 in the year 2005. However, Myanmar is
a low cost producer and the industry should remain economically viable even at
the forecasted low prices.
8.          Bank Performance
8.1         Bank  performance  was  satisfactory.    The  Bank  was  generally
sympathetic and responsive to the problems associated with project implementation
in Myanmar. Although it was necessary to suspend processing of the follow-up
Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project, the Bank was appreciative of the
actions Government had taken to liberalize prices and to encourage the private
sector through training and sale of planting materials, and even agreed to a
third extension of the project closing date to maintain the momentum that had
developed in assisting the private sector.
8.2         Of 15 supervision missions to Myanmar by the task manager over a
period of 10 years, 12 had the rubber project as the main focus and during 3
missions, opportunity was taken to review the project activities and problems
while concentrating on other projects. Of the 12 rubber-focussed supervision
missions, six included a tree crop specialist, who provided technical advice to
project staff.
9.          Borrower Performance
9.1         Overall, the Borrower discharged its responsibilities satisfactorily.
The favorable trend in project implementation was due mainly to increased efforts
in solving the technical difficulties in nursery management and plant
establishment. Nursery management and field planting has now attained a high
standard. Field maintenance continued to be a problem because of shortages of
labor and difficulty in implementing a contract system of weeding. Delays in
procurement of estate supplies, chemicals and fertilizers continued to plague
project implementation. But the Borrower took steps to try to break the chief
bottle-neck by splitting the Technical Specifications Committee into three sub-
committees and separating out routine procurement. A contract system for weeding
has been introduced on some estates on a pilot basis with success. An incentive
system has also been introduced for tappers.
9.2         The Borrower complied with all legal agreements except for the fact
that disbursement under SOEs was suspended for about two years due to delay in
submission of Audit Opinion on SOEs.



10.         Proiect Relationship
10.1        The relationship among the core government agencies, the implementing
agencies, the Bank, UNDP and FAO have been good. Particular attention need to
be drawn to the excellent cooperation received from the Auditor General's
Department in clearing the backlog of outstanding audit reports (para 9.2).
Attention also needs to be drawn to excellent support project estates have been
giving to smallholder rubber producers through sales of planting material and
training in rubber husbandry practices.
11.         Consulting Services
11.         The performance of the Chief Technical Advisor was outstanding.  He
was an inspiration to local project staff; and by precept as well as by example
he succeeded in gaining the cooperation of local staff in raising the standard
of rubber husbandry to a level which was previously unthinkable in a country with
as many handicaps as Myanmar. The performance of the short term consultants was
satisfactory.
12.         Project Documentation and Data
12.         The appraisal report provided a useful framework for both the Bank
and the Borrower to monitor project implementation.   Satisfactory accounting
records were maintained and project reports were submitted regularly. Project
staff readily provided the basic data required for preparation of the PCR. The
legal agreements were also satisfactory, and the Borrower complied with all the
legal obligations.
13.         Findings and Lessons Learned
13.1        The following lessons were learned in the course of implementing this
project:
(a)   Having a full-time resident technical advisor with practical field
experience played a major role in staff development and improvement
of agroeconomic practices;
(b)   Budgrafts were superior to clonal seeds;
(c)   Moving from bare-root budded stumps to polybagged planting material
counteracted the harsh effects of the weather;
(d)   Moving eventually from brown-budding to green-budding and young-
budding increased the number of buddings per person per day while
achieving a higher percentage of budding success;
(e)   Tapping training need to be emphasized prior to trees coming into
production to ensure efficient and long-term exploitation; and
(f)   Successful rehabilitation of the government estates provided a
demonstration effect for smallholder rubber rehabilitation.



MYANMAR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT (CREDIT l3a-,-BA).
Part II. BORROWER'S BRIEF SELECTIVE REVIEW ON THE PROJECT
A. Confirmation of the Adeauacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part III
The actual information provided in Part III of the PCR is adequate
and accurate as it was prepared through discussions held between the Bank and the
Project Staff.
B.          Comments on the Analysis Contained in Part I of the PCR
The Borrower agrees with the findings and analysis contained in Part
I of the PCR.  However, we would like to add the following developments and
achievements since the last Supervision Mission:
(a)   Re para 6.2, Government has approved a program of planting 127,500
acres of rubber over the (3) year period 1994/95 - 1996-97.
(b)   Re para 6.5 and 7.2, beginning April 1993, Government has introduced
a new incentive system by treating tappers virtually as share-
croppers by paying them a percentage of the crop. Security has also
been increased.
(c)   Re para 5.11,  Government has introduced a contract  system for
weeding on some estates on a pilot basis. This is working well.
(d)   Re para 6.4, 10 Clone identifiers have been trained and will be
assigned  to  inspection  of  private  nurseries.    Seven  private
nurseries have already been registered so far and six are in the
process of registration.
C.          Evaluation of Bank's Performance
The Bank's contribution was constructive and its performance was
satisfactory. In particular, the following should be noted:
(a)   The Bank showed understanding of local problems by extending the
credit three items for a total of three years.   It also offered
considerable assistance in reconciling the project accounts and
solving other problems.
(b)   The identification of a Small Holders Rubber Rehabilitation Project
by the Bank during the implementation of the Second Rubber
Rehabilitation Project was highly appreciated and follow-up action
for the materialization of a Third Smallholders Rehabilitation
Project is eagerly awaited by the Borrower.



- 13 -
D.          Evaluation of GOM's Performance
The project in general was evaluated to be a success as it fulfilled
the immediate and main objectives of the project as stated below:-
(a)   Successful establishment of 11,153 acres of high yielding rubber
against the target of 11,000 acres.
(b)   4,500 acres of high yielding rubber planted under the first project
has been brought to maturity.
(c)   160 person-months of overseas training for 37 persons were completed
against the project provision of 147 person-months for 32 persons
and the program substantially contributed to the successful
implementation of the project.
(d)   Local training courses were successfully implemented for 1,112
project staff and 559 trainees from the private sector and other
government agencies, against the target of 480 staff.
(e)   More research works on applied basis were initiated and established
for the development of suitable planting materials, fertilizer
requirement and planting date to suit the local conditions. At the
same time Applied Research Center for Perennial Crops (ARCPC) has
been established with the assistance of UNDP/FAO to continue the
required research activities on various perennial crops of economic
importance based on the feasibility study conducted during the
project.
(f)   Socio Economic Survey,  which identified the problems affecting
rubber smallholders and factors to be taken into serious
consideration for rehabilitation, was successfully carried out by
the Institute of Economics University of Yangon.
(g)   In conclusion,  the project has contributed to institutional and
technical development, creating a core of competent staff properly
trained in modern techniques of rubber husbandary, introducing
improved  planting  materials  and  establishing  the  necessary
supporting infrastructure for the rehabilitation of the Private
Rubber Small Holdings at the National level.
E.          Findings and Lessons Learned
The following findings and lessons were learned based on the problems
and constraints encountered in the course of the project implementation.
(a)   Simple and flexible procedures  for procurement procedures  and
sufficient experienced staff for appropriate activities of the
project are pre-requisite.
(b)   The project enjoyed strong support and enthusiasm of the Bank,
UNDP/FAO and GOM, throughout the implementation period.



- 14 -
(c)   Regular and frequent field inspections of the Bank's Supervision
Missions played a major role.
(d)   Local  and foreign training of project  staff and rubber  small
holders, and the administrative and technical advice rendered by the
consulting specialists especially the CTA were invaluable.   It
encouraged the project staff in improving agroeconomic practices and
development of modern techniques for commercial rubber planting.
(e)   Private Sector's interest for the expansion and renovation of rubber
increased tremendously due to the demonstration effect of the
successful establishment of rubber plantations under the project.
(f)   Remarkable  understanding  of  the  problems  associated  with  the
implementation agency by the Bank through Supervision Missions was
of paramount importance for the successful implementation of the
project.
F.          Effectiveness of Relationship with the Bank
The Borrower enjoyed cordial relations with the Bank throughout all
stages of the project cycle. The two Rubber Rehabilitation Projects has laid a
solid foundation for the development of the rubber industry.   Myanmar looks
forward to a continuing relationship with the Bank in developing its resources.
G.          Evaluation of the Performance of Co-financiers
UNDP financial assistance was invaluable for the successful
implementation of the project. UNDP was fully responsive to the diverse needs
of the project and always responded promptly and efficiently.



- 15 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.     Related Bank Loans
LoantCredit                                        Date  of
Titte                      Pu-rpoem             Approvt lStatus                            CM ent
Rubber Rehabilitation       Rubber replanting,          March 1979    PAR # 6810 June 1,           Satisfactory
Project (Credit 879-BA)   processing,                                  1987
institutional
deveLopment, training,
.____________ _   adaptive research.
Comment:
There was no follow-on Bank project.  UNDP/FAO financed MYA/86/016 - Applied Research Center  for Plantation
Crops.
2.       Proiect Timetable
Iter                              Date Plamed[                           Date Actual
Identification                        October 1981                          April 1982
Preparation                           October 1981                           August 1982
AppraisaL                             October 1982                           November 1982
Credit Negotiations                   April 1983                             April 1983
Board ApprovaL                        June 14, 1983                          June 14, 1983
Credit Signature                      August 1983                            August 25, 1983
Credit Effectiveness                  November 23, 1983                      November 23, 1983
Credit Closing                        March 31, 1990                         March 31, 1993
Credit Completion                     September 30, 1989                     March 31, 1993
Last Disbursement                     JuLy 31, 1990                          August 30, 1993



- 16 -
3.      Credit Disbursements
Cumulative. Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USS Million)
Actual as Z of
Accumutated Disburseents                      Awraf sal Esti_tes
_ Aoraisal. Estimate       Actual Disbursements
1985                        1.95                                                       O 0
1986                        3.73                         1.34                         36
1987                        5.51                         2.65                         48
1988                        7.26                         2.86                         39
1989                        9.00                         2.93                         33
1990                        9.00                         6.50                         72
1991                        9.00                         6.50                         72
1992                        9.00                         8.42                         94
1993                        9.00                         9.17                         102
1994                        9.00                        10.48                         116
Notes:
(a)     Final Disbursement was made on August 30, 1993.
(b)     The appraisal estimate of USS9.0 million was exceeded because of the depreciation of the US dolLar
relative to the SDR. Total disbursement is SDR 8.015 miLlion, equivalent to USS10.48 milLion.
4.   Project !mplementation
Key Indicators
ActuaL as
Appraisal
Estimtes
Appraisal                        (X)
l______________          Estimate       Actual
Acreage - Planted               Acres              11.000    i   12.728             115
Acreage - Survived              Acres              11.000          11.153           101
UNDP Tech. Assistance            P-M                   34           44.3            130
IDA Tech. Assistance             P-M                    6            0               0
Overseas Training:                                                                            l
Fellowship                  Persons                   4            4              100
Short Courses               Persons                   8            8              100
Grout Training               Persons                 14            14             100
Conferences/Seminars        Persons                   6            6              100
LocaL Training                 Persons                480          1.112            232
Disbursement               (SDR Million)              8.4           8.0             95
Disbursement               (USS Million)              9.0          10.48            116



- 17 -
5. Project Cost and Financing
A. Project Costs
(Kyats miLLion)
.-________________________         _    Loc.l      E~     ~    -  -   -   A   .  .___r______   Locet   E~hange   T~.. .
L ocat   =  Ei_ _a*  -                WLDcl    fttktge,
Equipment  machinery and vehicLes          7.90         11.18      19.08       2.14        4.20        6.34
Estate supplies, chemicals and
filed operating costs                    39.46         22.91       62.37      66.75       11.85       78.60
Civil works                               12.71         3.30       16.01       7.71        0.          7.71
Technical Assistance and Training          0.           7.80        7.80       0.          0.          0.
Petroleum                                                0.         0.         0.          1. 72       1.72
Administration Costs                       0.95          0.45       1.40       3.36        0.          3.36
Total Costs                61.01         45.64      106.66     79.96       17.77       97. 73
B. Proiect Financing
Credit A reemnt                     Revised                       Finrl
Source                 (SDRN)         (USSN )         (SDRN)    [ (USS)               (SDRN)   | CUSS) I
IDA Categories
Ecpquipent & Vehicles                1.39           1.49           .828            1.151           .392         .513
Estate Supplies and
Chemicals                           2.78           2.98          2.057            2.689          1.536        2.008
Civil Uorks                          1.21           1.30           .600             .784           .600         .784
Field Operating Costs                1.95           2.09          4.712            6.161          5.179        6.771
Technical Assistance
and Training                        .07            .07              0               0              0             0
PetroLeum Products                                    -            .203             .265           .203         .265
Unallocated                          1.00           1.07             0               0              0             0
Exchange Rate Loss                 -              .               -               -             .105         .139
Total IDA                         8.40           9.00          8.400           11.050          8.015        10.480
UIDP                                             .90              -             1.000             -          1.0
Goverrwent of Hyanmer               .             3.77             -             3.77              -         3.216
Total                       8.40           13.67          8.40            15.82           8.015       14.696



- 18 -
6.    Project Results
A. Direct 8enefits
Indicators                                 Appraisal Estimte              Estimte at Closina
Average Yield
(lb/Ac/Tapping Year)                                       1,200                       1,200
Total Area of New PLanting
and Replanting (Acres)                                    11,000                      12,728
Total Area of New Planting
and Replanting Surviving (Acres)                           11,000                     11,153
Total Net IncrementaL                                    176,000                     178,000
Production (Tons)
S. Economic l Cact
Indicator                                         Appraisal Esti-ate             Estimte at Closing
Economic Rate of Return (X)                                       17                         18
Underlying Assumptions
Average Yield (lb)
Tapping Year:                      1                         360                         360
2                         750                         750
3                         900                         900
4                       1,050                       1,050
5                       1,140                       1,140
6                       1,220                       1,220
7                       1,280                       1,280
8                       1,340                       1,340
9                       1,370                       1,370
10                       1,400                       1,400
11                       1,400                       1,400
12                       1,400                       1,400
13                       1,400                       1,400
14                       1,400                       1,400
15                       1,400                       1,400
16                       1,400                       1,400
17                       1,375                       1,375
18                       1,350                       1,350
19                       1,325                       1,325
20                       1,300                       1,300
21                       1,275                       1,275
22                       1,250                       1,250
23                       1,225                       1,225
24                       1,200                       1,200
25                       1,175                       1,175
26                       1,150                       1,150
27                       1,125                       1,125
28                       1,100                       1,300
29                       1,075                       1,075
30                       1,050                       1,050
31                       1,025                       1,025
32                       1,000                       1,000
Economic Price
of Rubber (Kyat/Lb.)                                           4.51                         2.5
Standard Conversion Factor                                      0.8                         0.1
Financial Price of Labor (K/day)                                   7                         15
Economic Price of Labor  (K/day)                                 5.6                       2.25



- 19 -
C. Studies
Title              Purpose as Defined at Appraisal            Status                ict of Study
Socio-Economic Survey      To identify the problems and              Completed        IDA identified a Third
of SmaLiholders.           study how factors affect                                   Rubber Replanting on
Smaliholder participation in                              Smaliholders in 1988.
rubber replanting                                         Processing suspended because
of domestic poLitical
situation
7. Status of Covenants
DESCRIPTION OF                   ORIGINAL
SECTION                       COVEIAT                          DATE            STATUS
3.05         Until completion of civil works                                  OK /a
submit annually budget and draft
contract for civil works to be
executed by Construction Corporation
3.06 (Al)       RS to furnish IDA for comment prior                               OK
to employment TOR of proposed Chief
Technical Advisor.
3.06 (A2)       RS to furnish IDA for comment prior                                OK
to employment qualifications of
proposed candidates for Chief
Technical Advisor.
3.06 (A3)       RS to discuss with IDA annuaLly but           01/01/84             OK
not later than April 1 of each year
its proposed overseas training
program.
3.07         RS to submit five-year development            04/01/84             OK
plan (to be followed each April 1).
4.01E         Unaudited accounts due to IDA not                                  OK
later than 6 months after end of
fiscal year and audit report due to
IDA 9 months after end of each FY.
4.03 (i)       RS to submit annually five-year                12/31/84           DLET
rubber research program for the
current and following four years.
4.03 (ii)       RS to submit each year annual                 06/30/85             OK
research report
/a  OK    -  Covenant complied with
DLET  -  Deleted as no longer relelvant



- 20 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A.   Staff Inputs
(Staff weeks)
Stage of
Project Cycle                                                                      Actual
Through Appraisal                                                                             13.4
Appraisal through Board Approval                                                              42.8
Board Approval through
Effectiveness                                                                                N/A
Supervision                                                                                   78.4
Completion                                                                                     5.1
Total                                                                    139.7
B. Missions
PerfoNnamne
No.of        Days k         SPa aIWis             Rating          Typeof
Stale of Prsoject Cycle           Mont,Yw          Persb          Fidd         Reprefmd             sta       Y     Problem  Y
Before Appraal_
Idemfictam                                    04/1982           2             14        a,b
Prepiaraon (UNDP-frnazKed)                    08/1982
Appraisal through Board
Appraisal                                    11/1982            4             28        la, 2b, lc
Post-appraisal I                             03/1983            1             12        a
Post-appraisal 11                            10/1983            2             13        a, b
Supervision
Supervision 1                                07/1984            1             4         a                          1          m
Supervision 2                                04/1985            1             6         a                          2          m
Supervision 3                                11/1985            2             9         a, b                       2          m
Supervision 4                                05/1986            1             7         a                          2          m
Supervision 5                                11/1986            2             13        a, b                       2          m
Supervision 6                                10/1987            1             9         a                          2           m,p
Supervision 7                                03/1988            2             7         a                          2          m,p
Supervision 8                                06/1989            2             12        a, b                       2           m,p
Supervision 9                                11/1989            1             2         a                          2          m,p
Supervision 10                               05/1990            2             19        a, b                       2          m,p
Supervision 11                               03/1991            2             9         a, b                       2          m,p
Supervision 12                               11/1991             1            1         a                          2
Supervision 13                               03/1992            2            20         a, b                       2          m,p
Supervision 14                               10/1992            1             2         a                          2          m,p
Supervision 15                               03/1993            1             2         a                          1
Key to specialization: a = agrieconomist; b = agriculturalist; c = research assistant;
Performance Rating Status: 1 = Problem Free; 2 = Moderate Problem; 3 = Major Problems
Types of Problems- F = Funding; 0 = Organizational; M = Project Management. P = Political



- 21 -
Appendix 1
Table 1
MYANMAR
SECOND RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROPOSED AND ACTUAL PLANTING PROGRAMME
(Acres)
Year              SAR             Planted            Surviving
1984 - 85             1000             1000                 1000
1985 - 86             1700             1553                 1553
1986 - 87             2200             2082                 1654
1987 - 88             3200             2675                 1975
1988 - 89             2900             1690                 1583
1989 - 90              -               1353                 1153
1990 - 91              -                665                  525
1991 - 92              -                500                  550
1992 - 93              -               1160                 1160
Total             11000            12728                11153



MYANMAR
SECOND RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROPOSED AND ACTUAL PLANTING PROGRAMME
(Acres Planted)
Total
Estate                      SAR      84-85     85-86     86-87   87-88    88-89   89-90   90-91   91-92   92-93              Planted Surviving
SVRE                        2000       100      200        100      275       100      200      175     100      100    1350   1350
Mayagon                     1200      200       200        400      400       200      150      50      100      160    1860   1860
Mudon                       1400      200       200        400      500       500      200     200      200      250    2650   2650
T B Z                        800       100      200        300      300       300      200      100      100     150    1750   1750
8th. Mile                    400       100       100       100        -         -       50       -       50      100      500    500
Sonsin                      3000       100       153       550      700       107      200      140       -      400    2350    775
Shwedu                       400        -        100       100      100       113      40        -        -        -      453    453
Katan                       1400      200       300         32      300       270      213       -        -        -     1315   1351                                                    NJ
N B K                        400        -        100       100      100       100      100        -        -       -      500    500
Total                      11000      1000      1553      2082    2675       1690    1353      665      550    1160   12728  11153
>l f
x
M
(D n



- 23 -
Appendix I
Table 3
MYANMAR
SECOND RUBBER REHABILITTION PROJECT (CR. 1385-BA)
CIVIL WORKS
Actual
Particulars       SAR   Revised  84-85 | 85-86 | 86-87 | 87-88 | 88-89 | 89-90 l Total
Manager House         2         1        -        -       -        1       -        -        1
Asst. Manager         6         4        1        1       1        1       -        -        4
House
Junior Staff          15        9        1        2       -        1       5        -        9
House
Workers Quarter       80       62        -        9      15       33       5        -       62
Office                7         -        -        -       --               -        -        -
Factory               2        1         1        -       -        -       -        -       1
Smoke House           6        5         1        -       1        3       -        -       5
Grading and           4        4         2        -       1        1       -        -        4
Packing Shed
Factory               1        1         -        -       -        1       -        -       1
Extension
Godown (Big)          1         -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -
Godown (Small)        11       10        5        1       2        2       -        -       10
Machinery             3         1        -        -       1        -        -       -        1
Shelter
Water Tank            7         7        5        -       2        -        -       -        7
Road and Bridges      15       15        -        5       4        1       2        3       25
(Mile)
Fencing               15        9        -        -       5        4       -        -        9
(Furlong)
Total                175      129        16      18       32      48       12       3       129



MYANMAR
Second Rubber Rehabilitation Protect
(Credit 1385-BA)
Protect Cost IKyats '000)
EQUIPMENT             ESTATE SUPPLY             CIVIL WORK     FIELD OPERATING COST            PETROLEUM              ADMINISTRATION        T O T A L      |
Local    F E   Total    Local    F E   Total   Local    F E   Total    Local    F E   Total   Local    F E   Total   Local    F E   Total   Local    F E   Total
1984-85    269.6  608.0  877.6      4.6    0.0    4.6  1028.6    0.0  1028.6   6135.4    0.0  6135.4    0.0    0.0    0.0   95.6    0.0   95.6  7533.8  608.0  8141.8
1985-86    819.0  1412.0  2231.0   36.5   84.1  1206  1156.6    0.0  1156.6   5676.2    0.0  5676.2    0.0    0.0    0.0   36.0    0.0   36.0  7724.3  1496.1  9220.4
1986-87    128.4  357.0  485.4   1125.0  2205.8  3330.8  2194.2    0.0  2194.2   6726.8    0.0  6726.8    0.0    0.0    0.0   92.5    0.0   92.5 10266.9  2562.8 12829.7
1987-88     8.1   18.8   26.9    192.7  275.4  468.1  2678.5       00  2678.5   7316.2    0.0  7316.2    0.0    0.0    0.0  210.0    0.0  210.0 10406.5  294.2 10700.7
1988-89    16.9    0.0   16.9    194.6    0.0  194.6  656.0    0.0  656.0   8117.0    0.0  8117.0    0.0  1716.0  1716.0  1445.0    0.0  1445.0 10429.5  1716.0 12145.5
1989-90    215.0  502.0  717.0    64.0  318.0  382.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  11634.0    0.0 11634.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  430.1    0.0  430.1 12343.1  820.0 13163.1    N
1990-91     0.0    0.0    0.0   639.0  3196.0  3835.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   2720.0    0.0  2720.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  278.5    0.0  278.5  3637.5  3196.0  6833.5   P
1991-92    572.0  860.0  1432.0    771.0  2100.0  2871.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   7281.0    0.0  7281.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  379.2    0.0  379.2  9003.2  2960.0 11963.2
1992-93    111.0  444.0  555.0   898.0  3674.0  4572.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   7211.0    0.0  7211.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  396.8    0.0  396.8  8616.8 4118.0 12734.8
0.0    0.0
TOTAL    2140.0 4201.8 6341.8   3925.4 11853.7 15778.7  7714.9    0.0  7714.9  62817.6    0.0 62817.6    0.0  1716.0  1716.0  3363.7    0.0  3363.7 79961.6 17771.1 97732.7
>;



- 25 -
Appendix 1
Table 5
MYANMAR
SECOND RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
UNDP TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
SAR                 Actual
No. of    Person-    No. of    Person-
Particulars               Persons      Month     Persons     Month
Technical Assistance
Chief Technical Advisor                1          24          1         34.6
Short Term Consultants
- Plant Pathologist                 1          3           1         3.3
- Adaptive Research                 1          3           1         1.5
- Processing and Marketing          1          3           1         3.4
- Foliar Analysis                   1          1           2         1.5
Sub-Total                         5          34          5        44.3
Training (Fellowships)
Plant Pathology                        1          24          1          24
Tree crop Agronomy                      1         24          1          24
Soil Science/Plant Nutrition           1          24          1          24
Plant Breeding                         1          24          1          24
Sub-Total                           4          96          4          96
Short Course
Weed Science                           2           4          2          4
Project Implementation                 2           4          2          4
Soil/Foliar Analysis                   2           4          2          4
Management for Trainers                2           4          2          4
Sub-Total                            8          16          8          16
Group TraininQ
Estate Management                      8          24          8          24
Clone Identification                   2           4          2          4
Rubber Cultivation and Research        4           4          4          4
Conference/Seminars                    6           3          6          3
Sub-Total                            20         35         20          35
Total Technical Assistance and           37         181         37       191.3
Training



- 26 -
Appendix 1
Table 6
Export Parity Price of Rubber
World Market Price (/kg) 1/                                 US$ 1.13
Less Insurance and Freight                                       .25
0.88
Less Quality Adjustment 0 3%                                    0.03
US$ 0.85
Economic Value in K/lb 2/                                    K 2.5/lb
1/ Based on World Bank Commodity Price Projections for RSS No.1, New York
(August 20, 1993) in 1990 constant dollars.
2/ Official Exchange Rate: US$ 1= K.6.5















IBRD 17009R1
Taupqup          Prm;       TUl0                       q
Mad        VI
wa  , lmnil d 
Ws iHans ad
,   /o         S~~~~~~NNTAGA  O        
;    '  g   xAYAr;7^  AY~~~~~~~A%(;CW          \
'  j   \  7t   T | ^ -  <    THAILAND
*g       Rnng\               ~~~~~~~~Thaton aA 
P        n    R.aA
MembinO        ;                      y'-Kw    k
SUtKALA r    ,,":.t 'b M             nNKA Ke       
,    R   ,>,  X  ,8  7;iG{rA"AN.       ^@INYW         YA_ 
I , Moul J - S(YA,N Maul
MYANMAR
SECOND RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
RUSSER1 REHASILITATION:
PHASE I                                       KALA/NA
*      PHASE 1I
STATE OWNED HUBSER ESTATES:
*      EXISTING                                         tH
*      PROPOSED
RUBBER GROWING ARtEAS
0    RUSER PROCESSING FACILITIES                             s      Y
-  -   PROJECT SOUNDARY
MAIN ROADS
----RAILROADS
ISOHYETS IN INCHES
*    AIRPORTS
4.   PORTS
STATE OR DIVISION BOUNDARIES                              1A.70            5
* -.   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-120                                                                                                                              12  L
N AUNG INhKWIN
INDIA
BANGLADES4    /         CHINA
$)T! \2 _<~- 
MYANM!        j  vIT NAM                                                                            (
KILOMETERS0                       lea                    WAKCNC
THAILAND    |
CAMjODtA/
MARCH 1 994



