Docurwent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
G-E   2  f'6 -f2                      E
Report No. 7992-BEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
JANUARY 3, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may ost otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$l   CFAF 310
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEAS'JRES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BBD       Banque Béninoise de Développement
(Development Bank of Benin)
BCB       Banque Commerciale du Bénin
(Commercial Bank of Benin)
BCEAO     Banque Ce-trale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
(Central Bank of West African States)
BNP       Banque Nativnale de Paris
CARDER    Centre d'Action Régionale pour le Développement Rural
(Regional Rural Development Agency)
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique
CLCAM     Caisse Locale de Crédit Agricole Mutuel
(Local Savings and Loan Cooperative)
CNCA      Caisse Nationale de Crédit Agricole
(National Agricultural Credit Bank)
CPU       Central Project Unit
CRCAM     Caisse Régionale de Crédit Agricole Mutuel
(Regional Savings and Loan Cooperative)
EEC       European Economic Community
FAC       Fonus d'Aide et de la Coopération
FRG       Federal Republic of Germany
FUSLC     Federal Union of Savings and Loan Cooperatives
MDRAC     Ministère du Développement Rural et de l'Action Coopérative
(Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperative Action)
MJIEPSP   Ministère de la Justice Chargé de l'Inspection des Entreprises
Publiques et Semi-Publiques
(Ministry of Justice responsible for Inspection of Public and
Para-public Enterprises)
SONAPRA   Société Nationale pour la Production Agricole



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOAN COOPERATIVES RERAJILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS    ..iii
CKEDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY    ..iv
I. !NTRODUCTION.                                                         1
II. BACKGROUND.                                                          2
A.   The alcroecoriomic Context .........    ......................   2
B.   The Agricultural Sector ...........     ......................   4
C.   The Banking and Financial sector .......      .................   5
D. The Rural Credit Sector .                                        6
E.   The Cooperative Savings and Loari Societies.                   6
F.   Interim Support Program ......................                10
G. Rationale for IDA Involvement.                                  11
III. THE PROJECT .12
A.   Project Objectives and Summary Description ... ........... 12
B. Detailed Features    ..13
1.   The Institutional Rehabilitation Program .13
2.   The Financial Rehabilitation Program .14
3. Credit Program .15
C. Project Costs and Financing    .             .18
1.   Cost Estimates ........      .......................  ....  18
2.   Financing Plan and Arrangements .19
3. Procurement .20
4. Disbursement .20
5.   Accounts, Audits and Reporting Requirements .21
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission that
visited Benin in June 1989. The mission consisted of J.Baah-Dwomoh and
J.C. Fayd'Herbe. The report incorporates the results of a joint IDA/CCCE
mission of February 1989 consisting of J.C. Fayd'Herbe (IDA), L. L'Aot,
(CCCE) Credit Specialist; D. Gentil, (IRAM) Consultant; and, F. Adjonou,
Consultant. Initial secretarial work was done by Mrs. M.L. Kpatchibo.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- il -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....................................... 22
A.   Project Administration anc Implementation .       ..         22
1. Project Management    .              .22
2. Training                        ..     23
3.   The Federal Union of Savings and Loan Cooperatives . 23
4.   The Modalities for the Financial Rehabilitation ....  24
B.   Financial Analysis .....................                    25
C.   Project Benefits .....................  27
D.   Project Risks ........................................... 28
V.   AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION ....................  28
ANNEXES
2-1  Consolidated CRCAM/CLCAM Balance Sheets for 1988 and i989
2-2 Pilot Credit Program
3-1  Legal Act Governing Operations of Rural Credit Cooperatives in
Benin
3-2 Training Program and Budget
3-3 Summary Project Cost by Year and 'y Component
3-4 Detailed Financing Plan
3-5 Estimated Disbursement Schedule
4-1 Project Implementation Schedule
4-2 Organizational Chart
4-3 Technical Assistance and Consultant Schedule
4-4 Principal Assumptions of Financial Analysis
4-5 Projected Financial Position of the CRCAM|CLCAMs
MAP: IBRD No. 21787 - Rural Savings and Loan Cooperative RehabiÂitation Project



- iii -
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOANS COOPERATIVES REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
A.   PROJECT WORKING PAPERS (Available from AF1AA)
Detailed Cost Tables - CRCAMICLCAMs
Detailed Cost Tables - Central Project Unit
Operating Deficit Calculations
CRCAMICLCAM Operating Costs Budget
BCEAO - General Banking Rules
Cooperatives Statutes
Pilot Credit Program
Staff Rules - CRCAM/CLCAMs
Feasibility Report - IRAM
B.   COMPUTER RECORDS :
CRCAM/CLCAMs - Financial Ma3dels
Project Cost Tables
1.   CRCAM/CLCAMs   - Atacora
CRCAM/CLCAMs   - Atlantique
CRCAMICLCAMs   - Borgou
CRCAM/CLCAMs   - Mono
CRCAMICLCAMs   - Oueme
CRCAMICLCAMs   - Zou
2. Detailed Cost Tables
Central Project Unit
Summary Costs
Financing Plan
Procurement
Disbursement
3. Detailed Cost Tables - CRCAMjf.LCAMs



- iv -
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOAN COOPERATIVES REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Government of Benin
Beneficiaries:       Rural Savings and Loan Cooperatives
Onlending Termst    Grant
Amount:              SDR 2.0 million (US$ 2.5 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity
Co-financierss       CCCE, FAC, FED, FR Germany, Swiss Cooperation
Proiect
Description:         The primary objective of the project is tO help
transform Benin's cooperative savings and loan system
into a better managed, more efficient, and financially
viable rural saving mobilization and credit delivery
network. The project would assist a Government
initiated institutional and financial rehabilitation
program to restructure the rural financial sector by
supporting existing cooperative rural savings and loan
associations. These cooperatives are owned entirely
by the rural population with no Government
participation. The project provides for: (i) the
institutional reform and restructuring of the existing
saving and loan cooperatives; (ii) restoration of
cooperative members' savings and equity, depleted
through accumulated losses in -'i inadequate policy
environment, and frozen deposits in bankrupt
commercial banks; (iii) liberalization of interest
rate policies on savings and loans; (iv) setting up of
a rural credit program; (iv) training of cooperative
administratcrs and staff; and (v) establishment of an
accounting and financial control system.



- v -
Estimated Proiect Costs
Local  Foreign   Total        Z of Base
…JUS$ million ----              Cost
Project Management                    1.1      0.8      1.9          16.9
Training                              0.1      0.0      0.1           1.1
Audit and Studies                     0.2      0.2      0.4           3.1
Operating Costs of Cooperatives       0.8      1.2      2.0          17.4
Equity Replenishment                  6.3      0.0      6.3          56.1
Line of Credit                        0.6      0.0      0.6           5.4
Base Costs                            9.1      2.2     11.3         100.0
Physical Contingencies                0.1      0.0      0.1           1.1
Price Contingencies                   1.2      0.2      1.4          11.8
Total Project Costs                  10.4      2.4     12.8         113.3
(including taxes)                   - =     ===-=
Taxes                                 0.1      0.0      0.1
Total Project Costs                  10.3      2.4     12.7
(net of taxes)
Proposed Financing Plan
Local  Foreign    Total
- WUS$ million -
IDA                               1.9      0.6       2.5
CCCE                              2.7       0.7      3.4
FAC                               0.4       0.3      0.7
FED                               0.9       0.1      1.0
F.R.GERMANY                       0.5       0.0      0.5
SWITZERLAND                       0.9      0.3       1.2
Government/Beneficiaries          3.1       0.4      3.5
Total                            10.4      2.4      12.8
Estimated IDA Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year
1990     1991      1992     1993    1994
-----------------SDR million-------------
Annual                            0.4       0.1      0.4       0.6      0.5
Cumulative                        0.4       0.5      0.9       1.5     2.0



- vi -
Proiect Benefits
The project would help in rebuilding the institutional framework
for, and restoring financial health to, rural cooperative savings and loan
associations. These would inculcate the spirit of savings in the rural
population who own the institutions, and provide them with a safe haven for
their surplus funds and with a source of short term credit, unavailable
through the normal banking system. This would result in the mobilization
of large amounts of rural savings. The success of the project would make
the associations a vehicle for promoting private investment initiatives in
the rural areas by ensuring the recycling of rural savings for productive
activities. A broad spectrum of smallholder farm families would benefit
from the cooperative saving and loan system to meet their seasonal credit
needs especially during the lean season. The project also provides the
basis for developing a viable and sustainable institutional framework that
can better serve the credit needs of small private entrepreneurs in the
rural areas, than can the formal banking system. Ultimate benefits will be
in expanded agricultural and rural investment, and hence in expanded
production and incomes.
Project Risks
There are two main risks. The first is that Benin's banking
sector crisis could vorsen and that the public sector would put pressure on
the savings and loan cooperatives to undertake regular commercial banking
activities, for which they are ill-suited and ill-prepared. This risk is
lessened by the fact that a reform of Benin's entire financial sector
constitutes an integral part of its structural adjustment program being
supported by the Bank, IMF and other donors. Two regional commercial
banks, operating Jn the West Africa sub-region, have obtained Government
agreement to set up in the country within the next few months. Government
has also agreed to a number of measures that would preserve the cooperative
character of these institutions and protect them from outside interference
including that of Government.  The second risk concerns the possible
inability of the cooperatives to achieve the annual 17 to 20 percent
expected growth in saving mobilization which could pose a threat to their
financial viability. This risk is minimized by the fact that the rural
population still maintains a high degree of confidence in these
cooperatives despite their past problems, and the institutions have so far
mobilized an annual average of about 22 percent savings over the past
decade.  Rehabilitation and renewed resources to be provided through the
proposed project would further boost the confidence of their membership,
stimulating savings of this order of magnitude. The Boards of the
institutions also have instruments concerning for example, the percentage
of deposits lent out and interest rate margins to generate additional
incomes.



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOANS COOPERATIVES REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Within the macro financial reform framework of the Structural
Adjustment Program, the Government of Benin has requested IDA's assistance
in support of its program to rehabilitate the country's rural savings and
loan cooperatives. These institutions are owned by farmers and the rural
population in general. The proposed project involves a reform of the
institutional and policy framework for these cooperatives that would
provide the rural population with greater control of the organization and
management of its financial resources, since Government would have no
management or financial participation in these financial institutions. All
the three Goverrnment owned banks have recently become illiquid and are
under liquidation due largely to poor economic and financial sector
policies. The cooperative saving and loani associations have also suffered
serious losses as a result of the policy situation, but are still
functioning and retain the confidence of the population. This reflects
their resiliency. Government is now f:irmly committed to the removal of
regulatory weasures that had brought about the past adverse financial
performance of the cooperative savings and loan associations and as a
result, these institutions constitute an excellent vehicle for mobilizing
rural savings and providing rural credit.
1.02      A preparation report on the proposed project wau produced in
September 1988 by a consulting firm (IRAM) with financing from Caisse
Centrale de Coopération Economique (CCCE). A donor conference held in
Cotonou in December 1988 involving representatives of: the French Treasury,
the French Ministère de la Coopération (FAC), CCCE, the Federal Republic of
Germany, Swiss Cooperation, the European Economic Community (EEC), IDA and
the IMF, adopted the report's recommendations for assistance to the rural
savings and loan cooperarive movement. A coordinating committee (" Comité
de Pilotage*) was set up to supervise preparatory measures to be taken by
Governnxent. An interim assistance program was agreed on, financed by FAC
and Swiss Cooperation. A joint mission (IDA pre-appraisal) was carried out
-n February 1989 with CCCE (appraisal) and IRAM. IDA appraisal was carried
out in June 1989. All the measures proposed in the project were arrived at
following extensive debate and discussions with members and Boards of
Directors of the rural savings and loan cooperatives.



II. EACKGROUND
A.     The Macroeconomic Context
2.01      Benir bas a land area of about 112,600 km2.  Its population was
estimated at 4.3 million in 1987, and growing at 3.1 percent per annum.
Its annual income per capita was estimated at about US$ 340 in 1987. An
in-depth analysis of Benin's economic performance vas distributed in the
Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 4686-Ben) in March 1984 and this is
supplemented by an analysis of the country's macroeconomic situation and
prospects in the Report and Recommendation of the President for a
Structural Adjustment Credit (Report No P-4931) of April 26, 1989. The
following is a brief overview of the growth prospects of the economy
emphasizing the key role that the financial sector has played and will
continue to play in its development.
2.02      Past Economic Performance.  The Beninese economy performed well
on most accounts during the period 1977-e2, achieving an average real
growth of about 5 percent per annum, -rith internal financial and external
balance of payments equilibrium. This growth performance resulted in part
from the buoyant investment activity under the First State Plan (1977-80),
and in part from strong re-export trade and also trade in agricultural
products with neighboring Niger and Nigeria which were then experiencing
uranium and oil export-led booms. A reversal of *his trend began in 1983,
when the booms in the neighboring countries enr(  with consequent sharp
falls in reexport and unofficial trade.  Beni.    ,wn vigorous construction
activity under the First State Plan ended with i.ne completion of projects
that had been initiated under the Plan and the slow down in initiating new
projects due to Government budgetary constraints. The poor quality of the
investments undertaken during the boom period vas to a large extent,
responsible for some of tne financial problems that subsequently beset the
economy.
2.03      Debt service for some of the completed investments started in
1983. With little returns coming from these investments coupled with the
sharp declines in reexport trade, the economy entered a period of low
growth and financial decline. Thus between 1983 and 1987, real GDP growth
averaged under 1 percent per annum, while population grew at over 3
percent. Public finances and balance of payments registered deficits
averaging 9 percent and 7 percent of GDP respect.vely, covered mainly by
accumulation of internal and external arrears on debt repayment. The
situation vas aggravated beginning in 1985186 when the world price for two
of the mr1n exports, cotton and oil palm, fell following an earlier fall in
the pric of p3troleum products.
2.04      While the recent deterioration in the terms of trade and the
post-1982 slump in regional trade explain part of the present financial
difficulties, the major part is explained by domestic Government policy
errors of the 1975-82 period. During that period, Government sought to
accelerate growth and development through direct state intervention in
productive activities. It therefore nationalized most private sector



- 3 -
businesses, including all the commercial and development banks, and set up
several new public sector enterprises. In agricult'ire, several state farms
wete cet up, and controls established on all agricultural marketing. Owing
to the weight of social and political considerations introduced into public
enterprise management, even those firms that vere financially sound before
nationalization, faltered under public ownership. Many of the newly-
created enterprises had design problems, inadequate managerial capability,
were undercapitalized, and had limited market opportunities. Government
was unable to provide budgetary support to cover the deficits of the public
enterprises. They therefore relied heavily on the banking system for
financing.
2.05      The Structural Adjustment Program.  Faced with a deteriorating
public finance and balance of payments situation and the drain of the
public enterprises on the economy, Government initiated new measures
beginning in 1983184 to arrest the economic and financial decline.
Measures were taken to restructure the public enterprises resulting in the
closure of a number of these enterprises (including most of the state
farms) and decisions to privatize some of the remaining ones. Government
progrenssvely improved its approach to investment programming.  The cottora
sector was revitalized through a combination of improved pricing policies,
timely and adequate supply of modern inputs, and improved farmer services.
Government also adopted a comprehensi%a reform program for the cotton
subsector in 1987 that is beginning to yield results (para 2.08). A series
of fiscal measures introduced recently has stabilized the public finance
deficit/GDP ratio at about 7 percent over the 1986/87 period. While these
measures have led to some improvements, they have not by themse£ves been
sufficient to overcome the economic and financial crisis. In order to
tackle the problems more effectively, the Government has set out to broaden
the scope of the reforms and deepen them by adopting a comprehensive
adjustment program covering an initial period of three years. This program
has already been approved by the Bank and IMF and is being supported
financially by these two institutions as vell as other donors.
2.06      The program aims at a fundamental reorientation of Benin's
development strategy from overemphasis on state intervention in the economy
to greater reliance on private initiative and market forces. The objective
is to raise the real GDP growth rate over the medium term to about 3
percent per annum within a viable macroeconomic framework. Specifically
the program seeks, over its three year period: (a) to reform the budget and
general public sector resource management by further improving investment
planning and programming; (b) to deepen and amplify public enterprise
reform under way; (c) to restructure the banking system to enable it to
resume effective financial intermediation; and (d) to reorganize incentive
policies to promote private sector activities, especially of small and
medium scale enterprises, through trade liberalization and removal of goods
and factor market rigidities. These reforms are to be accompanied by
measures to aid the poor and minimize the negative social impact of the
adjustment process as well as measures to encourage productive activities
especially in the rural sector.



_4-
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.07      Agriculture, the most important sector of Benin's economy,
employs about 752 of th- active population and accounts for some 452 of GDP
and, in recent years, about half of recorded export earnings, in addition
to Rome revenues earned from unofficial exports of foodstuffs to
neighboring countries. Within the sector, about 72Z of the value of output
comes from crops, 22Z from livestock, and 32 each from fishing and forestry
products. Despite Government policy of setting up state farms in the
latter part of the 1970s, most of rural output (over 95Z) has always been
pro "ced by individual small-scale farm units.  There is however much
didersity in farm size, labor availability, ownership of agricultural
equipment, productivity and revenues.
2.08      The economy's most important resource is its arable land, which
enables it to enjoy overall food self-sufficiency as well as produ-e cash
crops for export. Over the last decade local cereal production in volume
terms (principally maize, sorghum and millet) increased at about 3.82 per
annum, higher than the annual population growth rate ot 3eiZ. Root crop
production has been much more erratic and has only increased on average at
about 1.8Z. Oil palm and cotton are the most important export crops. Oil
palm is in relative decline owing to increasingly insufficient rainfall.
In contrast, the cotton sub-sector has rapidly become one of the most
important over the past few years. Seed cotton production rose from less
than 16,000 tons in 1981/82 to about 107,000 tons in 1988/89, with a peak
of about 133,000 tons in 1986/87. In order to maintain the dynamism of the
cotton industry and enable it to withstand the slump in world market prices
that started in 1986, Government adopted a cotton sector rehabilitation
program in 1987, supported and financed by external donors including IDA,
under the Second Borgou Rural Development Project (Cr. 1877-Ben). This
program has already helped to significantly reduce costs and improve
productivity in the sub-sector.
2.09      The rural sector is served by six regional rural development
agencies (CARDERs), each with a mandate covering one of the six provinces,
and reporting to the Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperative Action
(MDRAC), which has the overall responsibility for sector planning and
policy setting, as well as supervision of the CARDERs and other agencies
operating in the sector. The National Agricultural Production Agency
(SONAPRA) is responsible for input procurement, cotton processing and
export crop marketing. SONAPRA supplies seasonal agricultural inputs
(mainly fertilizer, insecticides and spraying equipment) to the CARDERs
which sell it on credit to farmers and farmer groups. The CARDERs also
assist farmer groups in cotton primary marketing, and assure credit
recovery during the cotton marketing season. Funds for the purchase of
inputs have come from either foreign financed projects or have been
borrowed from banks (BCB and BBD, when they were still operational) and
repaid at the end of the marketing season. Farmer repayment rates for
these input credits have averaged about 98Z each year. The Agricultural
Credit Bank, CNCA, which was responsible for agricultural credit,
participated only marginally in the seasonal input credits, most of its
activities being directed at Ftate enterprises (para 2.10).



- 5 -
C. The Banking and Financial Sector
2.10      Benin had a commercial bank, Banque Commerciale du Bénin (BCB),
a development bank, Banque Béninoise du Développement (BBD), and an
agricultural credit bank, Caisse Nationale de Crédit Agricole (CNCA), all
three fully Government t.wned following nationalization in 1975. The banks
failed to apply rigorous standards in appraising credit demands of public
enterprises and are now virtually bankrupt. As of end 1987 the three banks
had a consolidated portfolio of some CFAF 149 billion, of which an
estimated 75 percent was non-performing, due largely to failed public
enterprises. For CNCA, the agricultural credit bank, an amount of CFAF 21
billion was outstanding with 86 percent non-performing. The Banks,
especially BBD and CNCA, made extensive use of the central bank's (BCEAO)
rediscounting facilities. These facilities were exhausted by 1987-88,
therefore creating a severe liquidity crunch. Given these problems,
Governme\nt decided to liquidate all the banks starting with CNCA.
2.11      Following a detailed BCEAO supervision in 1984, the Governnent
undertook some corrective measures including an overhaul of the banks'
accounting systems, reintroduction of credit committees to review credit
applications, and introduction of taxes on the banks' real rather than
presumed profits. These measures however turned out to be too little too
late.  The banking problems came to a head when Governnent decided in the
last quarter of 1987 to sequester the bank deposits of tax delinquents,
leading to a mass exodus of funds from the banking system and a virtual
breakdown of all normal *anking activit'es.
2.12      With the assistance of the BCEAO, the World Bank, and the IMF, a
program of action to achieve longer term viability of the banking and
financial systems has been worked out. It includes: (a) liquidation of
CNCA (currently under way) and the reorganization of the rural credit
network (the Regional and Local Savings and Loan Cooperatives, CRCAMs and
CLCAMs) that had been placed under CNCA supervision from 1976 and for all
practical purposes operated as its regional and local affiliates; (b)
creation of a new or several new commercial banks with majority shares held
by foreign private banking entities; (c) transfer to a new bank of the good
assets and proportionate liabilities of BCB and BBD and liquidation of the
latter two banks; (d) rescheduling of the debts of the liquidated banks to
BCEAO between the latter and Governient; (e) general reinforcement of the
supervisory and regulatory framework of the banking system. Two new
privately owned regional banks are now being set up and are expected to
allow resumption of normal banking activities in the coun..ry within the
next few months.  Meanwhile, in order to ensure some minimum level of
banking activity and prevent further deterioration of BCB, which is only
partially in liquidation, Governnent has placed it under interim
administration by foreign experts. Contacts with potential private sector
foreign banks are continuing with a view to having some new internationally
reputed commercial banks set up in the country in the shortest possible



time. Meanwhile Government is pursuing discussions with various donors
including IDA for the reorganization of the rural credit network as
envisaged under the general financial sector reform program. The proposed
project is therefore meant to support this program.
D. The Rural Credit Sector
2.13      The rural sector has a high demand for credit.  Most of this
demand has been linked so far to input credit supplied by SONAPRA through
the CARDERs (Para 2.09). Up to the present, the regional rural savings and
credit cooperatives (the CRCAM), have been involved mainly in giving medium
term credit for draft animals, animal traction equipment and short term
bridging credit to farmer groups and individuals. Only the 6 CRCAMs were
involved in credit distribution and at levels well below the annual input
credit supplied by SONAPRA through the CARDERs. Thus, for example, in 1987
the CRCAMs lent out an amount of CFAF 390 million, representing only about
10Z of the seasonal input credit of almost CFAF 4 billion lent out through
SONAPRA and the CARDERs. The cooperative savings and loan institutions,
though representing the main avenue for saving in the rural sector,
represent only a minor source of credit and loan creation in the economy.
Thus, the portfolio of all the CRCAMs and CLCAMs over the years, has
represented a relatively small portion of the finanr'.oal intermediation in
the country. Total loans provided through the CRCAMs during their 13 years
of existence represented less than 0.5Z of the total loan portfolio of the
three parastatal banks.
2.14      Other sources of rural credit exist alongside the more formal
ones. One source is a village development fund (Fonds de Développement
Villageois (FDV)), developed with German aid in the Atlantique province and
operated by the Atlantique CARDER. It funds productive and social
investments through credit. The experiment is yet inconclusive with
problems of credit recovery. Nevertheless other donors are extending this
system to the provinces of Atacora and Mono. The rural sector also has a
system of "informal credit which is relatively well organized and can be
divided into two broad categories. The "tontines" involve regular financial
contributions by members of an informal group and credit to the members on
a rotational basis. This form of credit is found in the southern
provinces. Moneylending by private "usurerse forms the second category. It
exists within all provinces with varying and generally very high interest
rates: 50 to 6001. Moneylenders are widely used by the rural population
because of limited access to formal credit sources.
E. The Cooperative Savings and Loan Societies
2.15      Institutional Aspects.  The Caisses Locales de Crédit Agricole
Mutuel (CLCAM) and the Caisses Régionales de Crédit Agricole Mutuel (CRCAM)
represent the local and regional echelons, respectively, of the savings and
loan cooperative system. They are governed by the general cooperative
statutes established by a Government decree in 1966 and, thus, fall under
the supervision of the Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperative Action



- 7 -
(MDRAC). The CRCAMICLCAMs were created in 1975 and partially structured at
the outset following the French mutual credit model. This system regroups
the local cooperative saving and loan societies into regional unions which
are then federated under a central, democratically elected governing body.
The Beninese model however fell short of the usual expectations of the
French model when CNCA was created as the apex parastatal institution in
lieu of a federated body - (Ordinance No 76-30 of June 1976). Being a
mutualist savings and loan network, with its own resources, the
CRCAMICLCAMs should, in general, not have been considered as banking
institutions. They were however asked by CNCA to do banking operations
(running checking accounts for public servants, for example), and these
were given top priority by CNCA at the expense of a mutualist approach of
seeking to mobilize savings for on-lending to their members with
appropriate margins and participation of members in administrative
policies. Interest rate limits, applicable to the banking system. were
imposed on them when this would normally not have been the case. The main
objective of mobilizing savings for lending to their members was neglected
and CNCA gave the network a quasi banking status resulting in: (a)
regulatory limits on saving and lending interest rates set by BCEAO; (b)
salaries and benefits aligned on the banking sector scales; and (c) the
provision of full banking services by them. Despite the banking services
that they provided and the banking rules applied to them, they did not have
any access to the banking facilities that the normal banks had, such as
rediscounting facilities from BCEAO or remunerated deposits at the Central
Bank.
2.16      After more than 13 years, the CRCAMs and CLCAMs are well
established and represented on the national scale with 35 permanent CLCAMs
and 64 periodic CLCAMs. The- are constituted into 6 regional groups
represented in each of Benin's 6 provinces. The CRCAMs, as the regional
group leaders, manage their own savings and credit operations, and provide
accounting, fund deposit facilities and administrative services to the
CLCAMs. CNCA has provided staff, training and supervisory services to both
the CRCAMs and CLCAMs. These in turn acted as agents for CNCA in the
payment of public servants salaries in rural areas. In 1988 the
consolidated CRCAMICLCAMs staff level was 202, an excessively high and
costly number for the level of activities concerned (e.g at Boukoumbe and
Kouande CLCAMs two staff were employed for an average of 5 book entries per
day). The appointment by CNCA of a succession of incompetent managers in
some of the regional offices combined with hiring excessive staff largely
contributed to their poor performance.
2.17      In spite of these shortcomings, which would be corrected under
the project, the regional union concept is well suited to the diversified
Beninese rural landscape. The latter extends from the savanna type of
agriculture (cotton, groundnut and maize) in the sparsely populated north
to the more humid and densely populated southern coastal areas (root crops,
oilpalm, cotton and fishing). Despite the administrative interference of
CNCA, the CRCAMs and CLCAMs have maintained some of the features of savings
and loan cooperatives, with Board members being freely elected by members
without outside interference from CNCA or Government.



- 8 -
2.18      Financial Aspects.  The CRCAMs and CLCAMs have so far been the
main saving institutions for the rural sector. Over the past seven years
their savings base has shown considerable progress. The local CLCAMs
saving deposits increased from CFAF 240 million (US$ 0.8 million) in 1981
to CFAF 979 million (US$ 3.2 million) in 1988, an annual growth rate of
about 222. As of this date. the CRCAMs had also mobilized additional
saving deposits of CFAF 1,404 million (US$ 4.5 million) for a total of CFAF
2,383 million (US$ 7.7 million). In addition to managing the deposits, the
CRCAMs and CLCAMs also conducted checking operations for the payment of
civil servant salaries, local cooperatives and organizations, some public
enterprises, and large traders. Using the meiber deposits, CRCAMs started
granting credit facilities to farmer groups from around 1980.  During 1987
for example, loans financed from members savings amounted to CFAF 390
million (USS 1.3 million), 801 of which vas managed by the Borgou CRCAM for
agricultural equipment and other inputs. The liquidation of CNCA in 1987
led to the freezing of about CFAF 565 million (US$ 1.8 million) of
CRCAM/CLCAM deposits held at this institution. Because of the,e frozen
deposits, credit operations dwindled to an insignificant amount in 1988.
During 1988 and 1989, the CNCA liquidator has been able to pay back, on a
priority basis, about CFAF 159 million of the frozen amount, leaving a
balance of about CFAF 406 million to be covered partly during the interim
phase (para 2.24) and in the course of the proposed project.
2.19      Because of lax credit supervision and political interference in
allocation of credit, the credit recovery rate over time has only averaged
about 70Z. In addition overdrafts and loans vere extended to staff and
other non-members that were often unrepaid. As of September 30, 1988
unrecovered loans and overdrafts (mostly due from non-members) that were
overdue by over one year, (due dates before September 30, 1987) amounted to
about CFAF 270 million. Since the repayment dates for the major part of
the amounts outstanding date back to before 1986, the auditors, who
compiled and reviewed the network's accounts as of September 30, 1989, made
provisions in the accounts to cover this amount declaring them in effect,
as bad debts. It is expected however that some CFAF 352 million of
outstanding debts not yet overdue, and owed by members, would be repaid and
no provision has been made for them in the accounts.  Debt recovery
'brigades' were set up by Government towards the end of 1988 to try to
recover the overdue debts, as part of the rehabilitation program. The
brigades operate in each province under local administrationi authority of
the prefects. The brigades include CRCAM Board members, staff, and
members, and the police force. So far however there is no indication that
they would be successful in getting these overdue debts paid.
2.20      Since CNCA became responsible for the financial administration
of the CRCAMs and CLCAMs in 1976 (para 2.15), they have been managed
without consideration being given to matching costs with revenue. Their
operational losses have been financed by members' deposits, equity
contributions, increased indebtedness to CNCA (for seconded staff and
supervision), and arrears to Government for taxes. As of September 30,
1988, end of the last financial year, the consolidated accumulated
operating deficits for all CRCAMICLCAMs amounted to about CFAF 2,320
million (US$ 7.5 million), including a 10 Z adjustient for possible errors



- 9 -
in the accounts. They are projected to increase to about CFAF 2,490
million (US$ 8.0 million) by September 30, 1989 - the end of the 1988-89
financial year. A consolidated balance sheet at 30 September 1988, and a
projected consolidated balance sheet at 30 September 1989, for the network
are presented in Annex 2-i.
2.21      The principal causes of these accumulated deficits are:
(a)  unprofitable (and sometimes negative) interest rate margins
between rates paid on members deposits (6.5Z), rates on
CRCAM depos.ts at CNCA (6.52 to 7Z), and deposits at BCEAO
(OZ). The freezing of CFAF 565 million of CRCAM deposits
at CNCA in 1987 following liquidation of the latter has
meant that they received no interest from CNCA for the past
two years;
(b) high operating costs resulting from application of high
banking sector salary grades (CNCA seconded staff) and
employment of excess and often incompetent staff;
(c) excessive costs incurred in running complex banking
operations (checking and interbank transactions) for the
account of CNCA for which staff vere poorly trained and
local Boards did not understand;
(d) poorly supervised credit operations that have resulted in
debts of about CFAF 270 million being classified as bad
debts (para 2.19); and
(e)  reduced income due to poor financial management.
2.22      Despite these losses, preliminary analyses done by the
consultant preparation team (para 1.02) and reviewed at appraisal have
shown that all 6 CRCAM and 35 CLCAMs would be viable if they are allowed to
run as mutualist savings and loan institutions without Government or CNCA
interference, and given the freedom to operate vithin a liberalized and
favorable policy environment, especially as regards their freedom to set
interest rate margins between deposits and loans. Accounts at the 64
secondary CLCAMs, which do not have a remunerative savings base as yet, are
to be transferred and consolidated into and under the management of the 35
primary CLCAMs and would only be operated as independent units when their
viability is demonstrated in the course of project implementation and over
time.



- 10 -
2.23      The larger part of the losses occurred within the last 5 years                    I
of the 13 year life of the CRCAM/CLCAMs as CNCA went into bankruptcy and
income from CRCAM/CLCAM deposits with CNCA were stopped.  Estimates on how
the CRCAMs and CLCAMs covered the losses of CFAF 2,320 million as of
September 30, 1988 are as follows:
(i)   member deposits:                          CFAF 1,392 million
(ii)  members' equity:                          CFAF   265 million
(iii) debt arrears to CNCA:                     CFAF   622 million
(iv)  unpaid taxes:                             CFAF    41 million
The funds used to cover these losses however do not belong to the network
and vill have to be repaid either to members (deposits and equity), CNCA
(debt arrears) or Government (unpaid taxes). The debt arrears to CNCA
represent in part, salaries of staff seconded by CNCA to run the CLCAMs up
until the end of 1987. The salaries, equivalent to CFAF 450 million,
though paid by CNCA to the staff concerned vere not reimbursed by the
CLCAMs. The other part of the debt arrears of CFAF 172 million represents
advances made by CNCA to the Atacora CRCAM to support its operations.
F. Interim Support Program
2.24      In order to prevent the financial collapse of the CRCAM/CLCAM
network while a rehabilitation program is being put in place and also to
complete a financial and managerial audit of individual units, an interim
program, worked out with the Board of Directors of the CRCAMs and CLCAMs,
was agreed upon between Government and interested donors (IDA, IMF, CCCE,
FAC, FED, FRG, Swiss Cooperation) during a donor meeting held in December
1988 in Cotonou. Government has already demonstrated its commitment to the
rehabilitation of these savings and loan cooperatives by encouraging the
CRCAM/CLCAM Board members to get rid of excess and incompetent staff and to
reduce salary benefits. Thus total staff size was reduced from 202 in 1988
to 92 currently. It has also agreed to remove its controls over the
network by: (a) allowing the cooperatives to revert to private sector
salary policies; (b) removing CNCA supervision; and (c) allowing the
network to revert to its original status of cooperatives, instead of a
quasi banking establishment, whereby the network vould be free to set its
own interest rates on savings and loans, subject to the legal maximum usury
rate (para 3.03 (b)). The following additional actions are included in the
interim program:
(a) the financing of CFAF 257 million (US$ 0.83 million), to cover
part of the CRCAM deposits frozen at CNCA. Out of this amount, to be
financed by Swiss Cooperation and FAC, CFAF 127 million (US$0.42)
vould be used to finance a pilot credit operation at selected
CRCAM/CLCAMs and CFAF 130 million (US$0.43 million) to bring
additional liquidity into the cooperative saving and loan system.
The release of part of the deposits vould leave a balance of CFAF 149



- il -
million of frozen CRCAM deposits at CNCA to be financed under the
proposed project;
(b) the establishment, during the interim period, of a unit within
the IDA-financed Public Enterprise Rehabilitation Project (Cr 1748-
BEN), to coordinate and supervise the initial financial and
institutional measures being undertaken to reform the CRCAM/CLCAMs.
The unit reports to a local monitoring committee of donors "Comité de
Pilotage'. The work of the unit would end when the independent
project management unit is created at project start-up (para 4.01).
The program also provides for the supply of technical assistance
(about CFAF 38 million) in accounting to the CRCAM/CLCAMs; and
(c) completion of financial audits at September 30, 1988 for all
CRCAMs and CLCAMs.
2.25      The cost of the interim program of CFAF 341 million (US$ 1.1
million) would be financed by Swiss Cooperation - CFAF 241 million (US$0.8
million) under the Public Enterprise Project (Cr. 1748-Ben), and FAC - CFAF
100 million (US$0.3 million). It was also expected that part (about CFAF
100 million) of the IFAD line of credit to the Borgou CRCAM within the
ongoing Second Borgou Rural Development Project would be mobilized as
additional resources for the pilot credit program. Details on the credit
conditionG and components of the pilot credit program are in Annex 2-2. A
report on the satisfactory execution of the pilot credit operation would be
a condition of disbursement of the IDA Credit allocated to the credit
component. As part of the interim credit program, a management and
financial audit of the CRCAMICLCAMs accounts at September 30, 1989 would
also be financed separately by Swiss Cooperation and the EEC.
G. Rationale for IDA Involvement.
2.26      The project is consistent with Government's strategy of
improving macroeconomic performance including the rehabilitation of the
national banking and financial sector supported by the Bank through the
structural adjustment program. More significantly however, it represents a
first attempt to reform the rural credit sector, to remove direct
Government interference in rural credit operations and to encourage greater
responsibility of the rural community in the management of its local
economy. It aims at developing competitive and self-sustaining rural
financial institutions that would serve the needs of the rural population.
It involves support for individual farmers' credit needs and is expected to
have far reaching implications on the future design of agricultural credit
operations. The project is consistent with the Bank's new policy on
support for financial sector development. The Bank's lending strategy is
designed to support Government's program to restructure the financial
sector of the country and restructure or privatize public and para-public
enterprises. Support for similar efforts with other public enterprises is
already being provided through the ongoing Public Enterprises Sector
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1748-Ben) as well as the recently approved
structural adjustment program. IDA involvement also seeks to coordinate
the different viewpoints of the various bilateral donors involved in



- 12 -
financing the rehabilitation of the network in order to ensure consistency
in the operations of all the various regional and local savings and loan
cooperatives.
III. THE PROJECT
A.  Project Objectives and Summary Description.
3.01      Objectives.  The proposed project would support the declared
Government policy and the determination of the rural population to
reestablish and pramote sustainable private rural financial intermediation
systems. It would help strengthen the existirLg CRCAMs and CLCAMs following
the well proven concept of cooperative savings and loan associations as a
vehicle for independent decentralized administration coordinatec  from a
central federated body. It would thus contribute to meeting Gov'rnment's
target of establishing a self-sustaining rural financial intermeuiation
system that would make the rural sector responsible for managing its
financial resources and would help offset the effects of the general
collapse of banking and financial services in the rural areas. The project
would restore members' deposits and equity eroded by accumulated losses.
It would reestablish financial and administrative policies compatible with
recognized cooperative statutory rules. Cooperative administrators and
staff would be trained in the areas of administration, financial and credit
management and savings promotion. New rural credit initiatives would be
tested.
3.02      Summary Description.  The project would cover all 6 provinces cf
Benin and would be executed over a 3-year period under the overall
responsibility of the Ministry of Justice responsible for Inspection of
Public and Para-Public Enterprises (MJIEPSP). Government has asked the
latter Ministry to supervise the implementation of the project rather than
MDRAC (responsible for cooperative supervision) in order to limit the
possible interference of the rural development agencies (CARDERs) in the
operations of the CRCAMs and CLCAMs. A 3-year period is considered
adequate to test the ability of the local and regional agencies to reach
administrative maturity. It vould involve an institutional rehabilitatioi
program to correct and strengthen the management and administrative
processes of the CRCAM and CLCAMs. It also includes a financial
rehabilitatior program to reestablish their depleted funds and develop them
into financially and administratively autonomous institutions. An active
credit program is to be developed using the restored deposits of the
network and through a small line of credit for the CRCAMs. The project
would establish a Federal Union of Savings and Loan Cooperatives (FUSLC)
(para 4.04) involving a democratic election process of Board members and
representatives. During the initial project year, a central project unit
(CPU) would manage project activities and help put in place the FUSLC which
it would subsequently assist in managing the rehabilitation process.



_ 13 -
B.   Detailed Features.
1.   The Institutional Rehabilitatior. Program.
3.03      The institutional rehabilitation program includes measures, some
of which have already been started, to reestablish the mutualist concept of
cooperative savings and loan institutions that they lost when they were
partially incorporated into the CNCA network. The measures would correct
past management mistakes and strengthen the overall management and
administrative procedures of the CRCAM and CLCAMs in order to make them
independent and viable rural financial intermediaries. The program
includes:
(a)  consolidating the accounts of the 64 secondary CLCAMs into and
bringing them under the management of the existing 35 primary
CLCAMs (para 2.22). Though the CRCAMs would have their own
savings and loan activities they would be considered as a
regional union of the CLCAMs for whom they would provide a
certain number of services (depositing their excess cash,
cooperative training, accounting help and inspection etc.). The
CLCAMs would be represented on the Boards of the CRCAMs;
(b)  redefining the legal statutes governing the administration and
financial operations of rural savings and loans cooperatives in
Benin. Though the CRCAMs and CLCAMs would operate as financial
intermediaries in the rural sector and would be expected to
observe all the prudent management ratios imposed by banking
regulations, BCEAO has confirmed that they would not be
considered as banks since they represent a mutualist network
with their oewn resources. They would therefore not undertake
any checking or interbank transactions as in the past. Their
new statutes would ensure that: (i) the institutions are member
o.ned and operated with local CLCAM and regional CRCAM
administrative Boards being elected representatives of members;
(ii) staff recruitment and salaries are freely determined by the
CRCAMICLCAM Boards; (iii) interest rates are not subject to the
limits set by BCEAO but set by the CRCAM/CLCAM themselves with
the onlv condition that loan rates would not exceed the lin-it
set by the usury laws (currently 24.5 Z, compared to projected
rate of annual price inflation of 4Z); and (iv) credit
operations financed from members deposits are restricted to
activities carried out by members. A Law abrogating the June
1976 ordinance governing the organization of agricultural credit
under CNCA, and establishing new principles governing the
operations of savings and loan associations has been adopted in
May 1989 and is presented in Annex 3-1. The draft statutes for
the CRCAMs and CLCAMs are being prepared and are to be agreed on
before credit effectiveness (para 5.02 (a)). The adoption of
these statutes would be a condition of disbursement of the IDA
Credit allocated for credit operations (para 5.03 (b)>.



- 14 -
<c) working out the practical conditions for establishing a Federal
Union of Saving and Loan Cooperatives (FUSLC) and setting up the
Union towards the end of the second project year (para 4.04).
Before the Union becomes operational, a management committee
made up of the chairpersons of the CRCAMs administrative Boards
would work in close collaboration with and assist the project
management unit in performing the functions that an eventual
Union will be expected to perform. The donor and Government
Coordinating Committee set up during the interim phase (Comité
de Pilotage) vould also continue to provide advice and monitor
project progress;
(d) reestablishing improved budgeting, accounting and financial
information systems alloving for the speedy flow of information
to Board members, to the FUSLC and the project unit. The
project would also set up a permanent internal audit system and
finance annual external audit reviews by a reputable firm;
(e)  designing and implementing a training program in cooperative
accounting, credit management, internal audit and administration
for the CRCAMICLCAM Board of Directors, members and staff. In
support of the permanent "on the job" training program executed
by the professional staff of the central project unit, external
training would be undertaken including overseas study visits for
CRCAM/CLCAM Board members and seminars for staff and members
organized by specialists in different subjects (Annex 3-2);
(f) reviewing performance and strengthening CRCAM and CLCAM staff.
The 1988 staff reduction program, carried out by local Boards
<para 2.24), did not benefit from appropriate expert advice in
the review of staff performance. The CRCAM and CLCAM Boards,
with the assistance of the CPU, and supported by evidence from a
staff performance evaluation to bé completed before the end of
1990 (para 2.25), would review performance of individual staff
for the period prior to project start up. All staff would be
put on technical dismissal status and the rehiring process would
require evidence of satisfactory performance. Assurances vere
obtained from Government at negotiations that a staff evaluation
report would be completed before December 31, 1990, and any new
staff reorganization required following this review would take
place vithin two months from the date of completion and
acceptance of the report (para 5.01 (a)).
2.   The Financial Rehabilitation Program.
3.04      A financial rehabilitation program that would cover all 6
regional CRCAMs and 35 local CLCAMs would accompany the institutional
reform.  The financial program's objectives would be: (i) to reconstitute
members' equity and savinge depleted by accumulated losses (para 2.23) and
tu release the balance of f'rozen deposits at CNCA of CFAF 149 million (US$
0.5 million) (para 3.05); (ii) to put in place adequate administrative,
accounting, and financial control procedures to ensure vetter management;



- _5 -
and (iii) to support the CRCAMICLCAM efforts towards financial autonomy by
financing the equivalent of their first year operating costs.
3.05      The reconstituted accounts of the CRCAMs and CLCAMs for
September 30, 1988 show that they are currently in a situation of
insolvency and quasi illiquidity because of the major losses incurred in
the past. Any successful rehabilitation of the network would require then
that there is 8 reconstitution of their depleted funds (equity and member
deposits) beforehand. The total accumulated losses, including provisions
for bad debts and the frozen deposits at CNCA and a 10Z contingency for
possible errors in the accounts, are estimated to be CFAF 2,490 million
(US$ 7.9 million) by September 30, 1989 (para 2.20). The accumulated
losses are to be covered in the following manner;
-    cancellation of claims on CRCAMICLCAM for outstanding debts to
CNCA for CFAF 622 million and transfer of these claims to
Government as part of the CNCA liquidation, and cancellation of
unpaid back taxes of CFAF 41 million to Government (Para 2.23);
-    partial financing of the frozen deposits at CNCA, during the
interim project period for an amount equivalent to CFAF 257
million (para 2.24); and
-    external financing of the remaining past losses estimated at
CFAF 1,570 million, which includes the remaining CFAF 149
million (US$0.50 million) of the CRCAM frozen deposits (para
2.24).
3.06      Other elements of the financial rehabilitation program are:
(a) deregulation of interest rates on credit operations and deposits
of the CRCAMICLCAMs (para 4.11). It was agreed at negotiations
that the CRCAMs and CLCAMs would explore the possibility of
operating a deposit account (Recapitalization Account) with one
of the new commercial banks setting up in the country.  If
howvo-er, there is a delay in the commercial banks opening up
their offices and/or conditions offered by them are not
satisfactory, Government has agreed to allow the CRCAM/CLCAMs to
operate the Recapitalization Account at BCEAO, under the name of
Government's Sinking Fund (CAA), to be remunerated at about 9Z
which is the current rate for banking sector deposits. The
opening of the Recapitalization Account under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association and deposit of an
initial amount of CFAF 600 million representing the initial
first tranche contribution of donors for the financial
rehabilitation would be a condition of IDA credit effectiveness
(para 5.02 (b)).
(b) establishment of standard operating budgets which would include:
a salary structure decided by the CRCAM/CLCAM Boards, staff
performance review and reductions (para 3.03 (f)), and
operations limited to savings and credit. Assurances from
Government that the CRCAM/CLCAMs would be free to recruit their



- 16 -
own staff and determine their salary structure were obtained at
negotiations (para 5.01 (b)>; and
(c) better review of all new credit demands and appro- il vested only
in the Board of Directors of individual CRCAMs and CLCAMs
without any interference from political or administrative
structures such as the CARDERs. Attempts are also to be made to
recover all outstanding loans made by the CRCAMs. Agreement was
obtained from Government at negotiations that the local and
regional political and administrative authorities will not
interfere with the financial operations of the network and that
it will take all legal measures to assist the CRCAM/CLCAMs in
the process of recovering all current past due loans and funds
belonging to them (para 5.01 (c>).
The practical modalities for implem,nting the financial rehabilitation
program are detailed in paras 4.06 to 4.09.
3.   Credit Prog-am
3.07      Given the large unsatisfied demand for credit in Benin's rural
communities, the future vitality of the CRCAM/CLCAM network would depend on
how it is able to mobilize savings to satisfy at least a part oi this
credit demand. There is a diversity in credit demand, often in very
limited amounts, which are currently left unsatisfied and for which the
network can provide a useful source of credit funds. Credit needs are
normally different from one province to the other and hence each province
would have to adapt its credit conditions to meet local conditions.
Members of the cooperative network have decided that both the CLCAMs as
well as the CRCAMs would provide credit for their members as compared to
the previous situation where only the CRCAMs provided credits.  In order to
initiate the CLCAMs and the reorganized CRCAMs to the rew and stricter
credit procedures and also keep credit activities functioning in the rural
areas, a test credit program is being run during the interim period leading
to project start-up (para 2.24 (a)>.
3.08      While in the medium to long term credit demands would be
satisfied from additional savings mobilized by the network, funds for the
credit operations i-à the short term and during the project period would
come from: (i) project proceeds from different donors including IDA, passed
on as grants to the CRCAM/CLCAM by Government, that would reconstitute the
depleted member deposits (para 2.20); and (ii) a small line of credit
(financed by the CCCE) to the CRCAMs equivalent to CFAF 180 million (US$
0.6 million) to be used by the network as and when needed. The idea of
this small credit line is to ensure that the CRCAMs and CLCAMs would be
able to expand their lending program if and when necessary while at the
same time keeping enough funds from member deposits to meet withdrawal
demands of their members. In effect the network represents the only
"banking" institution for the rural population. The loans would be made to
meet a variety of needs in the rural areas depending on the province but in
general, would cover seasonal credit for: farm investments in input
purchases (labor, seeds, foodcrop fertilizer), land development, livestock;



- 17 -
bridge financing during the lean seasons and for social purposes; small
commerce and processing for foodzrops and other products especially for
women; credits for artisans; etc.  Medium term credits are also envisaged
especially by the CRCAMs for animal traction development and other
equipment purclhases. In general the CRCAMs may also use their funds to
refinance credits made by the CLCAMs.
3.09      Following extensive meetings between the various members and
Boards of the network and the project preparation teams, the CRCAMs and
CLCAMs have decided that credit operations would be carried out under
strict supervision of the local Boards of Directors, the CPU and the FUSLC
(when it is created). Though credit conditions may vary depending on the
province, the cooperaLive members have agreed that these conditions would,
at a minimum, include:
(a) credits only to individuals or groups who are paid-up members of
the CRCAM or CLCAM;
(b) all credit applications will be reviewed by the Boarà or a
credit committee appointed by it before approval by the Board;
(c) each individual or group demanding credit would have a minimum
of 102 of the credit amount in saving at the CRCAMICLCAM and
must not have any overdue debt;
(d) Collateral involving group responsibility and assets security
would be required under all circumstances. The nature of the
guarantee will depend on each individual case but individuals
for example must have sufficient moral guarantee (recognized as
serious and hard-working) and material guarantee (guarantee of
the producer group to which he/she belongs; guarantee of one or
several members with sufficient savings to cover the loan
amount, output from plantation, vehicle etc,). CRCAM credits
would normally be limited to producer groups who will jointly
guarantee the credit;
(d) individual loans, at least during the interim project period,
would be on short term and amounts would vary within a ceiling
of CFAF 200,000; and
(e) annual interest rates would be fixed by the individual Boards
but will vary from about 12Z to a maximum of 24Z.
3.10      During the initial phase of the rehabilitation the CRCAMs and
CLCAMs would be expected to follow a prudent course in giving credits.
CRCAM's would limit credits to 30 to 50 percent of member deposits (CLCAMs
20 to 40 percent), would keep about 10 Z of the deposits as liquidity and
"investe the rest in a remunerated account at an acceptable commercial bank
or at BCEAO. A small initial insurance fund of CFAF 10 million (US$30,000)
would be established and operated centrally by the FUSLC and CPU to cover
possible losses, especially from mortality of traction animals t:;at the
netwcrk may finance under its medWum term credit program. The fund would



- 18 -
gradually be built up through contributions from individual units. Such
contributions would be built into interest rate margins.
C.   Pro ect Costs and Financing.
1.   Cost Estimates
3.11      Total project costs including taxes are estimated at CFAF 3,983
million (US$ 12.8 million) with a foreign exchange component of about 18Z.
Project costs are summarized below. A sunmmary of project costs by
component ij given in Annex 3-3.
Proiect Costs Summary
Forelgn % of
as X of Beso
Local  Forelgn Total   Local Foreign  Total  Total  Cost
--------CFAF ml I Iton---  ---USS mi 1 tlon-------  -----
Project Managment        344.1  247.2  691.8    1.1  0.8   1.9    41.8   16.9
Traini-;.                 29.S    9.0   38.6    0.1  0.0   0.1    23.4    1.1
Audit ._d Studies         60.4   69 a   109.7    0.2  0.2   0.4    64.1    3.1
Cperatlng Costa Cooperatlves 246.0  365.7  611.7    0.8  1.2   2.0    69.8   17.4
Finarncial Rehabtlîtation   1971.0    0.0  1971.0    8.4  0.0   6.4    0.0   66.1
Credit                   190.0    0.0  190.0    0.6  0.0   0.6         0.0    6.4
TOTAL BASE COSTS        2831.0  681.3  3612.8    9.1  2.2  11.3    19.4  100.0
Physical Contingencles    32.2    7.6   39.8    0.1  0.0   0.1    19.0    1.1
Price Contlngencles      387.8   43.6  430.9    1.2  0.2   1.4    10.1   12.3
TOTAL COSTS             3250.6  732.6  3983.0   10.4  2.4  12.8    18.4  113.4
3.12      Base costs are valued at January 1989 prices adjusted for
inflation to November 1989, the date of negotiations. Physical
contingencies vary over a number of items with a project average of 12.
Price contingencies on foreign costs are based on the Bank's projections of
international price increases (MUV) at annual rates of 7.2Z for 1989, and
4.4Z for 1990 through 1992. Price contingencies on local costs are based
on projected domestic inflation (6.52 for 1989 and 42 per annum for 1990 to
1992). Cost estimates relating to accumulated losses of the CRCAMICLCAMs
were based on partly reconstituted accounts at September 30, 1988.
Estimates for the CRCAM/CLCAM accumulated losses covering the financial
year leading to the project (October 1, 1988 to September 30, 1989) were
based upon accounting data at December 31, 198S and agreed budgets. In
view of this, an additional contingency of 101 has been added to the amount
of recorded accumulated losses. Actual payments to be made by donors would
however be based on confirmed audited accounts at 30 September 1989. The
presentation of fully audited accounts and a management performance report
by a reputable firm for the period to September 30, 1989 would be a
condition of disbursement on credit operations to be financed by IDA
(para 5.03(b)).



- 19 -
2.   Financing Plan and Arranaements
3.13      Financing of project cost8 including taxes would be shared in
the following amounts and proportions:
Proposed Financing Plan
Local    Foreigp    Total    Percentage
--- US$ million ------
IDA                                     1.9      0.6       2.5           19
CCCE                                    2.7      0.7       3.4           27
FAC                                     0.4      0.3       0.7            5
FED                                     0.9      0.1       1.0            8
F.R.GERMANY                             0.5      0.0       0.5            4
SWITZERLAND                             0.9      0.3       1.2            9
Government/Beneficiaries                3.1      0.4       3.5           28
Total                                 l10.4      2.4      12.8          100
3.14      IDA funds would be used to finance: (a) part of project
management costs of technical assistance, vehicles and equipment and
operating costs; and (b) the credit programs of CRCAMs and CLCAMs (para
3.08 (a)) in four provinces, Atacora, Borgou, Oueme and Zou. All f--nds
external financing, including that of IDA, would be passed on by Government
as grants to the CRCAM/CLCAM. Contributions from all the other co-
financiers (except for the CCCE) would be in grant form made to Government.
CCCE financing would be a mixture of grant and loan to Government.
3.15      Part of the CRCAM/CLCAM operating losses are represented by
their unpaid debts (para 2.23) consisting of: (i) outstanding debts to CNCA
of CFAF 622 million (US$ 2.0 million) for salaries of seconded staff and
other support services; and (ii) tax and rate arrears of CFAF 41 million
(US$ 0.14 million) owed to the Treasury. Government has confirmed by
decree in June 1989 the cancellation of these claims on the CRCAM/CLCAMs.
Government would pay these CRCAM/CLCAM debts to CNCA during the latter's
liquidation process as part of its contribution to project financing.
CRCAMICLCAM share of project financing vould be 11Z of project costs.
3.16      External donors would finance approximately 72Z of the net of
tax costs. The IDA portion (US$2.5 million) would represent approximately
20Z of net of tax costs. The fulfillment of all conditions preceeding the
effectiveness of the loans and grants of the other donors would be a
condition of IDA credit effectiveness (para 5.02 (c)). A detailed
financing plan is in Annez 3-4.



- 20 -
3.   Procurement
3.17      Goode and services financed under the project would be procured
in accordance with procedures acceptable to each co-financier. Procurement
arrangements are summarized in the table below. Figures in parenthesis
show amounts to be fir.anced by IDA under various categories.
P: curement Arrangements
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method
Total
Procurement Element            ICB      LCB     Other       Costs
Vehicles & Equipment   a/      0.2                            0.2
(0.1)                          (0.1)
T.Assistance & Consult. b/                       1.4          1.4
(0.5)       (0.5)
Personnel & Op. Costs c/                         3.3          3.3
(0.2)       (0.2)
Financial Rehabilitation
and Line of Credit    di                         7.8          7.8
(1.7)       (1.7)
0.2              12.4        12.6
(0.1)             (2.4)        (2.5)
a/   ICB procurement of vehicles and equipment would be subject to prior
review.
bi   Studies, audits, and technical assistance financed by IDA would be
procured on the basis of Bank Guidelines on the use of consultants.
c/   IDA financing would cover mainly vehicle operating costs.
dl   Represents the recapitalization of the CRCAM/CLCAM network.  The IDA
portion would finance the credit program consisting of various loans
of amall individual value, in general less than the equivalent of US$
1,000, for multiple investment purposes.
4.   Disbursements
3.18      Following agreement with co-fJnanciers disbursement of foreign
funds would be on a parallel basis. The IDA credit would be disbursed over
a 4 year period, following the standard disbursement profile for specific
investment loans in Benin. The profile has been modified to take into
account the fact that the project period is three years (Annex 3-5). Full
documentation would be required for technical assistance and external
consultants expenses. SOEs would be submitted for operating costs and



- 21 -
credit operations. For credit operations, supporting documents consisting
of borrowers nominative lists indicating amounts of credit, goode or
services acquired, guarantee, past performance, and membership number would
be submitted to the CPU by the CRCAMICLCAMs Boards. These documents would
be retained for examination by IDA supervision missions. In order to
facilitate the timely implementation of the project, Government would
establish at a bank acceptable to IDA: a Special Account into which IDA
would deposit an advance amount of about CFAF 160 million (US$ 0.5 million
equivalent) representing the initial requirements for the CRCAMICLCAM
credit program and about 4 months of IDA share of project management cost8.
Disbursement of the IDA Credit
Amount of
Credit Allocation      Z of Expenditure
('000)            to be financed
US$        SDR
Category
(1) Vehicles, Equipment
& Vehicle Operating Costs             300         240           100Z
(2) Credit Operations
(a) Atacora                        90         80            100o
(b) Borgou                        640        510            1002
(c) Oueme                         290        230            1002
(d) Zou                           490        390            1002
(3) Technical Assistance               420         330           1002
(4) Unallocated                        270        220
TOTAL                                2,500       2,000
5.   Accounts, Audits and Reporting Requirements
3.19      The CPU and CRCAM/CLCAMs would be required to operate a
performing accounting system to record the project's operations. In
general the existing accounting system is sound but has been so far badly
managed and supervised. The financial manager to be recruited (para 4.02)
would be required to make the necessary modifications to the system and
manage and supervise its application. Staff training under the project
would correct the accounting shortcomings as existing staff possess
appropriate basic qualifications. During the pre-project interim period, a
technical assistance program and a first audit of CRCAM/CLCAMs accounts at
September 30, 1988 has helped clear outstanding accounts and assist staff



- 22 -
in accounting operations. Assurances vere obtained at negotiations that
the Government would: (a) have the CPU and the CRCAMICLCAMs maintain
appropriate accounting records and accounts; (b) have the CPU, CRCAM/CLCAMs
accounts, including the Recapitalization Account and claims, audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA; and (c) submit to the Bank not
later than 6 months after the end of each financial year, audited accounts
for the CPU, the CRCAMICLCAMs and the Recapitalization Account including a
special report on debt recovery actions and results. Within 6 months of
the credit closing date, MJIEPSP would prepare or have prepared a
completion report covering all components of the project for submission to
IDA.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Proiect Administration and Implementation
1.   Proiect Management
4.01      During the first year, the project would be managed by a central
project unit (CPU) that vill be under the overall supervision of the
Ministry of Justice responsible for the Inspection of Public and Para-
Public Enterprises (MJIEPSP). The unit vill assist in organizing a Federal
Union of Savings and Loan Cooperatives (FUSLC) that would be responsible
for pursuing the rehabilitation program, from the second or third project
year. The CPU will at that time become a Technical Support Unit to the
Federation and will assist the Federation in the implementation of the
rehabilitation program. The schedule for the implementation of key project
activities is in Annex 4-1. The CPU vill have two related operational
units that would be partly decentralized at regional level consisting of:
(i) a cooperative promotion unit headed by a Beninese national
responsible for training of members and the Boards of the
various CRCAMs and CLCAMs in administration, credit management,
financial control and promotional activities. The unit staff of
6 would be based at the regional level;
(ii)      a financial and administrative unit responsible for financial
management of the project including operation of the
Recapitalization Fund, the Insurancee Fund, the control and
supervision of the CRCAMICLCAMs financial rehabilitation
program, and CRCAM/CLCAMs staff training in accounts and
internal audit. The unit head would be assisted by one
accountant and 3 internal auditors at central level and by 8
internal auditorsitrainers at regional level. The project
organizational chart is in Annex 4-2.
4.02      Technical Assistance and Consultants.  Under the project, two
permanent staff with demonstrated experience in the fields of rural credit
cooperative management and financial management vould be recruited for the
positions of Project Manager and Financial and Administrative Manager.



- 23 -
Because the project would be introducing new management and operational
procedures, short-term consultant missions in areas of socio-economy (3
man-months) and monitoring and evaluation (3 man-months) would be
necessary. The terms of reference of Technical Assistance staff are in the
project file and were agreed on during negotiations. Appointment of key
staff of the CPU management team, including the project manager, the
financial and administrative manager, a training and development manager,
and chief inspector, satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of IDA
Credit effectiveness (para 5.02 (d)). Technical Assistance and consultants
schedule is in Annex 4-3.
2.   Training
4.03      The project would place particular emphasis on training staff
and Board members to improve the administrative and financial performance
of the CRCAMICLCAMs. The trair-ng program has already started during the
interim period with a visit by a team consisting of Board members and
managers to other more successful savings and loan cooperatives such as the
Banques Populaires du Rwanda, set up under Swiss financing. Training would
normally involve on the job training supported by CPU financial and
administrative unit for accounts staff through regular inspections. It
would be supplemented by orgarized training sessions managed by external
subject matter specialists. Additional training for CRCAM managers, CLCAM
officers, and Board members would be provided through regular sessions led
by CPU staff and outside trainers. The training budget and program is in
Annex 3-2.
3.   The ?ederal Union of Saving and Loan Cooperatives <FUSLC)
4.04      While the Central ?roject Unit (CPU) would initially assure the
overall supervision of the rehabilitation program, the unit would work to
establish a Federal Union of Saving and Loan Cooperatives (FUSLC), a
central body that would eventually be responsible for the overall
administration of the CRCAM/CLCAM network. When the FUSLC is created in
the second or third year of project implementation, the CPU would act as a
technical support unit to the federal union in the regulation and
standardization of administrative and financial procedures and the pooling
of CRCAM/CLCAMs excess funds. Before the establishment of the union,
several key issues will have to be addressed to ensure the gradual
integration of the network into the broader financial system. These issues
would include: (a) the practical steps te be taken for setting up the union
and its composition; (b) whether the union should work towards a banking
status for the CRCAM/CLCAM network; (c) the relationship of these
cooperatives with the commercial banking sector (as ordinary coops or as
banking institutions); (d) the appropriate legal and supervisory framework
under which the netw,ork would operate in light of the evolution of the
financial sector restructuring program; and (e) what are the functions that
the union should perform, such as representing the network in dealings with
third parties, developing interest rate policy for the network, inspection
of CRCAM/CLCAM accounts and procedures, cooperative training, management of
the networks surplus funds, management of an insurance fund etc.



- 24 -
4.05      Pending the creation of the FUSLC, a management committee made
up of the chairpersons of the Board of Directors and managers of the six
CRCAMs would work closely with the CPU in supervising the network and
ensuring the correct implementation of the rehabilitation program. The
donor monitoring committee (O Comité de Pilotage'), set up during the
interim project phase would continue to monitor activities of the CPu and
the network. Pending the proven maturity of individual CRCAI/CLCAMs, the
CPU and the management committee, and subsequently FUSLC with technical
support from the CPU, would exercise close control over the management af
funds by the CRCAM/CLCAMs and would be authorized tc direct the placement
of excess funds whenever it would appear justified, and/or restrict credit
operations of individual CRCAMs or CLCAMs if risk assessments by local
Boards do not meet prudent management criteria. The FUSLC (CPU) would also
be responsible for the monitoring and coordinating of credit recovery
actions, for which it would submit to Government and donors an annual
progress report (para 3.19).
4.   The Modalities for the Financial Rehabilitation
4.06      Interim Project Period.  Given that CNCA does not have the means
to repay the frozen CRCAM deposits, provisions have been made in the CRCAM
accounts as irrecoverable debts and are therefore included in the total
losses to be financed under the project (including the interim phase). The
amount of CFAF 257 million paid during the interim period, under Swiss and
FAC financing, to unfreeze part of the CRCAM deposits at CNCA are
considered as an "advance" payment on the total accumulated losses being
financed under the financial rehabilitation program of the project.  While
provisions have been made in the CRCAM accounts for these frozen deposits,
tney still appear in the books of CNCA as CRCAM deposits. The idea of the
rehabilitation process during the interim project period is to use the
"advance' against accumulated losses of the CRCAM/CLCAM network to pay off
part of their frozen CNCA deposits and reduce by the same amount, in the
books of CNCA, its debts to the network.
4.07      The total amounts that *ould go to the CRCAMs and CLCAMs of each
province would be acknowledged by the CRCAM by signing a receipt for the
funds and the corresponding amount deducted from the frozen account of the
CRCAM concerned at CNCA. The latter will reflect the amount each CRCAM is
paid in its books after receiving a copy of the receipt signed by the CRCAM
director and tte project coordinator who has been appointed during the
interim period. The CRCAM will keep accounts for monies they receive for
their account as well as that of the CLCAMs depending on it. The CLCAM
recipient will also keep accounts. All payments will be recorded by the
interim project coordination unit and passed on to the CPU. These payments
would be deducted from amounts to be paid each individual unit during the
project period.
4.08      Modalities during the Project Period.  During the project period
a centrally managed Recapitalization Account would be set up to receive
donor contributions for the financial rehabilitation (para 3.06 (a)). IDA
funds will however not go through the recapitalization account, since the



- 25 -
IDA Credit proceeds vill directly fund loans made by CRCAMs and CLCAMs to
their members (para 3.14). A special account vould be opened at an
acceptable bank for the purpose (para 3.18). The various donors, CCCE, EEC
and the Federal Republir of Germany would deposit their contributions for
the financial rehabilitation into the Recapitalization Account.  Funds from
this account vill be allocated to each CRCAM/CLCAM as a function of its
accumulated loss at September 30, 1989 after deducting: (i' funds received
by the CRCAM/CLCAM concerned during the interim period; (ii) its share of
CNCA and Government debts cancelled (para 3.05); and (iii) the funds it is
expected to recelee under the IDA credit. Accounts will be kept of the
available balance of each CRCAM and CLCAM in the Recapitalization account.
Annual audits vill verify that each individual CRCAM reflects correctly
amounts it receives in its accounts and that total payments do not exceed
what it should normally receive under the financial rehabilitation program.
4.09      During the first project year, the recapitalization account
would be managed by the project unit (CPU) and subsequently by the FUSLC
assisted by the project unit. Central management of these funds would
ensure better control on the cash management of individual units during the
rehabilitation period. Funds not used immediately vould be deposited in a
remunerated account at BCEAO or a commercial bank if a viable one is
created. The individual CRCAMs would be able to call on their share of
these funds when they require them. While the CPU and the CRCAMs would
look into the possibilily of opening the recapitalization account at one of
the new commercial banks, an interim arrangement could also be put in place
whereby unused funds in the Recapitalization Account vould be operated as a
term deposit account at BCEAO. Since the CRCAM/CLCAM network is a credit
cooperative and not a banking institution, it cannot operate a remunerated
accaunt at BCEAO. Such an interim arrangement therefore, if used, would
provide for the opening of the BCEAO account in the name of the Governnent
Sinking Fund ("Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement', (CAA)) for the account of
the network. An assurance vas obtained at negotiations that all funds in
the Recapitalization Account would remain the property of the CRCAMs and
CLCAMs which would be free to determine its operation and transfer from one
bank account to another if necessary (para 5.01 (d)). Opening of the
Recapitalization Account would be a condition of IDA credit effectiveness
(para 3.06 (a)).
B.   Financial Analysis
4.10      The basic assumption underlying the financial analysis is a
projected annual rate of increase of between 10Z and 30Z in the long term
saving base. This rate does not take account of short term deposits and
hence the overall average saving growth rate is projected to be about 17Z.
This is estimated to be conservative considering past performance in this
area of over 22Z and the promotional actions to be developed by the CPU
under the project to which will be associated a first time CLCAMs credit
program. Another principal assumption fixes the loan to deposit ratio at
33 percent for the CRCAMS vith a possibility that this can go up to about
50 percent if warranted and at 10 to 30 percent for the CLCAMs.



- 26 -
4.11      Lending rates would be largely positive in terms of projected
domestic infJation (4Z) and freely determined by local Boards under FUSLC
and CPU guidance and supervision (para 4.04). Financial margins on credit
(agreed with local Boards under the pilot credit program) would vary
between about 12Z and 242 depending on the province, type of loan. and
according to the need to reach financial equilibrium vithin the shortest
possible tlme. Excess moneys deposited by the CLCAMs at the CRCAMs would
earn between 6 and 7 percent interest leaving a margin oi 2 to 3 percent
for the CRCAMs, whlich is considered adequate for management and accounting
services rendered by the CRCAMs to the CLCAMs. Interest rates obtained by
the CRCAMs on deposits at BCEAO or other commercial banks estimated at 92
would be in line with those obtainable by the banking sector. Assurances
were obtained from Government at negotiations that the CRCAMs and CLCAMs
would be allowed to maintain appropriate margins between the cost of their
resources and their investment in either deposit or credit operations so as
to reach financial equilibrium vithin a minimum period of 3 years (para
5.01.e)). A summary of indicative financial data is shown in the table
below.
SUMMARY OF INDICATIVE FINANCIAL DATA:
PYO      PYl      PY2       PY3    PY4+
---Percent----------------
Interest on Members Savings            0       4-5      4-5       4-5    4-5
Interest on Deposits at CRCAMs         5       6-7      6-7       6-7    6-7
Interest on Deposits                   0        9        9         9      9
Interest on Short Ternm Loans         15    15-24    15-24    15-24  15-24
Interest on Medium Ternm Loans        il    12-15    12-15    12-15  12-15
Loan to Deposit Ratio:
CRCAMs                  O       33       33       33   40-50
CLCAMs                  O       10       20       30   30-40
4.12      Consolidated CRCAM/CLCAM results, combining profits and losses,
would be positive for the project 3-year period amounting to CFAF 191
million (US$ 0.6 million). On an annual basis the consolidated position
would improve from a boss of CFAF 186 million (US$0.6 million) in 1989
before the project starts for all units to a positive position of CFAF 137
million (US$ 0.44 million) in Project Year 3. Inter-regional performance
would vary widely however according to their economic environment, and loss
making units would separately account for a total CFAF 49 million (US$ 0.16
million) over the life of the project. Simulations show that annual losses
will be reduced to zero between PYO and PY3 for all units except two CLCAMs
in Atacora province (Materi and Cobly). The financial status and viability
of these two CLCAMs would be examined during the i989 audit and closed if
confirmed that their saving potential is inadequate. Consolidated



_ 27 -
selective data on the financial rehabilitation of the CRCAMs and CLCAMs are
given in the table below. Details on the underlying assumptions to the
financial analysis are in Annex 4-4 and detailed financial resulte are in
Annex 4-5.
Summary Projected Financial Results
PYO      PYl      PY2      PY3      Total
1968/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92   PYl-3
CRCAMs
Number in Operation                   6        6         6       6
Number of Loss making Units           6        5         3       o
Consolidated Results- CFAF million  (115)    (9)        32      74        97
Consolidated Losses - CFAF million  (115)   (30)       (8)       o       (38)
Consolidated Resources-CFAF million  988    1089      1275    1584
Consolidated Loans - CFAF million       0     411      616     737
CLCAMs
Number in Operation                   35       35       35       35
Number of Loss making Units           35       24        6        2
Consolidated Results- CFAF million  (71)        1       30       63        94
Consolidated Losses - CFAF million  (71)       (8)      (2)     (0.6)    (11)
Consolidated Rescurces-CFAF million 1016    1236      1464     1762
Consolidated Loans - CFAF million       0     249      444      696
---------------------------------
4.13      Progress in financial performance would rest upon the
CRCAM/CLCAM ability to: (a) stimulate expansion of their savings base - 10Z
in PY1, 20Z in PY2 and 30Z in PY3 projected under the project; (b) invest a
portion of the members savings in successful credit operations; and (c)
benefit from adequate interest rates on credit and deposit of excess funds
with the banking sector.
C.   Project Benefits
4.14      The project would help in rebuilding the institutional framework
and restoring financial health, to a key sector that has the potential to
inculcate the savings spirit in the rural areas and thus mobilize large
amounts of rural savings. The success of the project would make the
CRCAM/CLCAM a useful vehicle for promoting investment initiatives in the
rural areas by ensuring the recycling of rural funds for productive
activities. A broad spectrum of rural and smallholder farm families would
benefit from the cooperative saving and loan system to meet their seasonal
credit needs especially during the lean seasons. The project also provides
the basis for developing a viable and sustainable institutional framework
that can better serve the needs of private entrepreneurs in the rural areas



- 28 -
than can the formal banking system. By helping to finance and rehabilitate
rural savings and Joan cooperatives, the project would also assist
Government in its efforts under the SAC program tc restructure the national
financial intermediation system, thereby averting a general collapse of
this important sector. A successful project would in turn restore public
confidence in the cooperative system which has been shaken under the
current adverse circumstances.
D.   Pro4ect Risks
4.15      There are two main risks.  The first risk is that Benin's
financial sector crisis worsens and that the public sector puts pressure on
the Boards of the savings and loan cooperatives to undertake normal banking
activities, for which they are ill-suited and ill-prepared. This risk is
lessened by the fact that a reform of the entire financial sector
constitutes an integral part of Benin's structural adjustment program being
supported by the Bank, IMF and other donors.  Two regional commercial
banks, operating in the West Africa sub-region, have obtained Government
agreement to set up in the country within the next few months. Government
has also agreed to a number of measures that would preserve the mutualistic
character of these cooperative institutions. The second risk concerns the
possible inability of the cooperatives to achieve the annual 17 to 20
percent expected growth in saving mobilization and the possibility that
loan repayment targets of 982 may not be achieved. This risk is minimized
by the fact that these institutions have so far mobilized an annual average
savings rate of over 22 percent during the past decade and that with the
confidence that their rehabilitation would restore in their membership, the
target savings mobilization is not overly optimistic. Restoring the
mutualistic character of the institutions would also ensure that members
would put pressure on loan recipients to repay their loans. Besides, the
cooperative unit of the project would seek to promote new initiatives in
mobilizing savings and exercise close supervision over procedures applied
by Board members in credit distribution and recovery.
V. AGREM ENTS, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      Assurances vere obtained from Government on the following
principal points during negotiations:
(a) reorganization of CRCAM and CLCAM staffs by the local Boards,
within two months of the acceptance of the results of a staff
performance review to be completed by December 31, 1990.
(para 3.03 (f));
(b) The CRCAM/CLCAMs would have the freedom to recruit their starf
and fire them as necessary and would be free to determine the
salary structure of the staff (para 3.06 (b));



- 29 -
(c) Government would ensure that local and regional political and
administrative authorities do not interfere in the financial and
credit operations of the CRCAM/CLCAM network and it would take
all legal measures necessary to assist the CRCAMs in the process
of recovering all loans due them that are currently past due
(para 3.06 (c));
(d)  all funds in the Recapitalization Account to be opened under
terms and concitions satisfactory to IDA, would remain the
property of the CRCAMICLCAMs which would be free to determine
its operation and transfer from the one bank to another if
necessary (para 4.09);
(e) the CRCAM/CLCAMs would be allowed to maintain competitive
interest rates on savings and credit and to maintain appropriate
interest rate maroLis between the cost of their resources and
their investments in both deposit or credit operations (para
4.11);
5.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a)  establishment and agreement on new model statutes governing the
operations of savings and loan cooperatives (para 3.03 (b));
(b) opening of a Recapitalization Account under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA and initial deposit of an amount equivalent
to CFAF 600 million representing first tranche contributions of
various donors (para 3.06 (a));
(c) fulfillment of all conditions preceedir.g the effectiveness of
the loans and grants of CCCE, FAC, FED, FRG and Swiss
Cooperation (para 3.16);
(d) appointment of key staff of the project management team
satisfactory to IDA (para 4.02);
5.03      Conditions of disbursement of the category allocated for credit
operations vould be
(a) a report on the satisfactory implementation of the pilot credit
operation, during the interim period, has been submitted to IDA
(para 2.25);
(b) adoption of new model statutes governing the operations of
savings and loan cooperatives (para 3.03 (b));



- 30 -
(c> submission of fully audited accounts and a management
performance audit report of the CRCAMe and CLCAMs for the 1989
financial year by auditors acceptable to IDA (para 3.12);
5.04      Recommendation.  With the above assurances and conditions, the
project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$ 2.5 million equivalent to the
People's Republic of Benin on standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.
AF1AG
JANUARY 1990



- 31 -                                Annex 2 - 1
Page 10f 2
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET    September
CRCAMS                          80 1988 -------AUDITED BEFORE CNCA/BAD DEBTS ADJUSTUENTS------
_=
MONO
ATACORA  ATUNTIQUE   FOROO    CR/CLCAM   OUEME    ZOU    TOTAL
CAPITAL EMPLOYED
Members Equlty                20         8          o0        20       16        12      134
Members Deposite             1lo       172         784       267      271      204    1.799
l1e       180         793       278      287      216    1,933
legs: Accumulat.d Losess   (141        (62l       (118)    C226)        8      _97)    (635)
Net Equlty à Losses           40       118         876        g0      296       119    1,298
Other Liabllitles            206        18          94       174       22       34       643
246       131        -T8Ô 9      24     8V 17     163    1,841
=         ===           =        =        e-               Z
EMPLOYMENT OF CAPITAL
Cash                           7        il           9        48       13        10       98
Deposits et Banks             80        90         267         1       96       47       620
Loans                        186         7         413        64       79       78       827
Other Assets                   2        17          62       102       39       13       235
Fixed Assets                  21         7          29         8       91        S       11
Y4-8      a11          769       =24      817       1S3    1,841
e=   e                ==   =  -   =   =    e3
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET    September
CLCANS                          80 1988
__3=
ATACORA  ATLANTIQUE   BORGOU    MONO    OUEME      ZOU    TOTAL
CAPITAL EMPLOYED
Uembers Equlty
Uembers Deposite             iC8       46        481                148      157       979
less. Accumulated Losses  t117)    8aJ          <144)       o       (66)    (111)    <470)
Net Equlty à Loss.e           50       1B        818         0       88       46       509
Other Liabllties_                                                                      120
60    3        B1I8     -0         sa3      46      629
_=              = -= ==                               -
EMPLOYUENT OF CAPITAL
Cash                                             100                                   100
Deposits et CRCAMS            60       18        204         0       88       4S       896
Loans
Other Astats                                                                           120
Fixed Augets                                      14                                    14
60      a18        N 818   *0       ..1        46     -62
==                 ==  ==  _    ==  =3



- 32 -
Annex 2 - 1
Page 2 of 2
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
CRCAMS/CLCAVS                                           1989                             PREPROJECT      NET
September    LOS-S    1988  OPERATE       1989 ACCURACY           à LOCAL  POSITION
80 1988   ADJUST   ADJUST   LOSSES   ADJUST   MARGIN             FINANCINC  BEFORE
==    2  = =         =          _!__   FPROJECT
CAPITAL EMPLOYED
Members Equty                 2a6                265                206                265                265
Members Doposits            2,882              2,382              2,882              2,382              2,382
lose: Accumulated Loss.s  (1,422)    (676)  (2,098)    (1_0)  (2,248)    (243)  (2,490)         920   (1,670)
Net Equlty £ Losses         1,228      (676)     660      (1SO)     400      (243)     15       920    1,077
Other Liabilities             796                79S                796                795     (663)      132
2,020     (676)   1,844      (10)   1,194      (243)     9S2       257    1,209
_-                8=Z                ===    ====                  __       C=
EMPLOYMENT OF CAPITAL
Cash                          198                198      (160)      48       (48)       0      130       130
Deposits at Banks             620      (406)     114                114      (114)      (0)                (0)
Loans à Overdrafts            892      (270)     622                622                622      127       749
Other Assets                  235                236                23S       (81)     154                164
Fixed Assets                  17S                176                176                17S                175
2,020    (676)   1,344      (160)   1,194      (243)     962       267    1,209
-~ ~   ~       ~       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~  c===     __       -_=_
PREPROJECT FINANCING
Cash for Crodit Operatlons                                                                      127
Cash for Depositors                                                                             130
CANCELLATION OF LIABILITIES
_=__.           _  -=
By CNCA for salaries                                                                            460
By CNCA for Atacorr Debt                                                                        172
By GOVT for Taxes                                                                                41
TOTAL                                                                               920



- 33 -                     Annex 2 - 2
Page 1 of 4
BENIN
SAVINGS AND LOAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Pilot Credit Program
This program would involve both the CRCAMs and CLCAMs. The main
elements of the Credit Prograri. which is to be tested and refined during
the interim program period, would be as follows:
The credit would be made essentially for
-     Agriculture (labor, seed, inputs, animal traction...)
-     Livestock (fattening, poultry)
-     Activities involving vomen (small trading, processing of
agricultural products, gari, peanut butter and paste, etc.)
For the experimental credit program, most of the credit would be
seasonal credit of one year or less, except in the Borgou Province, where
medium term credit for draft animals and animal traction equipment may be
given. Interest rates will normally be fixed by the Board of Directors of
each CRCAM/CLCAM but are expected to vary from 15Z to 242 per ann.um.
Credit Criteria
The various Boards have agreed on the following criteria. Though
these vary from CRCAM/CLCAM to the other, they are in general as follows:
(i)   the credit would be reviewed by the board or a credit committee it
may appoint and must be approved by the Board;
(ii) the person demanding the credit must be a member of the CRCAM or
CLCAM, must have completely paid up his/her membership share, must
not have any outstanding debt with the CRCAM, and should have
saved a minimum of CFAF 5,000 or 10Z of the credit amount
demanded. This amount would be frozen until reimbursement of the
credit;
(iii) there is a maximum amount of seasonal credit fixed at CFAF
200,000;
(iv) the individual must provide sufficient moral guarantee (recognized
as serious and hard-working) and material guarantee (guarantee of
producer group to which he/she belongs; guarantee of one or
several members with sufficient savings to cover the loan; share
of tontine, output from plantation, rent from a house,
vehicle...).



- 34 -
Annex 2 - 2
Page 2 ot 4
The timetable and modalities for releasing funds to the borro-wer
and for recovering the credit have been fixed by each individual
CLCAM/CRCAM. Tn the cotton zones where producer groups exist, the
following procedure will be used:
(i)   the Producer groups will consolidate credit demands from its
members and will meet to review these demands, guarantee theni, and
present them to the Board of the CRCAM/CLCAM;
(ii)  the demand is reviewed by a credit comittee set up by the
CRCAM/CLCAM Board, which prepares a report for the Board;
(iii) the Board of the CRCAMICLCAM meets to consider the demands and
those not meeting the credit criteria are eliminated. The Board
also decides on the total volume of credit to be approved;
(iv)  after this initial review of credit demands the Board asks the
secretary of the producer group to fill out individual loan
applications to be signed by the borrower and the manager of the
CRCAMICLCAM;
(v)   the individual loan applications are reexamined by the Boards of
the CRCAMICLCAM and approved by them;
(vi)  the President, Treasurer and Secretary of the GV collect the money
and distribute them to the individual borrowers who countersign
the loan application indicating the amount received. After each
borrower has signed, the bureau of the Producer group returns all
the signed applications to the manager of the CRCAM/CLCAM who
follows up on the repayment.
For the loan application in non-cotton producing zones, the
procedures are the same except that the application are made by
individuals, who must have an account with at least 10Z of the loan amount
and provide some material guarantee.
The various types of credits in the pilot program are given in the
table below.



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN - PILOT CREDIT PROCRAL
Maxi me                      Credit
Loan A.ount   Intereet       Progre
Credit Purpose          CLCAU           (CFAF)       Rat            Amount       Conditions of Partlieiptlon         Quarante«
Htring of Agrieultural        N'DALI         6000             16%          10 M         Memb.rship fe.s paId up             GVC deposlte et CLCAM
Labour (Land CIlering,        KANDI                                       10 M          Saving. z 10% of loon               Récovery don. by CVC
soving, hurveat)              NIKKI                                       10 M          GVC m  b.rohip                      Cood Morol Standing
DEMBEREKE                                   10 M         No OVC outmtanding Debto
BANIKOARA                                   10 M
Soede Purcho  , Labour        ZE             60000            24X          a M          Mmbebrnhip fto. pold up             Land owner,h;p If for
hir;ng (LUnd Cleoring,                                                                 Board Acceptnce                      Ag. Credit
aowlng, harvut) Liv;Ytock                                                               Active Savinga Account              Cood Moral Standing
(Pig Fattening)                                                                        No outatanding debtn
Seill Trade Working                                                                    Savinga a 10  of loon
Capital
S eda Purchaose, Labour       ABOMEY         o0000            24%         10 M          Momb.rbip ftes poid up             Land ownerehip If for
hlr;ng (Land Cl.ring,        KALAVI                                                   Active Savinga Account              Ag. Crodit
sowing, hervest) LivYetock                                                             No outatanding debte                Cood Moral Standing
(Pig Fatt.ning)                                                                        Savingae a  0l  of loon             Co- ebero Quarante
SmuIl Trde Working
Capital
(ilI, Vegetable,
Foodcrop.)
Seuds Purchae, Labour         COVE           100000           24X          4 M         Minimum Shore On.robip of 10       Land ownerhihp If for
hiring                                                                                 Memberahip ftes poid up             Ag. Credit
(Land Cl.ring, eo«ing,                      6COOO                                     Active Savingt Account              Cood Moral Standing
horvet)                                       50000                                    No outatanding debto                Tontine Head Cuarent..
Liv.etock (Pig Futtening)                                                              Savinga * 10  of loon              Agr.  on nale of
Souil Trode Working                                                                                                        productn
Capitl                                                                                                                      n case of non poymnt
(Oii, Vegetablea,
Foodcrop,)
Fiah Brood Purchase
Woan's Cordenlng
Seode Purchose, labour        PLAOUIGNAN    100000           24%           8 M         MVmbershlp fees paid up             Land ownership if for
hiring                                                                                 Active Suvings Account              Ag. Credit
(Land Cleoring,  owing,                                                               uNo outatanding debts                Cood Moral Standing
harvest)                                                                               Savinga z 10% ot loon               Tontine Head Guarante.
Livestock (Cout, Chicken,                                                                                                  Agre  on sale of
breeding)                                                                                                                  producto                    Ion
Snea  Trade Working                                                                                                        in case ot non pbyent    oo 
Capital



Sede Purcheh , labour         COME          200000           24%          a m         Me.borohip fe.c pold up             Land o,nership If for
hiring                                                                                Active Savings Account              Ag. Cr dit
(Land Cle«ring, *owing,                                                               No outotanding d.bta                Good Moral Standing
harve-t)                                                                              Savings a 10% of loon               Tontine Hoad Guarantes
Llvestock (Goët, Chicken,                                                             Minimum saving CFA 6000             Agre on sale of
bredlng)                                                                                                                  product.
Sall Trad  Worhlng                                                                                                        ia ceos of non pay.nt
Capital
Seed  Purches., labour        KLOUEKAME
hiring                                                                                Land ownership if for
S.lil Trade Working                                                      No           Ag. Credit
Capital                                                                  outntanding Cood Moral Standing
(Cari, Plo Wine, ûil)                                                    dabto        Tontine Hesd Quarantee
Sovinga a   Agroo on sale of producta
10  of loan  in ceae of non payment
CRCAML                                                                                      CVC deposito et CLCAM
Input Purcheses.             §m             200000           24X         60 M         Memb rahip f ee paid up             Recowvry don. by CVC
*                       ZOU                                         15 M         Savinga a 10  of loan             Cood Moral St4nding
*                       MONO                                        20 M         GVC *embership
*UEME                                      10 M         No GVC out.tanding Debte
Animal Traction (IFAD)       BORGOU                          11%         100 M        Mebership feet  puid up             CVC deposito et CLCAM 
Savinge = 10  of loan             Recov.ry don- by GVC
CVC *meb.rahip                     Cood Morol Standing
No GVC outotonding Debte
TOTAL         277 M
*1 >
s-
N
o
#4 i
et N



_ 37 -
Annex 3 - 1
Page i of 3
LEGAL ACT GOVERNING OPERATIONS OF RURAL CREDIT COOPERATIVES
IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
(Unofficial Translation from the Original French)
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
___________
PRESIDENT OF TUE REPUBLIC
-----------                          LAIT NO. 89-014 OF 12 May 1989
abrogating the Ordinance No 76-30
of 11 June 1976 and adopting the
general principles for
Agricultural Credit in the
People's Republic of Benin
THE REVOLUTIONARY NATIONAL ASSEMBLY has deliberated and has adopted in its
session of 29 April 1989,
THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC promulgates the legal act containing the
following:
Article 1.-  Are and remain abrogated the measures contained in Ordinnance No
76-30 of June 11 1976 relating to the organization of Agricultural Credit in
th People's Republic of Benin.
Article 2.-  The network of Hutual Agricultural Credit in the People's
Republic of Benin includes:
- at the Provincial level, the Regional Savings and Loan
Cooperatives (CRCAM)
- at the Commune and District levels, the Local Savings ancd Loan
Cooperatives (CLCAM)
Article 3.-  The Regional Savings and Loan Cooperatives (CRCAM) and the Local
Savings and Loan Cooperatives (CLCAM) are private cooperative associations
whose members and capital may change, and with the preferred responsibility
for collecting savinge and distributing credit in the rural areas.



- 38 -
Annex 3 - 1
Page 2 of 3
Article 4.- The mutualist character and the management autonomy of the
network of CRCAMs and CLCAMs are confirmed by the following provisions:
a) - Can become members of the CLCAMs s
* all individuals (farmers, herders, fishermen, artisans. small
traders) residing and operating in the geographical area of the
CLCAM;
* village groups or pre-cooperatives.
- Can become members of the CRCAMs
* the CLCAMs;
* village groups
* other pre-cooperative groups, cooperatives and their unions.
Membership must be approved by the Board of Directors of the CLCAM or
CRCAM.
b) - Loans are approved by the CRCAM or CLCAM Boards or by a credit
committe se:- up by the Board. The latter approves all credit and
supervises distribution and recovery.
c)   Only paid-up members of the CRCAMs and CLCAMs, with no
outstandir.g debt can benefit from loans made by these
institutions.
d)   The CRCAMs and CLCAMs are free to set interest rates on savings
and loans, so as to provide adequate margins to guarantee
financial equilibrium.
e)   The Board of Directors of the CRCAM or CLCAM would choose among
its members a supervisory conmittee of two or three persons,
responsible for supervising the daily management of the
institution.
f)   The CRCAM Board must include a minimum of two thirds of the
CLCAM representatives. The chairman of the CRCAM Board must be
chosen from among the CLCAM representatives.
g)   CRCAM and CLCAM representatives meet regularly to discuss common
problems relative to their activities and organizations.
Article 5.-  During a transitory period of 3 years, the CRCAM/CLCAM network
would benefit from the support of a rehabilitation project that would provide
them with support in the areas of cooperative training, accounting; and audit,
and provide funds to rehabilitate them financiallty.



- 39 -
Annex 3 - 1
Page 3 of 3
At the end of this transitory period, the CRCAMs would create a
federal union to take over the responsibilities of the project coordination
unit.  Under this impetus, the networl must attain the objectives of viability
and profJtability and generate the cash flow necessary to permit it to
effectively promote the development of agriculture and the rural economy.
Article 6.- The CRCAMs and CLCAMs remain regulated under the regulations
contained in Ordinnance No 59/PRIMDRAC of December 28 1966 relating to the
General Statutes of Cooperatives.
Article 7.- This present Legal Act wil be executed as a State Law.
Prepared at Cotonou, 12 May 1989
by the President of the Republic,
Head of State, President of the Nation&l
Executive Councii,
(Signed)
Mathieu KEREKOU



- 40 -
Annex 3-2
People's Republic of Benin
Rural Savings and Loans Cooperatives Rehabilitation Project
TRAINING BUDGET (CFAF>
A N N E E S
TOTAL
i          2           3
A.
1. Directors of CRCAM           180 000    180 000    180 000        540 000
2. Trainers                      40 000      40 000     40 000        40 000
B.
1. Accountants and Book-    1 440 000  1 440 000  1 440 000    4 320 000
Keepers
2. Lecturers                     40 000      40 000     40 000       120 000
C.
1. Staff and Cashiers of    2 100 000  2 100 000  2 100 000    6 300 000
CLCAM
2. Lecturers                     40 000      40 000     40 000       120 000
D.
1. Counter staff              1 500 000  1 500 000  1 500 000    4 500 000
2. Lecturers                     40 000      40 000     40 000       120 000
E.
1. Inspectors                    90 000      90 000     90 000       270 000
2. Lecturers                     40 000      40 000     40 000       120 000
F.
1. Cooperative and Credit        90 000     90 000      90 000       270 000
Promotion staff
2. Lecturers                     40 000      40 000     40 000       120 000
G.
1. Board Members                  P.M.        P.M.       P.M.          _
2. Lecturers                      P.M.        P.M.       P.M.          _
H.
1. General Assembly               P.M.        P.M.       P.M.          _
2. Lecturers                      P.M.        P.M.       P.M.          _
TOTAL                     5 640 000  5 640 000  5 640 000   16 920 000
Explanatory Notes
1.     Seminar and refresher course participants would receive a per diem of CFAF
600 per day for 5 days per session.
2.     Lecturer and speakers would receive CFAF 10000 per session.
3.     Membres of the Board and other members would be catered for by their CRCAM
or CLCAM.



_ 41 -
Annex S - 3
P.opl-'s Republle of Ibnin
Rural Savingu à Loanu Cooportlv« Rehabilitation Proi-ct
Sunméry of Proleot Conte
TOTAL     TAXES   TOTAL
1990     1991     1992    INCL. TAX           W/O TAX
----------------- CFAF 000 ----------------------
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Vehleles à Equipment                u8074        0        0       S8074        0    S8074
Local Personnel                    76576    78266    81268       284884    12088   222818
Techntcal Assistanc                99874   104129   108687       812670        0   312670
Operattng Conte                    17967    18782    19S40        58229        0    56229
Other Operating Coste              10656    11018    11489        a30s8        0    83068
_ --- - ---- - - - --- _-- - --  - ---- -- _-- - --   - -- ---
261836   212180   220849      694814    12066   682748
CRCAMICLCAMs
EqultY Replentshment:
Atacora                      472000                         472000        0   472000
Atlantlque                   197000                         197000        0   197000
Borgou                       s6e000                         565000        o   6e6000
Mono                         844000                         844000        o   344000
Oueme                        303000                         803000        o   303000
Zou                          862000                         862000        0   362000
- - - --   - - - - -   _---   _---  -    - -- ---  -- -- ---
2288000        o        0     2233000         o  2233000
Credit Llne à Insurance           100000    60000    a0000       190000        0   190000
Tralinng                           20609    18793    14386        48765     2280    48486
Studies à Audits                   44810    4e700    48871       140181        0   140181
Personnel £ Operating Costa       227412   222129   226728       876264    11364   664910
- - - - -- --- _ -------   - -- --- _ - -- ---
892831   842622   819767     1066210    13834  1041676
TOTAL PROJECT COST               2887667   664762   1406oe      8983025    26700  3967324
m                 l-            =    = .  _           -
TOTAL PROJECT COST USS MILLION     9.82       1.79     1.74       12.86     0.08    12.77
-                              =   =  =



- 42 -
Annex 3 - 4
Peoblo'e Ramublle of Boni.
Rural Savings à Lomas t*ooonat1vm R.habIlItatIon Pro]et
FIMAcN  rPU N
(000 FCFA)
IDA     CCCE      FAC      FED  GERMANY   SWISS  CR/CLCAUs   BENIN    TOTAL
CENTRAL PROJECT UN£T
Vehicles à Equipent          46767             12307                                                    s8074
Local Personnel                                                           234884                       234884
Technlcal Assistance         148230    82170    82170                                                  312570
Vehicle Operating Conts      s6229                                                                       S6229
Other Operatlng Costa                           330ss                                                   33058
260226   -82170   T n US     -T    --o   !§UZ                0   -   -    6 -i94814
CRCAI/CLCAMs
E uity R. lenishment:
Atacora                  30000   160000                                                   292000   472000
Atlantlque                                                  150000                         47000   197000
Borgou                  220000   260000                                                    85000   565000
mono                                                280000                                 64000   344000
Oueme                    100000   120000                                                   83000   303000
Zou                      170000    90000                                                   92000   362000
520000   620000      O0   2800oo    150000        o             -66Ô3000  2233000
Credit Line                           180000                                                           180000
Insurance Fund                                  10000                                                   10000
Training                                        48786                                                   48765
Studies & Audits                                147,1                      126441                      140181
Personnel & Operatlng Coett           171600              44900    23800             436064            676284
S-1500    785056   44900  -23800   r2i441   43o604              1055211
TOTAL PROJECT COST           770226  1065670   201040   824000   173800   8.4U25   436064   663000  3983026
=   =   cx==   ,  - 
TOTAL. COST US2 MILLION       2.48     8.89     0.65      1.04     0.56     1.16      1.40     2.13    12.81
= = -    5=



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
C:'1SE{JRSEMENT PR'JIFL E
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOAN REHABILITATIO N PROJEC? T>L4                                11MW> PC$IL(
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
"f.,
1$-
IDA PY and        Rstlmate by   Cumulatlve                 ,f-                                     ,
Quarters Endins   Semester       _ _- ._                                                        -
13                                 9
1990                                                      12
II               0.0               0.0                I'1
IV               0.4               0.4             t   09
1991                                                 R>  o,/
Il               0.0               0.4                 OJ -
IV               0.1               0.5                 06$
1992                                                      0.                     t
II1              0.1               0.6                 os                                                      w
IV               0.3               0.9                 02  ,J
1993                                                      0.1                ,
il               0.3               1.2                  O  e
IV               0.3               1.5                    0»  W   1991 Il     é 1992 I  i   19931 I    1994 1» 4
1994                                                                              o  .vF t
Il               0.3               1.8
IV               0.2               2.0



_ 44 -
Annex 4-1
Peoolo's Reaubile of benln
Rural Savinas à Loans Cooperatives Rehabliltttion Prolect
Proleet Imolem.ntation Schedule
Major Activity                         Ttmetable         Respons ble Aoency       ExDpeted Output/Dr,+
Legal Framework
(a) Revision of old statuces for      Draft revisiona to   Iinlstry of Justice       Enactmont of new docroe
rural credit cooperat;ves         be *uboitt.d to CEN                                  April 1990
in January 1990
(b) Revoke Ordinance 78-30 of         Draft ravisions to  Ministry of Justice        Ena:tmont of neo  Lau
June 1978 on organization         b. subfftttd to CEN                                  May 1989
of agrlcultural credit            à ASsembly ln Narch
1989
Sector Restructuring
(a) Transfer of CNCA supervisory      To b. affective      Minlstry of Rural       Government to issue
functions to the joint Govt/      from March 1, 1989  Developm.nt à A.C.        lotter March 1989
cofinanciers commitee
(b) Exemption of CRCAM/CLCAMs         To be effective      ;inistry of Finance       BCEAO letter of
from BCEAO rules governing        from June 1, 1989                                 gay 1989
interest rates on deposits
and credit
(c) Authorization to operate a        To be effective      ;inlstry of Finance       Government
deposlt account et BCEAO          from January, 1990                             letter gay 1989
(d) Cancellation of further           To b. effective     Ministry of Rural         Issue of reguiation
operating transaectons            trom April 1, 1989  Development à A.C.         April 1989
between CNCA and CRCAM/CLCAMs
end supression of their
checking/interbank services
Accounting Improveents
(a) Audit of CRCAM/CLCAMs 1989        In;t;ate January    Joint ¢ovt/Cof;n.          Issue Audit Report
accounts end report on            1989 complote In    monitoring Commitee        Uarch 1989
accountlng systems                February 1989
(b) Follow-up on recommendations      From Aprli 1989      Joint Covt/Cofin.         Issue implementation
through             Monltorlng Commite-        report October 1, 1989
Octob.r 1989
(c) Audit of CPU, CRCAU end           St.rting Jan. 1990  Joint Oovt/Cofin.          Send annual reports
CLCAU accounts                    for CRCAM/CLCAM      Uonitor;ng Coamltee       First report due
*nd for a years for                            January 1990 for
aIl untte                                     CRCAM/CLCAMs
(d) Training of accountante           Program to start    Contral Project Unit       Send annual program
end Board Members                 in Dec. 1989                                   First program due
for 3 years



- 45 -
Annex 4 - 2
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
Ministry of Justice                Federal Union of
responsible for                 Savings and Loan
Inspection of Public               Cooperatives &
& Para-Public                  Central Project Unit
Enterprises (MJIEPSP)
Cooperative                                 Finances &
Promotion &                                Inspection
Training  ali_el
8Accounts &                                                   Inspection &
Finance                    Training
.                ~~~~~(Bi-regional)  a/
Regional
Inspection
IUnit b/ 
ai Staff number 3
bi Staff number -8



_ 46 -
Amnex 4 - 3
PEOPLE'S REPIBLIC OF BENIN
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOAN COOPERATIVES REHABILITATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CONSULTANTS REQUIREMENTS
Estimated
Cost
Duration       ('000 CFAF)
Project Manager                                 3 m/years         181,185
Financial and Administrative Manager            3 m/years         145,185
Consultant on Monitoring and Evaluation         3 m/months         12,000
Consultant on Socio-Economic SErvey             3 m/months         15,585
Audit and Accounting Support                    3 missions         47,654
Total                                                      391,609



- 47 -
Annex 4 - 4
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
RURAL SAVINGS ANN LOAN COOPERATIVES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Flnanci  AssumptIons
ATACORA       OUEME           ZOU      ATLANTIC          MiONO        BORGOU
Deposit Orowth (PYI-PYS)    10% 20% S0%  10% 20% S0%  10X 20X 30%  10% 20% 30%  10% 20% 30%  10% 20% 30%
Loan To Term DeposTt Ratio        40            40Ô           40            0            401           40%
Entrance Fees per member          200           200           200          200           200           200
Share Value                      1000          1000          1000         1000          1000          1000
CRCAMs:
Interest On Members Deposits       6.0%         C.0%         6.0%           6.0%          6.0%         8.0%
Interest On CLCAM Deposits         7.0%         7.0%         7.0%           7.0%          7.0%          7.0%
Interest on Loans                 24.0%        20.0%        20.0%          24.0%         24.0%     12-16.0%
Interest On Term Deposits          9.0%         9.0%         9.0%           9.0%          9.0%         9.0%
Interest On IFAD Loan                                                                                  3.0%
.LCAMS:
==
Cash/Total Ressources              10%          10%           10%          10%           10%           10%
Lnan/Dep. Ratio (PY1-PY3)    20%_30% 40%  20% a0% 40%  20% 30% 40X  20% 30% 40%  20% 30% 40%  20% 30% 40%
Oper. costs-(Deps.>60 m) (m F)    2.16         2.16         2.15           2.16          2.15        2.15
Oper. costs-(Deps. <60 m) (m F)   1.31          1.31          1.81          1.31          1.31        1.31
Interest On Members Deposits      3-6.0%       3-6.0%      3-6.0%         3-6.0%        3-6.0%       3-5.0%
Interest on Loans                  24.0%        20.0%       20.0%          24.0%         24.0%         15.0%
Interest On Deposits at CRCAMs   6-7.0%        6-7.0%      6-7.0%         6-7.0%        5-7.0%       6-7.0%
Provision For Bad debte              2%           2%           2%            2%            2%            2%
Annual Salaries (CFAF m)           1.28         1.28         1.28          1.28          1.28          1.28
Staff Number                           6           8            a             7             8            il
Staff Salaries per Year (CFAF m   6.38         10.21        10.21          8.93         10.21         14.03
Admin. Costs Per Year (CFAF m)   11.00         17.26        16.60         10.26         16.60        23.13
Of Which:                           -                                       -    ======             -
Transport                        3.0          2.8         8.0            2.3           3.0          6.6
Other Office Costa               8.0          7.6         6.0            a.0           6.0          7.6
Ceneral Expenses                 6.0          7.6         7.6            5.0           7.S         10.0
Depreciation:                       4.2          8.0          6.1           2.6           2.6           6.6
Buildings X p.a                4.0%          4.0%        4.0%           4.0%          4.0%         4.0%
Equlpment 1 p.a               10.0%         10.0%       10.0%          10.0%         10.0%        10.0%



- 48 -
Annex 4 - S
People'. Republic of Benin
Rural Savings a Loans Cooperatives Rehabilitation Proiect
CRCAMs A CLCAMS Projected Financial Position
Operating Results
P.Year      P      P.Year 2            P.YPar 3                Tot2al
…------------------------CFAFAF illion…--------------------
Resulte  Deficits   Resulta  Deficitsu  Resulta  Deficits   Resuits  Deficits
OnEy                 Only                 Only                 Only
Atacors (s)                (7s           6        O        1862         O                   (7)
Atlantic          (1)      (2)           4        O           9        O          il        (2)
Borgou            23        0           47        O          78 1                147 1
Mono              (6)      (7)           2        (3)         8        (0)         4       (10)
Oueme            (10)     (11)           a        (4)        16        O           8       (16)
Zou               (8)      (9) (                  (2)        13        O           6       (11)
TOTAL             (8)     (38)          82        (9)       138        (0)       191       (48)
Funds S*tatlEm         t1nt.
P.Year 1             P.Y,ar 2         P.Year 3
---------------CFAF million…-------------
Employment of Funds
Cash                                 181                  189              230
Deposits et banks                   1679l                1862             2135
Loans to Members                     640                 1032             1406
Share Equity                         103                  103              103
Borrowings  External a/              270                  460              S40
Profit d    Lss 8alance (Annual)    (103)                 (46)              74
Crant_ ExternalI                       O                    O                O
Members Oeposits                    2326                 2B82             3169
Total Sources             2696                 3189             3888
Note:
a/ External borror inge for credit pu0pos.s for CRCAm only.



MA I     _          NIGER     /                     N      I    G       E     R                /=1"   _   . _
w  / FURYINA FAEW <1   '~   t  CHAD                                                      fM 
ÔôTE)r"j
'1  DIVORE  GOANAÇO)               «     >                                     X                    )
LIEfiR)  ,     ~~Nccc    /  OMTO NlA                                          ,       re       (T
,!-ATORIC  !'t   r                                        NIGERIA
BURKINA   FASO
.4'j                                  0 k                     /74ew 
Il,.e                                           `s?oU                                                 *I-
Bn -'                   O            ,2 S
B    Q~~~~~~~~~~~~
J          On,                                               fo4 (  Bgs Gossc      Sol&otAlt 
s  "ÂA+    T  A  K O  R A                                      55.
)          Téfi                OG,=_                    B   O   R   G   O   U                         )
NATITINGOJs                                     ® ( ss"                    nP"
,\ \tX  0   QFt r e   :                    cEle   i_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
Ms<s9s .% . ,                 .             lOj                                   BENIN
\*4 V  |   ft                    @    RURAL SAVINGS AND LOAN
\       t            i<i  _^J ~~~COOPERATIVE REHABILITATION PROJECT
9,.   j bfesallo          (g                 -$                    ~~~~~~~Location of CRCAMs and CLCAMs 
/  kkewets  }                   [ 1  ~~~~~~~CRCAM IR.9i...l Sovings ond LGon C-Jprerohw
4 _ _ ^ ~~~~~~~~CLCAM (Loo1   Samg ad Lca-opeoic
T  O  G  O                                                                                            Rcd
p   g   oix    t   W                                 G~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rowimouds
t   0   E        ti                           +    Internatronal ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Airport
|   |           :          o~~~       ~~~K-l                   Regional Airports
C  Kspses*                              - z  0N U                       NOti  l C,piNls
X 4ffO - t r    ' r   J                  i~~~~~~~~D Districl Caopit.ls
MATOU    ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~meBoENd-IN
s   1>180+                        _     j~~~~~~~N              E     R            
LOMÉ                                                                       lLAYR
IGHAN                                                       RA S
rO Nb-uKI tS   a          $9lozGiCOOPERATIVE REHAILTTO  PRJA
r                            <CT,,k° Bn                                                    [oainofCCZ    yJCGM                       
T O G              I                                                                        cne Rofi
5^~~~~                            ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -ree OcNU Sfisd
IGHANA  <LOME   F    r4+              .  -, ! .l   . '       rE çI  .v- ., R,od



