Report No. 23496
Report No: I067770 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 03/25/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: MONGOLIA        Project ID: P067770
Project: Sustainable Livelihoods Project         Task Team Leader: Robin Mearns
Authorized to Appraise Date: February 14, 2002 IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: May 30, 2002      IDA Amount ($m): 16.41
Managing Unit: EASRD Sector: AL - Livestock; BD - Decentralization; SY -
Other Social Protection
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)          Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The development objective of the project - referring to the first
four-year phase of the overall program - is: "an effective approach to
promoting improved and sustainable livelihood strategies developed,
demonstrated, and validated, and institutional capacity created so that
these strategies can be replicated and scaled-up in Phase II of the
Program".
The project would be national in scope, with intensive pilot-testing of
certain institutional innovations in eight selected aimags. In parallel
with the pilot-testing of new approaches, selected NPAP activities would
continue to be implemented nation-wide, with the aim of facilitating
convergence between the new approaches and existing anti-poverty
interventions over the medium term. The outputs that in combination will
contibute to achieving the project development objective are:
a) Pastoral Risk Management: an integrated strategy developed, piloted,
and adopted in eight selected aimags for managing covariant risk in
pastoral livestock production, with a primary emphasis on risk
preparedness. In combination with other project components, this component
would aim to assist in addressing the underlying causes of rising
vulnerability to drought and dzud ('winter disasters');
b) Micro-Finance Outreach: the outreach of financially and institutionally
sustainable micro-finance services (including savings, credit, and
micro-insurance) to targeted poor and vulnerable non-poor households and
individuals in rural areas of selected aimags achieved;
c) Local Initiative Fund: efficient, socially inclusive, and transparent
community-driven mechanisms identified and established to facilitate
community prioritization, selection, co-financing, and execution of
investments in basic infrastructure and social services provision in rural
areas, combining local resource mobilization with matching government
grants based on clear and transparent criteria for inter-governmental
transfers; and
d) Project Management: a decentralized project management framework
realized through the progressive devolution of project management



responsibilities to aimag and sum (rural district) levels within local
governments, while retaining overall coordination, monitoring and
evaluation, and fiduciary oversight at national level.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Components:
Pastoral Risk Management
Micro-finance Outreach
Local Initiatives Fund
Management and Policy Support
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will operate across the country in many locations covering a
number of ecological regions (desert-steppe, steppe, mountain-steppe) but
all will be characterized by being predominantly grassland areas where
there is active nomadic herding of livestock. The screening of
sub-projects detailed in the PIP will prevent activities which would
impact protected areas, other critical natural habitats, or any other
culturally or socially sensitive sites.
The project area will cover eight core aimags (provinces): Bayan-Olgii,
Uvs, Bayankhongor, Ovorkhangai, Omnogobi, Dundgobi, Tov and Dornod. The
eight pilot aimags were selected by Cabinet based on the criteria
developed at the end-July 2001 SLP National Consultative Workshop: (i)
poverty incidence; (ii) local government revenue; (iii) presence/absence
of other donor assistance; (iv) market size; (v) net migration; (vi)
frequency of natural disasters; (vii) natural resource degradation and
(viii) local implementation capacity. All of the country's regions and
agro-ecological zones (AEZs) are represented among the eight core aimags.
The inclusion of all the important AEZs should facilitate the development
and pilot testing of pastoral risk management strategies tailored to
different agro-ecological conditions. The core aimags include some of the
poorest provinces but also some of less poor ones. The project area
includes a number of aimags that are physically remote and difficult to
access from UB and others that are near to the capital. Many of the core
aimags have poor market potential but a few have moderate to good market
potential.
The eight core aimags have a total population of around 150,000 households
and 650,000 people living in an area of 740,000 sq. km. with an average
density of one person per sq. km. Together they account for 47T of
Mongolia's land area, 27t of its population and 45t of its rural
population. 72t of the total population is rural, ranging from a high of
83-84w in Ovorkhangai and Tov to a low of only 459 in Dornod. Average
household size is 4.3 persons in the eight core aimags. The other main
characteristics of the eight core aimags are summarized in the following
table.
Aimag
Parameter        Bayan Ulgii      Uvs     Bayan
khongor Ovor
khangai Omno
- 2 -



gobi    Dund
gobi    Tov     Dornod
Region  West    West     West    Centre  Centre  Centre   Centre  East
AEZ     Altai   Altai    Altai   Khangai Desert   Steppe  Steppe  Moist
Precipitation    115mm   138mm   199mm   245mm   127mm    173mm   273mm   248mm
July temperature         16.3 oC 19.0 oC 18.3oC   15.3oC  21.loC  23 oC   15.6oC  19.8 oC
Jan temperature -17.2 o -32.3 o -16.2 oC          -14.7 oC        -14.9 oC        -26 oC
-20.4 o -20.5oC
Dzud risk category       H       M       M       H        H       H       M       L
Poverty incidence        3rd     6th     8th     9th      18th    22nd    20th    5th
Poverty headcount        7th     5th     10th    4th      19th    20th    13th    9th
Accessibility    Poor    Poor    Poor    Moderate         Poor    Moderate        Good
Moderate
Herders: W of HHs        48t     53t     79t      72t     59t     67T     42t     28t
Ethnicity       Kazakh   Turkic  Khalkh  Khalkh  Khalkh   Khalkh  Khalkh  Buryat
B. Check Environmental Classification:   B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: The category is consistent with regional practice under other
CDD-type projects and those with significant involvement in the livestock
sector. Most environmental impacts resulting from the project are expected
to be beneficial.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    Yes
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      Yes
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    Yes
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     Yes
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The project is not expected to have any potential large scale, significant
and/or irreversible environmental impacts. No incremental livestock will
be generated under the proposed project, and improved herd and grassland
management practices will be supported, which will be conducive to
environmental sustainability. The environmental and social assessments
and the pre-appraisal mission have examined potential impacts of the
proposed and have removed activities that would have contravened Safeguard
policies.
The Social Assessment undertaken during project preparation concluded that
- 3-



the Project will have negligible negative impacts and more significant
positive impacts for all poor beneficiaries, including the ethnic minority
communities. Rather than an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan, an
Ethnic Minority Development Strategy is a more appropriate instrument for
the ethnic minority beneficiaries and this has been prepared to provides
the guidance and directions for the participation of ethnic minorities in
the Project.
While no resettlement or land acquisition is anticipated, the Project has
developed a policy framework to protect people who may be negatively
impacted from the possible community demand for the construction and or
rehabilitation of small-scale infrastructure sub-projects, such as, roads,
bridges, buildings, structures, water supply and sanitation facilities,
and other civil work. Local officials confirmed that the rural
countryside of Mongolia has vast amount of land with low density
population; therefore, land acquisition will not be necessary and will be
rare. The demand for the rehabilitation of small-scale infrastructure
sub-projects will be known only during project implementation. An
integrated environmental and social screening process, therefore, has been
prepared which will check for possible negative impacts and for the
necessary actions required for such sub-projects.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
None
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
None
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
None
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The borrower will screen sub-projects according to an agreed protocol
which includes attention to Safeguard issues. The aimag (province) and
sum (district) project staff will be responsible for monitoring and
conducting the screening respectively.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
During the initial environmental screening and scoping of the PRM
component and again during the dedicated EA, extensive meetings were held
with concerned government ministries (MoNE, MoFA, MoFE), international
organizations, universities and research institutes, environmental NGOs,
local authorities including Poverty Alleviation Councils and environmental
inspectors at aimag and sum level as well as NPAP beneficiaries and
herders.
During the preparation of the EA itself there was an intensive schedule of
interviews with key stakeholders and informants, as well as joint
meetings/workshops with groups of stakeholders. A typical agenda of a
meeting included an introduction of participants, a brief overview of the
- 4 -



project, views and comments of the consultees, and specific questions from
the EA team regarding the details of environmental and social
sensitivities, people's interaction with the environment, and potential
impacts of the project. Interview and workshop techniques included time
budgets and ranking exercises. Some stakeholders were interviewed on two
or three occasions, in order to discuss conclusions in detail. For the
social safeguards, consultations were undertaken at aimag and sum levels
during the conduct of the social assessment and during preparation visits.
Key stakeholders consulted on the project included: national government
agencies; local government (aimag and sum levels); herders in rural and
peri-sum and peri-aimag areas; environmental NGOs; research institutes;
private sector; international development agencies; local consultants
involved in the preparation of project components.
The Centre for Social Development, a local NGO in Ulaan Baatar, was hired
to undertake the necessary actions for project disclosure. A five-page
document in Mongolian was prepared which covers a summary of the project,
the main findings of the EA/SA, and the Resettlement Policy Framework. On
February 2, 2002, this document was circulated by:
sending to the Poverty Alleviation Councils in the 8 core aimag/province
for local disclosure
sending to the Poverty Alleviation Council of Gobi Altai aimag because the
proposed inter-aimag otor reserve (pasture reserved for herders during
major movements) of Bayankhongor aimag borders Gobi Altai
sending to the NGO Working Group for the PRSP, for dissemination to their
members and constituents
posting on a public notice board in UB.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
1 S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      12/19/2001       12/19/2001
Date of "in-country" disclosure 12/20/2001       2/2/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop   12/20/2001       12/20/2001
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
- 5 -



Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:  Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:     Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by         Name    Date
Task Team Leader:       Robin Mearns    March 5, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:       Mary P. Judd/Person/World Bank March 8, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:       Anthony J. Whitten/Person/World Bank    March 7,
2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:    Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:        Glenn S. Morgan 3/11/2002
Sector Manager/Director:        Mark Wilson     3/5/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 6 -



