RP89 vol. 2
Mongolia: Sustainable Livelihood Project                    Social Safeguard Guidelines
Revised                   Revised May, 2 2002
1A: Involuntary Resettlement and Land Acquisition Policy Framework
Summary of Resettlement Policy Framework
1.   The resettlement policy framework will apply to the following situations:
A. Construction and or rehabilitation of small-scale infrastructure sub-projects, such as,
roads, bridges, buildings, structures, water supply and sanitation facilities, and other civil
work; and
B. Potential eviction of people from land to used under the Project.
2.   The Project should have positive social benefits for people.
3.    It will avoid or minimize any potential relocation of people by exploring alternate designs.
4.   Affected people should be fully consulted during the process of screening for social impacts,
planning and implementation of resettlement activities.
5.   Where involuntary resettlement or negative impacts are unavoidable, it will follow the Constitution
of Mongolia (Article 16, sub-article 3) and the Mongolian Law on Land, November 11, 1994 (Article
36 and 37) in that all affected people should be:
a. Provided with an equivalent amount and type of land in the area for their losses;
b. Compensated at replacement cost for structures and other property/assets; and
c. Given transportation allowance and assisted with the move.
6.    If people are affected, a resettlement plan for each sub-project will be prepared. See procedures
below.
7.   The compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation activities or community options will be
satisfactorily completed before funds are disbursed for the sub-project.
8.   Affected people can file complaints to the project authorities in the following order: Bag, Sum,
Aimag, Central project office in Ulaanbaatar and finally to the court.
9.   The cost of compensation and rehabilitation will be the responsibility of the local government at
the sum level. Community solutions and options will be acceptable for community driven Local
Initiative Fund (LIF) Component.
10.  All Project related staff and consultants will be provided orientation and training on resettlement
issues and implementation.
11.  The Project will assign staff at the central and aimag levels to guide and monitor resettlement
activities.
12.  Monitoring for resettlement matters will be a regular part of project monitoring.
FILE COPY


﻿Mongolia: Sustainable Livelihood Project                      Social Safeguard Guidelines
Revised May, 2 2002
2B: Involuntary Resettlement and Land Acquisition Procedures
Resettlement Procedures                   When        Who is
Respon-
sible
1   Appoint staff at central and aimag levels for guiding and monitoring  Start of overall HLSPO
social matters.                                         project
(Can be the same staff for environment)                 implementation
2.   Provide orientation to central, aimag and sum project staff on  Start of project
resettlement guidelines, approval and implementation procedures.  implementation
Provide detailed training to Community Mobilizers in screening and  in particular
implementation procedures.                             location
3.   Consultations during baq and sum meetings:              At bag and  S-HLSC
a. Consult with people during community outreach/public relations  sum  member
activities regarding potential negative social impact related to  consultations  and
proposed sub-project proposals:                     during       Community
b. Discuss local govenment and community approaches to solving  community  Mobilizer
any potential negative impacts;
c.  Obtain agreement from affected households on proposed
options and/or compensation;
d. Document the agreement and have signatures from head of
household and bag/sum official; signed documents should be
attached to sub-project proposals.
4.   Screening of designs for construction and rehabilitation of roposed   During review  SPAC
civil works in each submitted sub-proiect               of sub-project
(see checklist):                                        proposals
a. Review designs for impact on affected people due to land
acquisition and/or impact on property, assets and business;
b. Approve designs if there are no negative social impacts or if
mitigation measures are appropriate;
a. a baseline survey of affected households (name of head of  proposal and
hhold, age, sex, occupation, no. of hhold members), impact on  before
type and amount of land/property/assets/business;   disbursement
b. detailed information on amount of compensation and other  offunds
assistance to be provided to the affected households or
community options;
c. schedule for compensation provision and assistance;
ad. cost estimate and funding source or community options.
6.   After satisfactory provision of compensation and other assistance or  S-HLSC
completion of community options, request for disbursement of funds
for sub-project.
7.   Monitoring of social matters and preparation of short report for Central Semi Annual  A-HLSC
Team. (A standard format can be developed for this report.)
World Bank will conduct spot checks during supervision missions.
8.  Integrate all sum and aimag reports for inclusion into regular project  Semi Annual  HLSPO
progress report.
S-HLSC - Sum Household Livelihoods Support Council; A-HLSC - Aimag HLSC; HLSPO - Household
Livelihoods Support Program Office
2


﻿Mongolia: Sustainable Livelihood Project                    Social Safeguard Guidelines
Revised May, 2 2002
2: Ethnic Minorities Participation Framework
Summary of Ethnic Minorities Participation Framework
1.   The ethnic minorities participation framework will guide the approach for working with ethnic
minority communities in the Project.
2.   The principles underlying the ethnic minorities participation framework are:
a. ethnic minorities will benefit from the Project equally;
b. potentially adverse effects on ethnic minorities caused by Project activities will be avoided or
mitigated.
3.   The framework will be based on the Constitution of Mongolia which states that:
"No person should be discriminated against on the basis of ethnic origin, language, race, age, sex,
social origin and status, property, occupation and post, religion, opinion or education. Everyone
should have the right to act as a legal person." (Article 14, sub-article 2);
"Right to fair acquisition, possession and inheritance of moveable and immovable property."
(Article 16, sub-article 3)
4.   In areas inhabited by ethnic minority communities, project implementation will be based on the
following procedures:
a. there will be informed participation of the ethnic minority people themselves;
b. local preferences would be identified through direct consultation;
c. indigenous knowledge would be incorporated into project approaches; and
d. sub-project proposals would be determined and prioritized by the ethnic minority communities
themselves.
5.   Project staff and community mobilizers in aimags such as Bayan Olgii, Uvs, and parts of Dornod
would be of the same ethnic group as the ethnic minority beneficiaries themselves.
6.    Additional information dissemination and community outreach would be made to ethnic minority
communities. For example, in Kazakh areas and other ethnic minority areas where needed, the
local language will be used in print, media and in consultation. Project implementation manuals
and guidelines would be translated from Mongolian into Kazakh. This is also confirmed in the
Constitution of Mongolia which allows "national minorities" are allowed to use their native
languages. (Article 8, sub-article 2)
7.   Under the LIF component, more flexibility in the choice of sub-projects within the project menu
would be allowed for ethnic minorities, especially as strongly requested by the people themselves
and as identified in the Social Assessment. One example is the pressing community need and
frequently requested service for the rehabilitation of housing for Kazakh returnees.:
8.   A special section on M&E will be included for monitoring the progress of the project in ethnic minority
communities.
9.   All sum and aimag monitoring reports will be integrated for inclusion into regular project progress
report.
3


﻿Mongolia: Sustainable Livelihood Project                     Social Safeguard Guidelines
Revised May, 2 2002
3: Disclosure of Safeguard Information
Disclosure                               When
1.  Consultation was conducted at sum and aimag levels during the field  November 2001
visits at pre-appraisal in November and the social safeguard issues
and approaches were discussed.
2.  HLSPO will post environment and social safeguards information on  Before appraisal
public Bulletin Board near the government office
3.  Bank team will send environment and social safeguards documents to  Before decision meeting
the Bank Infoshop                                       and appraisal
4.  Information on Ethnic Minorities Participation Framework would be  March 2002
sent to 8 core aimags. Aimag HLSCs would be requested to post the
information on public Bulletin Board
4


