IPP 3
MONGOLIA: SUSTAINABLE LIVELIHOOD PROJECT
ETHNIC MINORITY DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
December 16, 2001
DRAFT
Introduction
This report sets out the Ethnic Minority Development Strategy for the Sustainable Livelihood
Project (the Project). A Social Assessment undertaken during project preparation has concluded
that the Project will have negligible negative impacts and more significant positive impacts for all
poor beneficiaries, including the ethnic minority communities. It argues that the Project does not
create conditions in which the ethnic minorities are disadvantaged in the development process.
Nor do they meet other criteria that would trigger the need for an Indigenous People's
Development Plan for the Project. While the extent and severity of poverty is of great concern
across the country, there is no suggestion it is driven by ethnic differences. Ethnic minorities as
social groups are not found to engage on economic activities that are less lucrative that those of
the ethnic majority. In law, there are no differences in the entitlement of the different ethnic
groups to natural resources, and there do not appear to be any differences in practice in access to
natural resources.
For this Project, therefore, rather than an IPDP, an Ethnic Minority Development Strategy will be
a more appropriate instrument for the ethnic minority beneficiaries. The Development Strategy
provides the guidance and directions for the participation of ethnic minorities in the Project.
Project Objective
This is the first phase of a three phased program to support the shift in Mongolia's national anti-
poverty strategy away from welfarist measures towards those that promote secure and sustainable
livelihoods for all. The objective of the proposed Project is to identify and pilot-test institutional
innovations that will enhance the capabilities of community groups and poor and vulnerable
households and individuals to better manage risk, build up income-generating assets, and
participate in the rehabilitation and maintenance of community-level infrastructure and basic
services. To realize this development objective, four components will be implemented in eight
selected aimags (provinces). These are: a) Pastoral Risk Management; b) Rural Micro-Finance
Services; c) Local Initiative Fund; and d) Project Management.
Social Information'
There are over 30 different ethnic groups in the country. They are either the descendants of
Mongolian nomadic tribes, or groups of Turkic origin who have become Mongolized over time.
Khalkh Mongols are the national majority (90%) and also the ethnic majority in six of the eight
project aimags. Refer to Table 1. Kazakh form the majority (89%) in Bayan Olgii aimag and
The information is taken from a social assessment report prepared for the project preparation. Please
refer to the full report in the project files for further details-Social Assessment of the Mongolia
Sustainable Livelihood Project, December 2001.
FILE COPY


﻿Buriad are in the majority in five sums of Dornod aimag. Uvs is the most ethnically diverse of
the project aimags; Dorvod and Bayad are the main groups in the province.
Cultural differences among the different ethnic groups are relatively minor. Mobile pastoralism
has traditionally been practiced within Mongolia, and indeed across the inner Asian region
(extending into Tuva, Buryatia and South Chita in the Russian Republic, and Inner Mongolia and
some parts of Xinjiang in China). This common nomadic way of life has fostered a relatively
uniform Mongol culture over extensive areas, with large groups of people sharing similar
livelihoods, having frequent contacts with speakers of other dialects, and developing related
social and cultural practices over the centuries.
Ethnic distinctions among the Mongol subgroups are relatively minor, although some may have a
stronger sense of their own identity than others. Ethnicity is revealed in distinct styles of dress
and ways of preparing food, and in musical and oral traditions. Minor variations in pastoral
techniques may be adaptations to different environments as much as they are markers of
ethnicity. While language differences and their Islamic beliefs may make ethnic distinctions
appear to be more marked between the Kazakh and the Mongol subgroups, Kazakh livelihoods
are not significantly different from those of the Mongol subgroups. Overall, however, language
or tribal differences have not become significant political or social issues in Mongolia.
In aimags that are ethnically homogeneous, the Khalkh make up the majority and a small number
of people of other ethnic groups are either intermarried or otherwise socially and economically
assimilated to the majority. The recent influx of migrants into the central aimags has resulted in a
greater ethnic mix in these provinces than was the case several years ago. A local government
official in Tov commented that people tend to disperse in the province when they arrive from
more remote provinces, and do not noticeably congregate along ethnic lines. Common economic
goals override ethnic distinctions and the influx of immigrants has not resulted in such
distinctions becoming more acute, he claimed.
All groups speak mutually comprehensible Mongolian dialects except for the Kazakh. The
Kazakh are Islamic while other groups practice a mixture of Buddhism and shamanism. Despite
this, Kazakh livelihoods are not significantly different from those of other ethnic groups. Khalkh
Mongolian is the official national language and the language of instruction in schools except in
those areas with high numbers of Kazakh speakers. Language or tribal differences have not
become significant political or social issues in Mongolia.
The SA findings indicate that it is doubtful that the moderate Islamic practices of the Kazakh in
Bayan Olgii would limit Kazakh women from participating in the project as fully as women of
other ethnicities.
2


﻿Table 1: Population by Project Aimag and Ethnic Group (2000)
Population by Project Aimag and Ethnic Group, 2000
Project aimags        Total      Khalkh      Kazakh     Dorvod    Buriad    Bayad     Oold     Darkhad     Dan-    Zakhchin     Myangad    Khoton     Torguud    Tuva      Uriankhai   Other
ganga
Bayan Olgii            91,068         403      80776      1397                                                                                                     1626        6528       338
Bayankhongor           84,779       84509                                               202                                                                                                68
Domod                  75,373       50922                  502     17196       150                  255     1595          152                              117                  134      4350
Dundgobi               51,517       51375                                                                                                                                                 142
Ovorkhangai           111,420      111193                                                104                                                                                              123
Omnogobi               46,858       46795                                                                                                                                                  63
Tov                    99,268       93604       1065       770       856       745       171        110                   202                              130      500          524      591
Uvs                    90,037       13784        115     36201              31717        103                              109         200      6352                              138     1318
Country totals      2,373,493     1934674     102663     66537     40447     50481    14359       18853    31545       29468         5872      8800      12296     4619       24976     20941
Source:Ddata provided by Mongolia National Statistics Office
3


﻿Chart 1: Female Headed Households by Project Aimag (2000)
Female headed housheolds by core aimag
4.0
3.5  --     --   - --
3 .0 - - -   - -  -  - -  -  - -    -  - -
2.5                              ----  -- ---
2.5   --                                  D   of hh in the aimag
.whch are female headed
1.0       --           -   -
0.5     -  --                  -
0.0     -    -- -
oe.
Source: Mongolia Statistical Yearbook 2000, NSO
Maternity rates which are higher in Bayan Olgii than the national average might suggest Kazakh
women are more hesitant than other women to visit medical facilities, (although this would need
to be substantiated through more in depth research) and claims of lower divorce rates and low
levels of intermarriage might also imply that the Kazakh community, more than other ethnic
communities, exerts more control over women to stay within traditional social structures, and
within their own communities. That said, in the SA team's interactions with Kazakh women in
Bayan Olgii, there were many indications that Islam is interpreted quite moderately among
Kazakh in the aimag. Roles and behaviors acceptable for women appear to be much less the
subject of debate than they are in some other Islamic countries. Older and middle aged women
often appear in public wearing headscarves, but younger women generally do not. Nor do
women appear to be overly restricted in their interactions with male strangers, (as is sometimes
the case in other Islamic cultures); for example, when the team was invited to eat lunch with a
sum governor at his house, they were joined by his wife who sat down to eat with them and
actively joined in the discussion.
Land tenure arrangements vary according to ecological, locational, and livestock rearing
practices. Land remains the property of the state but herders - in groups or as individuals - may
be granted long term exclusive use rights over grazing land for a period of up to 60 years.
Customary arrangements are still the norm. Customary agreements between herders for the use
of camps and pasture are based upon shared expectations built up over time by herders with
longstanding relationships with one another. While there is an obligation to respect the territory
others have marked out for their camps and, in particular their winter pastures, there is also an
obligation to come to the assistance of other herders in bad weather in that customary use rights
are to be respected, but the risks of bad weather must be shared.
There are other arrangements in various areas, such as, yearly pasture use agreements where local
authorities attempt to allocate and control the use of grazing resources; shared use ofpasture
where pastures are usually shared between households with herds large enough to justify
4


﻿separating herds, and with the appropriate household labor and relationships to enable them to
organize herding in this way. In more remote and less populated aimags it is clear that levels of
security over tenure are higher. In aimags in the central part of the country and closer to the
capital city, changing land use patterns have begun to result in increased conflicts over pasture.
Legal Framework
The national legal framework which forms the basis of the Ethnic Minority Development Strategy
is the Constitution ofMongolia. The Constitution of Mongolia upholds the principles that all
citizens have equal rights and that they have rights to the resources of the country:
*   "No person should be discriminated against on the basis of ethnic origin, language, race,
age, sex, social origin and status, property, occupation and post, religion, opinion or
education. Everyone should have the right to act as a legal person" (Article 14, sub-
article 2);
*   "Right to fair acquisition, possession and inheritance of moveable and immovable
property" (Article 16, sub-article 3).
It also protects ethnic minorities' right to practice their own culture and use their own language:
*   "...the right of national minorities of other tongues to use their native languages in
education and communication and in the pursuit of cultural, artistic and scientific
activities" (Article 8, sub-article 2).
Development Principles and Procedures
The principles in the development strategy for the ethnic minority groups in the Project are based
on the policies of the Government and the World Bank Operational Directive 4.20 on Indigenous
Peoples. These principles are:
a. To promote unity and equality among all ethnic groups;
b. To improve the living conditions of the ethnic minorities;
c. To identify any potentially adverse impacts and determine mechanisms to avoid, or minimize
and mitigate them; and
d. To ensure that intended benefits are culturally compatible with, and tailored to, the needs and
priorities of ethnic minority groups
In areas inhabited by ethnic minority communities, project implementation will be based on the
following procedures:
a. there will be informed participation of the ethnic minority people themselves;
b. local preferences will be identified through direct consultation;
c. indigenous knowledge will be incorporated into project approaches; and
5


﻿d. sub-project proposals will be determined and prioritized by the ethnic minority communities
themselves.
Development Approaches
Several specific actions to implement the above strategy are indicated below.
Project approach. The overall design of the Project emphasizes participatory approaches, such as
briefly described here for the main project components: a) Pastoral Risk Management--based on
initial experience under the earlier Poverty Alleviation credit, restocking will follow the process-
orientated approach piloted successfully during 2000, in which beneficiaries are selected through
open discussion in bag khural meetings, based on initial applications according to transparent
criteria as set out in a project implementation manual. Attention will also be paid to issues of
social inclusion, ethnicity and accountability within grazing associations; and b) Local Initiative
Fund--the key issues concern equity within and between communities, and the adjudication of
competing priorities within communities. Participation will be achieved primarily through bag
khural meetings, following the precedent of recent restocking initiatives, with public posting of
all decisions and budgets for approved sub-projects. The approach allows for decision-making on
component details to be made at more local levels, which should allow for the preferences of
different ethnic groups to be met.
Under the Local Initiative Fund Component (LIF), more flexibility in the choice of sub-projects
within the project menu will be allowed for ethnic minorities, especially as strongly requested by
the people themselves and as identified in the Social Assessment. Among the Kazakhs, a number
of such preferences were mentioned including efforts to address the living conditions of very poor
households, such as rehabilitation of housing; and support for cultural centers and libraries. It
would be possible for Kazakh groups to choose to address these issues using funding from LIF.
A second possible area for support is in women's health. Aimag level data show high maternal
mortality in Bayan Olgii province where the Kazakhs are a majority of the population. It is not
clear whether the higher incidence of maternal mortality is caused by birth practices distinct to
the Kazakhs. However, Bayan Olgii has one of the lower infant mortality rates, suggesting the
situation may be more complex than it appears. This, however, is an issue that can be explored if
LIF funding is to go towards health projects in that aimag.
A third possible area for LIF support is in education and the medium of instruction. While the
national language is used within government offices in Bayan Olgii as it is elsewhere, Kazakh is
the medium of instruction up to secondary level in most schools in the aimag. However, without
strong Mongolian language skills, it is difficult for Kazakh students to enter, or excel, in higher
education. This problem is recognized by the government and efforts are being made within the
education system to address it. Under LIF and should the Kazakh communities demand it, the
Project could provide support for the development of Kazakh textbooks and the establishment of
local printing presses (rather than presses located in Ulaan Baatar as is currently the case) to
reduce the costs of Kazakh as well as Mongolian text books.
A strong information dissemination program will be established for the Project to provide project
information as well as to promote transparency in available resources and costs of various sub-
projects. Additional information dissemination and community outreach will be made to ethnic
minority communities. Many Kazakh people do not speak or read Mongolian and thus their
6


﻿access to project information would be restricted if it were only distributed in Mongolian. Thus,
in Kazakh areas and other ethnic minority areas where needed, the local language will be used in
print, media and in consultation. In addition to text and speech, alternative medium such as
pictures, visual aids, video and other appropriate methods will be used.
Capacity building, training and appropriate staffing will be essential components for the success
of the Project. The provision of services targeted to the poor and those in the remote areas has to
go hand-in-hand with carefully thought out approaches for training the local leadership, skills
training for local people and provision of information and training material in a multi-lingual
context. Ethnic minority staff should be included in the project implementation team. Project
staff and community mobilizers in aimags such as Bayan Olgii, Uvs, and parts of Dornod will be
of the same ethnic group as the ethnic minority beneficiaries themselves.
Implementation Arrangements
For the first year, the Project will begin in one sum in each of the eight project aimags. The sums
in two of the eight provinces where there are concentrations of ethnic minority groups will be the
testing ground for the Ethnic Minority Development Strategy. After the testing period is over,
improvements will be made in the Project Implementation Manual at the end of the year. There
will be a Central project staff in Ulaan Baatar who will be responsible for the environment and
social development aspects of the project, including the ethnic minority strategy. There will be
similar staff at the aimag and sum levels; they will be provided guidance and training by the
Central project staff. These staff will monitor the screening for ethnic minority issues which is
part of the integrated environmental and social screening process and guide the necessary actions
required for the respective sub-projects.
Implementation of the Ethnic Minority Development Strategy will be regularly supervised and
monitored by the Central project office. The findings will be recorded in biannual reports to be
furnished to World Bank.
7


