Mongolia: Sustainable Livelihood Project                          Social Safeguard Guidelines
Revised March 2002
1A: Involuntary Resettlement and Land Acquisition Policy Framework
IPP3
Summary of Resettlement Policy Framework                 Vol. 2
1.    The resettlement policy framework will apply to the following situations:
A. Construction and or rehabilitation of small-scale infrastructure sub-projects, such as,
roads, bridges, buildings, structures, water supply and sanitation facilities, and other civil
work; and
B. Potential eviction of people from land to used under the Project.
2.    The Project should have positive social benefits for people.
3.    It will avoid or minimize,any potential relocation of people by exploring altemate designs.
4.    Affected people should be fully consulted during the process of screening for social impacts,
planning and implementation of resettlement activities.
5.    Where involuntary resettlement or negative impacts are unavoidable, it will follow the Constitution
of Mongolia (Article 16, sub-article 3) and the Mongolian Law on Land, November 11, 1994 (Article
and 37) in that all affected people should be:
a. Provided with an equivalent amount and type of land in the area for their losses;
b. Compensated at replacement cost for structures and other property/assets; and
c. Given transportation allowance and assisted with the move.
6.    If people are affected, a resettlement plan for each sub-project will be prepared. See procedures
below.
7.    The compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation activities or community options will be
satisfactorily completed before funds are disbursed for the sub-project.
8.    Affected people can file complaints to the project authorities in the following order: Bag, Sum,
Aimag, Central project office in Ulaan Bataar and finally to the court.
9.    The cost of compensation and rehabilitation will be the responsibility of the local government at
the sum level. Community solutions and options will be acceptable for community driven Local
Initiative Fund (LIF) Component.
10.   All Project related staff and consultants will be providecd orientation and training on resettlement
issues and implementation.
11.   The Project will assign staff at the central and aimag levels to guide and monitor resettlement
activities.
12.   Monitoring for resettlement matters will be a regular part of project monitoring.
1                FILE COPY



Mongolia: Sustainable Livelihood Project                          Social Safeguard Guidelines
Revised March 2002
2B: Involuntary Resettlement and Land Acquisition Procedures
Resettlement Procedures                      When        Who is
Responsi
ble
1.   Appoint staff at central and aimag levels for guiding and monitoring  Start of overall  LSPO
social matters.                                             project
(Can be the same staff for environment)                    implementation
2.   Provide orientation to central, aimag and sum project staff on  Start of project
resettlement guidelines, approval and implementation procedures.  implementation
Provide detailed training to Community Mobilizers in screening and  in particular
implementation procedures.                                  location
3.   Consultations during bag and sum meetinQs:                  At bag and   SPAC
a.  Consult with people during community outreach/public relations  sum   member
activities regarding potential negative social impaci: related to  consultations  and
proposed sub-project proposals;                         dunng        Community
b.  Discuss local government and community approaches to solving  community  Mobilizer
any potential negative impacts;
c.  Obtain agreement from affected households on proposed
options and/or compensation;
d.  Document the agreement and have signatures frorn head of
household and bag/sum official; signed documents should be
attached to sub-project proposals.
4.   Screening of designs for construction and rehabilitation of proposed  During review  SPAC
civil works in each submitted sub-proiect                  j of sub-project
(see checklist):                                            proposals
a.  Review designs for impact on affected people due to land
acquisition and/or impact on property, assets and business;
b.  Approve designs if there are no negative social impacts or if
mitigation measures are appropriate;
c.  If designs are not approved, request for redesign cir alternative
plans or for specific mitigation measures and re-submit;
d. Conduct 2nd review of re-submitted designs and so on.
5.   Prepare resettlement plan for affected people, if required. It should  After approval  Community
include:                                                    of sub-project  Mobilizer
a.  a baseline survey of affected households (name of head of  proposal and
hhold, age, sex, occupation, no. of hhold members), impact on  before
type and amount of land/property/assets/business;       disbursement
b.  detailed information on amount of compensation and other  of funds
assistance to be provided to the affected households or
community options;
c.  schedule for compensation provision and assistance;
d.  cost estimate and funding source or community options.
6.   After satisfactory provision of compensation and other assistance or     SPAC
completion of community options, request for disbursernent of funds
for sub-project.
7.   Monitoring of social matters and preparation of short report for Central Semi Annual  APAC
Team. (A standard format can be developed for this report.)
World Bank will conduct spot checks during supervision missions.
8.   Integrate all sum and aimag reports for inclusion into regular project  Semi Annual  LSPO
progress report.
SPAC - Sum Poverty Alleviation Committee; APAC - Aimag PAC; LSPO - Livelihood Support Program Office
2



Mongolia: Sustainable Livelihood Project                          Social Safeguard Guidelines
Re ised March 2002
2: Ethnic Minorities Development Strategy
Summary of Ethnic Minorities Clevelopment Strategy
1.    The ethnic minorities development strategy will guide the approach for working with ethnic minority
communities in the Project.
2.    The principles underlying the ethnic minorities development strategy are:
a. ethnic minorities will benefit from the Project equally;
b. potentially adverse effects on ethnic minorities caused by Project activities will be avoided or
mitigated.
3.    The strategy will be based on the qonstitution of Mongolia which states that:
"No person should be discriminated against on the basis of ethnic origin, language, race, age, sex,
social origin and status, property, occupation and post, religion, opinion or education. Everyone
should have the right to act as a legal person." (Article 14, sub-article 2);
"Right to fair acquisition, possession and inheritance ol moveable and immovable property.'
(Article 16, sub-article 3)
4.    In areas inhabited by ethnic minority communities, project implementation will be based on the
following procedures:
a. there will be informed participation of the ethnic minority people themselves;
b. local preferences would be identified through direct consultation;
c. indigenous knowledge would be incorporated into project approaches; and
d. sub-project proposals would be determined and prioritized by the ethnic minority communities
themselves.
5.    Project staff and community mobilizers in aimags such as Bayan Olgii, Uvs, and parts of Dornod
would be of the same ethnic group as the ethnic minority beneficiaries themselves.
6.    Additional information dissemination and community outreach would be made to ethnic minority
communities. For example, in Kazakh areas and other ethnic minority areas where needed, the
local language will be used in print, media and in consultation. Project implementation manuals
and guidelines would be translated from Mongolian into Kazakh. This is also confirmed in the
Constitution of Mongolia which allows "national minorities" are allowed to use their native
languages. (Article 8, sub-article 2)
7.    Under the LIF component, more flexibility in the choice of sub-projects within the project menu
would be allowed for ethnic minorities, especially as strongly requested by the people themselves
and as identified in the Social Assessment. One example is the pressing community need and
frequently requested service for the rehabilitation of housing for Kazakh retumees.
8.    A special section on M&E will be included for monitoring the progress of the project in ethnic minority
communities.
9.    All sum and aimag monitoring reports will be integrated for inclusion into regular project progress
report.
3



Mongolia: Sustainable Livelihood Project                           Social Safeguard Guidelines
Revised March 2002
3: In-Country Disclosure of Safeguard Information
In-Country Disclosure                             When
1.  Consultation was conducted at sum and aimag levels during the field  November 2001
visits in November and the social safeguard issues and approaches
were discussed.
2.   HLSPO will post environment and social safeguards information on  December 2001
public Bulletin Board near the government office
3.   Resettlement Policy Framework would be sent to 8 core..aimags. A  December 2001
HLSC would be requested to post the informatiPn on public Bulletin
Board.
4.  Information on Ethnic Minorities Development Strategy would be sent  March 2002
To 8 core-aimags. A HLSC would be requested to post the information
on public Bulletin Board
4



