Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 241 55-MOG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SER 15.00 MILLION (US$18.73 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
MONGOLIA
FOR A
SUSTAiNABLE LIVELIHOODS PROJECT
IN SUPIPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
SUSTAINABLE LIVELIHOODS PROGRAM
May 15, 2002
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 1, 2002)
Currency Unit = Mongolian T6grog (MNT)
MNT 1,000 = US$0.91
US$1.00 = MNT 1,102
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 - December 31 -- World Bank: July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEZ                Agro-Ecological Zone
BoM                Bank of Mongolia (central bank)
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CGAP               Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest
DCA                Development Credit Agreement
EA                 Environmental Assessment
GoM                Govermment of Mongolia
HLSC               Household Livelihoods Support Council
HLCSP              Household Livelihoods Capacity Support Program
HLSPO              Household Livelihoods Support Program Office
ICR                Implementation Completion Report
I-PRSP             Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
LDF                Local Development Fund
LIF                Local Initiatives Fund
LSMS               Living Standards Measurement Survey
MDB                Micro-Fmance Development Board
MDF                Micro-Finance Development Fund
MFI                Micro-Finance Institution
MFO                Micro-Finance Outreach
MIS                Management Information System
MMO                Micro-Finance Management Office
MoFA               Ministry of Food and Agriculture
MoFE               Ministry of Finance and Economy
MoH                Ministry of Health
Mol                Ministry of Infrastructure
MoNE               Ministry of Nature and Environment
MoSTEC             Ministry of Science, Technology, Education and Culture
MoSWL              Ministry of Social Welfare and Labour
NBFIs              Non-Bank Financial Institutions
NCHLCSP            National Committee for the HLCSP
NDVI               Normalized Differentiated Vegetation Index
NPAC               National Poverty Alleviation Committee
NPAP               National Poverty Alleviation Program
PAC                Poverty Alleviation Council
PAD                Project Appraisal Doctunent
PAPO               Poverty Alleviation Programn Office
PAVGP              Poverty Alleviation for Vulnerable Groups Project (Cr. 2760-MN)
PNM                Project Implementation Manual
PLSA               Participatory Living Standards Assessment
PM&E               Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation
PRM                Pastoral Risk Management
PRSP               Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RLF                Revolving Loan Fund
SCC                Savings and Credit Cooperative
SLA                Subsidiary Loan Agreement
Vice President:         Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Director:          Ian C. Porter, EACSM
Sector Director:        Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
Task Team Leader:            Robin Mearns, EASRD



MONGOLIA
SUSTAINABLE LIVELIHOODS PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                  Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                                3
2. Project development objective                                                      3
3. Key performance indicators                                                         4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     5
2. Main sector issues and Govemment strategy                                           6
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 11
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                  14
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                15
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      19
3. Benefits and target population                                                    20
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      23
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         27
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         30
3. Lessons learned and reflectecl in the project design                               31
4. Indications of borrower commnitment and ownership                                  33
5. Value added of Bank suppor: in this project                                        33
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           34
2. Financial                                                                          35
3. Technical                                                                          36
4. Institutional                                                                      37
5. Environmental                                                                      39
6. Social                                                                             41
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 44



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      46
2. Critical risks                                                                      47
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      49
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             49
2. Other                                                                               50
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           53
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          53
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           54
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     69
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          87
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary            88
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary     94
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        95
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     108
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    110
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   112
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            113
Annex 11: Program Vision and Approach, with Letter of Development Program                 115
Annex 12: Relevant Donor-Supported Activities                                             121
Annex 13: Institutional Capacity-Building Measures                                        123
Annex 14: Environmental and Social Assessment Summary                                     125
Annex 15: Organograms                                                                     128
MAP(S)
IBRD 31854, IBRD 31855, IBRD 31856



MONGOLIA
Sustainable Livelihoods Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASRD
Date: May 15, 2002                                Team Leader: Robin Mearns
Country Director: Ian C. Porter                   Sector Director: Mark D. Wilson
Project ID: P067770                               Sector(s): AL - Livestock, BD - Decentralization, SY -
Other Social Protection
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  Theme(s): Rural Development; Social P'rotection; Poverty
Reduction
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data
Estimated
APL             Indicative Financing Plan       Implemnentation Periodd         Borrower
(Bank FY)
IDA             Others      Total    Commitment    Closing
US$ m     %      US$ m       USS m        Date        Date
APL 1        18.73    84.7    3.39       22.12     07/01/2002  12/31/2006      Mongolia
Loan/
C redit__                            _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
APL 2        21.80    58.4   15.5,0      37.30
Loan/
Credit                                        _ _ _ _ _ _
APL 3        19.30    40.5   28.40       47.70
Loan/
Credit                            _ _ _ _ _ _
APL 4
Loan/ NA              NA
Credit__                  _ _ _ ___                          _ _ _ _
Total        59.83           47.29      107.12
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit    [] Grant      [ Guarantee      [] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): SDR15 million (US$18.73 million equivalent)
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                             Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan .(USSm)::  Source                            Local        -Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       3.39            0.00          3.39
IDA                                                            17.22           1.51         18.73
Total:                                                        20.61            1.51         22.12
Borrower: MONGOLIA
Responsible agency: HOUSEHOLD LIVELIHOODS SUPPORT PROGRAM OFFICE
Address: Khuvsgalchdyn Avenue, Ulaaabaatar-38, Mongolia
Contact Person: Mr Ch. Khurelbaatar, Director
Tel: 976-11-323500, 322465           Fax: 976-11-328107            Email: mppl(magicnet.mn



Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
FY'        2003     -2004'      2005     2006
Annual     3.69      5.11      5.37      4.56
Cumulative    3.69      8.80      14.17     18.73
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
OcSA~I. PA D FU,,r R.d 1U2
-2 -



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The overall program purpose (see Annex 1) is: "vulnerability reduced and secure and sustainable
livelihoods achieved by targeted poor and vulnerable near-poor households and individuals nationwide".
The Sustainable Livelihoods Program is intended to support the shift in Mongolia's national anti-poverty
strategy away from welfarist me asures towards those that promote secure and sustainable livelihoods for
all (see Annex 11 for a summarv of program vision and approach, and Government's Letter of
Development Program).
The program development objective (see Annex 1) is: "target groups and individuals adopt improved
livelihood strategies that build ,nd maintain human, social, financial, physical and natural capital while
reducing vulnerability to shock.". This would be achieved through investments in four components:
pastoral risk management micro-finance outreach; local initiatives fund; and program management and
policy support. The program would be divided into three phases, the build-up of which would be
determined by the performance of program components and the pace of institutional reform and
capacity-building at all administrative levels (see Attachments 1 and 2 to Annex 1):
* Phase I, of four years' duration (the Project), would continue to support during a transitional period
nation-wide certain initiatives started under the National Poverty Alleviation Program (NtPAP), while
piloting new investment and capacity-building initiatives in eight core aimags (provinces). The
implementation of individual activities would be flexible in pace and phased according to the
particularities of each aimag, and success in achieving targets;
*   Phase II (next four years), within an appropriate legal and policy framework, would scale up and
'scale out' the tried and tested institutional innovations to national level. It would also extend successful
initiatives that were limited in scope during Phase I due to inadequate institutional capacity; and
*   Phase HI (final four years), based on lessons learned from the first two phases, would focus on
fine-tuning the technical and institutional innovations for long-term sustainability. The proposed
program would therefore progressively combine horizontal (geographical) expansion with vertical
deepening of policy and institutional reforms.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the project - referring to the first four-year phase of the overall program -
is: "an effective approach to promoting improved, secure, and sustainable livelihood strategies
developed, demonstrated, and validated in selected areas, and institutional capacity created so that these
strategies can be replicated and! scaled-up in Phase II of the Program".
The project would be national in scope, with intensive pilot-testing of certain institutional innovations in
eight selected aimags (see Map 1). In parallel with the pilot-testing of new approaches, selected NPAP
activities would continue to be implemented nation-wide, with the aim of facilitating convergence between
the new approaches and existing ant-poverty interventions over the medium term. The outputs that in
combination will contibute to aclhieving the project development objective are:
a)     Pastoral Risk Management: an integrated strategy developed, piloted, and adopted in eight
selected aimags for managing covariant risk in pastoral livestock production, with a primary emphasis on
risk preparedness. In combination with other project components, this component would aim to assist in
addressing the underlying causes of rising vulnerability to drought and dzud (winter disasters');
-3 -



b)     Micro-Finance Outreach: the outreach of financially and institutionally sustainable micro-finance
services to targeted poor and vulnerable non-poor households and individuals in rural areas of selected
aimags achieved, including micro-finance credit and a index-based livestock insurance scheme;
c)     Local Initiatives Fund: efficient, socially inclusive, and transparent community-driven
mechanisms identified and established to facilitate comrnunity prioritization, selection, co-financing, and
execution of investments in basic infrastructure and social services provision in rural areas, combining
local resource mobilization with government grants based on clear and transparent criteria for
inter-governmental transfers; and
d)     Project Management: a decentralized project management frarnework realized through the
progressive devolution of project management responsibilities to aimag and sum (rural district) levels
within local governments, while retaining overall coordination, monitoring and evaluation, and fiduciary
oversight at national level.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
End-of-program impact indicators at goal level (12-year impact) would include:
* poverty incidence reduced from 36% to 14% (consistent with Government of Mongolia (GoM) targets);
*   share of target groups and individuals able to withstand external shocks increased by 100%;
*   dzud-related animal deaths reduced by half and number of households losing all animals reduced by
60%;
*   78% of school-aged children graduated at least from 'non-full' secondary school; and
*   infant mortality reduced from 32 to 29 per 1000 live births (consistent with GoM targets).
The key indicators at the level of program purpose concern target groups and individuals' adoption of
improved strategies relating to pastoral risk management; livelihood security and diversification; and the
construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of demand-driven local and community infrastructure.
Outcomes for each phase of the program are as follows (for detailed indicators developed by participants at
the Second National Stakeholder Consultation Workshop on the Sustainable Livelihoods Program, July
29-August 2, 2001, see Annex 1):
Phase III: Nation-wide, targeted poor and vulnerable near-poor people are using improved and effective
sustainable livelihood strategies to improve long term outcomes at household and community levels; assets
have been created and are being maintained; strategies that reduce vulnerability to shocks and stresses have
been implemented; and supporting public and private sector policies and strategies are being implemented.
Phase II: Phase I program scaled-up nation-wide; public supporting institutions being gradually
institutionalized; and targeted poor using improved, effective and sustainable livelihood strategies to
improve long term outcomes at household and community levels (winter preparation and improved pasture
management adopted by 50% of herder households in target areas; 20% of target group have access to
micro-finance services; and access to functioning basic education and rural health facilities increased by
20%).
Phase I: Effective approach to promoting secure and sustainable livelihood strategies developed,
demonstrated, and validated in eight core aimags and one pilot duureg (urban district of Ulaanbaatar), and
ready for scaling-up under Phase II; institutional capacity for implementing the approach developed in core
aimags and existing capacity maintained outside core aimags.
- 4 -



Key performance indicators of progress towards the achievement of project (Phase I) development
objectives are:
A. Improved pastoral risk management strategies adopted in core aimags:
*   proportion of herding households making adequate winter preparations increased by 33% in project
areas by comparison with start of project and/or non-project areas representing similar ecological
zones;
*   dzud-related animal losses reduced by 33% by comparison with start of project and/or non-project
areas representing similar ecological zones;
*   at least 50% of grazing land area under improved management in project areas by comparison with
start of project; and
*   discernible, positive impact on range-vegetation condition in project areas by comparison with
non-project areas representing similar ecological zones and precipitation conditions, and as measured
using a normalized differentiated vegetation index (NDVI, data obtained from remote sensing) or
similar indicator.
B. Micro-finance services accessible to and used by poor households to build assets and smooth
consumption on a financially and institutionally sustainable basis in remote rural areas of target sums:
* 10% of target beneficiaries in selected aimags use financial services;
*   quantitatively and qualitati vely measurable improvement in livelihood security of target beneficiaries
(precise indicators to be se)ected in design of baseline survey);
*   less than 10% of total loan portfolio of selected revolving loan funds (RLFs) past due;
*   selected RLFs achieve 50%/6 operational self-sufficiency;
*   50% of RLFs receiving additional funding privatized; and
*   index-based livestock insutance scheme developed and operational.
C. Basic district- and community-level infrastructure improved and well-maintained in core aimags:
*   75% of target community inembers satisfied with the procedure for the identification, selection, and
implementation of sub-proj;ects;
* 85% of target beneficiaries. of sub-projects satisfied with infrastructure activities implemented; and
*   options identified for integrating needs-driven public expenditure allocation with regular local
government budgeting.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: 17604-MOGDate of latest CAS discussion: 04/01/98
CAS Goal: equitable developnient andpoverty alleviation
The primary goal of the Mongcolia CAS is to support the Goveniment in completing the transition to a
market-led economy, to improve living standards and reduce poverty. It adopts a four-pronged approach to
help the Government create an environment conducive to private sector-led growth, to tackle transitional
and structural poverty, and to manage the country's resources strategically to improve long-term growth.
Institutional capacity building and environment protection measures are integrated into this approach. The
four CAS goals are: (a) to support macroeconomic stabilization; (b) to facilitate private sector development
and associated employment antl income-generation opportunities; (c) to develop infrastructure to support
private sector growth and market development; and (d) to promote equity in development through direct
poverty alleviation assistance to ensure continued support for the most vulnerable groups. The project
- 5 -



directly supports the fourth of these CAS goals - to promote equitable development through direct poverty
alleviation assistance to ensure continued support for vulnerable groups.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Increasing poverty and inequality
Following the exceptionally difficult years of the early 1990s, and despite of four years of reasonable
growth and low inflation in the mid- to late- 1990s, poverty and inequality continue to be serious problems
in both rural and urban areas. The Living Standards Measurement Surveys conducted in 1995 and 1998
found that the overall headcount of poor people remained stable over 1995-98 at around 36% of the
population; the depth and severity of poverty, however, worsened over this period.
The findings of the Bank-supported Participatory Living Standards Assessment 2000 (PLSA) are
consistent with these trends and confirm that polarization between rich and poor intensified between 1995
and 2000. While some households managed to improve their living standards and climb out of poverty over
the period 1995-2000, it appears that many more fell behind, and those already below the poverty line fell
even further behind. Vulnerability to risk was regarded as the most important dimension of poverty to
address. Analysis of the various shocks and stresses that triggered a downward trend of impoverishment
among 180 low-income middle, poor and very poor households suggests that loss of employment, natural
hazards (dzud), and the cost of health and education were the most common risk factors. Fuel-price
increases leading to declining producer terms of trade, theft of assets (especially livestock), and other
lifecycle events (e.g. death, illness) were other commonly experienced factors that could trigger a process of
impoverishment. A clear, common perception emerged from over 200 focus group discussions conducted
throughout the country that by 2000, in urban areas, poor and very poor households accounted for the
majority of residents; while in rural areas, the poor and very poor made up around half of all households.
These findings suggest that government efforts should be stepped up to ensure that the gains from economic
growth are more widely shared.
Between 1994 and 2000, the principal means by which poverty reduction was pursued in Mongolia was
through the National Poverty Alleviation Progran (NPAP), a US$19 million inter-sectoral program
supported by a range of multilateral and bilateral agencies and international NGOs. The World Bank was
the major donor to NPAP, contributing US$ 10 million through the Poverty Alleviation for Vulnerable
Groups Project (PAVGP) (Cr. 2760-MN) from 1996 to 2000. The intensive-leaming ICR for this project
and a joint Government-donor evaluation of NPAP as a whole concluded that NPAP had provided valuable
support to local govermnents for the rehabilitation of social and economic infrastructure, but the direct
income-generation support to poor households was much smaller than ought to have been realized, and
benefited perhaps not more than 20% of poor households. Achievements in reducing rural poverty were
particularly limited. NPAP was unable to reduce poverty on a significant scale in the absence of a
supportive economic policy environment. Since July 2000, however, the new Government has made poverty
reduction one of the highest priorities in its Action Plan and has begun to address marked rural-urban
disparities with a stronger focus on rural development. The Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(I-PRSP) has been completed and the full PRSP is in preparation. Government anticipates that the
proposed Sustainable Livelihoods Program will make a major operational contribution to the achievement
of the PRSP's goals.
-6-



Ambiguous institutional structure
During the early years of economic transition in the early 1990s, poverty was considered mainly a 'social
policy' issue affecting 'vulnerable groups' such as orphans, the disabled, the elderly, the unemployed,
low-income households with many children, and female-headed households. Accordingly, a single line
ministry (currently named the Ministry of Social Welfare and Labor or MoSWL) was designated under the
Law on Governrnent to take the lead on poverty issues. The Poverty Alleviation Program Office (PAPO) -
the executing agency for NPA]3 - was constituted as "an autonomous entity under the supervision of the
National Poverty Alleviation C'ommitee (NPAC), reporting directly to the Minister of MoSWL in his
capacity as Deputy Chairman of NPAC". This proved to be ambiguous in practice. MoSWL considered
PAPO to be under its own authority, while the donors considered PAPO to be an autonomous entity
reporting to NPAC as a committee responsible for coordinating anti-poverty efforts. Throughout the course
of NPAP, MoSWL's repeated efforts to block decisions taken by PAPO proved highly disruptive to
implementation. In an effort to resolve the issue in early 1996, GoM issued a statement that PAPO would
thereafter report directly to the Prime Minister, in his capacity as Chairman of NPAC, thus making PAPO
operationally independent of the MoSWL. This failed to resolve the issue, however, and inter-agency
struggles for control over NPAP seriously threatened PAPO's status at several points, at significant cost to
effective program management.
Although the original intention was that NPAP should embrace all government activities pertaining to
poverty reduction, with NPAC acting as a Cabinet committee on poverty, in practice, NPAP served as a
unified 'window' for attracting international donor support for poverty reduction. NPAC dealt solely with
oversight of NPAP rather than with government actions and policies that influence poverty as a whole. As a
result, NPAP came to be seen as the totality of those intemationally financed projects for poverty reduction
that were brought under the unified management of PAPO, which acted as Secretariat to NPAC.
Opportunities were missed to address two of the other original objectives of NPAP: (a) to coordinate the
poverty-related actions of all government ministries and agencies; and (b) to establish closer links between
policy-making at central level and the on-the-ground realities at local level. The Govermment's current
efforts to prepare a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), with the support of World Bank and IMF,
should be seen in this light, since the PRSP aims to achieve precisely what NPAP failed to do: namely, to
'mainstream' poverty reduction in the Government's overall program.
Inadequate capacity buildling
Solid progress was made under NPAP in building local capacity to implement development projects,
through inter-departmental Poverty Alleviation Councils (PACs) at aimag and sum levels and their
equivalents (duureg and khoroo respectively) in the capital city, Ulaanbaatar. However, since the GoM
was reluctant to use loan funds for capacity building, PAVGP had to rely on parallel financing from UNDP
and bilateral donors for this purpose. Donor support focused primarily on capacity building at national and
aimag levels, while from 199E; the sum and khoroo level became the main locus of decisions concerning
income-generation projects. The situation was exacerbated by high turnover of sum and khoroo PAC
members as the incoming political party replaced all local-level line ministry department heads in the wake
of national elections.
-7 -



Weakness in pastoral risk management
Events of the 1999/2000 and 2000/2001 winter/spring periods heightened awareness of the importance of
pastoral risk management among the Government, donors, and civil society. The last two winter/spring
dzud emergencies were perhaps the worst in living memory, in both cases following severe summer
drought. In 1999/2000, livestock mortality was close to three million head, or around 9% of the national
herd, concentrated in six south-central and western aimags (see Map 2). In winter/spring 2000/2001,
drought was again followed by an even worse dzud. This resulted in the loss of over four million additional
animals, amounting to almost 14% of the national herd. The devastating impact of these consective years of
dzud was exacerbated by historically high stocking rates. Having remained at a relatively stable level of
around 25 million head for several preceding decades, largely owing to high autumn off-take encouraged by
state-guaranteed livestock- and meat-marketing under agricultural collectivization, total livestock numbers
increased by 33% over the six-year period 1993-99, reaching a peak of over 33 million heads.
It would be wrong to view dzud as simply 'natural disasters', however. The impacts of dzud have become
more severe as a greater proportion of the national population has come to depend on livestock for a
livelihood, and as herding livelihoods have themselves become more vulnerable to risk. In the absence of
alternative livelihood opportunities, many former state-sector employees turned to herding to support their
families. The number of herding families more than doubled from 75,000 in 1990 (accounting for 351,000
people, or 17% of the total population) to 192,000 in 2000 (representing 824,000 people, or 35% of the
national population). By comparison with existing herders, the new herders tended to be less skilled and
experienced in herding. Their herds were, on average, smaller and less likely to increase over time as new
herders were more likely to slaughter animals to meet immediate livelihood needs. They also tended to move
less frequently than more experienced herders, and to remain closer to urban settlements, roads, and other
points of market access.
Under the collectivized planning of agriculture that prevailed until 1991, the former State Emergency
Fodder Fund (SEFF) and other forms of State assistance to affected areas during dzud conditions did a
great deal to minimize livestock mortality. This system was heavily subsidized, and collapsed once Soviet
support was withdrawn in the early 1990s, which shifted the burden of risk management from the
agricultural collectives to individual herding households. Customary land management practices involving
the seasonal separation and rotation of pastures, which were maintained under collectivization, also began
to disintegrate from the early-mid 1990s as the number of herding families and total livestock numbers
rose, and as pastoral mobility and public administrative support for livestock production declined.
Little investment was made in the 1990s in developing an alternative strategy for mitigating and responding
to risk in the livestock sector. Until 1999/2000, the need for such a system was not seriously put to the test,
as there had not been a serious dzud in Mongolia since 1993, when the remnants of the SEFF still
functioned to some extent. The Democratic Coalition government between 1996 and 2000 was opposed to
State intervention in pastoral risk management, whereas the new Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party
(MPRP) Government (since June 2000) has clearly outlined a role for the State to complement herders'
individual efforts to prepare for and better manage the effects of dzud. In May 2001, GoM Resolution No.
47 enacted a policy for the protection of livestock against drought and dzud GoM requires external
financial support to enable it to fully operationalize and implement this new policy. Key elements of the
program include: pasture land tenure and management; hay and fodder production, conservation and
marketing; livestock marketing; early-warning and emergency response systems; and livestock
productivity-enhancing investments such as livestock breeding, veterinary and other livestock services.
- 8 -



Considerable experience has been gained in developing household herd-restocking programs as the main
approach to reducing rural poverty in Mongolia, in combination with efforts to diversify the livelihoods of
those who are unlikely to achieve sustainable livelihoods based on livestock production. These programs
have been piloted since 1995 with initial financial and technical assistance from FAO, IFAD, and Save the
Children Fund (UK). World Bank (under the PAVGP) supported the extension and scaling-up of the
approach in five of the most severely affected aimags in response to the 1999/2000 dzud. Corrtmon
elements of the approach developed in Mongolia are that it is organized as an in-kind credit scheme
administered by local governments, with repayments in the form of animals or cash; procurement of
animals is done locally, often within the same communities (i.e. richer herders sell animals to externally
financed projects for on-lending to poorer, eligible herders), thereby ensuring that animals are already
adapted to local ecological conditions, and that there is a neutral impact on local animal stocking densities;
and a transparent, community-driven process of selecting eligible beneficiaries is followed.
While restocking provided an irmportant short-term safety-net in rural Mongolia in the late 1 990s, GoM and
donors have now come to appreciate that it also raises serious concems about long-run sustainability. The
main concerns relate to the disincentive effect of state-led restocking for risk management in livestock
production (a 'moral hazard' issue), and for the wider development of the micro-finance industry. The gains
from restocking could easily be wiped out by future dzud events. The areas in which restocking had initially
been piloted escaped the most serious impacts of the 1999/2000 dzud, and it still remains to be seen how
restocked households would cope with future risk episodes. In principle, livestock insurance is the primary
means by which risk is offset under Mongolian restocking programs, but in practice voluntarv coverage has
been near-zero. The commercial viability of the conventional approach to livestock insurance, which
attempts to cover losses at the individual household level, is seriously questioned. There is an urgent need
for further work to develop and implement an alternative approach to livestock insurance in Mongolia. The
most promising approach would base indemnities on some form of index, perhaps based on weather data,
which is independently verifiable and which would promote rather than undermine incentives for good
livestock management.
Inadequate community participation, sustainability and decentralization
As a social fund-type mechanism, the Local Development Fund (LDF) under NPAP suffered from two
serious problems. The first was that genuine community participation in decision-making remained weak,
with the notable exception of the community-based restocking initiatives undertaken in 2000. The Poverty
Alleviation Councils reached down only as far as district-level administration which, as the PLSA revealed,
community members regard as remote and unresponsive to their needs. Under NPAP, resources tended to
be allocated equally to all areas for a pre-defmed, and rather limited, menu of sub-projects. Another
weakness was the lack of sustainability. Community participation was intended as a key objective and
mechanism under the LDF, but was not always achieved beyond contributions of short-term, wage-labor
inputs.
Inadequate community participation is also correlated with the low level of fiscal decentralization, which
prevents local communities frorm actively making local development decisions because of limited
self-generated revenues or inter-governmental transfers over which they have discretionary control. While
each of the three levels of goveinment nominally have independent budgets, the fiscal structure of Mongolia
remains highly centralized, as revealed by a Decentralization Assessment conducted in support of project
preparation, and the draft Mongolia Public Expenditure Review. Overall, sub-national and local
governments account for less than a third of total public expenditure and, on average, 65% of their
revenues come from central govrernment transfers. Local governments can levy only marginal user fees,
-9-



mainly on the use of natural resources. Virtually all of the already small fraction of total public spending
that sub-national and local governments control goes to meet recurrent expenditures. There is therefore a
circular relationship between community participation and fiscal decentralization: the currently low level of
fiscal decentralization inhibits the voice and influence of local communities over public expenditure, while
inadequate community participation makes fiscal decentralization less feasible because local capacity
remains under-developed.
Decentralization in policy and practice
After coming to power in June 2000, the current Government set out in its Action Program an ambitious
agenda to promote decentralization. The mechanisms envisaged included the promotion of regional and
rural development, in part to address the over-concentration of economic opportunity in the capital city and
central, more market-accessible regions of the country; increasing accountability in the public sector;
increasing the capacity of local governments to generate revenues over which they have discretionary
control; and offering citizens greater opportunity to directly monitor the performance of their elected
citizen's assemblies (khurals) at various levels.
The proposed Public Sector Management and Finance Law seeks to increase the accountability of public
sector institutions at all levels, including civil service reform linked to the budgeting process and overhaul
of the existing system of inter-governmental transfers. Governnent's 'Good Governance for Human
Security Program' also refers to 'decentralizing and empowering local self-governance and local
administration', and aims to support 'stakeholder consultation, voice, and participation' in the broader
policy process, including 'monitoring . . .citizen satisfaction and recommendations with regard to services,
rights, and government responsiveness to citizen demands'. The I-PRSP echoes the broad theme of raising
public accountability, notably through greater public voice in and scrutiny of the budget process.
To date, however, decentralization in Mongolia remains both imbalanced and incomplete in practice. The
Decentralization Assessment conducted in association with project preparation shows that, measured
against a set of standardized criteria developed through international comparative benchmarking, Mongolia
is currently characterized by substantial though incomplete political decentralization, but little
administrative decentralization and virtually no fiscal decentralization. Administrative decentralization
follows a deconcentrated pattern in which governors and their staffs report upwards to the next highest
level of government There is little opportunity for elected assemblies to exert any influence over technical
department staff and quality of service delivery at their respective level of government, and therefore little
incentive for local populations to express their views to their elected representatives. Evidence from the
PLSA reveals that community members are widely dissatisfied with the extent to which local governors
take account of their interests.
Current efforts of Government, with the support of IMF and ADB, are focusing on fiscal 're-centralization'
in the interests of fiscal control and to improve the overall tax collection rate. In parallel, however, efforts
are being made to develop a transparent, formula-driven approach to determining inter-governmental
transfers, which account for the vast majority of most local authority revenues, particularly in rural areas.
The formula is still under discussion, but is likely to include an element of poverty-targeting. Once a
transparent basis for inter-govermental transfers is established, it is then imperative to ensure that
expenditure allocation at the local level - between sectors and between alternative investments within
individual sectors - takes local needs, priorities, and aspirations into account.
- 1 0 -



Under-development of financial systems, particularly in rural areas
Mongolia's financial system, at this point in its transition, is small, fragile, and highly dysfunctional, with
recurring insolvencies in the banking system and a high level of vulnerability to economic shocks and
crises. These weaknesses, together with the narrow range of available financial services, seriously constrain
private sector development and growth. In a recent World Bank-funded survey of Mongolian entrepreneurs,
96% reported the lack of long term financing and 65% reported inadequate working capital as the main
constraints to their business operations. An IFC-supported study found that although the informal sector is
estimated to generate economic activity equivalent to as much as 30% to 38% of official GDP, informal
sector operators obtain their finance mainly from personal and family savings (82%), followed by
individuals (11%), and only 0.5% from bank loans. Mongolia's financial system is characterized by the
following traits, as summarized in a recent IFC report: (a) lack of confidence in banks; (b) predominant
state ownership and concentration of assets; (c) collapse of financial services in rural areas; (d) poor
corporate governance; (e) lack of management experience and skill; and (f) serious rent-seeking behavior.
Furthermore, it was estimated aiound 1999 that some 95% of cash circulating in Mongolia's economy was
concentrated in the capital, Ulaanbaatar; the vast proportion of trade in rural areas remains on a barter
basis. Until very recently, those in rural areas, and the poor virtually everywhere, had practically no access
to financial services of any kind, with the exception of micro-loans being provided by NPAP through the
PACs. The environment for micro-finance service delivery has improved dramatically over the last two
years, however, with the restruciuring of the Agriculture Bank (now opening new rural branches) and the
remarkable success of the (still largely urban-based) XACBank which has rapidly achieved financial and
institutional sustainability in micro-credit. Government is committed to increasing outreach of financial
services to poor and near-poor households on a sustainable basis, both in rural and in peri-urban areas. A
new micro-finance law is under preparation.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project aims to address these sector issues in the following ways:
Increasing poverty and inequalfty. Poverty will be addressed primarily by increasing the capacity of poor
and vulnerable households in rural areas and smaller urban settlements to better manage risk and build up
income-generating assets, and by facilitating investment in community-level infrastructure in the same
areas. This would be achieved through a shift from a welfare-oriented approach to poverty alleviation to
one that aims to promote 'secure and sustainable livelihoods, linked to macro-economic policy and pro-poor
public expenditure allocation.
Ambiguous institutional structure. The new Government is fully aware of the ambiguity under the existing
Government Law that assigns M/loSWL the lead role in anti-poverty efforts. Recent work in developing the
PRSP has seen the Ministry of Finance and Economy (MoFE) take a much more important and proactive
role in this area. Government has decided to retain an inter-ministerial committee as an oversight body for
the proposed project and related operational programs, and the newly reconstituted National Commnittee for
the Household Livelihoods Capacity Support Program (NCHLCSP), which replaces NPAC, assigns a
much more significant role to M:oFE. If necessary, consideration may also be given to amending the
Government Law in due course.
Inadequate capacity building. This issue would be addressed through efforts to build institutional capacity
as an integral part of each of the components, and program-wide investments in improved management,
monitoring and evaluation capacity. Lessons learned under PAVGP suggest that: (a) capacity building
- 11 -



essential to a project cannot be left to parallel financing - it must be costed and included as an integral part
of the project; (b) capacity building at the sumlkhoroo and community (bag and below) levels should be a
major area of concentration; and (c) provision needs to be made for ongoing training/ re-training in view of
staff turnover.
Weakness in pastoral risk management. A major new component of the program/project, compared with
NPAP, would be the development of a pastoral risk management strategy adapted to aimag-specific
conditions in order to reduce the losses of poor herding households due to drought, dzud and other episodic
shocks. Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MoFA) also has an enhanced role in the NCHLCSP, in
recognition of the need for public action in and promoting secure and sustainable livelihoods among the
rural poor.
Inadequate community participation, sustainability, and decentralization. The project would improve
community participation and sustainability through a decentralized and demand-driven approach to
identifying, co-financing and executing investments in basic infrastructure under the local initiatives fund.
This would help to lay the foundation for future fiscal decentralization by enhancing district and
community-level capacity in sub-project selection, implementation, monitoring and evaluation; and by
identifying fiscal decentralization options and mechanisms.
Underdevelopment offinancial system, particularly in rural areas. The micro-finance outreach
component would support the development of Mongolia's small and fragile financial sector by expanding
the range and outreach of micro-finance services targeted to poor households and especially the rural poor,
including both insurance and micro-credit.
Based on lessons from experience under NPAP, the following strategic choices have been incorporated in
program design:
First, the program is based on the recognition that the livestock sector in Mongolia has played an
extremely important, though under-recognized, role as an economy-wide safety-net throughout the period of
economic transition to date, and that it would continue to do so over the medium- to long-term. The
multiplier effects of livestock production are even wider than its direct contribution of around a third of
GDP suggests, given the importance of non-monetary, inter-household (rural to urban) transfers of
livestock products in assuring domestic food security. Mongolia has been highly successful in maintaining
an environmentally sustainable livestock sector, notwithstanding recent pressures that have led to a decline
in pastoral mobility and a rise in localized congestion, overgrazing, and conflict over pasture. The
national-level legislative and policy framework broadly facilitates and underscores the importance of
pastoral mobility, and includes constitutional protection of pasture land as public land to be held and
managed by communities as common property.
The pastoral risk management component addresses some of the recent pressures directly. However, it is
recognized that the pastoral livestock sector cannot continue directly to support as many herding
households as at present, and that many of the 'new' herders would rather pursue alternative livelihoods if
they had the opportunity to do so. Project design therefore incorporates the strategic choice that support for
livestock-based livelihoods be enhanced through initiatives in risk management; while parallel support for
'exit strategies' and livelihood diversification for those who would prefer to make a living by means other
than pastoral livestock production also be provided, through micro-finance outreach and associated
technical assistance, and support for community-level investments in the infrastructure needed for
private-sector led growth. Other donor-supported programs also aim to contribute to livelihood
diversification through vocational training.
- 12 -



Second, the program addresses both public and private goods aspects of a strategy to achieve secure and
sustainable livelihoods for all. The pastoral risk management component supports the provision of public
goods conducive to creating an environment for private-sector livestock production and associated
processing enterprises, at various levels from small groups of herding households through all levels of
public administration. The micro- finance outreach component aims to increase access by poor and
vulnerable individuals and households to micro-finance services as private goods, but provides public
goods by ensuring adequate outreach in remote rural areas and through the provision of technical assistance
that the private sector would not provide unaided. The Local Initiatives Fund is aimed at providing public
goods in the form of basic infrastructure for suml bag communities through a community-based
prioritization and selection methodology. These activities will not only improve essential services to the
targeted households, but also create an environment conducive to market development and furtler facilitate
the activities of the private sector.
Third, it is recognized that the three main project components - pastoral risk management, micro-finance
outreach and local initiatives flund - while all contributing essential elements to a strategy for promoting
secure and sustainable livelihoods, necessitate somewhat different management/ organizational structures
for their successful implementation. Project management arrangements must reflect this, for example, by
constituting distinct technical steering committees for each component and at different levels of
administration, while also facilitating the intended synergies among project components.
Fourth, the project as originally itdentified foresaw a broad range of pilot initiatives in pursuit of
sustainable livelihoods in a limited area of the country that could be scaled up in the subsequent two phases
of the program. However, Government clearly regards the proposed project/program as a follow-on and in
some respects a continuation of tNPAP, which was a nation-wide program supporting investments in both
rural and peri-urban areas, and was unwilling to be seen to be 'scaling back' its direct, poverty-targeted
interventions. A strategic choice has therefore been made regarding the geographical scope of the project
to continue some of the most successful elements of NPAP nation-wide under the proposed project, with
certain modifications, while also piloting institutional innovations in selected aimags.
Fifth, significant capacity-building activities are an integral feature of program design (see Annex 13 for a
summary). This does not imply large inputs of international consulting services, however. Based on past
experience, Government has expressed a strong desire that local capacity in technical assistance be
strengthened to permit better targeting, better use of development finance, and more sustainable outcomes.
Therefore, many of the technical assistance activities envisaged for project financing would take the form
of local 'action-research' contract3 in order to build on and make effective use of existing local capacity,
and particularly to build on the experience, successes and management capacity of NPAP. While the broad
scope and multi-faceted nature of proposed program activities is warranted in seeking to support secure and
sustainable livelihoods, it also poses risks for implementation arrangements. Most importantly, it will not
be possible to pursue all the proposed capacity-building activities in all project areas at the sarne time.
Strategic choices will be made among project components to determine the most appropriate sequence of
interventions according to prevailing conditions, needs and performance of each selected sum and aimag.
Sixth, exploiting institutional and regional diversity is a hallmark of program design. Program design
must be consistent with local specificities rather than following the traditional "one-size-fits-all" approach.
This also applies to resource allocation and targeting of benefits: rather than distributing resources equally
to sub-national governments and to individual beneficiaries, the project would pilot mechanisms that
provide efficiency incentives to reward better-performing local govemments, communities, and individual
borrowers, while maintaining poverty targeting. Given Mongolia's high regional and ecological diversity,
- 13 -



the weight of emphasis among and within the various components of the project would vary from aimag to
aimag. Pastoral risk management would assume higher priority in areas most prone to dzud risk, while
areas closer to markets offer greater potential for pilot-testing institutional innovations in micro-finance
service delivery. Similarly, the precise character and impact of dzud and other weather-related hazards
varies according to local ecological conditions, and the mix of elements in an appropriate risk management
strategy would therefore differ from region to region (e.g. fodder production/conservation versus
marketing). In short, the project would not attempt to do everything, everywhere, but would use
geographical diversity as an opportunity to learn-by-doing through altemative combinations or sequences
of project interventions.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
Intended end-of-program outcomes for each component are as follows (see also Annex 1 1 for a synopsis
of program vision and approach):
*   A nation-wide pastoral risk management system adapted to the specificities of each aimag would be
in place and functioning well, offering locally relevant options to enable herder households to reduce
their vulnerability to drought, dzud (winter disasters), and other episodic shocks that undermine their
livelihoods;
*   A diverse range of micro-finance services would be available nation-wide on an institutionally and
financially sustainable basis, to enable poor households and individuals to better manage risk, smooth
consumption over tirne, diversify income sources, invest in productive activities, and accumulate
livelihood assets;
*   A Local Initiatives Fund (LIF) would be in place and functioning well throughout the country to
facilitate community-level prioritization, selection, co-financing, execution, and maintenance of
investments in basic infrastructure and social services. This LIF would have been fully integrated into
the government budget; a needs-driven system of inter-governnental transfers would be in place that
gives local government and targeted communities more discretion over capital expenditure; and a high
level of fiscal decentralization would have been achieved; and
*   The decision-making processes and structures developed during the execution of the program would
have been refined, consolidated and integrated into the regular functioning of local and central
government, and the policy/legislative framework would provide an effective enabling environment for
sustainable livelihood programs.
For the program as a whole, agreed performance triggers between phases are summarized below (see
attachment to Annex I for detailed phasing and triggers by each component). Performnance triggers would
be assessed well in advance of the end of each phase of the program (successive IDA credits), prior to the
appraisal of the subsequent phase.
Triggers from Phase I to Phase I:
*   legal and regulatory basis established, in the form of appropriate legislative and policy reforms at
national and sub-national levels, for pastoral risk management, fiscal decentralization, and
micro-finance sectoral development;
*   project management framework has demonstrated institutional and financial sustainability (e.g.
physical targets met, demonstrated financial management capacity achieved, LIF sub-project
identification in the hands of communities, effective system for participatory monitoring and evaluation
in place and functioning); and
- 14 -



*   substantial irnprovement of output indicators (e.g. increased coverage of micro-finance services, higher
proportion of small infrastructure construction identified, built and maintained by community); and
evidence, in pilot sums, of substantial improvement in outcome indicators.
Experience under NPAP suggests that it would be important not to require unduly onerous national-level
policy or legislative reforms as triggers for Phase II, since this may preclude the option of continuing
support for local-level initiatives even in the absence of national reforms. Progress towards fiscal
decentralization, however, is likely to be critical to program success, and should be regarded as a 'killer'
trigger for moving to Phase II.
Triggers from Phase II to Phase III:
*   institutional innovations with demonstrated success would have been introduced nation-wide;
*   legislative and policy reforms adopted and implemented (e.g. attainment of targets for transparent,
formula-driven fiscal transfers to local government and communities, revenue-sharing between local
government and communities); and
*   program evaluated and issues to be addressed have been identified.
Further conditions would be investigated in detail and agreed during preparation of Phase II.
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Pastoral Risk Management: an integrated strategy developed, piloted, and adopted in eight selected
aimags for managing covariant risk in pastoral livestock production, with a primary emphasis on risk
preparedness. In combination wvith other project components (particularly the index-based livestock
insurance scheme under the MFO component, promotion of 'exit strategies' for new herders through access
to micro-finance, and demand- driven support for public goods in agriculture through the LIF), this
component aims to reduce the vulnerability of herders and enhance their resilience to drought, dzud and
other shocks through four sub-components: (i) risk forecastine and contingeency planninz,e improving
coverage of weather forecasting data, broadening the range of data used in semi-annual early warning
system bulletins and enhancing their dissemination to local authorities and herders, and development of sum
-level contingency plans; (ii) grazing and pasture management. supporting community-based pasture
management, including mapping and re-instituting seasonal pasture rotation (including specific actions in
cases of non-compliance), provisions for negotiating access with other herding communities during times of
drought or dzud, and mechanisms for conflict resolution; rehabilitation of emergency grazing reserves at
inter-aimag and inter-sum levels; and group-based well rehabilitation in areas of high quality yet currently
under-utilized pasture; (iii) herder self-help initiatives organizational strengthening with time-bound,
matching loans to assist groups in establishing revolving funds for livestock productivity-enhancing
investments such as breeding and veterinary services, fodder purchase and/or production, livestock product
marketing; and (iv) hay and fodder enterprise development, testing business models for hay-making and
feed concentrate production up der alternative technological and market-demand conditions. Implementation
would begin in 16 pilot sums in the first year of the project, expanding to all 143 sums in the eight core
aimags by the end of project, with the relative emphasis among sub-components and activities varying
according to ecological and market-access conditions.
- 15 -



Micro-Finance Outreach: the outreach of financially and institutionally sustainable micro-finance services
to targeted poor and vulnerable non-poor households and individuals achieved in remote rural areas of the
eight core aimags. This objective would be met through three sub-components:
(A) Creation of a Micro-Finance Development Fund (MDF, the Fund) as a wholesale lending facility to
accredited Micro-Finance Institutions (MFIs) for on-lending to the target population (through sub-loans),
with the aim of expanding and diversifying livelihood sources and rural incomes. The day-to-day
management and operation of the MDF would be carried out by the Micro-Finance Management Office
(MMO, the Management Office), to be established within the Bank of Mongolia (BoM, the Borrower's
Central Bank), in accordance with a Micro-Finance Operational Manual (the Operational Manual)
acceptable to IDA. This MMO would be supervised by a Micro-Finance Development Board (MDB, the
Board), which would review the operation of the Fund, the credit activities (subsidiary loans and
sub-loans), and the strategic decisions on policy matters. The Board would comprise representatives of the
GoM (MoFE, BoM, HLSPO), the private sector (Mongolian Banking Association, commercial banks and
micro-finance institutions), and academia. Proceeds accrued from the repayment of the subsidiary loans by
the MFIs would be maintained in the MDF for re-lending for the same purposes and under the same terns
and conditions as those under the original IDA credit. The sub-component would also include substantial
technical assistance resources to promote the strengthening of the MFIs and to support the development of
the microfinance industry in Mongolia, including: (i) to help selected MFIs prepare and implement adequate
business plans; (ii) to identify (through market research) and develop new micro-finance products tailored
to local demand and market conditions; and (iii) to develop the legal and regulatory framework required for
the efficient operation of non-banking financial institutions (NBFIs) as sustainable micro-finance
institutions. As conditions for the disbursement of IDA funds allocated to this sub-component for the
micro-finance sub-loans (Category 5, for a total equivalent to about US$3 million), the Borrower
would: (a) establish a MIS adequate to monitor micro-finance portfolio quality (in accordance with
CGAP guidelines); (b) adopt an Operational Manual acceptable to IDA for the implementation of the
sub-component; (c) establish and maintain during project implementation the Micro-Finance
Development Fund (including the Board and the Management Office) under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA; and (d) accredit MFIs and sign Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLAs) for the
disbursement of subsidiary loans, in compliance with the accreditation criteria and the terms and
conditions set forth in the Operational Manual.
(B) Strenathening of Revolving Loan Funds (RLFs) so as to improve the operational performance and
financial health of the existing, local government-owned and -operated micro-credit RLFs that were created
at the sum level under NPAP. The process of strengthening these RLFs would include: (i) review of their
govemance and management arrangements; (ii) collection and analysis of information on current operations
and on-lending arrangements, quality of loan portfolio, and financial statements; (iii) selection of
best-performing RLFs, which have the best chances of achieving financial sustainability; (iv) design of
business plans for the selected RLFs to help them improve their efficiency; (v) provision of financial
resources to help selected RLFs approve new sub-loans to project beneficiaries, in accordance with their
business plans, and contributing to improve their portfolio quality and their financial situation; and (vi)
eventual privatization of the best-performing RLFs. As conditions for the disbursement of IDA funds
allocated to the provision of sub-loans by the selected RLFs (Category 6, for a total equivalent to
around US$ 500,000), the Borrower would: (a) establish a MIS adequate to monitor micro-finance
portfolio quality (in accordance with CGAP guidelines); and (b) prepare a detailed Action Plan for
the use of these funds, acceptable to IDA, with the objective of strengthening the selected RLFs. This
- 16 -



Plan would include the institutional arrangements and responsibilities, the on-lending terms and conditions,
the criteria for the selection of RLFs eligible to receive new funds for sub-loans, the purposes and uses of
the sub-loans, as well as the steps to be taken towards the eventual privatization of these RLFs.
(C) Development of an index-based livestock insurance scheme. A risk index would be developed during
the first year of the project with technical assistance support, on the basis of which eligible, participating
private insurance companies would offer livestock insurance to individual herders, herding households, or
other juridical persons owning livestock to cover covariant risk arising from dzud, drought, or other
weather-related events. The index, based on objective, third-party verifiable indicators such as weather
data, livestock mortality rates, atid/or indices of range vegetation condition, would differentiate relative risk
at an appropriate level (most likely at sum level) based on historical data. Indemnities under the scheme
would be triggered once the index exceeded a given threshold level specific to that sum. Insurance cover
would be for productive activities including: the replacement value of livestock; the value of goods or
services to support risk preparedness and/or enhance livestock productivity, such as hay and fodder
production or purchase, acquisilion of veterinary drugs and services, construction of livestock< shelters, and
breeding services; and/or the vaLue of goods and services to allow policy-holders to engage in altemative or
supplementary livelihood strategies. Payments to participating insurance companies, on claims paid to
policy-holders against covered iisks and for such productive activities, would be made when the aggregated
amount of these claims exceeds the agreed level of liability of the insurance company, as specified in a
stop-loss agreement between the Government and the participating insurance company. The project would
also finance training workshops for participating insurance companies and public officials involved, and a
nationwide information campaign to publicize the scheme and attract policy-holders. The scheme would be
launched during the second year of the project, and would be expected to become profitable by the end of
the project. The role of Goverrnent during the start-up phase of the scheme (project years 2 to 4), would
be to assume liability beyond the level agreed with participating insurance companies by undertaking to
finance the stop-loss payments :from the proceeds of the IDA credit. This stop-loss provision would take the
place of intemational reinsurance, which would be unlikely to be attracted until commercial viability of the
scheme could be demonstrated. Conditions of disbursement of IDA funds to finance the stop-loss
amounts (Category 7, for a total equivalent to US$ 1,000,000) would be the provision of evidence to
IDA that the index-based livestock insurance scheme has been established, that stop-loss agreements
have been concluded between Government and any participating insurance company, that insurance
policies have been issued, thal one of the covered risks has occurred, and that claims under these
policies have been filed. Under Phase II of the Program, the index-based insurance scheme would be
expected to operate in a financially and institutionally sustainable manner, without the need for a
Government-financed stop-loss provision. Insurance companies offering index-based livestock insurance
would then be expected to seek international reinsurance.
Local Initiatives Fund: efficient, socially inclusive, and transparent community-driven mechanisms
identified and established to fac.ilitate community prioritization, selection, co-financing, and execution of
investments in basic infrastructure and social services provision in rural and peri-urban areas, combining
local resource mobilization with government grants based on clear and transparent criteria for
inter-governmental budget transfers. The project would target all members of sum and bag communities in
the core aimags. Principal effoit will be placed in establishing effective mechanisms by which all members
of these target communities can come together to identify their key infrastructure development needs and
prioritize them for potential sub-project financing. Sub-projects would be selected from an open menu, with
a negative list that would preclude, for example, investment for private goods, in environrnentally damaging
activities, and for religious purposes. Financial ceilings have been established to guide the initial allocation
of these resources to all participating sums. Subsequent annual allocations would be made based on criteria
- 17 -



such as overall sub-project implementation performance, financial management, and poverty levels. Three
sub-components would deliver this output: (i) there will be two separate investment funds: the Local
Initiatives Fund (LIF), a new facility that would be piloted in the eight core aimags and one pilot duureg
(pefi-urban district of Ulaanbaatar) that will provide for decentralized sub-project approval at the sum/bag
-level ($8,000 ceiling per sum; $15,000 ceiling in the pilot duureg); and, in modified form, the Local
Development Fund (LDF) which was initiated nationwide under NPAP, in the 13 other aimags and 8 other
duuregs in the country where sub-project decision making could remain at the aimag-level ($4,000 ceiling
per sum; $15,000 ceiling per duureg); (ii) training and capacity-building activities, focusing primarily on
the sum and bag levels in the eight core aimags, for orientation, skills development in administration and
management (including community-based procurement and disbursement), study tours and exchanges,
refresher training, and the development of training materials; and (iii) a fiscal decentralization initiative,
comprising a three-year action-research program to explore operational modalities for a needs-driven
approach to public expenditure allocation at the local level. Implementation of the LIF would begin in the
16 pilot sums in the first year of the project, expanding to cover all 143 sums in the eight core aimags by
the end of project.
Project Management and Policy Support: an efficient, decentralized, and capacity building-oriented
project management system operational and policy framework for promoting sustainable livelihoods
improved. The project would not support new or additional project management arrangements at central,
aimag, or sum/duureg levels. Rather, in order fully to capitalize on the experience and skills developed
under NPAP, the project would make use of and build on existing program management structure for
project implementation. Strengthening existing institutional capacity would be the main priority. Under the
technical and policy guidance of the three Working Groups for each of the above three components, and
ultimately reporting to the National Committee on the Household Livelihoods Capacity Support Program
(NCHLCSP), the Household Livelihoods Support Program Office (HLSPO) would have overall
responsibility for project implementation and coordination. Local governments and community groups
would carry the main responsibility for executing the project through the aimag and sum Household
Livelihoods Support Councils (HLSCs). Under this component, the project would finance: (i) the
operational costs associated with the HLSPO, including vehicles, equipment, recurrent costs, and
incremental staff hired as long-term consultants on fixed-term contracts at central, aimag and sum levels;
(ii) technical assistance to develop institutional capacity to generate inputs for policy and legislative
reforms; (iii) information dissemination and communications; (iv) project orientation workshops and
training; (vi) monitoring and evaluation; and (vii) auditing.
Indicative            Bank-       % of
Component                   Sector        Costs     % of    -financing.  Baik-
(US$M):   Total      (USAM)   financing
Pastoral Risk Management         Livestock              5.70     25.8       4.13      22.1
Micro-Finance Outreach           Other Finance         6.01      27.2       5.00      26.7
Local Initiatives Fund           Community Action      9.16      41.4       8.52      45.5
Program
Management and Policy Support    Institutional          1.25       5.7      1.08       5.8
Development
Total Project Costs                  22.12      100.0     18.73     100.0
Total Financing Required                    22.12     100.0      18.73     100.0
- 18 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Policy and institutional reforms in four principal areas are relevant to the proposed project: fiscal
decentralization, livestock insurance, land law, and micro-finance regulation.
Little progress has so far been rnade by Governnent on the issue of fiscal decentralization. The proposed
Public Sector Finance and Management Law would initiate certain related reforms concerning the
accountability of public instituti ons including sub-national governments, inter-governmental transfers, and
civil service reform. MoFE is the lead Government agency in this regard. The project would support
MoFE's efforts to explore and pilot-test through an 'action-research' approach in the latter two years of the
project, options for fiscal decentralization in relation to inter-governmental transfers; and transparency,
accountability, and priority-setting in co-financing of public infrastructure activities with targeted
communities. The pilot initiatives would test different strategies and administrative modalities for the
progressive transfer of control (over local capital expenditure from central to local governments. It is
envisaged that promising optiors be implemented on a wider scale under Phase II of the program, and be
further refined and deepened under Phase III. A possible trigger for each phase would be an agreed action
plan for scaling-up these fiscal decentralization pilots on an operational scale.
GoM has been developing a lawr to make livestock insurance compulsory, in response to the catastrophic
dzud losses of 1999-2001. An earlier draft was rejected by Ikh Khural (national parliament) in spring
2001, and the Government worling group (made up of senior staff of MoFE and MoFA) is seeking
assistance through the project in developing a feasible approach to livestock insurance under local
conditions. The feasibility of the conventional approach to livestock insurance, which attempts to indemnify
animal losses at the individual household level, has been seriously questioned by international insurance
specialists. It is unlikely to be financially profitable or sustainable; it promotes the wrong incentives in
livestock management ('moral hazard'); it would incur high costs in loss adjustment (verifying
household-level losses); and it is highly unlikely to attract international reinsurance for these reasons. GoM
would therefore risk incurring high costs to the public budget in bailing out insurance companies under the
currently proposed law, and its likely failure could undermine public confidence in future efforts to develop
even well-founded insurance schemes. On the basis of a feasibility study conducted as part of project
preparation, it is proposed under the project to develop and implement an alternative, index-based approach
to livestock insurance, using weather data, indicators of range vegetation condition, and/or livestock
mortality data as the basis for a locally varying index. Insurance payments would be made to all holders of
insurance certificates in a given area once a given threshold is triggered in the relevant index. Under this
alternative approach, herders would face strong incentives to take management actions to prepare for risk
events and to reduce their expected losses (i.e. the moral hazard problem is significantly reduced or
eliminated).
Significant amendments to the 1994 land law are due for debate in the spring 2002 session of Ikh Khural.
In part influenced by Bank-supported analytical and advisory work on land-reform options during 2000,
many of the proposed reforms concern an expansion of the ways in 'possession' rights over certain types of
land (chiefly urban and arable) may be transferred, including transfer by sale which would open up a free
land market in Mongolia for the first time. For a variety of reasons, it is not thought appropriate for pasture
land to be subject to transferable possession rights, although this is currently under debate. It, may be
appropriate, however, for groups of herders to hold non-transferable possession rights over pasture land in
order to enhance their security of tenure and prospects for sustainable management, subject to resolving
questions of group size, corporate identity, and membership; and negotiation of reciprocal rights of access
by other groups during times ol drought or dzud. Recognizing that the current law provides, in principle, a
supportive framework for such operational experiments, the project will support approaches to
- 19-



community-based pasture land tenure and management under the pastoral risk management component, and
will support required policy reforms. As recent work suggests, however, improving consistency and
transparency in implementation of the land law are more important than new legislation. The project will
support certain institutional refornms in this direction, including promoting public access to information
concerning land law implementation, the preparation of manuals and implementation guidelines for use by
local governors, and mechanisms to resolve disputes over pasture land tenure.
The fourth area for institutional development and policy reform to be supported under the project concerns
the legal and regulatory framework for non-banking financial institutions (NBFIs). Under the existing
legislation, NBFIs are not regulated by the BoM and cannot receive financial assistance from it. However,
the parliament is currently considering legislation to regulate the NBFIs. The aspects of most concem to the
project and the micro-finance outreach component are the NBFIs' ability to operate effectively as MFIs and
their ability to promote savings mobilization. The project would provide technical assistance to support the
adoption of a legal and regulatory framework, as well as the adequate prudential requirements, that would
allow NBFIs to take client deposits and to offer diversified financial products, thus becoming viable and
financially sustainable intermediaries providing an important service for the target population under the
project.
3. Benefits and target population:
Target Population
The program targets the "able-bodied poor" and "low-income households near the poverty line who are at
risk of falling into poverty as a consequence of external shocks." The forner category - "able bodied
poor" - corresponds roughly to the total households below the poverty line minus those who are unable to
respond to livelihood-based opportunities because they are either elderly, or physically or mentally unable
to become self-supporting. The elderly and disabled are provided with material and financial assistance
from the State as stipulated by the Constitution of Mongolia (Article 13, sub-article 5). The latter category
"low-income, vulnerable non-poor" corresponds roughly to the 28% of the population whose per capita
consumption is between the poverty line and 1.5 times the poverty line. The share of the population in the
latter category is relatively large because income distribution is rather flat and there are a large number of
households at or near the poverty line. Hence, in Mongolia, the total number and proportion of poor is
particularly sensitive to the placement of the poverty line; a small increase in the poverty line could lead to
a large increase in numbers and percentage of poor. In fact, if a less conservative yardstick of poverty were
used (such as US$1 per capita per day), the low-income non-poor would qualify as poor.
The eight core aimags have a total population of around 155,000 households or 650,000 people, living in
an area of 740,000 sq. km. with an average density of one person per sq. km. Together they account for
47% of Mongolia's land area, 27% of its population, and 45% of its rural population. Some 72% of the
total population is rural, ranging from a high of 84% in Ovorkhangai and Tov to a low of 45% in Domod.
Average household size is 4.3 persons. Other major characteristics of the eight core aimags are
summarized in the following table:
- 20 -



Parameter     Bayan    tfvs    Bayan     Ovor      Omno     Dund      Tov     Dornod
Olgi    _       khongor   khangal   gov'      gov'
Region             West    W'est    West     Center   Center    Center   Center   East
AEZ                Altai   Altai    Altai   Khangai   Desert    Steppe   Steppe   Steppe
Mean annual       115mm   138imm   199mm     245mm    127mm     173mm    273mm    248mm
precipitation
July temperature  16.3 oC  19.0 oc  18.3oC   15.3oC   21.IoC    23 oC    15.6oC   19.8 oc
Jan temperature  -17.2 oC  -32,3 oC  -16.2 oC  -14.7 oC  -14.9 oC  -26 oC  -20.4 oC  -20.5oC
Dzud risk category  H       \        M         H        H         H        M        L
Poverty incidence  3rd     (-th      8th      9th      18th      22nd     20th     5th
Poverty headcount  7th      'th     10th      4th      19th      20th     13th     9th
Market accessibility  Poor  Paor    Poor    Moderate   Poor    Moderate   Good   Moderate
Herder % of all HHs  48%   53%      79%       72%      59%       67%      42%      28%
Ethnicity         Kazakh  Turkic   Khalkh    Khalkh I Khalkh    Khalkh   Khalkh   Burya
Of the total Mongolian population of 550,000 households, the target population (able-bodied poor)
comprise around 120,000 households. In addition there are some 150,000 low-income/ vulnerable non-poor
households, making up a national target population of 270,000 households (1.3 million people). In the eighL
core aimags, the project's target population comprises around 80,000 able-bodied poor and vulnerable
low-income households near the poverty line (355,000 people).
Although the priority target groups are the able-bodied poor and the low-income, vulnerable non-poor, this
does not mean that the project would benefit these groups alone. The LIF component needs to work with
the entire community (including the non-poor and the non-able bodied poor) to identify local priorities and
to mobilize the 10% local contribution in cash and kind, and the pastoral risk management component
needs to work with the entire hercler community because the non-poor own the majority of animals.
Moreover, in selecting community-based schemes for LIF financing, priority would be given to projects
having the broadest possible benefits to the poor. Likewise the PRM component would ensure that herder
groups include the poor and that their grazing rights are safeguarded.
One distinct target-group, falling within the overall categories of 'able-bodied poor' and 'low-income,
vulnerable non-poor', are the 'newcomers' to herding. This group, most of whom lost public sector jobs
following decollectivization and the restructuring or closure of other state-owned enterprises, typically
acquired animals under privatization and took up livestock production in the absence of alternative
livelihood opportunities. The number of herding households in the country more than doubled between
1990 and 2000 from 74,710 to 191,526. Compared with those who had been herding livestock prior to
1990, many of the newcomers tended to be younger, less skilled and experienced in herding, more
urban-oriented, less well connected with other herders and often excluded from gaining secure access to
winter-spring grazing and, as a result of these factors, less likely to move base camp as often as would be
required for sustainable pasture land management. Many of them would also much rather pursue a
livelihood through some means other than livestock production, if they had the opportunity to do so. The
project aims explicitly to offer this group an 'exit strategy' from livestock production, primarily through
access to micro-finance services that would assist in substituting alternative assets and income sources for
livestock.
Beneflciaries
Under the LIF component, all surns and khoroos in the country are expected to benefit from sum-level
infiastructure projects, as occurred under NPAP, since they would benefit from funding from either LIF or
LDF. Therefore, the entire Mongolian population (550,000 households) would benefit, of which
- 21 -



approximately 60% are poor or near poor. In addition, an estimated 70,000 households in the core aimags
(50% of the total population) would benefit from the LIF.
Pastoral risk management activities at national level such as improved drought and dzud forecasting and
contingency planning would potentially benefit all herder households in the country (190,000 households of
which 86,000 in the core aimags). Pilot activities in the eight core aimags are expected to build up
gradually from 16 to 143 sums with a target population of around 50,000 herding households. Around
5,000-8,000 herding households would benefit directly from activities supported through herder self-help
groups.
Under the micro-finance outreach component, RLF strengthening would benefit an estimated 18,000 clients
(12,000 existing clients plus 6,000 new borrowers). The number of clients (sub-borrowers) of the selected
MFIs that would receive loans from the MDF in the eight core aimags are estimated to be around 10,000
households. Total direct beneficiaries (excluding double-counting) are expected to be around
20,000-25,000 households.
Benefits
The principal benefits of supporting pastoral risk management would be reduction in dzud-related animal
losses (both adult and newborn animals). The project is expected to reduce losses in pilot sums of core
aimags by 33% by comparison with the start of the project and/or non-project sums in similar ecological
zones. No assumptions have been made about improvement in other parameters such as age at first
parturition, calving/kidding rates, and milk production per lactation, off-take of live animals or wool or
cashmere production. Herd models illustrating typical build-up of animal numbers have not been prepared
because of their limited applicability to situations in which there are wide and unpredictable annual changes
in productivity parameters as a result of the presence/absence and sequencing of drought and dzud.
The main benefit from micro-finance outreach would be increased availability of financial resources to
members of poor communities for income generation and asset/ wealth creation. The household-level
benefits would be a fall in unemployment and an increase in the number of micro-enterprises in the
communities with access to micro-finance. Institutionally, there would be an increase in the number of
self-reliant RLFs, successful independent MFIs, and a proliferation of a new range of poverty tailored
micro-finance products and services available to poor households. The increased availability of
micro-finance products tailored to the needs of poorer and vulnerable groups would also facilitate an 'exit
strategy' for the many new herding households who would prefer to pursue alternative, less risky
livelihoods, and would thereby help to improve the prospects both for livelihood security and sustainability
for this specific group, as well as for sustainability of livestock production and pasture land management
within the extensive livestock sector as a whole. It is unlikely that the livestock sector could continue to
support the number of herding households that it currently supports, even with the measures to restore
levels of pastoral mobility and pastoral livelihood security envisaged under the pastoral risk management
component.
The main benefits from the Local Initiatives Fund, and continuation of the existing LDF, would be
improved access of rural and peri-urban households to basic infrastructure as well as greater availability of
financial resources to local government - specifically sums and duuregs - for rural and peri-urban
infrastructure that responds to the needs and priorities of poor communities. Specific benefits include: (a) a
new community-responsive and local govermment-managed funding mechanism (LIF), piloted and extended
to sumsl duuregs in about one third of the country; (b) funding for the LDF made available to allow it to
continue to provide funding nationwide for sum-level projects; (c) capacity at bag, sum, aimag and central
- 22 -



level for managing such funding imechanisms increased and the associated operating procedures developed,
piloted and mainstreamed; and (e) the advantages, disadvantages and repercussions of bringing the LIF into
the regular government budgetarv process, and with it allocating to the sums/duuregs financial resources
over which they have discretionaiy powers, would be ascertained and an action plan developed for how to
manage such a process in the Ph,se II of the program.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
A number of principles have guided the design of institutional and implementation arrangements for the
project: (a) work within the existing government structure and institutions; (b) build upon the capacity
already created under NPAP; (c) recognize that creating capacity takes time and is not uniformn, therefore
build flexibility into the phasing-in of project activities; (d) keep initial procedures and processes simple so
that the project can innovate and test new approaches for broader adoption in later stages; (e) establish the
management structure in a step-wise fashion, allowing time to test and refine procedures and develop the
necessary training material and train trainers before expanding to other areas; (f) use the sum (district) as
the primary focus for most project decision-making and implementation; and (g) create a transparent set of
procedures that facilitates participation by communities, and the poor and vulnerable households within
those communities, so that priorilization and uptake of project activities is driven by them. The institutional
structure for program/ project oversight, coordination, capacity building and implementation is further
articulated in Annex 13 and in the form of organograms in Annex 15.
Institutional Structures: Overall, project oversight will be provided through the National Coinmittee for
the Household Livelihood Capacity Support Program (NCHLCSP). This body supersedes NPAC, which
performed the same function for ihe NPAP. It includes senior representation from all the relevant ministries
(including Finance and Economy (MoFE), Food and Agriculture (MoFA), Social Welfare and Labor
(MoSWL), Infirastructure (Mol), Health (MoH), Education (MoSTEC), and Nature and Environment
(MoNE)); and representative civil society institutions.
Coordination of project implementation at the central/ national level will be the responsibility of the
Household Livelihoods Support jOrogram Office (HLSPO). This office supersedes PAPO, which served as
the program implementation unit for NPAP, and will implement project activities under the guidance of the
NCHLCSP. Incremental staff (as long-term consultants on fixed-term contracts), office equipment, and a
small number of vehicles would be financed from the proceeds of the Credit for the four year duration of
the project. Some of the key staff proposed for the HLSPO also held key positions in PAPO and are
already familiar both with the lessons from NPAP experience and with the relevant World Bank policies
and procedures concerning procurement, disbursement, and reporting. The HLSPO has two divisions: (1) a
program implementation division with a full-time coordinator for each of the three main project components
(pastoral risk management, micro-finance outreach, and the LIF/LDF) and an officer responsible for
ensuring coordination among these components; and (2) a division responsible for the fiduciary aspects of
project management, including: (a) financial management; (b) procurement; (c) monitoring and evaluation;
(d) information dissemination, training coordination, and public relations; (e) donor coordination; and (f)
overall project planning and budgeting. HLSPO would be responsible for procurement of all goods to be
centrally procured, all works subject to NCB (rehabilitation of two irrigation schemes under the PRM
component), and all consultant contracting.
For each of the three main components, technical Working Groups at national-level will provide technical
guidance and oversight, and would ensure consistency with sectoral policies. The PRM Working Group is
led by MoFA and includes members from MoNE and civil society. The LIF Working Group is led by
MoFE and includes representation from all the ministries listed above plus civil society. The MFO 'working
- 23 -



group' is the Board of the MDF. Two HLSPO staff members participate in the Working Groups as
ex-officio members; each component coordinator serves as the secretary of their respective working group.
Execution of program/project activities at the aimag, sum and duureg levels will primarily be the
responsibility of sub-national (aimag) and local (sum, duureg) governments. The existing Poverty
Alleviation Councils (PACs) at each of these levels, which served as inter-departmental steering
committees for program implementation under NPAP, will continue to perform the same function under the
proposed program/project, under the new name Household Livelihoods Support Councils (HLSCs). Their
membership will also be broadened as appropriate, notably to ensure greater involvement of the agriculture
and environment-related technical staff whose involvement is key to successful implementation of at least
the PRM component. HLSCs in the 143 sums of the eight core aimags selected for pilot activities would be
considerably strengthened. At aimag level, a technical working group for the PRM component, analogous
to the national-level Working Group, will be constituted from the relevant line departrnents to advise on
detailed work plans and budgets. At bag level and below, civil society community mobilizers will work
with the sum HLSC to facilitate, inter-alia, herder-group formation for self-help initiatives,
community-based pasture management, and well-rehabilitation under the PRM component; and
identification and prioritization of potential sub-projects to be financed under the LIF.
Implementation Arrangements: The PRM and LIF components would begin activities in two
pre-selected, pilot sums in each of the eight core aimags during the first year of the project (a total of 16
sums; see Map 1), and thereafter scale-up to include all 143 sums in the eight core aimags over project
years 2-4. Full implementation in all sums will only begin once the processes and procedures have been
adequately developed, modified and refined, and all staff have been trained (including training trainers)
over the initial 12-month period. The particular activities to be implemented in each sum under the pastoral
risk management component will vary according to local ecological and market-access conditions. The
MFO component would work with sum RLFs in the eight core aimags, progressively expanding the
number covered in line with the capacity to provide training to them. In the non-core aimags and duuregs,
project activities would be very similar to those implemented under the LDF (of NPAP), and the HLSCs
would operate in the same way as did the PACs under NPAP, in all sums and duuregs over the full four
years of the project.
Micro-Finance Development Fund (MDF). The daily management and operation of the MDF (as a
commercial wholesale banking facility) would be the responsibility of the Micro-Finance Management
Office (MMO), to be established within the Bank of Mongolia (BoM), and which will be adequately
budgeted, well-equipped, and staffed with qualified individuals to be able to perform its duties and
responsibilities. The MMO would maintain separate accounts (according to internationally acceptable
accounting practices) for the sub-component (to be audited annually by private auditors), and would
present quarterly progress reports to the HLSPO concerning its operations, as well as the documentation
required to fully support the disbursements from the credit account. MMO would handle day-to-day
operations of the funds in accordance with a Micro-Finance Operational Manual (the Operational Manual)
acceptable to the Bank. The main sections of the Operational Manual include: (i) govemance and
management of the MDF; (ii) eligible sub-projects; (iii) type of financial institutions to be eligible to
participate in the project; (iv) qualifying (accreditation) criteria for MFIs; (v) uses of funds (lending and
sub-lending); (vi) terms and conditions (currency, lending rates, maturity, sub-project financing, collateral,
default, and prepayment) for loans to MFIs and sub-loans to final beneficiaries; and (vii) environmental
protection, audit, supervision and reporting. A draft Operational Manual was reviewed at appraisal and
found to be satisfactory. In order to ensure a full coordination and efficient use of credit resources, MMO's
policies and lending operations would be supervised by a inter-institutional Micro-Finance Development
Board (MDB), to be established with representatives from the Borrower's MoFE (as chair), HLSPO, and
- 24 -



BoM, as well as representatives lrom the private sector (i.e. Mongolian Banking Association, commercial
banks, and MFIs), and academia. The Director of the MMO would serve as Secretary of the Board. As
part of the Project's Mid-Term Review, the Borrower and the Bank agreed to carry out a comprehensive
assessment of the institutional and financial performance of the Micro-Finance Outreach component in
general, and of the MDF in particular. Based on the results of this review, Terms of Reference would be
prepared for a more detailed and in-depth study of the micro-finance sector in Mongolia, with the special
objective of outlining alternative options for the future of the MDF. One of the main options to be explored
would be the privatization of the MDF, where the resources available could be used by the GoM as its
contribution to the equity of a new independent and financially autonomous apex micro-finance institution.
Consequently, these options will have to be discussed in the context of the preparation of the Phase II of
this APL, and the specific actions; to implement the recommendations arising from this privatization study
would be included in the design of this Phase II.
Uses of Funds. The funds under the MDF would be lent to accredited MFIs, according to a pre-agreed
selection criteria, under signed Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLAs) acceptable to IDA. Proceeds accrued
from the repayment of the subsidiary loans by MFIs (including principal, interest and fees) would be used
to establish and maintain MDF as a revolving fund for re-lending for the same purposes and under the same
terms and conditions as those under the proposed IDA Credit. These MFIs would provide mainly
short-term sub-loans to project beneficiaries in the target areas (individual households, micro-enterprises,
and juridical persons) to finance working capital for their viable initiatives. If needed, medium-terms loans
(up to three years) to finance small capital investment would also be granted. Sub-loans under this
sub-component are estimated to average the equivalent of US$400 for individual households and US$ 1,000
for micro-enterprises (employing at least two persons outside the immediate family members). IDA
financing under the subsidiary loans to MFIs would not exceed the equivalent of US$1 million for any
individual MFI during the period of implementation, or such revised ceiling as specified, with IDA's prior
concurrence, in the Operational Manual.
On-lending Arran-ements. The proceeds of the IDA credit allocated to this sub-component (Category 5,
amounting to around $3 million) would be made available directly from the Special Account to support
sub-loans approved by accredited MFIs. The Project's HLSPO would disburse and transfer (in local
currency), through MDF, the amounts required to cover those sub-loans approved, in accordance to the
terms of the subsidiary loan agreements (SLAs) signed with accredited MFIs. The subsidiary loan
agreements to MFIs will be provided under lending terms to be adjusted periodically according to criteria
that fully reflect market interest rites. The lending variable rate of interest will be adjusted monthly and
intended to be equal to the adjusted cost of medium-term deposits in the local market to avoid introducing
distortions in the local market or discouraging the mobilization of savings by the financial intermediaries.
A market-based indicator, reflecting the actual cost of loanable funds in the banking system, to be used as a
reference for setting and adjusting these interest rates would be agreed upon, as indicated in the Operational
Manual, in a manner acceptable tD IDA. The Borrower would assume the full foreign exchange risk and
the interest rates on the loans to MFIs would cover this foreign exchange risk, as well as all administrative
costs incurred in the establishment and operation of the MMO, and the credit risk associated with the
subsidiary loans to MFIs. The on-lending terms from MFIs to final sub-borrowers (on the sub-loans) would
be determined freely by the MFIs, according to market forces and their assessment of the associated credit
risks and adequate margins. These rates should be sufficient to cover the cost of funds and their operating
expenses, as well as provisions fcr possible loan losses and adequate level of profits, to allow for further
lending expansion to the target population without undermining their prudent equity to risk asset ratio. The
Borrower, through MDF/MMO, would exchange views and discuss possible adjustments with IDA on: (i)
- 25 -



the interest rates on subsidiary loans to participating MFIs; and (ii) on the level of interest rates charged by
MFIs on sub-loans to final sub-borrowers. This would be done twice a year, not later than March 31 and
September 30 each year, commencing on March 31, 2003.
Project Implementation Manual (PIM). Detailed implementation guidelines for all aspects of the project
are provided in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM). This includes separate sections dealing with:
pastoral risk management, local initiatives fund, local development fund, micro-finance operational manual,
revolving loan funds, enviromnental management plan, resettlement policy framework, ethnic minorities
participation framework, financial management and reporting (including format of FMRs as an appendix),
procurement (including sample documents as appendices), and monitoring and evaluation. It is a condition
of effectiveness that the PIM has been finalized and adopted in a form acceptable to IDA, and that
staff of the ELSPO and of the HLSCs in all aimags and duuregs, and in the 16 sums selected to
participate in the project for the first year of activities, have completed a training course satisfactory
to IDA on the provisions of the PIM.
Monitoring & Evaluation. The monitoring, evaluation and reporting system for the project will comprise
performance and impact monitoring and evaluation, building on the participatory techniques developed and
used under NPAP. It will continue to rely on a combination of project staff and contracted specialists from
NGOs/research institutions for its execution. A Planning/M&E Officer within the HLSPO will be charged
with overseeing the M&E system, consolidating the reports from the three components, and compiling
information on management and policy support activities. S/he will be responsible for providing project
management with timely and regular information on performance and impact. The majority of the inputs
for the project's M&E system will come from M&E systems of the three components. Each component will
rely on the aimag and sum HLSCs to carry out day-to-day monitoring of component activities, with the
aimag HLSCs carrying prime responsibility for component evaluation. The backbone of the system will be
a newly developed MIS. The more interactive, qualitative methods, incorporating bag-level working groups
and the use of community scorecards, will be combined with the compilation of formal information geared
to component performance and achievement of targets as specified in annual work programs and budgets.
The range and periodicity of monitoring and evaluation reports to be provided to IDA shall include (see
also Annex 1): (i) quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), including updates of physical progress
as measured using output indicators; (ii) semi-annual progress reports, on or about July 31 and January 31
each year, beginning on January 31, 2003, describing progress towards meeting the project's objectives
during the preceding calendar semester as measured using output indicators, and incorporating the
respective FMR for the preceding calendar quarter; (iii) annual performance monitoring reports, on or
about July 31 each year, commencing in 2003, on progress towards meeting the project's objectives based
on outcome and impact indicators during the preceding calendar year; (iv) a comprehensive evaluation
report as an input to the Mid-Term Review (MTR), on or about July 31, 2004, in respect of the period June
30, 2002 to June 30, 2004, based on outcome and impact indicators; and (v) a project completion report
not later than six months prior to Credit closing. A baseline survey shall be conducted by no later than
March 31, 2003, in order to provide benchmarks against which project progress can be assessed, for all
agreed performance indicators not readily available from secondary sources.
Financial Management: To the maximum extent possible, financial management of the project would
rest with the sum-level HLSC coordinators/secretaries, with the aimag level providing financial oversight
and supervision. Overall responsibility would rest with the HLSPO, which would ensure an adequate flow
of funds to each component, supervise the financial management of the central and sub-national project
management units, and be responsible for consolidating financial reports, audits and reporting to GoM
- 26 -



(NCHLCSP) and the World Bank. The most demanding element of the financial management system would
be the implementation the LIEF and the processes involved in reviewing, screening, verifying, and approving
sub-projects. The cornerstone oi'the system would be an annual funding ceiling allocated to each sum.
Within this ceiling, the sums (arnd the pilot duureg) would identify and submit sub-projects for financing.
The initial amount of the funding ceiling would be based on the population of the sum. In subsequent years,
the ceiling would be adjusted according to a formula reflecting agreed performance criteria.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Project alternatives considered ijaclude: alternative lending instruments, alternative componenis, alternative
geographic scope, alternative design features, and alternative implementation arrangements.
Alternative Lending Instrumenats: The two alternative lending instruments considered for the proposed
project were: an Adaptable Program Loan (APL), with triggers to move to subsequent phases; and a
Specific Investment Loan (SIL). The choice of an APL was made based on the strong rationale for the
proposed long-term, phased approach to institutional innovation, capacity building, and decentralization,
with a long-term vision underpinming the program approach (this is summarized in Annex 11, along with
the Government's Letter of Development Program). The program calls for flexibility in implernentation, for
which an APL is well suited. Triggers for the subsequent phases of the APL would give a strong incentive
to the government in moving reforms forward. Many of the components also have a strong 'learning by
doing' character, for which an APL is particularly apt. Participatory monitoring and evaluation would be
an important design feature in all components. It was also important to signal to Government that the Bank
would be prepared to make a long-term commitment to supporting the proposed program, consistent with
the CAS and in the wider context of the PRSP.
The alternative lending instrument considered was a SIL. There are several reasons why a SIL might be
thought more desirable, on grounds of limited Borrower capacity: (i) limited capacity within the public
sector; (ii) problematic current administrative and fiscal relations between central and local governments,
which present complications in identifying clear lines of accountability; and (iii) the complexily arising
from combining vertical deepening and horizontal expansion aspects in an APL approach. While the
demands on the Borrower may be lower with a SIL, this alternative lending instrument was rejected on the
grounds that strengthening of borrower capacity is itself a necessary and explicit aimn, within a long-term
and phased program of institutional innovation.
Alternative Project Components: The proposed project needed to address major constraints on the
achievement of secure and sustainable livelihoods in Mongolia while not duplicating efforts being
supported by other donors and rmultilateral agencies (see Annex 12 for a sunmmary of relevant
donor-supported activities). There is also a need to have a'degree of synergy between the proposed
components, so that the contribution of the project was more than simply the sum of its parts. Several areas
of possible intervention were ruled out on these grounds. For example, support for formal safety nets and
restructuring of the welfare system (state pensions, ailowances, health insurance, etc) are being addressed
under an ADB-financed Social Security Sector Development Program. USAID is providing ongoing
support for public/private partnerships in several aimags of the Gobi region through the Gobi Regional
Economic Growth Initiative, although this program is not specifically poverty targeted. Business advisory
services, vocational training, and support for a poverty research unit are being addressed under a UNDP/
SIDA-financed project for which identification was conducted in a joint exercise with identification of the
proposed Sustainable Livelihoods Program/Project. Other ongoing and planned donor-supported initiatives
- 27 -



are also complementary, and have been designed explicitly to pilot-test approaches for implementation
under the proposed Sustainable Livelihoods Project (notably the FAO-financed TCP project on Pastoral
Risk Management, and the UNDP/Center for Policy Research action-research project on herder
organization and pasture land management). In summary, the proposed components (pastoral risk
management, micro-finance outreach, local initiatives fund, and project management support) are judged to
offer the best prospects for addressing the main livelihood problems of poor herders and informal sector
households in sum and aimag centers and ger districts of Ulaanbaatar, while complementing and building
on NPAP and other government- and donor-supported initiatives, and acting in concert to contribute to the
overall objective of poverty reduction.
Alternative Geographic Scope. During program identification, it was proposed that the Bank support
pilot activities in 6-8 aimags during Phase I (the project) with the intention of scaling-up successful pilots
nationwide in Phase II. However, since the proposed program was designed as a follow-on to the
nation-wide NPAP, it proved to be politically unacceptable to move from a national-level program to one
limited in scale to pilots in selected aimags alone. The agreed solution was for the proposed
prograrn/project to continue support nation-wide for the Local Development Fund (LDF) and the Revolving
Loan Funds (RLFs), while in parallel piloting new approaches in eight selected aimags, with the aim of
extending them to other aimags in the second phase once they have been proven successful and replicable.
Under the original proposed project design, the PRM and LIF components were to be piloted on a more
limited scale in the eight core aimags, in the case of PRM covering only 32 sums by end of project (Phase
I). The alternative design now proposed for these components involves scaling-up project activities more
rapidly to cover all 143 sums in the eight core aimags, based on pilot activities to be implemented in 16
sums during the first year of the project.
Alternative Micro-Finance Designs. In response to the joint Government/ UNDP/ World Bank evaluation
of NPAP, which was highly critical of the local govemrnent-administered credit scheme, project
identification considered withdrawing support altogether from the existing RLFs and starting afresh to
build a sustainable rural micro-finance system in partnership with existing commercial banks and NBFIs.
During project preparation, limited support for strengthening the existing RLFs without privatization was
considered, but this proposal drew criticism from local NBFIs. A dilemma arose because the sum-level
RLFs were the only credit program currently serving the rural poor and considerable effort has gone into
building local capacity to manage them. The micro-finance outreach component design overcomes this
dilemma by providing limited, time-bound support to the existing RLFs to enable these local
government-administered funds to become independent micro-finance providers.
Second, from the earliest stages of identification, it was also envisaged that the project would support the
development of new approaches to achieving institutionally and financially sustainable micro-finance
service outreach in remote rural areas, consistent with international good practice in micro-finance.
Following project preparation, it was proposed to create a new apex institution - a "Micro-Finance
Outreach Foundation" - to act as wholesale lender to existing MFIs, to offer technical assistance to MFIs in
conducting market research and in developing new micro-finance products accessible to the poor, and in
building business management skills among potential clients. The Foundation was to have been created
over the first two years of the project, and to have begun wholesale lending by project year 3. At appraisal,
a modified design was proposed and developed for this sub-component, in response to concerns from
Government and from private-sector MFIs that there was little current demand for a new apex institution,
and that the delayed start of wholesale lending activities in project year 3 would be unacceptable given the
pressing need for micro-finance outreach. The modified design proposes that the central bank (Bank of
Mongolia) instead act as the wholesale lender under the project, through a small fund-management unit to
be financed in part from the interest-rate spread from on-lending to selected MFIs, and that wholesale
- 28 -



lending to selected MFIs would begin from the start of the project. It is envisaged that this
fund-management unit will function independently of Bank of Mongolia under Phase II of the program,
when it would assume a similar institutional form to the originally-proposed Micro-Finance Foundation.
Third, it was envisaged from project identification that the project would support the development of
micro-finance services designed specifically for herders. During project preparation, this was included as a
sub-component of the PRM component. At pre-appraisal, it was decided to include this sub-component
under the MFO component, given that private financial institutions would be the major actors in developing
new micro-finance products for herders as well as for other socio-economic groups. The clearest identified
need, other than for productive sub-loans for herders during the late-winter/ early-spring season (peak
demand for credit is around the lunar New Year, Tsaagan sar, while income from livestock products such
as raw cashmere does not flow until later in the spring) was to develop feasible approaches to livestock
insurance. Following project pleparation, it was proposed that the project would support the development
of an index-based approach to livestock insurance on a pilot basis only, focusing on a small number of
sums in the eight core aimags. At appraisal, it was agreed with Government that more substantial resources
should be made available through the project to develop the proposed index-based livestock insurance
scheme during the first year of the project, with a view to its being fully operational at the national level by
the end of project.
Alternative Pastoral Risk Ma;nagement Designs. The altemative of supporting the entire GoM program
for protection of livestock from drought and dzud (Resolution No. 47) was considered but rejected because
the GoM program embraces a number of activities only loosely connected with risk management, including
livestock extension, veterinary services, and breed upgrading. Since the technical means for upgrading
livestock production are well known in Mongolia, while pastoral risk management under market economic
conditions remains at a more experimental level, a conscious choice was made for the project to concentrate
on pastoral risk management, leaving support for livestock production more generally to donors such as
ADB and IFAD. A conscious de-cision was also made to concentrate the bulk of project investments on the
early stages of the risk cycle (risk avoidance and risk preparedness), in recognition of the fact that
considerable donor resources are already available to GoM for emergency response and post-dzud
recovery.
Finally, concem is mounting within both Government and the donor community about the advisability of
the current, state-directed approach to restocking, which it was originally proposed would be supported
under the project in cases of emergencies, following the procedures developed under PAVGP. Owing to the
likely disincentive effects of restocking for pastoral risk management and micro-finance outreach, it was
agreed at appraisal that a direct approach to restocking would not be financed under the project. The
conventional, direct approach to restocking is likely to conflict with the primary objective of improving risk
preparedness, and involves public officials or community leaders in making difficult judgements concerning
the viability of particular individual households to continue to be involved in herding activities. The
altemative component project design agreed at appraisal foresees the implementation of pastoral risk
management on a wider scale than was originally envisaged; and through synergies with other project
components would also support alternative, commercially-based, and demand-driven approaches to
restocking and livelihood diversification. Restocking would be an eligible activity for sub-loans under the
micro-finance outreach component, for example, if herders chose to borrow for this purpose; and herder
self-help groups may wish to support the restocking of poorer member households from their own revolving
funds, although restocking would not be an eligible activity for their initial matching loans. The LIF would
also be an important potential source of financing for comnmunity-driven investments in agriculture- and
livestock-related infrastructure, such as the rehabilitation of irrigation systems to support fodder and
vegetable production by poorer households wishing to leave the livestock sector.
- 29 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned). See Map 3 for a comparison of the geographical coverage of related
donor-supported projects in agriculture and rural development, and Annex 12 for a description of related
donor-supported activities and their complementarities with the proposed project.
.Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                    Project.                (PSR) Ratings
.__________ __________ __________   . __________________  .(Bank-financed  projects  only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Poverty Reduction                Poverty Alleviation for          S            S
Vulnerable Groups Credit
(completed)
Urban Development                Ulaanbaatar Services             S            S
Improvement Project
Financial Sector                 Financial Sector Adjustment      S            S
Credit
Banking, Enterprise & Legal      S            S
TA Credit
Fiscal TA Project                U            U
Transport                        Transport Development Project    S             S
Other development agencies
Poverty Reduction                Arkhangai and Khuvsgul Rural
Poverty Alleviation Projects and
extensions in Bulgan and
Khentii aimags (IFAD)
Poverty Research and
Employment Facilitation for
Policy Development (UNDP/
SIDA)
Micro-finance                    Rural Finance Project (ADB)
Enterprise Development
Innovation Fund (DFID)
Credit-Mongol (EU-TACIS)
Regional/ Private Sector Development Gobi Regional Economic
Growth Initiative (USAID)
Agriculture                       Agriculture Sector Development
Program (ADB)
Pastoral Risk Management          Pastoral Risk Management
TCP Project (FAO)
Developing and Piloting a
Sustainable Development
Model for the Extensive
Livestock Industry
(UNDP/CPR)
Governance/                       Human Rights, Local
Decentralization                  Development and Democracy at
- 30 -



the Bag Level in Mongolia
Project (UNESCO/DANIDA)
Social Protection                Social Security Sector
Development Program (ADB)
Rural Development                 Rural Development Program
(planned) (EU-TACIS)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Detailed lessons have been leameci from experience under NPAP and the IDA-financed Poverty Alleviation
for Vulnerable Groups Project (PAVGP), through a joint evaluation conducted by Government, UNDP and
World Bank in late 1999 in conjunction with identification of the proposed program, and through the
intensive learning ICR conducted ;5or PAVGP. Overall, NPAP was found to have been a timely response to
the economic and social problems of the vulnerable poor during Mongolia's transition to a market
economy. Its success under extrernely difficult conditions during a period of economic transition can be
attributed to:
*   a highly committed and dedicated implementing agency at national level (PAPO);
*   the use of an existing network of local government institutions at aimag and sum levels as a
delivery mechanism, which allowed the project to work efficiently in spite of severe constraints
such as low population density, scattered settlement, seasonal population movements, harsh winter
conditions, and poorly-developed transportation and communication networks;
*   the introduction of a bottom-up approach to project identification and implementation;
*   the trust placed in local government's capacity to identify, contract, supervise and report on public
works schemes and basic education and rural health projects; and
*   the emphasis on making certain that funding was in place for operation and maintenance (O&M) of
whatever structures and services were rehabilitated by the project.
NPAP's most successful componenat was the Local Development Fund (LDF), which financed small
projects in support of basic education, rural health and public works. The rural health and basic education
sub-components achieved their objectives of reducing maternal mortality and school dropouts. The creation
or rehabilitation of local infrastructure had a quick and direct impact on income earning opportunities and
standards of living. However, the temporary employment created by public works programs was too
short-lived to have had a significant impact on the livelihoods of the poor.
The key to the success of the LDF was its bottom-up, decentralized approach and its reliance on a
well-developed network of cross-sectoral Poverty Alleviation Councils (PACs) at aimagl duureg and suml
khoroo levels. Local administrations were empowered to identify and implement projects, contract-in
services, and account for expenditure. The LDF constituted practically the only source of capital budget at
the discretion of the decentralized administration. Operation and maintenance was ensured by requiring that
local governments allocate the recurrent budget prior to and as a condition for project approval. Works
were useful and were greatly appreciated by communities. Beneficiary communities also demon,strated their
commitment by contributing to the O&M of the works.
The main areas identified in which LDF could be improved were: (a) greater beneficiary participation; (b)
stronger integration with the existing public administration and budgetary process; and (c) increased
capacity of local government to continue the Fund's operation beyond the end of NPAP.
- 31 -



The income-generating credit schemes were the weakest aspects of NPAP and the Bank-financed PAVGP.
The main cause was poor design. In 1995, in the absence of an operational bank with a branch structure, or
a specialist micro-finance institution serving rural areas, a decision was made to develop a
government-administered credit scheme that operated through local government PACs at aimag/duureg and
sum/khoroo levels. There were three main credit programs: (a) the Vulnerable Group Organization (VGO)
scheme, which operated under LDF; (b) the Income Generation Fund (IGF); and (c) the Women's
Development Fund (WDF). Loan repayments from the three schemes were channeled into a series of sum
and khoroo level Revolving Loan Funds (RLFs) under the direct control of sum and khoroo PACs. The
most interesting and successful experience - and the only one with the potential to become self-sustaining -
has been that of the RLFs.
The main lessons from NPAP are:
*   Poverty alleviation programs - no matter how sound in concept and principles - are unlikely to
reduce poverty significantly unless they are supported by broad-based, people-oriented, and
labor-intensive growth strategies. In the absence of supportive economic policies and pro-poor
expenditure allocation, the gains of targeted poverty alleviation programs are likely to be offset by
growing unemployment and economic deterioration. Poverty reduction is not sustainable if - for
every person raised above the poverty line - another person falls into poverty to take his or her
place.
* Since poverty reduction is an issue that transcends sectoral boundaries, the proper location for a
poverty program management unit is either under the Prime Minister's Office or in a cross-sectoral
ministry such as Finance, Planning, or Local Government. A social-sector ministry was a poor
initial choice.
*   The establishment of a cross-sectoral implementing agency (such as PAPO) facilitates poverty
project implementation but creates conflicts and uncertainty. Lack of clarity about PAPO's
autonomy from MoSWL was a source of continual institutional conflict throughout the life of the
project.
*   Decentralization of project management responsibility can be an effective way of overcoming
institutional blockages at national level. Although controversy over PAPO's autonomy hindered
implementation at central level, it was not a serious problem at aimag level and below.
*   Open public meetings at grassroots level facilitate successful implementation of a bottom-up,
demand-driven approach. The restocking component achieved broad-based and inclusive
community participation in beneficiary selection because it worked through the lowest unit of local
government - the bag khural (assembly).
*   The creation or rehabilitation of local infrastructure can have a quick and direct impact on income
earning opportunities and standards of living. However, the temporary employment created by
public works programs is too short-lived to have a significant or lasting impact on the livelihoods
of the poor.
*   Sustainable access to credit for the poor requires the creation of a rural finance system. Local
government bodies can help channel funds to the target group but constitute an inappropriate
institutional base for micro banking.
*   Herder restocking is not sustainable in the absence of parallel support for pastoral risk
management
- 32 -



4. Indications of borrower comnmitment and ownership:
GoM's Action Plan 2000-2004 puts poverty reduction high on the agenda. Its I-PRSP - recently approved
by the Boards of the World Bank and IMF, including GoM's endorsement of international poverty targets
and a road-map for completion of the full PRSP - shows clear evidence that Government is committed to
implementing a comprehensive Poverty Reduction Strategy. Cabinet endorsement of Resolution 108 of
March 2001, which established the National Household Livelihood Capacity Support Prograrn, bears
testimony to GoM's convictions concerning a livelihoods-based approach to poverty reduction. Resolution
47 (2001) demonstrates GoM's strong commitment to improving pastoral risk management. GoM's draft
Regional Development Policy gives strong indication of its concern to reduce regional and rwual/urban
disparities. Goverrenent's Letter of Development Program (see Annex 11) articulates its long-term vision in
these and other areas relevant to the proposed program.
GoM has also demonstrated strcng and tangible commitment to the proposed program through its hosting
of and active participation in four national-level stakeholder consultation workshops on program and
project identification and design. The Economic Advisor to the Prime Minister has been appointed as the
Director of the HLSPO, underscoring the importance attached to the proposed program at the highest levels
of Government. During the bridging period between the end of NPAP in December 2000 and the
anticipated launch of the proposed project in mid-2002, GoM has absorbed the recurrent costs of the
institutional set-up created under NPAP including fixed-term staff costs, and operating costs of HLSPO
and the local-level network of E[LSC secretaries. GoM's allocation of US$0.8 million for continuation of
LDF in 2002 is evidence of its commitment to continue to support the bottom-up approaches to local and
community level infrastructure launched under NPAP.
Beneficiary commitment and ovmership is demonstrated by the findings of participatory evaluations
undertaken in 17 aimags, 9 duuregs, 51 sums, and 20 khoroos with a total of 2,340 participants, during
the preparation of the intensive learning ICR for the PAVGP.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The value added through Bank ;upport for this project is fourfold:
First, the Bank brings broad intornational experience and technical knowledge to bear in several areas
critical to project success: (a) community-driven development, including Africa Region's Community
Action Programs, demand-driven niral investment programs particularly in EAP and LAC Regions, and
social funds more broadly; (b) social risk management (particularly through the Social Protection Family);
(c) micro-finance services and strategies, particularly through the Bank's close association with CGAP; and
(d) pastoral development, particularly through the Animal Resources and Natural Resource Management
Institutions thematic groups.
Second, the Bank has made a long-term commitment to supporting poverty-reduction efforts in Mongolia,
and acts as the lead development agency in this field. The proposed project builds directly on lessons
learned under NPAP, for which the Bank was the major financier through PAVGP; and it is provided for in
the CAS. Continuity of support for poverty reduction from the Bank is regarded as a priority by GoM, and
is reinforced through the PRSP process. The Bank is in a strategic position to help government coordinate
donor efforts with respect to livelihood-based poverty reduction, designing and financing a local initiatives
fund, strengthening the decentralization process, and securing sustainable financing mechanisms for
maintenance.
- 33 -



Third, this would be the first major investrnent program in international experience designed explicitly
according to 'sustainable livelihoods' concepts and principles. It should yield important lessons on how to
translate such a concept into a concrete set of investments, while respecting the need for flexible design in
order to accommodate community initiatives, process-based iterative learning, and to explicitly plan for
external shocks the timing and intensity of which are difficult to predict.
Fourth, the Bank would be the first international financial institution to support the establishment of an
integrated pastoral risk management system on national scale, building on lessons learned under the Kenya
Arid Lands Resource Management Project. Should the pilot initiatives under Phase I of SLP prove
successful, it would open up possibilities for replication not only in Mongolia but among pastoral peoples
of Northwestern China and Central Asia as well as in drought-prone areas such as the Horn of Africa.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR - % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
As most of the benefits are not directly quantifiable, the conventional cost-benefit analysis approach is not
applicable. However, alternative approaches and illustrative analysis for each component have been used
and results are presented in the following paragraphs.
Pastoral Risk Management
The benefits of pastoral risk management are reduction in dzud-related animal losses, which include both
direct economic costs due to animal deaths and the wider economic and social costs such as reductions in
cashmere and milk production resulting from animal deaths; the cost of government relief activities;
disruption of schooling and other social services; and environmental costs such as tree-felling caused by
lack of animal dung for ger stoves. The direct benefits of reduction of animal losses were estimated by
considering the value of combined losses during the 1999/2000 and the 2000/2001 dzud in comparison with
normal years. The analysis (see Annex 4) suggests that, on average, adoption of a nationwide pastoral risk
management strategy (estimated at US$ 10 million every four years if modelled on the Phase I proposal)
could cut national livestock losses in dzud years (such those in 1999/2000 and 2000/2001) to those of
normal years, and Mongolia would save an average of over US$100 million per year in dzud years. If we
assume that dzud occurs one year in every five, the pastoral risk management component would easily pay
for the whole project. If adoption of pastoral risk management strategies were to reduce losses in dzud
years by an average of 50%, Mongolia would save US$50 million per year during dzud years. If dzud were
to occur only once in 10 years, the savings would still cover entire the cost of the pastoral risk management
component (nationwide cost for ten years would be around US$22 million).
Indicative business models for hay and fodder enterprises to be supported under the PRM component are
presented in Annex 4, and suggest that these enterprises would be economically viable.
Micro-finance outreach
A substantial share of the costs of the MFO component would be for capacity building, for which the
benefits are difficult to quantify. As for the finance under MDF line of credit, most would be used for
short-term and working capital finance. It is expected that most of the loans would be for a maximum of
- 34 -



one year and that activities complete several cycles within this time period. The conventional NPV/IRR
calculation, developed for capital budgeting of multi-year investments, is not applicable to most
micro-finance activities envisaged under the project Furthermore, cost and benefit cash flows could not be
totally accounted for and the costing of resources employed is often difficult. During the project
implementation, an impact assessment will be done to provide an analysis of the economic impact of the
MFO component. The impact assessment will include measurement of impacts on households income and
employment. The survey will collect time-series data allowing an analysis of economic impacts over time.
Nevertheless, for the multi-year investment finance which would be eligible for micro-finance under the
project, a few representative models have been developed based on the data available (Annex 4).
Local Initiadves Fund
Due to the demand-driven nature of this component it is not possible accurately to pre-determine the
sub-projects that would be funded by the LIF or the LDF. The precise composition of infrastructure
sub-projects cannot be defined ex-ante. Furthermore, given the low degree of market development in rural
Mongolia, the benefits either doi not have a readily accessible market price or are not easily measurable,
and it would therefore prove difficult to convert these benefits into monetary terms. Given the inter-linkages
among the three major components of the project, some benefits from the activities of the LIF component
will be reflected in the form of better pastoral risk management and more prosperous private productive
activities financed by MFIs. Against this background, an overall, ex-ante cost-benefit analysis for this
component would be considered too speculative. It is also unrealistic to expect that approval of each
sub-project proposal be subject to an economic analysis, given the large number and diversity of
sub-projects that the component would finance. However, an illustrative cost-benefit analysis, based on a
range of representative community investment activities, will be developed during the first year of the
project and will used in the later three years of the project as an additional input for sub-project appraisal.
In addition, to ensure that investments for infrastructure remain within economically reasonable margins,
cost ceilings will be set for selected infrastructure sub-projects, such as per student investment for school
dormitory heating system rehabilitation. The cost ceilings proposed under the component would ensure that
even without an economic analysis the investment would generally be economically viable. This framework
for cost-benefit analysis will be applied to a sample of sub-projects, focusing on those which are larger in
scale and are expected to have more direct economic impacts, in order to refine the selection criteria and the
cost ceilings.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR    % (see Annex 4)
Models developed for representative activities under the PRM and MFO components indicate that these
activities are financially viable, implying that private sector entrepreneurs and companies are likely to be
interested in taking up these actjivities. Credit under the micro-finance component would be in line with
CGAP principles of financial sustainability. Under the LIF, mechanisms for financial control, transparency
and accountability have been defined and have been incorporated in the LIEF PIM. The community
scorecards will also enable beneficiaries to report cases of suspected financial mismanagement to the
relevant authorities.
Fiscal Impact:
In short run, the fiscal impact of the proposed project would be neutral given that only around 10% of the
total project cost would be financed by Government. In the long run, it is expected that the fiscal impact of
the proposed project would be htighly positive owing to the increased tax base with the rise in active
- 35 -



economic activity and the savings of public expenditure on dzud disaster relief efforts as a result of
improved pastoral risk management.
The project's recurrent cost implications for the GoM central budget would be limited. Under the pastoral
risk management component, the O&M cost for wells would be bome by the water-user groups. This
represents cost savings for GoM insofar as well O&M prior to the economic transition was borne by
central government. The O&M costs of pilot commercial hay and fodder making would be borne by the
participating enterprises. The aimag-level emergency revolving fodder funds would sell fodder to recover
the cost of their operations. The only pastoral risk management activities involving incremental recurrent
costs for the central budget would be emergency forecasting, preparation of sum-level contingency plans,
post-rehabilitation maintenance of existing inter-aimag otor reserves, and environmental monitoring.
Insofar as the pastoral risk management component is expected to reduce dzud-related disasters, it would
reduce the need for GoM to spend money on emergency relief.
In the case of LIF component, local authorities would cover incremental O&M of the small-scale
infrastructure investment. In many cases, these are expected to be small as the majority of small civil works
involve rehabilitation rather than new construction and the sub-projects will often involve improvements
resulting in cost savings in operating costs (repair of school dormitory heating systems is one such case).
Thus, LIEF infrastructure investments are not expected to place an additional burden on public expenditure.
Nevertheless, a clear commitment and O&M plan with estimated labor requirements and responsibilities by
the beneficiaries would be a condition for financing of sub-project proposals.
Recurrent costs under the micro-finance outreach component would be self-financed as the Micro-Finance
Development Fund is expected to become at least financially self-sustaining.
3. Technical:
Pastoral Risk Management
Pastoral risk management is a relatively new technical field in which there have been very few World Bank
or other donor-financed investment projects to date (with the notable exception of the Bank-supported
Kenya Arid Lands Resource Management Project). Nonetheless, the proposed pastoral risk management
strategies build on a strong foundation of pilots implemented under the FAO Pastoral Risk Management
TCP Project in Uvs and Tov aimags in 2001. The proposed risk management strategies also build on
substantial analytical work done in Mongolia in connection with project preparation (e.g. concerning the
proposed index-based approach to livestock insurance) and on inter-country exchanges of experiences with
pastoral risk management between Mongolia, China and Kyrgyzstan sponsored by FAO. The efficacy of
classifying emergency forecasts by warning stages ('normal', 'alert', 'alarm', 'emergency' and
'recovering') has been demonstrated in drought-prone areas of Kenya.
The proposed herder self-help initiatives build on the experience of the UNDP-financed, Center for Policy
Research (CPR)-executed pilot project, 'Developing and Piloting a Sustainable Development Model for the
Extensive Livestock Industry. This NGO-implemented pilot project was implemented in three sums of Tov,
Ovorkhangai and Bayankhongor aimags, and demonstrated the technical viability and social and economic
benefits of herder cooperation in labor-pooling, pasture management, milk marketing, and in guarding
winter grazing areas against encroachment. The feasibility of registering herder organizations as NGOs and
of opening joint bank accounts in the group's name was also demonstrated. The project also established a
sound basis for land-use mapping by herder groups. The feasibility of using existing land law to underwrite
security of pasture tenure for herders groups was also tested and proven to be workable. Herder-group
managed revolving loan funds for emergency fodder purchases and breed upgrading were pilot tested by the
- 36 -



CPR project and the ACDI/V0CA Farmer-to-Farmer project. The feasibility of community-based well
rehabilitation and managemeni: has been demonstrated internationally to be best practice.
Micro-Finance Outreach
The technical basis for micro-finance outreach is well known, but the proposed approach is new in
Mongolia and implies an initial effort to establish the management structures and the operational
procedures for an efficient operation of the wholesale facility. However, this approach provides several
advantages: (i) it ensures a shorter start-up period and greater possibilities of disbursements of sub-loans to
project beneficiaries earlier in the project implementation period; (ii) it provides equal opportunities to all
potential MFIs to meet the accreditation criteria to retail project funds; (iii) there is no conflict of interest
with the apex institution (BoM), since it is not a retailer of funds in the market; and (iv) it offers the
possibility of transferring the Fund and its management unit outside the BoM, and transforming it into a
micro-finance apex organization in the private sector, during future phases of the program. The proposed
index-based livestock insurance scheme is new, but there is growing international experience with
weather-based insurance in dryland agriculture (e.g. in Morocco and Nicaragua).
Local Initiatives Fund
The technical basis for LIF in Mongolia is particularly sound. GoM demonstrated its capacity to implement
LDF efficiently nation-wide in all sums and khoroos under NPAP. The technical basis for the innovations
to be introduced under LIF hare also been proven in-country. The experience of the UNESCO/DANIDA
Human Rights, Local Development and Democracy at the Bag Level in Mongolia Project 1997-1999,
which covered 36 bags in 6 ainags (Tov, Dundgov', Sukhbaatar, Khovsgol, Khovd and Ovorkhangai)
demonstrated that - with appropriate capacity building - bag communities are capable of identifying,
planning, implementing and maintaining small bag-level infrastructure projects. Sustainability and
replicability were achieved in the communities in which projects were implemented. Concrete projects
undertaken by micro-project teams at bag level encouraged other bags to use the project methodology and
access resources for their communities from various sources. Proposals for capacity building at sum level
and below are based on the experience of the World Vision Area Development Program in Bulgan aimag.
The feasibility of direct transfer of funds to the sum level was demonstrated by the GoM Sum Development
Fund, established in 1996 as a relief fund to mitigate the effects of the collapsed public services and trading
networks. MoFE nationwide provided 5 million MNT to each sum as an interest-free loan to be repaid. The
experience and success of the SDF has been variable. Lessons learned were that sums are capable of
handling finds but they need appropriate training, accompanied by manuals, and that the aimags need to be
fully informed about the program and must be responsible for close financial monitoring.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Project activities will be executed by sub-national and local governments, and community groups, in some
cases with assistance from civil society institutions, depending on the particular component and activities in
question. Within sub-national and local governments, the membership and scope of activities of the HLSCs
(building on the former PACs that executed activities under NPAP) will be expanded at aimag and
(particularly) sum levels, and would work in an executing or facilitatory role, depending on the activities in
question. The detailed project description in Annex 2 and summary of institutional capacity-building
measures in Annex 13 provide further details.
- 37 -



4.2 Project management:
The Household Livelihoods Support Program Office (HLSPO) will be responsible for overall project
management at national level. HLSPO reports directly to the National Committee on the Household
Livelihoods Capacity Support Program, a committee chaired by the Prime Minister for the purpose of
overseeing anti-poverty operational programs including the proposed Sustainable Livelihoods
Project/Program. Coordinators for each of the three main project/ program components will be advised by
technical Working Groups made up of senior staff of the relevant Government ministries, agencies, and
representatives of private sector and civil society institutions as appropriate. Appointment of the three
component coordinators under terms of reference acceptable to IDA is one of the conditions for Credit
effectiveness.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Due to the scattered locations and staggered implementation schedules of the three components of the
project, each participating aimag and sum would undertake its own procurement for small civil works and
community contracting. The HLSPO, based in Ulaanbaatar, would take responsibility for:
(a) managing procurement of works under NCB (for the rehabilitation of two irrigation schemes);
(b) managing the procurement of goods (vehicles, agricultural and weather forecasting equipment)
through international shopping and small-value goods through local shopping;
(c) contracting and managing all consulting services required under the project;
(d) guiding and supervising procurement work handled at aimag/sum level for small civil works
and community contracting;
(e) organizing training in procurement procedures for aimag/sum HLSC members;
(f) coordinating procurement planning and reporting; and
(g) providing other support to aimags and sums when needed.
All procurement documents subject to IDA's prior review will be sent to IDA through the HLSPO. Due to
the decentralized procurement arrangements, vehicles, agricultural and weather-forecasting equipment will
most likely be the only goods packaged together for bidding. Procurement plans will developed on an
annual basis, given the phased approach of the program.
A detailed procurement capacity assessment was undertaken during the pre-appraisal mission in November
2001 and updated at appraisal in March 2002, and the Procurement Capacity Assessment Report is held on
file. A detailed procurement plan for the first year of the project was also reviewed and found to be
satisfactory; this is also held on file. The assessment concluded that a general level of procurement capacity
exists in the participating aimags, sums, and HLSPO. However, it was determined that additional
strengthening would be required. A time-bound action plan was proposed to address the weaknesses
identified. The proper implementation of the action plan would minimize the potential risks. Additional
details regarding procurement arrangements are provided in Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The HLSPO will be responsible for overall project financial management including planning and budgeting,
preparing consolidated financial statements, Financial Monitoring Reports, progress reports, and ensuring
the smooth flow of funds to the respective project activities. The HLSPO will manage the project's Special
Account and ensure its timely replenishments, including preparation of statements of expenditures (SOEs)
and replenishment/reimbursement claims (in addition of maintaining the local currency account for the
counterpart funds) . It will monitor and train aimag- and sum-level financial management staff in project
accounting procedures and financial operations.
- 38 -



The HLSPO is organized in two main divisions: (1) the Program Implementation Coordination Division;
and (2) the Finance, Auditing, and Evaluation Division. The minimum agreed number of staff will be 16
persons, adding an additional eight to the existing eight, including three additional staff in the Finance,
Auditing, and Evaluation Division. Based on the activities envisaged under the various components, this
proposed level of staffing was deemed appropriate for project irnplementation. Appointment of the three
additional staff in the Finance, Auditing, and Evaluation Division, under terms of reference acceptable to
IDA, is one of the conditions cf Credit effectiveness.
Based on a financial management capacity assessment undertaken during the pre-appraisal mission in
November 2001 and updated ait appraisal in March 2002, the need to strengthen controls and procedures
was identified so as to meet m1nimum Bank financial management requirements. In addition, it was also
recommended that oversight and audit functions be further developed at all levels. The full Financial
Management Capacity Assessment is kept in the project files, and a summary, including the time-bound
action plan, is attached to Annex 6.
HLSPO will establish a financial management and accounting system to control the flow of funds at each
level of project implementation. All necessary reporting and monitoring features will be built into the
system to track the use of Credit proceeds implemented in the form of sub-projects by communities at
aimag and sum levels and below. Such procedures will be documented in the Project Financial
Management Manual.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Consistent with the World Bank's Operational Policy OP4.01, Environmental Assessment (EA) for the
proposed SLP is regarded as an ongoing process that began around the time of project idenlification.
Environmental assessment has been considered as part of several steps in the process of project
identification and design: a national-level public consultation meeting in December 1999, conducted as part
of project identification; an analysis of land policy and land tenure arrangements in Mongolia; a
Participatory Living Standards Assessment (PLSA), conducted by National Statistical Office of Mongolia
with World Bank support between March and September 2000; and an Intensive-Learning Implementation
Completion Report (ILI), documenting lessons learned under the World Bank-supported Poverty
Alleviation for Vulnerable Groups Project (PAVGP). In July-August 2001, an environmental assessment
scoping study of the pastoral iisk management component was carried out, culminating in a dedicated
environmental and social assessment over August-October 2001.
The dedicated environmental assessment (EA) was carried out over three stages by an independent team of
specialists. First the EA carried out a scoping of impacts and desk-based review of literature. This included
the analysis of project preparation reports describing proposed project components and activities, and
review of the report of the pastoral risk management scoping study. Second, in-depth stakeholder
consultation was carried out over three weeks in September 2001. This included a series of interviews and
workshops with secondary and primary stakeholders and key informants in Ulaanbaatar and rural
Mongolia (in three aimags: Dundgov', Omnogov', and Ovorkhangai). In Ulaanbaatar, the EA team worked
in close cooperation with the project preparation support team from FAO. Consultation on the EA's initial
conclusions was facilitated by the use of an aide memoire distributed to MoFA, HLSPO and MoNE. A
draft of the EA report was prepared, and detailed comments from the World Bank, the project preparation
team, and GoM were incorporated to produce a final report which was submitted and publicly disclosed in
December 2001, both in the country and at the InfoShop.
- 39 -



The full EA report covers the policy, legal and administrative framework; the methodology of the
assessment; the baseline situation; the significant environmental impacts; the analysis of alternatives; and
the proposed environmental management plan; complemented by a number of annexes providing detailed
additional information.
Justification /rationale for category rating. The proposed project is B-rated, consistent with regional
practice under other community-driven development projects and those with significant involvement in the
livestock sector. Most environmental impacts resulting from the project are expected to be beneficial. No
incremental livestock will be produced under the proposed project, and improved herd and grassland
management practices will be supported, which will be conducive to environmental sustainability.
OveraD environmental impact. According to the EA, the proposed project has the potential to deliver a
significant overall positive environmental impact through its contribution to reduced land degradation,
because community-based grazing management is proposed as a key part of the project's integrated
approach to pastoral risk management. The EA field observations and discussions with herders indicated
that the empowerment of herders or herder associations to manage their pasture has good potential for
reducing land degradation, both in times of drought and dzud, and at all other times. Current pasture
management patterns in Mongolia are accelerating land degradation due to concentration of herds around
sum and aimag centers, partly as a result of the impact of dzud and drought, and partly due to the
breakdown of existing wells, resulting in localized patterns of excessive livestock and consequent pasture
over-use that have adverse effects on the pasture productivity and sustainability. Successful actions to
reduce herders' vulnerability through sustainable pasture management offer a significant opportunity to
reduce the extent and severity of land degradation.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EA sets out an environmental management plan (EMP), with an associated environmental management
system. The design of the EMP will ensure that environmental sustainability is not considered in isolation
from social, economic and institutional sustainability in the wider rural space. The EMP puts strong
emphasis on the formulation of sum-level pastoral risk management plans within the context of overall land
use planning and the establishment of herder organizations and well-user groups as a means of ensuring
positive environmental outcomes. It outlines the training of MoNE and MoFA staff in pastoral risk
management and sustainable pasture management, and provides templates for the monitoring and reporting
of possible localized negative impacts of certain activities. It also details the pre-screening of projects to be
financed under the LIF and documentation of environmental impacts of micro-credit under the
micro-finance outreach component.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: December 19, 2001
An environmental screening and scoping of the pastoral risk management component was carried out in
Mongolia in July-August 2001. This was followed by a five-person, dedicated EA carried out from
September 3-23, 2001. A draft EA report was submitted for comment on October 9, 2001. A separate
Social Assessment (SA) report was submitted for comment on November 12, 2001, based on extensive
fieldwork during October 2001. The finalized versions of the EA and SA reports were submitted as a
consolidated, two-volume document on December 19, 2001, and publicly disclosed in December 2001 in
Mongolia and in the InfoShop.
- 40 -



5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used an,i which groups were consulted?
During the initial enviromnental screening and scoping of the PRM component and again during the
dedicated EA, consultative meetings were held with concerned government ministries (MoNE, MoFA,
MoFE), international organizations, universities and research institutes, environmental NGOs, local
authorities including Poverty Alleviation Councils, and environmental inspectors at aimag and sum level as
well as NPAP beneficiaries and herders.
During the preparation of the EA itself, there was an intensive schedule of interviews with key stakeholders
and informants, as well as joint meetings/workshops with groups of stakeholders. A typical agenda of a
meeting included an introduction of participants, a brief overview of the project, views and comments of the
consultees, and specific questiom; from the EA team regarding the details of environmental and social
sensitivities, people's interaction with the environment, and potential impacts of the project. Interview and
workshop techniques included tirne budgets and ranking exercises. Some stakeholders were interviewed on
two or three occasions, in order to discuss conclusions in detail.
Key stakeholders consulted on the project included: national government agencies; local goveniment (aimag
and sum levels); herders in rural and peri-sum and peri-aimag areas; environmental/social NGOs; research
institutes; private sector; and intemational development agencies.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Provision has been made for: (a) ongoing environmental monitoring by existing environmental inspectors at
sum level under the technical guidance and supervision of the environmental inspectors at aimag level; and
(b) studies to document environrmental effects and impacts to feed into the mid-term review and ICR. The
environmental inspectors will have a role in project decision-making through their membership in the sum
and aimag level HLSCs. The annual environment and social reporting by the sum, aimag and national SLP
staffs will reflect progress of the EMP and the meeting of overall project objectives.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Planned social development ourcomes. As a result of the project, it is expected that: (a) poor but otherwise
viable herding households continue to be able to pursue livestock-based livelihoods in a sustainable manner,
with secure access to adequate grazing; (b) non-livestock-related livelihood diversification in rural areas or
in smaller urban settlements in sum or aimag centers would be made possible for other targeted poor
households, including women-headed and single-male headed households; (c) both of these categories of
households would be able to cope with and respond to a wide range of idiosyncratic and covariant risks
without having to dispose of assets at low prices or borrow from moneylenders at high rates of interest; and
finally, (d) inclusive and accountable mechanisms would be established through which communities would
play a key role in prioritizing, selecting, co-financing, implementing and maintaining investments in
small-scale infrastructure.
Anticipated social impacts. The social assessment concluded that overall social impacts are expected to be
positive, with few or no adverse social costs anticipated. Drought, dzud, land degradation, and increased
vulnerability of herders are leading to significant reductions in living standards among poor and
middle-poor herder households, and the Mongolian rural economy and society centers around extensive
-41 -



herding. Lower living standards in rural Mongolia are associated with rising malnutrition, increased
incidence of disease, and lower school attendance. As herders lose their livestock, they are increasingly
attracted to sum and aimag centers, in order to reduce their insecurity, resulting in concentrations of
livestock around these centers and further decline in livestock productivity and survival rates. Herders that
have lost all of their livestock are vulnerable to social breakdown in sum and aimag centers, resulting in
malnutrition, depression, increased incidence of drunkenness among men, divorce, and increased incidence
of domestic violence. The proposed project, through the combined actions of the pastoral risk management,
LIF, and micro-finance outreach components, has the potential to deliver an overall positive social impact,
by empowering herders to manage their livelihoods, and by contributing to rising living standards among
poor households and herder households.
For many of the same reasons, it is anticipated that the project would have a positive impact on gender
relations. Some of the key gender issues in contemporary Mongolia are: a much higher level of female
participation in tertiary education by comparison with male participation, in part reflecting higher rates of
male drop-outs from primary and secondary schools, which translates into higher and increasingly female
levels of skilled workforce participation in Ulaanbaatar, particularly in the service sectors; high levels of
domestic violence among poorer groups in aimag and sum centers, associated with male unemployment,
depression, and alcohol abuse; high and growing levels of divorce and marital breakdown as a result of
both of these trends; particular forms of vulnerability among single male- as well as single female-headed
households; and relatively higher representation of women among clients of micro-credit services. To the
extent that the project would support livelihood security and sustainability both within and outside the
livestock sector, it may be expected to enhance opportunities for male as well as female livelihood
diversification, thereby helping to reduce male drop-outs from schools both by increasing demand for
skilled male labor and by reducing the need to withdraw boys from school owing to improvements in
livestock productivity.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Project identification and preparation has been guided by a participatory, project-cycle management
approach. Four participatory, stakeholder consultation workshops have been held in connection with
program and project identification and preparation to allow a wide range of stakeholder groups to express
their views in an open-ended manner through 'problem and objective trees' (December 1999), leading to an
initial screening of options for project components and a logical framework-based workshop to design
aspects of the pastoral risk management component (April 2000). The Bank-supported Participatory Living
Standards Assessment 2000 also generated a good deal of information that guided the content and approach
to be taken within each of the project components. Two additional National Stakeholder Consultative
Workshops were held from June 12-16, 2001 and July 30-August 12, 2001 with the support of a PHRD
grant. The first workshop - the primary aim of which was to develop the logframe for the proposed
program project in a participatory manner - involved local and international consultants, component
advisory teams (drawn from private sector organizations, NGOs, and research institutes) and relevant
implementing agency staff (around 50 people). The second workshop - whose task was to discuss the
consultant team proposals and to refine the logframe - was a larger event with over 100 participants
including Members of Parliament and representatives of local government in addition to the participants in
the first workshop. The EA also involved a stakeholder consultation workshop.
The consultation process for project preparation was closely linked with participatory evaluation of the
previous Bank-financed PAVGP under NPAP. To maximize stakeholder input into the design the new
project, in connection with the Intensive Learning ICR (ILI) conducted for PAVGP, a comprehensive series
of stakeholder workshops were carried out by local PACs in 17 aimags, 9 urban districts (duuregs), 51
-42 -



sums, and 20 urban sub-districts (khoroos) with 2,340 participants. The workshops used PRA methods to
assess the perceived impact of PAVGP on the livelihoods of beneficiaries and to identify strengths and
weaknesses of each project component The sum-level stakeholder workshops fed into aimag-level
stakeholder workshops, attended by representatives of direct beneficiaries, sum officials, aimag level
officials and NGOs. Findings frcom the 17 aimags and 9 duuregs were analyzed jointly by GoM and the ILI
mission in a two-day participatoiy analysis session. The overall findings were discussed at three national
level stakeholder workshops in order to draw lessons for future operations: the first with members of an
1 8-person Core Learning Team comprising mission members and representatives of the Borrower (MoFE)
and implementing agencies; the second with key informants who played important roles in NPAP design
and implementation; and a third with newly-appointed members of the cross-sectoral National Poverty
Alleviation Committee. Continuity between the ILI and project preparation was facilitated by ensuring
continuity in team membership, both international and local.
Key stakeholder participation iin project implementation. Groups at bag level would be the catalyst for
developing project ideas within the conmnunity for co-financing under LIF, and the bag khural would
provide the forum in which the needs of the bag are debated and project ideas discussed. They would
facilitate an interactive process (if prioritization - assisted by the sum HLSCs - and ensure that the
interests of the poorer members of the community, of women and single men- and single women-headed
households, of elderly people, of new herders, and of other vulnerable groups are heard and reflected in the
process. They would work with community groups that are interested in receiving LIF funding for a
sub-project and help them develop their ideas into costed proposals. After reviewing sub-project proposals
from the community groups, a short-list of priority sub-projects would be chosen and the submitting
community groups would be requested to further detail the proposals.
The bag-level working groups would also serve as a liaison between herder organizations, hay-making
groups, and community-based well-user groups to be organized and strengthened in connection with the
pastoral risk management component and the sum HLSCs, and act as a clearing house for proposals
submitted to the LIF fund by such groups. The HLSCs, with local consultant support, would assist herder
groups to organize themselves and to register as NGOs or cooperatives, to open a joint bank account in the
name of the group, and to mobilize a local contribution that would entitle them to establish and manage a
group-level revolving fund in support of winter preparation, hay-making, veterinary care or emergency
fodder purchase. The HLSC would also work closely with the sum RLF loan officer and any MFI branches
available in the sum, assisting poor households wanting income-generation sub-loans to make contact with
the RLF or with the branch of the MFIs.
6.3 How does the project involhe consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
National NGOs such as the Women's Federation, the Youth Federation and the Union of Private
Employers would continue to be represented on the National Committee on the Household Livelihoods
Capacity Support Program, as they were on NPAC, as well as on the HLSCs at aimag/duureg and suml
khoroo level. In addition, in pilot sums of the eight core aimags, HLSC composition would be broadened to
include representatives of local FIs as well as elected representatives of the sum and bag khurals
(assemblies). The pastoral risk management component would assist herder groups to establish themselves
as NGOs, cooperatives, or some other appropriate form of civil society organization.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Beneficiary selection and targeting criteria form an integral part of the Project Implementation Manual
(PIM). HLSC members will be trained in participatory approaches. The sum HLSCs and will have
- 43 -



responsibility for grassroots capacity building and social development. Women made up the majority of
sum PAC members under NPAP, and are also expected to dominate the HLSCs; this will facilitate dialogue
with women in the communities and will ensure that their priorities will be heard and acted on. An Ethnic
Minorities Participation Framework has been developed to promote the social development outcomes of the
project in those few areas in which ethnic minorities form a significant proportion of the population.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Poverty monitoring will rely on the National Statistical Office's newly revamped Household Income and
Expenditure Survey (incorporating LSMS modules) and the Poverty Research Unit established under the
UNDP/SIDA-financed Poverty Research and Employment Facilitation for Policy Development project.
Participatory M&E as an integral aspect of the proposed project will facilitate the feeding back of
beneficiary views on social outcomes into management decisions through the MIS. A baseline survey will
be conducted by March 31, 2003, and re-surveyed at mid-term review and end of project. Key social
development impact indicators will be tracked in the MIS, and participatory methods as used in the PLSA
will be incorporated. The option of establishing a 'panel' under the baseline survey will also be explored,
giving the option of tracking livelihood dynamics within a specific group of households over the life of the
project/program.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  * Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OPtBP 4.12)                         * Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes @ No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes S No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Environmental Assessment, Natural Habitats and Pest Management. The conduct of the environmental
assessment was consistent with OP4.0 1. A proposal for the project to finance the drilling of new wells was
rejected on the grounds that such actions would contravene OP4.04 - that is, the areas to receive new wells
would be 'natural habitats' (as defined within the Policy) that might incur 'significant conversion', and that
the altemative of rehabilitating broken wells was desirable and practical. Participatory community
monitoring of water quality and quantity, and of vegetation changes around these wells will be conducted to
inform water supply policy and future interventions. A proposal for the project to support means of
controlling vole populations using chemical means was rejected on the grounds that there was inadequate
safeguard that the means would be (as required by OP4.09) effective against the target species, have
minimal effect on the mammal non-target species with which the vole shares the grasslands, and take into
account the need to prevent the development of resistance. The project will, however, support
ecologically-benign, conununity-based measures that will help reduce vole populations such as the
enhancement of vole predators and increasing grass height to make the habitat less favorable to the voles.
At an earlier stage in project preparation, concern was raised that pesticides might be used on hay fields
supported under the project. In fact, pests are rarely an issue in hay-making and productivity of areas
- 44 -



allocated for hay can be increased simply by leaving animal dung deposited after the hay has been
harvested and by using snow me]t- or channel irrigation, whichever is appropriate. The Project
Implementation Plan (PIP) explicitly states that the project will not finance pesticides in support of
hay-making. In compliance with OP4.09, a pest management plan has been prepared covering all relevant
project activities; this plan is subsumed within the overall Environmental Management Plan.
Indigenous Peoples. There are over 30 different ethnic groups in the country. They are either the
descendants of Mongolian nomadic tribes, or groups of Turkic origin who have become Mongolized over
time. Khalkh Mongols are the national majority (90%) and also the ethnic majority in six of the eight
project aimags. Kazakh form the majority (89%) in Bayan-Olgii aimag, and Buriad are in the majority in
five sums of Domod aimag. Uvs is the most ethnically diverse of the project aimags; Dorvod and Bayad
are the main groups in the provir ce.
Cultural differences among these ethnic groups are relatively minor. Mobile pastoralism has traditionally
been practiced within Mongolia and throughout the Inmer Asian region. This common nomadic way of life
has fostered a relatively uniform culture over extensive areas, with large groups of people sharing similar
livelihoods, having frequent contacts with speakers of other dialects, and developing related social and
cultural practices over the centuries.
Ethnic distinctions among the MDngol subgroups are relatively minor, although some may have a stronger
sense of their own identity than others. While language differences and their Islamic beliefs may make
ethnic distinctions appear to be more marked between the Kazakh and the Mongol subgroups, Kazakh
livelihoods are not significantly different from those of the Mongol subgroups. Overall, however, language
or tribal differences have not become significant political or social issues in Mongolia.
The social assessment undertaken during project preparation concluded that the project will have negligible
negative impacts and more signi [icant positive impacts for all poor beneficiaries, including the ethnic
minority communities. An Ethnic Minorities Participation Framework has been prepared to help ensure the
participation of ethnic minorities in the Project.
Involuntary Resettlement. While no involuntary resettlement or land acquisition is anticipated, a
Resettlement Policy Framework was developed during project preparation to protect people who may be
negatively impacted as a result of the possible community demand for the construction and or rehabilitation
of small-scale infrastructure sub-projects, such as roads, bridges, buildings, structures, water supply and
sanitation facilities, and other civil works. Local officials confirmed that since rural Mongolia has a vast
amount of land with low density population, land acquisition will either not be necessary or will be
extremely rare. Demand for the r ehabilitation of small-scale infrastructure sub-projects will only be known
during project implementation.
Overall, compliance with the Bank's environmental and social safeguard policies will be addressed by an
integrated environmental and social screening process which will check for possible negative impacts
and for the necessary actions recLuired for sub-projects to be financed under LIF and LDF. Staff will be
assigned at the various levels who will provide orientation on the safeguards and on monitoring the
screening process and any required action. Details have been provided in the Environmental Management
Plan, and are described in the full EA/SA report.
-45 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Pastoral Risk Management: The PRM component has been designed to ensure the social, economic,
financial, institutional, and enviromnental sustainability of all activities under the component. All activities
have been designed with an exit strategy in mind and with the aim of enabling local people to implement the
activities themselves, even in the absence of project support, by the end of project In designing pilot
activities, the concern was to gain four years of experience in a reasonable number of field sites in order to
assess sustainability in both dzud and non-dzud years. The grazing and pasture management
sub-component would promote sustainable livestock-based livelihoods through the sustainable management
of herds and natural resources. The sustainable management of wells, and the rangeland around the water
points, would be ensured by pilot-testing and adopting a community-based approach to well rehabilitation.
The conmmunity would own the wells and form well-user groups that would charge user fees in order to
cover the cost of operation and maintenance. They would also be responsible for conducting monitoring
water quality and quantity, and monitoring vegetation changes around the wells in accordance with
guidelines to be devised in a participatory manner.
The herder self-help initiatives sub-component would build socially viable and sustainable forms of
cooperation at community level as a basis for implementing joint activities such as grazing management,
well-rehabilitation, hay growing, fodder stock-piling and veterinary care. Veterinary services, such as
control of parasites that threaten animals' winter survival, could be offered to herders for a fee. The
purpose of creating multi-purpose revolving funds at herder-group level would be to test whether a
group-level risk fund could be run and managed by herders themselves on a self-sustaining basis. This
might involve buying-in and reselling hay at a profit to cover transport costs and to keep the fund turning
over year after year.
The main objective of the hay and fodder enterprise development sub-component is to pilot-test various
business models to gauge whether commercial hay and fodder making can be financially self-sustaining, not
only in dzud years when demand for fodder is high, but also in non-dzud years when demand is low.
Likewise, the purpose of the aimag-level emergency fodder reserve pilots is to discover whether they can be
run as revolving funds on a financially sustainable basis. This would involve holding part of the stocks of
feed concentrates over their 3-4 year shelf life, and selling part of the stock in non-dzud years to renew the
stock and to cover operating expenses.
Micro-Finance Outreach: At the development objective level, the micro-finance outreach component
would contribute to sustainability within the livestock sector as a whole by providing an 'exit strategy' for
the newcomers to herding, and would enhance livelihood security and sustainability for this group
specifically. It is envisaged that the Micro-Finance Development Fund would become an autonomous apex
institution under Phase II of the program, which would represent a strong move towards sustainability
within the micro-finance industry. In the meantime, the MDF and supporting technical assistance services
would help to ensure that existing MFIs are stronger, are able to offer services on a sustainable basis to
currently under-served clients in remote rural areas, have access to training and good-practice information,
have improved and more reliable access to funding, operate within a conducive policy and regulatory
environment, and will be able to finance a higher percentage of their lending operations from savings
deposits. The index-based livestock insurance scheme would be implemented by private insurance
companies in the interests of long-run sustainability; Government's role would be to underwrite a stop-loss
provision only during the initial pilot phase. Once the feasibility and profitability of index-based livestock
insurance had been proven, the stop-loss provision would be phased out and replaced by international
reinsurance.
- 46 -



Local Initiatives Fund Component: The key to sustainability of the LIF is to facilitate its incorporation
into the government's regular process of resource allocation, through the budgetary process, and thereby to
gradually reduce its dependence on external funding. This is a medium term goal and one that will not be
achieved in the first phase of the program. However, it will be necessary to pilot initiatives and build a solid
foundation on the basis of which the fiscal decentralization process can be mainstreamed in the second and
third phases of the program. The pilot fiscal management initiative, to be implemented through
action-research in the last two years of the project, will assist in accomplishing this goal. MoFE is the
government body responsible for fiscal affairs, the budget process and allocation of government budget,
and in the interests of sustainability will take the lead in the Working Group for the LIF component and on
the fiscal management initiative directly.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   RiskR'atin'g            Risk; Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
No dzud: actions to reduce dzud could not  M         Pilots planned for all AEZs; dzud probability
be pilot tested; pastoral risk management            was a criterion in aimag selection.
might lose priority.
Severe dzud in Year I or 2: A. large-scale  M        Index-based livestock insurance scheme would
dzud could cause severe losses and                   help ease the financial losses.
overwhelm capacity while pastoral risk
management strategy is being established.
Several continuos dzud years: financial    N         Since pilot activities will be undertaken in
viability of models for emergency fodder             several aimags in different regions and AEZs,
reserves, pilot hay-making enterprises,             there will always be some project sites that are
and feed concentrate enterprises would be            not affected by dzud.
difficult to test.
Private insurance companies not willing to  M        Government stop-loss provision envisaged, to be
accept risk of piloting index-based                 financed under project.
livestock insurance.
Sector ministries opposed to iransferring  S         Government expected to maintain current
part of the budgetary resources currently            commitment to promoting decentralized fiscal
under their control at central level to local        management.
government at sum level (i.e. moving from
'tied' funds under LDF to an 'open menu'
under LIF ).
Government may change its current policy   S         Government has expressed its strong
of promoting decentralized fbscal                    commitment to this policy in the context of the
management and may not facilitate greater            I-PRSP and proposed Public Sector Finance and
availability of budgetary resources at the           Management Law (see Annex 11).
disposal of the sums/duuregs for
investment in basic infrastructure.
-47-



From Components to Outputs
Poor synergy between PRM                   M         Full-time PRM coordinator within HLSPO will
sub-components due to complex design                 coordinate activities under the guidance of
and limited implementation capacity.                 technical Working Groups at central and aimag
levels.
GoM continues to confuse PRM with          M         Staff training on PRM to be provided to MoFA
pastoral livestock development or                    & MoNE.
sustainable pasture management.
Limited interest on part of existing MFIs  N         Demand from potential partner institutions was
to work with the MDF or to service the               ascertained during project preparation and
rural poor.                                          appraisal.
The demands involved in making LIF         M         Considerable effort and resources allocated to
truly community-responsive are too great             training stakeholders at bag, sum and aimag
and the sum and aimag HLSCs are unable              levels in the principles, processes and dynamics
to manage the process on the scale                   of participatory, community-based planning and
envisaged, with the result that there are            prioritization. Detailed procedures and criteria
major delays in sub-project processing               have been developed and reproduced in the LIF
and/or the prioritization/selection process          PIM that will be regularly updated through
is compromised.                                      participatory user feedback. The procedures and
processing will be kept as simple as possible.
Mismanagement of the LIF at sum level      M         Resources are earmarked under the project to
due to lack of commitment and inability to           enable the sum HLSC to manage funds and
create an effective implementing capacity.           account for expenditure in a professional
manner. It will be necessary for the sum
govemors and khurals to make a commitment to
support the HLSC and to make physical and
financial resources available to help them do a
professional and accountable job. Indications
from all sum level officials interviewed were
that there is substantial support and enthusiasm
for the LIF and for the processes involved in its
execution.
Overall Risk Rating                         S        A substantial level of risk is appropriate since
Phase I aims to pilot institutional innovations in
each component that need to act in concert for
the overall project development objectives to be
realized.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
In analyzing and determining the critical risks, it is understood that there are risks associated with both the
project and the overall program. Moreover, at both of these levels, there will be risks associated with the
policy framework, with institutions, and lastly in the creation of assets and their sustainability.
- 48 -



The main risks associated with Ihe PRM component relate to: (a) the timing, frequency and severity of
dzud; and (b) poor understandir,g of the PRM concept. The risks faced by the MFO component are: (a)
slower than anticipated uptake cf on-lending to the intended client groups; (b) lower than anticipated
demand from MFIs for the techlical assistance services offered under the project; (c) collapse or
liquidation of RLFs before they can be strengthened; and (d) possible unwillingness of private insurance
companies to pilot index-based livestock insurance. The risks faced by the LIF component include: (a)
weak sum-level management capacity; (b) possible mismanagement of funds; (c) opposition by sectoral
ministries to transfer of resources formerly under their control to local government's discretion; and (d)
possible risk that GoM might change its fiscal decentralization policies.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Continued support for the local government-administered micro-credit scheme established under NPAP is
less controversial than it appear3. Under the micro-finance outreach component, limited and time-bound
support would be provided only to the best-performing of the existing RLFs with the aim of removing them
from government control and transforming them into independent, autonomous, and sustainable managed
micro-finance institutions. The justification for supporting the RLFs is that these are the only micro-finance
institutions currently serving the poor in remote rural areas; they were established in part with Bank
support and considerable (scarce) local capacity has been built that would be lost if all support were to be
withdrawn. Limited, time-bound support for the existing RLFs would be a transitional activity under Phase
I only.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
a) The Household Livelihoods Support Program Office (HLSPO) has appointed the following six core staff
members under terms of reference acceptable to IDA: a coordinator for each of the three main components
of the project (pastoral risk management, micro-finance outreach, and local initiatives fund), a procurement
officer, a disbursement officer, and an accountant [DCA, Article VI, Section 6.01(a), and Schedule 4,
paragraph l(b); PAD, Sections E.4.2 and E.4.4, and Annex 6, paragraph 4(a) and attached Financial
Management Action Plan].
b) HLSPO's financial reporting system is upgraded to produce Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) in a
format acceptable to IDA; the financial accounting system, including computer hardware and software, is
improved to a standard acceptable to IDA; and HLSPO accountants and participating aimag, duureg and
sum HLSC secretaries have been trained in financial management [DCA, Article VI, Sections 6.01(b) and
6.01(c); PAD, Section E.4.4, and Annex 6, Financial Management Action Plan].
c) The Project Implementation Manual (PIM) has been adopted in a form acceptable to IDA, including
separate sections dealing with: pastoral risk management, local initiatives fund, local development fund,
micro-finance operational manual, revolving loan funds, environmental management plan, resettlement
policy framework, ethnic minorities participation framework, financial management and reporting
(including format of FMRs as an appendix), procurement (including sample documents as appendices), and
monitoring and evaluation; and staff of the HLSPO and of the HLSCs in all aimags and duuregs, and in
the 16 sums selected to participate in the project for the first year of activities, have completed a training
course satisfactory to IDA on th1e provisions of the PIM [DCA, Article VI, Sections 6.01(d) and 6.01(e),
and Schedule 4, paragraph 3; PAD, Section C.4, Project Implementation Manual, and Annex 2, Project
Management component].
- 49 -



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Disbursement Conditions:
Sub-loans under the Micro-Finance Development Fund (Category 5, for around US$3 million
equivalent). No disbursement shall be made from this category until:
a) An adequate management information system (MIS) has been established to enable the Borrower to
monitor micro-finance activities and assess micro-credit portfolio quality, acceptable to IDA and consistent
with CGAP guidelines [DCA, Schedule 1, paragraph 3(b), and Schedule 4, paragraph 17; PAD, Section
C.l and Annex 2, Sub-components 2.1 and 2.2].
b) The Borrower has established the Micro-Finance Development Fund (MDF) with full legal power to
enter into Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLAs) acceptable to IDA with selected MFIs, the Micro-Finance
Development Board (MDB) has been appointed with a composition acceptable to IDA, the Micro-Finance
Management Office has been created with staffing acceptable to IDA, and the Micro-Finance Operational
Manual has been adopted by the MDB [DCA, Schedule 1, paragraph 3(c), and Schedule 4, paragraphs
3(a)(iii) and 9; PAD, Section C. 1 and Annex 2, Sub-component 2. 1].
c) A qualified MFI, selected under the provisions of the micro-finance operational manual, has entered into
a valid and enforceable SLA with the MDF, acceptable to IDA, to on-lend the proceeds of the Credit to
project beneficiaries [DCA, Schedule 1, paragraph 3(c)(ii), and Schedule 4, paragraph 11; PAD, Section
C.1 and Annex 2, Sub-component 2.1].
Sub-loans under the Strengthening of Revolving Loan Funds (RLFs) (Category 6, for around
US$500,000 equivalent)
d) No disbursements shall be made under this category until a detailed action plan has been prepared and
agreed with IDA, including: review of current operations and financial status, selection criteria for RLFs,
business plans for their strengthening, institutional responsibilities and on-lending termns and conditions for
additional funding under the project, flow and use of funds, and privatization strategy [DCA, Schedule 1,
paragraph 3(d), and Schedule 4, paragraph 13; PAD, Section C. 1 and Annex 2, Sub-component 2.2].
Insurance claimsfor the development of an index-based livestock insurance scheme (Category 7, for
around US$1 million equivalent)
e) No disbursement will be made in respect of the stop-loss amounts under eligible claims made against any
eligible insurance company until IDA has been provided with satisfactory evidence that the Borrower has
established an index-based livestock insurance program, the Borrower has executed a stop-loss agreement
with an insurance company, the participating insurance company has issued livestock insurance policies to
policy-holders, and one of the covered risks has occurred and eligible claims have been filed [DCA,
Schedule 1, paragraph 3(e), and Schedule 4, paragraphs 14(b) and 15; PAD, Section C. 1 and Annex 2,
Sub-component 2.3].
- 50 -



Other Conditions
Project management:
f) The Borrower will maintain, throughout the life of the project, levels of qualified and capable staff
acceptable to IDA in the HLSPCI, and in HLSCs in all participating aimags and sums [DCA, Schedule 4,
paragraphs 1(b) and 1(d); PAD, Section C.4, Sections E.4.1 and E.4.2, and Annex 2, Component 4].
g) The Borrower will maintain, throughout the life of the project, separate technical working groups at
national level with compositions acceptable to IDA to oversee and advise on implementation of the pastoral
risk management and local initiatives fund components and ensure consistency with national sectoral
policies [DCA, Schedule 4, paragraph 1(c); PAD, Section C.4, Section E.4.2, Annex 2, Component 4, and
Annex 13].
h) An MIS acceptable to IDA is operational throughout the life of the project [DCA, Schedule 4, paragraph
17; PAD, Section C.4, Section E.6.5, and Annex 6, Financial Management].
Implementation:
i) A communications and public awareness strategy acceptable to IDA shall be prepared by December 31,
2002 and it shall be implemented thereafter [DCA, Schedule 4, paragraph 7; PAD, Sections C. I and C.4].
j) A baseline survey shall be conducted, under terms of reference acceptable to IDA, to collect data to
support the monitoring of the outcome and impact of project activities, and shall provide the results of
such baseline survey to IDA not later than March 31, 2003 [DCA, Schedule 4, paragraph 18(b); PAD,
Section E.6.5 and Annex 1].
Financial:
k) A multi-year contract with an independent auditor, selected under procedures acceptable to IDA, will be
concluded by December 31, 2002 for the auditing of all project accounts and financial statements [DCA,
Article IV, Section 4.01 (b), and Schedule 4, paragraph 2; PAD, Section E.4.4, and Annex 6, Financial
Management].
I) HLSPO shall submit, by June 30 each year, annual audited project accounts and financial statements for
all components, the first of which is due by June 30, 2003 [DCA, Article IV, Section 4.01 (b)(ii); PAD,
Section E.4.4 and Annex 6, Financial Management].
m) HLSPO shall submit to IDA quarterly FMRs in a format acceptable to IDA, each due within 45 days of
the end of the preceding calendar quarter, and the first due within 45 days of the end of the first quarter
after Credit effectiveness [DCA, Article IV, Section 4.02; PAD, Section E.4.4 and Annex 6, Financial
Management].
Procurement:
n) Procurement plans for each calendar year of the project shall be submitted to IDA for review by June 30
of each preceding year, commencing in 2003; the procurement plan prepared at appraisal for the first year
of project implementation shall be updated by December 31, 2002 to cover the whole of calendar year 2003
[DCA, Schedule 4, paragraph 8; PAD, Section E.4.3 and Annex 6, Financial Management attachment].
- 51 -



Environmental and Social:
o) All project activities shall be carried out in accordance with the Environmental Management Plan dated
December 20, 2001; the Ethnic Minority Participation Framework dated December 16, 2001, and updated
on May 2, 2002; and the Resettlement Policy Framework dated December 20, 2001 [DCA, Schedule 4,
paragraphs 3(a)(v), 4, 5, and 6; PAD, Sections E.5.2, E.6.4, and E.7, and Annex 14].
Reporting and Monitoring:
p) An annual work plan and budget for each component, covering the next calendar year, should be
submitted to IDA for review by June 30 each year; the annual work plan and budget prepared for calendar
2003 shall be updated by December 31, 2002 [DCA, Schedule 4, paragraph 8; PAD, Section C.4].
q) HLSPO shall submit for IDA review, on or about January 31 and July 31 of each year, beginning in
January 31, 2003, semi-annual progress reports of works and activities carried out following the format
agreed in the adopted PIM, every second such report to incorporate the respective FMR for the preceding
calendar quarter [DCA, Schedule 4, paragraph 19; PAD, Section CA and Annex 1].
r) The outcome and impact of the project will be monitored using selected performance indicators, agreed
with IDA, as presented in the adopted PIM. HLSPO will submit for IDA review, on or about July 31 each
year, starting on July 31, 2003, an annual monitoring report on progress towards meeting the project
development objective. A comprehensive project impact evaluation report would be prepared and provided
to IDA on or about July 31, 2004 as an input to the mid-term review (MTR). Agreement shall be reached
between the Borrower and the Bank at MTR on an action plan detailing any required changes in program
design or implementation arrangements [DCA, Schedule 4, paragraph 19; PAD, Section C.4 and Annex 1].
s) In accordance with OP13.55 the Borrower will prepare a project completion report not later than six
months prior to Credit closing and provide assistance to IDA for the preparation of an Implementation
Completion Report [DCA, Article III, Section 3.03; PAD, Section C.4 and Annex 1].
Micro-Finance Development Fund (MDF):
t) Proceeds accrued from the repayment of loans to MFIs (principal, interest and fees) would be used to
establish and maintain the MDF as a revolving fund for on-lending for the same purposes and under the
same terms and conditions as those for under the original IDA credit, and as specified in the Operational
Manual. [DCA, Schedule 4, paragraphs 10(a) and 10(b); PAD, Section C. 1 and Annex 2, Sub-component
2.1].
u) By no later than March 31 and September 30 of each year, commencing on March 31, 2003, or such
other interval as the Borrower and IDA may agree, the Borrower would exchange views with IDA on the
level of interest rates charged on Subsidiary Loans to MFIs, and on sub-loans to final sub-borrowers, to
determine if such rates are positive in real terms and above the weighted average deposit rates prevailing in
the market at the time of the review and, with the prior concurrence of IDA, revise such rates, if required
[DCA, Schedule 4, paragraph  1(d); PAD, Section C. 1 and Annex 2, Sub-component 2.1].
(v) No later than June 30, 2004, the Borrower shall carry out a comprehensive assessment of the
performance of the MDF, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, to provide options for the future
development of micro-finance in Mongolia and viable altematives for the management and operation of the
MDF [DCA, Schedule 4, paragraph 9(c); and PAD, Annex 2, Sub-component 2.1].
t                                       - 52 -



w) No later than June 30, 2004, the Borrower shall provide to IDA the action plan mentioned in Section G,
paragraph (d) above, for the use o! the credit proceeds to strengthen selected RLFs with a view to their
privatization, and thereafter implement such action plan giving due consideration to IDA's views [DCA,
Schedule 4, paragraph 13].
H. Readiness for Implementation
0L 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
X 1. b) Not applicable.
2 2. The procurement document; for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation. Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacling and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[3 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Robin Means                      Mark D. Wilson                    Ian C. Porter
Team Leader                       Sector Director                  Country Director
- 53 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MONGOLIA: Sustainable Livelihoods Project
Key Performance                Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives                      Indicators                                                       Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:            Sector Indicators:                   Sector/ country reports:            (from  Goal to Bank Mission)
Equitable development & poverty     Goal Impact: (end of 12-year program  NSO Household Income and           HIES conducted to coincide with EOP
alleviation:                        (EOP))                               Expenditure Survey (HIES) with
Vulnerability reduced and sustainable  I.Poverty incidence reduced from 35%  LSMS modules
livelihoods achieved by targeted poor.  to 13% by EOP.                   Project PM&E system
Targeted poor defined as able-bodied  2.Percentage of target beneficiaries able MoFA's Information, M&E Dept
poor and near-poor households        to withstand external shocks increased
vulnerable to impoverishment in rural  by 100% by EOP.
and peri-urban arm.                  3.Dzud related animal deaths decreased MoFA
by half by EOP and HlH losing all
animals reduced by 60%
4.Percentage of herder HHs owning   NSO
durable goods (as specified in NSO
Statistical Yearbook, table 10.17 -
motorbike, tractor, TV, car, electnc
generators) increased from 15% to 25%
by EOP.
5. 78% school-aged children graduated  MoSTEC
at least from non-full secondary school
by EOP.
6.lnfant mortality reduced from 32% to MoH
29% by EOP.
Program    Purpose:                  End-of-Program      Indicators:     Program    reports:                 (from   Purpose to Goal)
Targeted poor implement improved     Phase In
sustainable livelihood strategies that  Nation-wide, the targeted poor are  Intensive Learning ICR with       Pastoral risk management systems
reduce vulnerability and create and  using improved and effective        end-of-Program stakeholder workshops  operate independently of state
maintain human, social, physical,    sustainable livelihood strategies to  to evaluate Phase impact. Advisory  mtervention.
institutional, financial assets     improve long term outcomes at HH and group, component working groups,
community levels: e.g.              project staffat all levels, Bank and  Other govemment programs in health,
I. Targeted beneficiaries build and  other donor staff, and beneficiary  education, and social protection are
maintain assets:                    representatives to participate.      implemented as projected.
*Human assets keep children in
school, seek training, information; use  Independently commnssioned Impact
health services;                    evaluation.
aSocial assets: form associations and
participate in decision making;
-Physical assets: invest in new
equipment & technologies, achieve
viable herds, diversify crops and
mcome generating assets; improve and
maintain basic local infrastructure;
*Natural assets: manage pastures and
other renewable natural resources in a
sustainable manner;
-Financial assets: invest, save,
establish new businesses;
2. Implement mechanisms and
strategies that reduce
vulnerability/risks due to shocks:
*% of herder HHs in pilot sums
adopting at least 3 improved PRM
strategies (using emergency forecasts as
a basis for rapid response; joining
herder organizations; preparing hay and
winter fodder, improving winter
shelters; controlling animal parasites);
*At least 8,000 HHs in MF pilot sums
using micro-finance facilities by EOP
(ex-RLFs + MOF partners);
-54 -



3. Supprrting public & private sector
strategies implemented (policies
adopted; programs, systems, services
and fiscal decentralization
institutionalized in public structures
and systems on a sustainable basis by
EOP).
Phase n
Phase I progranme scaled-up       Intensive Learning ICR with        Harmonization of approaches of donor
nation-wde, public supporting     end-of-Phase stakeholder workshops to  programs overlapping in the same
institutions being gradually      evaluate Phase impact and assess   aimags is feasible
institutionalized & targeted poor using  performance agamist triggers for
improved and effective sustainable  advancing to next Phase. Advisory
livelihood strategies to improve long  group, component working groups,
term outcomes at HH and conmmunity  project staff at all levels, Bank and
levels.                           other donor staff, and beneficiary
*winter preparation and improved  representatives to participate; results of
pasture nranagement adopted by 50K  independent evaluation as input.
of direct beneficiaries among herder
HHs;
*200%o of larget group have access to
nicrofinance services;
*access to functioning basic education
and rural health facilities increased by
20%.
Phase I
Effective approach to promoting   As for Phase 11                    Dzud occurs at least once in project
improved and sustainable livelihood                                  aimags to permit PRM piloting
strategies developed, demonstrated and
validated in pilot sums of core aimags
+ I duureg and ready for scaling up in
Phase II; project capacity for
implementing the approach developed
in core aienags and existing capacity
maintaincd outside core aimags.
- 55 -



Key Performance               Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives         |          1Indicaitors           ||                                     Critical Assumptions
Project Development               Outcome / Impact                   Project reports:                  (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                         Indicators:
Effective approach to promoting   Prolect Outcomes: (end of Phase D  Intensive Leaming Implementation
improved and sustainable livelihood  1.1 Improved PRM strategies     Completion Report (ICR)
strategies developed, demonstrated and  adopted In 143 sums of 8 core                                  A large-scale dzud does not overwhelm
validated and capacity created so that  aimags:                      project Evaluation Report         institutional capacity to cope while
these strategies can be replicated and  *proportion of HHs making adequate                             pastoral risk management strategy is
scaled up in Phase [l of the Program  winter preparations increased by 33%  Mid-Term Review (MTR)      being established,
in project areas by comparison with
start of project and/or non-project areas (Each to involve: project staff at all
representing similar ecological zones  levels, beneficiaries, advisory group,
*dzud-related animal losses reduced by component working groups, Bank staff
33% by comparison with start of   and other donors, and civil society
project and/or non-project areas  institutions)
representing similar ecological zones
,at least 50% of pasture land under  Annual performance monitoring reports
improved management in project areas
by comparison with start of project
*discernible, positive impact on
range-vegetation condition by
comparison with start of project and/or
non-project areas representing similar
ecological zones and precipitation
conditions, and as measured by NDVI
(data obtained from NOAA satellite
imagery) or similar indicator;
1.2 Mlcrofinance services available                                  Stable domestic economic, political,
and used by poor households to                                       and social environment with growth
build assets and smooth                                              rate of >3% p. a. and inflation <10%
consumption on a financially &                                         a
InstitutIonally sustalnable basis In                                 P
selected aimags:
* 100/o of target beneficiaries in selected
aimags use financial services
*quantitatively and qualitatively
measurable improvement in livelihood
security of target beneficianes (precise
indicators to be selected in design of
baseline survey)
*less than 10% of total loan portfolio of
selected RLFs past due
,selected RLFs achieve 50%
operational self-sufficiency
* 50% of selected RLFs receiving
additional funding privatized
*index-based livestock insurance
scheme developed and operational;
1.3 Infrastructure Improved and                                      GoM will institutionalize LIF scheme
well-malntalned with community                                       in budgetary process.
participation
*75% of target community members
satisfied with the procedure for the
identification, selection, and
implementation of sub-projects
*85% of target beneficaries of
sub-projects satisfied with
infrastructure activities implemented
*options identified for integrating
needs-driven public expenditure
allocation with regular local
government budgeting.
- 56 -



Output from    each                Output Indicators:                Project reports:                   (from  Otitputs to Objective)
Component:
1. An Integrated strategy developed, Sub Component 1.1 - Risk        Annual perfonnance monitoring reports A large-scale dzud does not overwhelm
piloted, and adopted In 8 selected  forecasling and contingency                                        mstitutional capacity to cope while
aimags for managing covariant risk  planning strengthened            Semi-annual progress reports      pastoral risk management strategy is
In pastoral livestock production,  1.1.1 Capacity of hydro-                                            bemng established
with a primary emphasis on risk    meteoro'ogical stations to generate  Semi-annual Bank staff supervision site
preparedness.                      weather forecasting data increased in  visits                       Adequate capacity building for project
16 sums of 8 core aimags                                             staffat all levels
1.1.2 Se mi-annual (April & August)  Quarterly FMRs
Early Wuming System Bulletins                                        UJNDP/Govt of Netherlands, ADB, and
provide meaningful messages for risk                                 WFAD-supported projects are
manageTnent and are received and used                               implemented as scheduled and their
as input to contingency planning by                                  interventions complement the SL
local authorities and herders in at least                            project.
the 8 ainiags
1.1.3 Risk-management and
contingency plans developed and
operational in 143 sums of 8 core
aimags to facilitate rapid response and
local act on when required
Sub-coniponent 1.2 - Grazing and
pasture management Improved
1.2.1 Community-based grazing
management systems revitalzed,
grazing cliscipline improved, and
pasture conflict effectively managed in
143 sums
1.2.2 Er ergency grazing reserves
rehabilitited, used and effectively
managea (2 inter-aimag reserves
rehabilitited including 6 wells
rehabilitated & 2 management plans;
inter-sun grazing reserves established
in 4 aimigs without access to inter-
aimag reserves including 16 wells
rehabilitated)
1.2.3 Around 430 wells rehabilitated in
under-us rd grazing areas and
effectively managed by herder groups/
communities, allowing pastures to be
brought back into use and local grazing
intensity to be reduced
Sub-component 13 -Herder                                             Agricultural and/or environmental
self-help groups established and able                                officers participate effectively as HLSC
to mobilize resources for risk                                       members and mobilize herder groups
management and livestock
productivity Improvement
1.3.1 Herder self-help groups
established and members trained in
organizational and business skills, and
effective group behaviors demonstrated
(e.g. mentoring of less experienced by
more experienced herders), facilitating
collective action where appropriate in
livestock production, processing and
marketin,g (430 groups in 8 aimags)
1.3.2 Mtlti-purpose revolving funds
successiilly managed by herder
self-help groups for risk-management
and livestock productivity-enhancing
activities including nucleus herd
breeding, purchase of veterinary drugs
and services, bulk hay and fodder
purchase, dairy processing, cashmere
sorting and grading, joint livestock   ._....
- 57 -



marleting, group-based animal theft/
predator control (192 groups, or around
45% of those initially established)
Sub-component 1.4- Commercial                                        Dzud occurs in at least one year in
viability of hay and fodder                                          some pilot areas of 8 core aimags to
enterprises demonstrated In dzud                                     allow business models to be tested
and non-drud years
1.4.1 Mechanized hay-makhng piloted
and commercial business model
(including marketing) successfully
demonstrated (2 irrigated, 3 rain-fed)
1.4.2 Hay-making with animal drawn
equipment piloted and commercial
business model (including marketing)
successfully demonstrated (60 HHs)
1.4.3 Conumercial concentrate feed
making piloted and commercial
business model (including marketing)
successfully demonstrated (4
companies)
1.4.4 Aimag- and sum-level
emergency fodder reserves managed on
sustainable basis (8 aimags)
2. Outreach of institutionally and  Sub-component 2.1 - Enabling     Annual performance monitoring reports Sufficient number of MFIs meet
flnancially sustainable micro-finance environment for micro-finance                                     qualifying criteria to obtain subsidiary
services to targeted poor and     outreach to poor established       Semi-annual progress reports      loans from MDF
near-poor vulnerable households   2.1.1 Micro-finance Development
achieved In selected aimags.       Fund established and subsidiary loan  Semi-annual Bank staff supervision site
agreements concluded with selected  visits
MFls for on-lending in 8 core aimags
2.1.2 Micro-finance products tailored  Quarterly FMRs
to the needs of the able-bodied poor and
vulnerable near-poor developed and
being taken up in 8 core aimags
2.1.3 Policy and legal framework for
MF outreach established
Sub-Component 2.2 - RLF                                              MFI law does not require RLFs to shut
strengthening & privatisation                                        down before their privatization
2.2.1 RLFs with >80% repayment rate
upgraded
2.2.2 RLFs with <80% repayment rate
restructured
2.2.3 Privatisation of RLFs piloted in
core aimags
Sub-component 2.3 - Commerelally                                     Weather-based and/or livestock
viable approach to livestock                                         mortality-based index accurately
Insurance developed and operational                                  reflects underlying risks and data
nation-wide                                                          remain free from manipulation by local
2.3.1 Weather-based and/or livestock                                 officials
mortality-based index developed for all
sums nation-wide                                                     Govemment-offered livestock insurance
2.3.2 Herders take up index-based                                    stop-loss provision is sufficient to limit
insurance in sufficient numbers that                                 losses for private insurance companies
scheme is profitable by end of project                               while scheme is developed
2.3.3 Participation of private insurance
companies is sufficient to meet demand
for insurance nation-wide
2.3.4 At least one insurance company
offering index-based insurance obtains
intemational reinsurance by end of
project.
3. EMelent, socially Inclusive, and  Sub component 3.1 - Investments  Annual performance monitoring reports Wider govemance and civil-service
transparent community- driven     made In community-identifed                                           reforms implemented as planned
mechanisms Identifled and         sub-projects nation-wide through   Semi-annual progress reports
established In selected admags to  local Investment funds (LIF and                                      Line ministries do not resist
execute investments In local      LDF)                               Semi-annual Bank staff supervision site community-driven, cross-sectoral
- 58 -



Infrastructure and social services,  3.1.1 I,IF has financed        visits                            financing inechanisms
and future plans agreed for       community-identified and -prioritized
Integrating them with regular Inter-  bag- arid sum-level sub-projects in 143 Quarterly FMRs         Communities able to
governmental budget transfers.    sums ofthe 8 core aimags and I                                      mobilize rcsources to make own 10%
duureg                                                              contributions
3.1.2 LDF has financed
community-identified and -prioritized
sum-level sub-projects in 13 non-core
aimags and 8duuregs
3.1.3 C'ombined community/ local
goveminent contribution amounted to
10% of total cost of sub-projects under
LIF.
Sub coimponent 3.2 - Training and                                   Change of national or local
capacily-bullding completed                                         governments does not lead to loss of
3.2.1 FlLSPO staff are familiar with                               institutional capacity built at all levels
operational modalities of LIF/LDF and
team built
3.2.2 Key national-level stakeholders
(NCHLCSP members, lkh Khural
members and Standing Committee
chairs, iaimag govemors and khural
membeis, senior line ministry officials,
civil socxiety representatives) have clear
understanding of LIF/ LDF and support
project itctivities
3.2.3 Aimag and sum HLSC members
(including FILSC coordinators, sum
govemcrs and khural members, aimag
and suni line-department officers, NGO
representatives) in 143 sums of 8 core
aimags and I duureg have clear
understinding of LIF operanonal
modalities and are able effectively to
mobilize communities in developing
proposals for sub-projects
3.2.4 A imag and sum HLSC members
in 13 non-core aimags and 8 duuregs
have clear understanding of modified
LDF op-rational modalities and are
able effectively to mobilize proposals
for sub-projects
3.2.5 G)mmunity mobilization and
leadership skills at bag level developed,
enabling, bag governors and other
community leaders to play lead role in
mobilizing community participation
and eliciting proposals for LIF
sub-proj xh
Sub comsponent 3.3 - Options for                                    Key policy reforns relating to fiscal
fiscal decentralization successfuuly                                decentralization/ inter-governmental
demons trated for wide                                              transfers identified by end of Phase I
Implemnntation under Phase 11                                       and ready for adoption durng Phase II
3.3.1 Best practices for fiscal
management agreed and an issues and
options paper prepared
3.3.2 Fiscal managemnent pilot
program; completed in 8 sums in the 8
core aimags in PY3 and PY4
3.3.3 Inpact and implications of
progmn; established and action plan
agreed fcr the extension of fiscal
decentral ization initiatives to other
areas.
4. Project management system      Sub coniponent 4.1 - Project                                        Change of inational or local
operational and policy framework  management system establshed and                                    governments does not lead to loss of
for promoting sustainable         operational                                                         institutional capacity built at all levels
- 59 -



LIvelihoods Improved.             4.1.1 HLSPO fully staffed (16 staff
members), tearn built, office equipped,                              Sufficient, qualified and experienced
and operational at central level                                    technical assistance locally available
4.1.2 Project managernent and
coordination system functioning at
aimag and sum levels (HLSCs)
4.13 Project nnplementation manual
used and regularly updated in light of
operational experience
4.1.4 Financial management and
procurement system established and
operational
4.1.5 Lessons learned from Phase I and
incorporated mto Phase If design.
Sub component 4.2 - Policy and
legislative support provided
4.2.1 100 people concerned with
policy/legislative initiatives conceming
sustainable livelihoods have better
understanding of the options and
opportunities for improving the policy
framnewoTk for sustainable livelihood
after participating in cross-sectoral
workshops
4.2.2 40 level decision makers better
able to fomnuLate policies and
legislation after participating in project
policy/legislative briefing sessions
4.2.3 200 representatives at bag and
sum leveLs present priority concerns
affecting formulation and
irnplementation of sustainable
livelihoods strategies in annual
workshops
Stab-component 4.3 -
Communications strategy developed
and program- relevant Information
disseminated
4 3.1 Conununications strategy
prepared, implications for radio
broadcasts and publications decided, and
strategy operational
.3.2 Regular radio broadcasts, as
proposed in the oommunications
strategy, reach target beneficianes
.3.3 Newsletters published and
disseminated as reconunended in
communications strategy
4.3.4 400 people participated in
orientation workshops held in she 8 core
iags, I pilot duureg, 13 non-core
aimags and 8 duuregs on project
operations
4.3.5 160 people including sum
governors, kaural chairs, bag governors,
uum HLSCs, NGOs, etc participated in
orientation workshops held in the 8 core
air4ags and I pilot duureg
Sub-comnpoasent 4.4 - Monitoring and
evaluation system and MIS developed
and operational
4.4.1 Integrated MIS and participatory
M&E operational and used for effective
management and decision-making
4.4.2 Training-of-trainers courses
conducted in participatory M&E
approaches and implementation
modalities
- 60 -



4.4.3 MIS data including PM&E
findings used as inputs for Mid-Term
Review and EOP Evaluation Report
Project Components I              Inpu1ts: (budget for each          Project reports:                  (from Components to
Sub-components:                   component)                                                           Outputs)
1.  Pastoral risk management          USS 5.70 million total cost for  Monthly site visits by almag HLSC  Competent technical assistance locally
1.1 Risk forecasting and              component I                    staffwith aimag-level PRM Working  available
contingency planning                                                 Group members
1.1 .1 Equipment procured for 16 sum  U;S$ 223,030 cost for
level hydro-meteorological stations (8  suls-component 1.1           Monthly review and quarterly      PRM Working Group members devote
autorated weather stations, 16 wind                                  monitoring meetings with national-level adequate time to oversight of
speed/direction meters, 16 power      1.1.1 US$ 80,552               PRM Working Group                 component imnplementation, and are
generators, 16 electronic scales for                                                                   able and willing to ensure good
measuring pasture yield)                                             Quarterly FMRs                    coordination between activities.
1. 1.2 Consulting services to assist in
developmg strategy for broadening                                    Semi-annual progress reports to the
inputs to Early Waming System                                        Bank
bulletins, data acquired, bulletins   1.1.2 USS 71,596
produced and distributed (new data to                                Semi-annual Bank staff supervision
include, long-range weather forecasting                              visits
data, NDVI for pasture yield calculated
using NOAA satellite imagery, market                                 Annual audited financial reports
information, livelihood well-being
indicators; 12,570 bulletins produced                                Annual work plan and budget review
over life of project)                                                meeting with PRM national-level
1 1.3 Consulting services to assist local                            Working Group (forward-looking)
govemments in 16 pilot sums to
develop risk-management and
contingency plans in PYI, and
development of training strategy and  1.1.3 USS 70,882
delivery of training to assist remaining
127 sums of the 8 core aimags to
develop saiie by EOP
1.2 Grazing and pasture
management
1.2.1 Preparation of land-use maps and  US$ 1,645,330 cost for
community-based grazing-              sut-component 1.2
management plans in 16 pilot sums
during PYI, and training strategy and  1.2.1 US$ 241,681
delivery of training to assist local
authonties to develop same for
remaining 127 sums in 8 core aimags
by EOP, with attention paid to seasonal
pasture rotation, conflict management,
group-based pasture tenure, ecological
approaches to rodent control, etc (42
person/ months consulting services &
direct costs)
1.2.2 Two fodder storage facilities
constructed for 2 inter-aimag grazing
reserves, 8 engineered wells
rehabilitated, and management plans   1.2.2 US$ 115,677
prepared with consultant support; and
16 wells rehabilitated in inter-sum
grazng reserves in 4 aimags
1.2.3 430 wells rehabilitated on
under-utilized pastures in 8 core
aimags, executed by herder groups!
communities
1.3 Herder self-help groups           1.2.3 USS 1,287,973
1.3.1 48 person/months consulting
services (12 each year) to deliver
training/ capacity-building support for
around 430 herder self-help groups in  USX; 1,999,742 cost for
143 sums of 8 core aimags (training of  sub-component 1.3
leaders and members, assist in opening
bank accounts and legal registration)  1.3.1 US$ 79,742
1.3.2 Time-bound, matching loans
made available to 192 herder self-help
- 61 -



groups for eligible activities as
specified in PIM (loans to cover 50% of
total cost of sub-projects of an average
size of US$ 10,000)                  1.3.2 US$ 1,920,000
1.4 Hay and fodder enterprise
development
1.4.1 Equipment procured for
hay-making and feed concentrate
production enterprises (9 tractors, 6
tractor-drawn rakes, 3 balers, 24
animal-drawn mowers, 24              USS 1,295,393 cost for
animal-drawn rakes, I feed grinder, I  sub-component 1.4
feed mixer) and made available to pilot
enterprises on lease or hire-purchase  1.4.1 US$ 666,657
basis; 2 irrigation systems rehabilitated;
I building renovated
1.4 2 Storage facilities for 8 aimag
-level and 16 sum-level fodder banks
constructured or rehabilitated (cost of
fodder met separately from
Govemment budget under existing
inter-govemmental loans scheme)
1.4.3 40 personJmonths of consulting
services for the development of      1.4.2 USS 562,284
management plans for revolving fodder
banks and for business management
services to pilot hay-making and fodder
enerprises
Component Management and
Implementation                       1.4.3 USS 66,452
Proportionate share of HLSC vehicle
and equipment costs, incremental
staffing, and recurrent costs (vehicle
O&M, office peripherals, field
allowances, honoraria for working
group members).
Training events and workshops (8
aimag and 16 sum-level orientation
workshops; technical training for local  USS 364,228
officials and herders in 16 sums; and
training of trainers workshops.
USS 170,872
2.  Rural micro finance              USS 6.01 m total cost for     Monthly review and quarterly     RLFs continue to operate during the
Sub-component 2.1 - Estabtishment    component 2                   monitormg meetings of MDF Board  transition period
of MIcro-finance Development Fund
- Office start-up costs; international  2.1 a US$ 205,164          Quarterly FMRs
study tour, consulting services for                                                                 MDF is able to find partner MFls
market research, strategy development                              Semi-annual progress reports to the  interested in profitably servicing the
and new products design; training                                  Bank                             poor
- Total cost of micro-finance sub-loans
(financed @75% from creditline to                                  Semi-annual Bank staff supervision
selected MFls)                       2. lb US$ 4,000,000           visits
Sub-component 2.2 - Strengthening
of Revolving Loan Funds                                            Annual audited financial reports
- Consulting services in training and
upgrading RLF performance; assistance
to RLFs qualifymg for top-up funds
- Top-up fumds for qualifying RLFs   2.2a USS 108,012
Sub-component 2.3 - Index-based
Livestock Insurance Scheme
- Consulting services for design of
index, training workshops, information  2.2b USS 500,000
carpaign
- Stop-loss provision
Component Management and             2.3a USS 124,325
Implementation
Incremental staffing of MDF office in
- 62 -



Bank of Mongolia, office equipment,   2.3b IJS$ 1,000,000
and recurrent costs (office peripherals
and equipmcnt O&M, honoraria for
MDF Board members, field allowances   US$'15,828
for HLSC staff in supervising RLFs).
3.  Local Initiatives Fund            USS '1.16 million total cost of  Monthly site visits by aimag HLSC  Timely disbursements and liquidity of
Sub component 3.1 - LIFILDF           component 3                    staffwith aimag-level LIF Working  Agriculture Bank, and continued good
Actvity Implementatlon                                               Group members                     perfornance and management once
- pilot LIF activities in 2 sums from  3. Ia IJSS 3,962,000 total cost of                              privatized
each of the 8 core aimags and one     LIF s ib-projects              Monthly review and quarterly
duureg during the first year                                         monitoring meetings with national-level Competent technical assistance locally
- begin implementation of LIF in all                                 LIF Working Group                 available for participatory training
sums in eight core aimags                                                                              methodology
- financing of LDF operations in 13                                  Quarterly FMRs
non-care aimags and 8 duuregs         3. lb IJSS 3,504,000 total cost of
Sub-component 3.2 - Training &        LDF sub-projects               Semi-annual progress reports to the
Capacity Building                                                    Bank
- NGO/research institution
contracted to work with HLSPO in      3.2 USS 249,452                Semi-annual Bank staff supervision
design & implementation of training                                  visits
program
Training programs implemented:                                       Annual audited fiancial reports
- workshop for HLSPO staff
- national workshop for key                                          Annual work plan and budget review
stakeholders                                                         meeting with LWF national-level
- orientation workshop on LIF for 8                                  Working Group (forward-looking)
core aimags and one duureg
- orientation workshops on LDF for 13
non-core aimags
- aimag HLSC training of trainers
- sum/aimag training on community
mobilization, administration, and
facilitation
- sum/aimag reorientation on new
operations of LDF
- bag/sum training sessions on
leadership, community mobilization
and development, and participation
- technical training on demand
Impact assessment of training and
capacity building activities completed
after Ist year of implementation, for
subsequent modification of training
program based on experience from Ist
year
Sub-component 3.3- Pilot Flscal
Management InItIative                 3.3 US$ 105,925
-   Request for proposals for fiscal
management initiative
- Research contract prepared by
HLSPO
- Draft workplan for fiscal
management initiative prepared,
discussed & workplan finalized
- Pilot initiative implemented in I
sum in one of 8 core aimags in PY3
and PY4
- initial pilot activities evaluated &
training material prepared for extension
into 7 more sums (I per aimag)
Component Management and
Implementation
Proportionate share of HLSC vehicle   USS 1,341,836
and equipment costs, incremental
staffing, and recurrent costs (vehicle
O&M, office peripherals, field
allowances for incremental staff and
technical backstopping, honoraria for
- 63 -



LIF Working Group members).
4. Management and Policy Support     USS 1.25 million total cost for  Quarterly FMRs                  Government pre-fnances start-up costs
Sub-component 4.1 - HLSPO            component 4                                                      of HLSPO, making use of retroactive
I x 4WD Vehicle, 17 computers, MIS                                  Semi-annual progress reports to the  fmnancing if desired
development, office furniture, 16 staff  USS 684,408                Bank
members (ong-term consultants on
fixed-term contracts), and vehicle/                                 Semi-annual Bank staff supervision
office equipment O&M costs                                          visits
Sub-component 4.2 - Policy &
Legislative Support                                                 Annual audited financial reports
Cross-sectoral technical workshops,
High-level policy-makers briefing    US$ 93,032
sessions, sum/bag demand-focused
policy workshops, studies and surveys
(including baseline survey)
Sub-component 4.3 - Informatdon
Disseminatdon and Communications
Development of commnunications
strategy, radio program development &
broadcasts, preparation & distribution
of newsletters
Sub-component 4.4 - Project          US$ 180,049
Orientation and Training
Orientation workshops for 8 core
aimags & I pilot duureg, 13 non-core
aimags & 8 duuregs
Sub-component 4.4 - Monitoring       USS 20,565
and Evaluation
Design & testing of M&E system,
training of trainers in participatory
M&E, mid-tern review, end of Phase I
evaluation, auditing.                 US$ 270,113
- 64 -



Attachmeiit 1: THE THREE PEIASES OF THE PROGRAM
Phase I                       Phase II                         Phase Hi1
Component I     4 sub-components:             Successful activities from Phase I  PRM program fine-tuned for
Pastoral Risk   Risk forecasting & c ntingency  extended nationwide;         sustainability, and institutionalized in
Management      planning                      New components added:          regular GoM activities;
Grazing & pasture management  - Livestock marketing (opportunistic Herder groups prepared for phase-out of
Herder self-help initiatives  pre-winter culling/"strategic  donor support;
Hay & fodder enterprise       destocking)"                   Marketing expanded nationwide;
development                   - Livestock production systems  Differentiation/intensification of
intensification & diversification  production systems: coexistence of
(peri-urban)                   extensive, semi-intensive and intensive
production;
US$ 5.70 million total cost   US$ 13.0 million base cost      US$ 18.0 million base cost
IDA share US$ 4.12.m          IDA share US$ 8.Om             IDA share US$ 8.Om
Component 11:   Establish Microfinance        MDF becomes financially and    MDF programme continues nationwide;
Micro-Finance   Development Fund (MDF);       institutionally self-sustaining;  New products consolidated nationwide
Outreach        New financial products piloted by  New products extended by MFIs
MFls
Upgrade local                 Privatised RLFs in 8 core aimags
government-admini;tered       become financially self-sustaining
Revolving Loan Fwuds (RLFs)
RLF restructuring/privatisation in  RLF privatisation in non-core  Privatised RLFs in non-core aimags
143 sums of core aimags       aimags                        financially self-sustaining
Index-based livestock insurance  Index-based livestock insurance
scheme developed and operated  scheme operated by private
by private insurance companies,  insurance companies on full
backed by Government stop-loss  commercial basis with
provision                     intemational reinsurance and no
need for public stop-loss
provision
10% of targeted poor in core  20% of targeted poor have access to 50% of target poor have access to
aimags have access to         micro-finance                   micro-finance
micro-finance
US$ 6.01 million total cost   US$ 6.2 million base cost       US$ 12.1 million base cost
IDA share US$ 5.00m           IDA share US$ 4.2m             IDA share US$ 6.1m
Component III:  LIF operations for sum and    LIF extends nation-wide (340 sums) 2-window LIF operational nationwide
Local Initiatives  bag-level projects p:iloted for I year                     fine-tuned for sustainability beyond EOP
Fund           in 2 sums of the 8 core aimags
Full LIF operations from PY2 in
143 sums of 8 core aimags
LDF: I-window fazility for sum  LDF ceases to operate, having been
level projects operates in all sums supplanted by LIF
of 13 non-core aimags
Pilot fiscal decentralization  LIF brought into budget in core  LIF brought into GoM budget nationwide
initiative begins in 2 sums of the  aimags
8
core aimags in PY 3 and PY4.
Budget share: 10% from       Budget share: 40% from          Budget share: 70% from government;
community/government and 90%  govemment; 10% from community;  10% from community; and 20% from IDA
from IDA                      and 50% from IDA
US$9.16 million total cost    US$ 15.1 million base cost      US$ 14.6 million base cost
IDA share US$ 8.52m           IDA share US$ 7.6m              IDA share US$ 3.2m
Component IV:   Includes establishment of HLSPO  Includes capacity building for  Includes fine-tuning and consolidation of
Management &    capacity building for pilot activities nationwide program extension to  activities in 340 aimags; full integration
Policy Support  in 143 sums in core aimags, plus  340 aimags + national policy  in GoM budget and programs
policy initiatives            initiatives
- 65 -



US$ 1.25 million total cost    US$3.0 million base cost        US$ 3.0 million base cost
IDA share US$ 1.08m            IDA share US$ 2.Om              IDA share US$ 2.Om
Total Program   US$ 22.12 million total cost   US$37.3 million base cost       US$47.7 million base cost
IDA share US$ 18.73m           IDA share US$ 21.8m             IDA share US$ 19.3m
- 66 -



Attachment 2: Performance triggers for successive credits, by component:
Pastoral Risk Management
Triggers from Phase I to Phase II:
* institutional framework for PRM established and functioning at national level and in core
aimags;
* integrated sum-level contingency and grazing management plans formulated and under
implementation in all sums of the selected aimags;
* socially inclusive herder organizations established and well functioning in over half of sums in
the selected aimags;
* group-based approach to well rehabilitation and management successfully pilot-tested;
* PRM strategies developed and successfully tested for at least two AEZs; and
* at least three of the following activities proven successful and ready for scaling-up in Phase II:
herder group self-help initiatives, commercial hay making (with mechanized or anirnal-drawn
equipment) and feed concentrate production, or aimag- and sum-level emergency fodder
reserves.
Triggers from Phase II to Phase III would include:
* institutional framework for PRM in place and functioning nationwide on all levels (national,
aimag, sum, bag, herder groups);
* PRM strategies developed and successfully tested for all AEZs/herding systems;
* mechanisms to support opportunistic pre-winter marketing of cull animals by herder groups
successfully piloted; and
* evidence of GoM commitment to institutionalize PRM in its regular programs.
Micro-Finance Outreach
Triggers from Phase I to Phase 11:
* Micro-Finance Development Fund established and operational;
* micro-finance products tailored to the poor developed and successfully piloted in core aimags;
* less than 10% of total loan portfolio of selected RLFs past due
* selected RLFs achieve 50% operational self-sufficiency
* 50% of selected RLFs receiving additional funding privatized; and
* index-based livestock insurance scheme developed and operational and, ideally, at least one
participating insurance company has secured international reinsurance.
Triggers from Phase II to Phase m would include:
* Micro-Finance Development Fund achieves financial and institutional self-sufficiency;
* substantial improvement in micro-finance outreach to the poor in rural areas (20% of
population in selected aimags have access to micro-finance services);
- 67 -



*   at least 50% of ex-RLFs privatized under Phase I achieve financial viability by the end of
Phase II; and
*   RLF credit operations in additional aimags successfully privatized.
Local Initiative Fund
Triggers from Phase I to Phase II:
*   management capacity at sum level created/strengthened and operating effectively in the
implementation of LIF;
*   the process of identifying and selecting projects carried out so that community priorities are
fairly and accurately reflected including the priorities of women and youth;
*   the management and flow of funds are competently handled with no misappropriation of funds
and with minimum delays, as reflected in clean audit opinions;
*   a commitment has been made by government to make available to the sums discretionary funds
for local investment as identified through the LIF and the necessary legal and policy
instruments have been put in place to allow the LIF to be incorporated into the regular
government budgetary process;
*   the output indicators stipulated in the component logframe have been met or exceeded; and
*   a participatory monitoring and evaluation system is in place and operating effectively.
Triggers from Phase II to Phase III would include:
*   agreed levels of revenue generation by sum governments have been attained;
*   legislative and policy reforms have been adopted and implemented nationwide; and
*   fiscal management capacity created and procedures to ensure accountability are in place in all
sums and duuregs that will participate in phase 3 LIF operations.
- 68 -



Aknnex 2: Detailed Project Description
MONGOLIA: Sustainable Livelihoods Project
Overview
The project development objeclive is: "an effective approach to promoting improved, secure, and
sustainable livelihood strategies developed, demonstrated, and validated in selected areas, and institutional
capacity created so that these strategies can be replicated and scaled-up in Phase II of the program". Four
investment components aim to deliver the outputs that in combination would achieve this development
objective over the first four years (Phase I) of the three-phase, 12-year program:
1. The Pastoral Risk Management (PRM) component: an integrated strategy developed, piloted, and
adopted in eight selected aimags for managing covariant risk in pastoral livestock production, with a
primary emphasis on risk preparedness. In combination with other project components, this component
airns to reduce the vulnerability of herders and enhance their resilience to drought, dzud and other shocks
through testing and developing approaches in support of risk forecasting and contingency planning; grazing
and pasture management; herder self-help initiatives; and hay and fodder enterprise development;
2. The Micro-Finance Outreach (MFO) component aims to improve the access of the poor to financial
services by creating a micro-finance apex facility for wholesale lending to MFIs; strengthening existing
revolving loan fund operations in sums and khoroos (rural and urban districts) and facilitating their
conversion into viable private sector entities; and developing a commercially viable, index-based approach
to livestock insurance;
3. The Local Initiatives Fund (LIF) component would improve the access of the poor in rural and
peri-urban areas to basic infrastructure by supporting local investment funds including the creation of a
new community-responsive financing window (the LIF) and the funding of a modified Local Development
Fund (LDF), providing training and capacity-building support, and undertaking an action-research
initiative to identify options for fiscal decentralization; and
4. The Project Management and Policy Support component would establish a decentralized management
system for the project, which would also be responsible for support to formulation of policy reforms,
communications, monitoring and evaluation, and fiduciary oversight including external auditing.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$5.70 million
Pastoral Risk Management
Guiding principles:
*   Base component activities on participatory decision-making processes with broad stakeholder
involvement, and strengthen the capacity of herders and local authorities to play active roles.
* Apply flexible programming based on a guided, learning-by-doing implementation strategy.
*   Build on what already exists, and in particular on related programs supported by MoFA.
- 69 -



Approach:
The PRM component primarily concems measures to improve risk preparedness by herders and local
authorities. It supports the implementation of Govenmment Resolution 47 on measures to protect against
losses from drought and dzud, but does not attempt to deal with all aspects of this Government program.
Support for risk preparedness should also be viewed in the context of other stages in a notional risk 'cycle',
as follows:
* Risk Avoidance and Preparedness: It is important to distinguish between: (i) long-term strategies for
risk reduction and avoidance, which prepare the herding economy and authorities on an on-going basis
for stress periods, such as winter, and for unexpected shocks; and (ii) annual (short-term) planningfor
risk which includes activities that prepare the herding households for regular (foreseeable) stress
periods such as occur during the winter months.
* Responding to Risk: The response to risk arising once a risk turns into an acute threat and then
hardship and damage dictates immediate action. It is more likely that successful action can be taken if
good planning and preparatory steps have been taken by all stakeholders involved. Actions piloted by
the project would pursue immediate and integrated solutions.
*   Recovering from Damage: Recovery from damage is vital to livelihood security and sustainability.
Until the household economy has recovered, it remains vulnerable to new risks. Any recovery process
in the context of risk management should be understood as a new step towards renewed preparedness.
The level of damage/loss and the support needed at this stage are determined, on the one hand, by the
gravity of the calamity and, on the other hand, by the quality, quantity and coordination of actions
during the previous stages.
To achieve this integrated approach, the PRM component would: test and consolidate economically viable,
region-specific, risk management strategies for improved disaster preparedness; build up technical
capacities for the implementation of these strategies; and put in place the necessary organizational
mechanisms at each administrative level.
Description of investment required:
The PRM component consists of four sub-components: (i) risk forecasting and contingency planning; (ii)
grazing and pasture management; (iii) support for herder self-help groups; and (iv) hay and fodder
enterprise development. Capacity-building measures are incorporated into each sub-component. Activities
would vary by AEZ and herding system in response to herder demand. Micro-finance services for herders -
notably development of an index-based livestock insurance scheme - also support the overall goals of the
PRM component and are considered under the Micro-Finance Outreach component description below.
1. Risk Forecasting and Contingency Planning: This sub-component would support the improvement of
the emergency forecasting system (improving weather forecasting, incorporating additional information in
the emergency forecasting system, improving the dissemination of forecast information to herders, and
improving the use of forecasting information for rapid response) and the development of sum-level risk
management or contingency plans in all sums of the eight core aimags. Three activities are envisaged:
(i) strengthening of sum-level hydro-meteorological services to improve coverage of weather forecasting
information - the project would finance central procurement by HLSPO of equipment for sum-level
meteorological stations, including: wind direction/speed meters, power generators, and electronic scales for
assessing pasture yield for 16 sums in the 8 core aimags, and automated weather stations for 8 sums;
- 70 -



(ii) development and dissemination of Early Warning System Bulletins - the project would finance
consulting services to assist MaFA's Information, Monitoring and Evaluation Department and the Institute
of Hydro-Meteorology in broadening the range of data used in EWS bulletins published in April and
August each year to include: long-range weather forecasting data; NDVI remote-sensing data for range
vegetation monitoring; market information; and livelihood well-being indicators. Information dissemination
would be in hard copy from cerLtral to aimag levels, and from there via the existing network of short-wave
transceivers to sum and bag levels. Financial support would also be given for data acquisition and for the
development and dissemination costs involved in producing the EWS bulletins; and
(iii) development of sum-level contingency plans - drawing on the EWS bulletins and locally gathered
indicators, various stages of alert would be defined (normal, alert, alarm, emergency), each of which would
trigger a series of pre-planned actions at sum level with clearly defined institutional responsibilities. Local
consulting services would assisi: in developing such contingency plans for 16 sums, and in developing
training materials and conducting training activities to enable technical staff in the 8 core aimags to
develop similar plans for the 127 remaining sums in the 8 core aimags over the next two to three years.
2. Grazing and Pasture Management: Three activities are envisaged in support of this sub-component:
(i) community-based pasture m anagement - the project would finance local consulting services to assist
herder groups and sumlbag officials in the development of pasture management plans for 16 pilot sums in
the first year of the project, and to develop training materials and a training strategy to enable the 8 core
aimags to develop similar plan s for the remaining 127 sums in the 8 core aimags over the next two years.
Preparation and application of Ihe pasture management plans would involve require some or all of the
following steps being carried ollt with herding communities: identification and mapping of seasonal grazing
areas; scheduling of pasture rolation; the application of appropriate group-based pasture tenure options
under the land law (e.g. possession contracts); making arrangements for negotiating reciprocal rights of
access with other communities or herder groups during risk episodes; establishing and adopting procedures
for conflict management; developing ecological approaches to rodent control; and participatory monitoring
of range vegetation condition;
(ii) emergency grazing reserve rehabilitation and management - the project would finance the
rehabilitation of two inter-aimcg grazing reserves (known as otor reserves) in Kherlenbayanulaan
(bordering Khentii and Tov aimags) and Argalant (bordering Gov'Altai and Bayankhongor aimags),
including: the rehabilitation or construction of fodder storage sheds, the rehabilitation of aroumd 8 existing
engineered wells in these resenres, and consulting services to support the development of management plans
for these facilities. Fodder stockcs should comprise primarily high-quality, long-life fodder (only a small
proportion of hay), to be financed under an existing Government program, with management costs involved
in the tumover of fodder stocks to be defrayed from the sales of fodder to the users of the emergency
grazing reserves. In addition, the project would support the re-establishment of inter-sum otor reserves in 4
of the 8 core aimags without access to inter-aimag reserves by financing the rehabilitation of around 16
existing engineered wells in these grazing reserves; and
(iii) group-based well rehabilVation and management - the project would finance the rehabilitation of an
estimated 430 existing engineered wells in areas of high-quality yet currently under-utilized pasture in the 8
core aimags, beginning with an average of two wells in each of the 16 pilot sums selected for the first year
of the project The selection of wells for rehabilitation would be made by herder groups in a participatory
manner, and on the basis of the community-based pasture management plans to be developed under the
project. Clearly identified herder/ well-user groups would be responsible for operation and maintenance
(O&M), and would contribute around 10% of the cost of sub-projects in the form of labor, rnaterials, and
- 71 -



O&M responsibilities. Procurement would follow similar procedures as under the LIF component (small
works or community-contracting).
3. Herder Self-Help Groups: Strong herder groups are regarded as the key to successful pastoral risk
management at community level. This sub-component would therefore focus on establishing and
strengthening herder self-help groups above the khot ail (social herder unit) level, based on existing
patterns of cooperation between herder households; and on supporting their initial development through
time-bound, matching loans:
(i) Organizational strengthening - the project would finance local consulting services to facilitate the
creation of herder self-groups and provide training for eligible new and existing herder self-help groups in
16 pilot sums in business and organizational skills, including assistance in legal registration and opening of
a group bank account, and in developing proposals for activities eligible for matching loan support. The
consultants would also develop training materials and a training strategy for scaling-up this approach
beyond the initial 16 pilot sums, to cover all 143 sums in the 8 core aimags. Eligible groups would include
existing residence-based groups and khorshoo (cooperatives). Groups may register as khorshoo or NGOs
under existing law. It is anticipated that an average of around three such groups in each sum would receive
such support (i.e. a total of around 430 groups); and
(ii) Time-bound, matching loans - on a clearly time-bound basis (e.g. 1-2 years), eligible herder groups
would be able to access 50:50 matching loans via their local HLSC (with repayment terms specified in the
PIM, but initially based on those adopted for the RLFs under the Micro-Finance Outreach component, i.e.
interest payable 10% per annum, with a maximum loan term of one year) for eligible sub-project activities,
based on an initial mobilization of savings from the group's own resources. Eligible activities would include
but need not be restricted to: nucleus herd breeding, purchase of veterinary drugs and services, hay and
fodder purchase and/or production, dairy and other livestock product processing, cashmere sorting and
grading/ auctions, joint marketing activities, and group-based animal theft or predator control.
Cost-recovery would need to be sought within the group (e.g. for bulk-purchases of fodder or veterinary
supplies) so as to preserve and build up group capital as a revolving fund. Access to progressively larger
loans within the initial period would be contingent on demonstrated success in financial management and
repayment of the initial loan. Beyond the period of eligibility for matching loans, herder groups would be
required to seek micro-finance on a commercial basis (e.g. as developed under Micro-Finance Outreach
component). Groups may also wish to use revolving funds as means to restock poorer member households
as appropriate, although this would not be an eligible activity for the initial matching loans. Repayments
from the matching loans would accumulate in revolving funds at the aimag level, managed by the aimag
-level HLSCs/ PRM working groups, to be used for the same activities on an ongoing basis. It is
anticipated that less than half of the initially supported groups would be eligible for and access time-bound,
matching loans (a total of around 192 in the 8 core aimags).
4. Hay and Fodder Enterprise Development: This sub-component entails two activities:
(i) testing and demonstration of business models for hay andfodder enterprise development using
alternative technologies - the project would pilot three commercial hay-making models with existing,
private entrepreneurs using altemative technologies: (a) mechanized hay-making using tractor-drawn
equipment under rainfed conditions (3 enterprises - 1,400 ha each); (b) mechanized haymaking under
irrigated conditions (2 enterprises - 200 ha each); and (c) household-based hay-making using animal-drawn
mowers (120 households - 45 ha each); and (d) the project would also pilot small-scale fodder, feed, and
concentrate production to assess its commercial viability (4 companies). The objective would be to test
whether the enterprises could become commercially and financially viable in both emergency and
non-emergency years. The challenge for financial viability is for hay makers to sell their hay in years when
there is little or no dzud threat.
- 72 -



For the mechanized models, the project would finance replacement of tractors and tractor-drawn equipment
(mowers, rakes and balers) which would be contracted to selected enterprises on a hire-purchase basis, or
under a lease arrangement with an option to buy at the end of project. Incremental operating costs would be
bome by the enterprises. For animal-drawn production, the project would finance two pairs of draught
animals (horses or yaks) plus aniimal-drawn mowers and rakes, which would be contracted by local
government to households on a hire-purchase basis or under a lease arrangement with an option to buy at
the end of project. The irrigated model would also involve the rehabilitation of two irrigation systems, for
which the procurement of works under national competitive bidding would be required. This investment
would be cover by the project (no cost recovery of investments from the beneficiaries), with possible water
user fees to cover the cost of O&M on the part of local authorities or by water user groups. For the fodder
concentrate enterprises, the project would finance the rehabilitation of buildings and replacement of
equipment; and
(ii) supportfor aimag- and sum-levelfodder reserves - management models for fodder reserves/ fodder
banks would be tested in the 8 core aimags to ascertain whether they are able to recover their operating and
overhead costs from fodder sales both in bad years and in good years when there is limited dernand for their
services. The project would finance the rehabilitation or construction of storage facilities, and local
consulting services for the development of business management plans. Government would finance the
fodder stocks under an existing program which provides loans to local government for hay and fodder
purchase.
Although the PRM component rmay appear relatively complex, not all activities would be undertaken in all
sums or even all aimags. In particular, activities such as hay and fodder production pilots, concentrate feed
making, ecological approaches to rodent control, and inter-aimag emergency otor reserve rehabilitation
would only be implemented in selected sums and aimags. Herder self-help group-based activilies such as
stock theft and predator control, breed upgrading, cashmere auctions, dairy production, and joint marketing
would be implemented on a demand-driven basis. The expected distribution of project activities across the
eight core aimags is described in the following table:
Regional Distribution of PRM Activitdes   Bayan   Uvs   Bayan    Ovor   Omno    Dund   Tuv Dornod
Ulgil _       khongor khangal  gobl _gobi
1. Risk forecasting and contingency planning                                            _
Strengthening sum-level hydro-meteoAlogical services  x     x       x       x       x      x      x    x
Development & dissemination of EWS bulletins          x      x      x       x       x      x      x    x
Development of sum-level contingency plans           -      x       x              _ x  _         x    x
2. Grazing and pasture management
Community-based pasture managemert                    x      x      x       x       x      x      x     x
Inter-sum emergency grazing reserves                  x      x              x           _
Inter-aimag emergency grazing reserves                              x               x      x      x
Group-based well rehabilitation                       x      x      x       x       x      x      x     x
e.g. ecological approaches to rodent control                                x              x      x
3. Herder self-help grou lnitdatdves
Organizational strengthening  _     _I x                     x           I  x       x      x      x     x
Time-bound, matching loans                            x      x      x       x       x      x      x     x
Demand-driven activities (breed improvement, marketing, etc.)  x  x  x      x       x      x      x     x
e.g. group-based stock theft and predator control  ?         x _X__                                    X
4. Hay and fodder enterprise develcpment
Household-based, animal-drawn hay making              x      x      x       x          _          x     x
Mechanized, rainfed hay production                    x      x                          _         x     x
Mechanized, irrigated hay production                         x  I_                           __I
Feed concentrate production                                     I_       I   x                    x     x
Local fodder reserve management                       x      x  I   x       x       x      ax     x     x
- 73 -



Implementation arrangements:
The project would finance a PRM component coordinator within HLSPO (long-term consultant) to take
primary responsibility for overseeing component implementation, and would establish technical PRM
Working Groups at central level and each of the 8 core aimags to advise on component implementation.
The national level PRM Working Group would also help to assess the policy implications of the evolving
program, and channel priorities identified at sum, bag, and herder-group levels into national policy and
planning processes. The aimag working groups would act in an advisory capacity to their respective aimag
-level HLSCs. Support is also provided for PRM project implementation groups at sum and bag levels,
with the main emphasis placed on capacity building through training workshops at sum, bag, and
herder-group levels.
Central level. The technical Working Group to advise on project implementation has been established at
national level, with eight members. Three members represent divisions of MoFA; namely: Livestock and
Water Supply Division (the Chief of which chairs the Working Group); the Policy and Planning Division;
and the External Relations Division. An additional member represents MNE, drawn from either the Land
Administration Authority or the Institute of Hydrology and Meteorology. Two civil society representatives,
both specialists in pastoral risk management, serve as advisory members. They are drawn from among the
Mongolian State University of Agriculture, a research institute or NGO, and/or a professional association
such as the Mongolian Graziers Association. Two HLSPO staff members, the PRM Coordinator and the
Project Coordinator, are ex-officio members of the Working Group; the PRM Coordinator serves as
secretary to the Working Group.
The terms of reference of the PRM Working Group are to: ensure that GoM policies are adequately
reflected in the component activities; provide technical advice to HLSPO on the content of policy and how
to implement it; prepare and revise the PIM in the light of experience and in consultation with the World
Bank; prepare and approve terms of reference for the required consulting services and assist in the
preparation of consultant short-lists; advise on the preparation of tender/ bidding documents for the
procurement of goods or works under international and local shopping and small works procedures;
receive, review, and comment on progress reports on the implementation of the PRM component produced
by HLSPO staff; together with HLSPO staff, conduct field site visits to evaluate and monitor performance;
and support discussion and formulation of policy reforms, when suggested by project experience. The
Working Group shall meet regularly on a monthly basis.
Aimag Level. PRM working groups would also be established in the 8 core aimags, drawn from existing
technical staff within the aimag local government structure. The aimag working groups would perform
similar role to the central Working Group, but in an advisory capacity to their respective aimag HLSC.
The aimag HLSC would play a supervision/ evaluation and technical backstopping role, although it would
be directly responsible for the implementation of certain some activities (e.g. well rehabilitation in inter-sum
grazing reserves).
Sum and Bag Levels. The sum HLSC would carry the main responsibility for execution of PRM
activities, and would have direct responsibility for some two thirds of the component's activities. The
HLSC will include those relevant technical specialists on staff in that sum, whether they are primarily
responsible for agriculture, livestock/ animal husbandry, or environmental inspection. Working closely with
bag governors (also members of the HLSC) and in the context of public meetings of the bag khural, the
HLSC would encourage interested herders to form herder groups and participate in component activities as
appropriate.
- 74 -



Project Component 2 - US$6.01 rrilillon
Micro-Finance Outreach Component.
Sub-component 1: Micro-Finance Development Fund (MDF)
The objective of the component is to expand the outreach of financially and institutionally sustainable
micro-finance services to targetecl poor and vulnerable non-poor households and individuals in remote rural
areas of the eight core aimags. This first sub-component includes the creation of a Micro-Finance
Development Fund (MDF, the Ftnd) as a wholesale lending facility to accredited Micro-Finance
Institutions (MFIs) for on-lending to the target population (sub-loans), with the aim of expanding and
diversifying livelihood sources arid rural incomes. The day-to-day management and operation of the MDF
would be carried out by the Micro-Finance Management Office (MMO, the Management Office), to be
established within the Bank of Mongolia (BoM, the Borrower's Central Bank), in accordance with a
Micro-Finance Operational Manial (the Operational Manual) acceptable to the Bank. This MMO would
be supervised by a Micro-Finance Development Board (MDB, the Board), which would review the
operation of the Fund, the credit activities (loans and sub-loans), and the strategic decisions on policy
matters. The Board would comprise representatives of the GoM (MoFE, BoM, HLSPO), the private sector
(Banking Association, commercial banks and microfinance institutions), and academia. Proceeds accrued
from the repayment of the subsidiary loans by the MFIs would be maintained in the MDF for re-lending for
the same purposes and under the same terms and conditions as those under the original IDA credit. The
sub-component would include also substantial technical assistance resources to promote the strengthening
of the MFIs and to the development of the microfinance industry in Mongolia, including: (i) to help selected
MFIs prepare and implement adequate business plans; (ii) to identify (through market research) and
develop new micro-finance products tailored to local demand and market conditions; and (iii) to develop the
legal and regulatory framework required for the efficient operation of non-banking financial institutions
(NBFIs) as micro-finance intermediaries. As conditions for the disbursement of IDA funds allocated to
this sub-component for the micro-finance sub-loans (Category 5, for a total equivalent to around
US$3 million), the Borrower would: (a) establish a MIS adequate to monitor micro-finance portfolio
quality (in accordance with CGAP guidelines); (b) adopt an Operational Manual acceptable to IDA
for the implementation of the siLib-component; (c) establish and maintain during project
implementation the Micro-Finance Development Fund (including the Board and the Management
Office) under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA; and (d) accredit MFIs and sign Subsidiary
Loan Agreements (SLAs) for the disbursement of subsidiary loans, in compliance with the
accreditation criteria and the terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual.
Operation of the MDF. The daily management and operation of the MDF (as a commercial wholesale
banking facility) would be the responsibility of MMO, which will be adequately budgeted, well equipped
and with qualified staff to be able to perform its duties and responsibilities. The MMO would maintain
separate accounts (according to internationally acceptable accounting practices) for the sub-component (to
be audited annually by private auditors), and would present quarterly progress reports to the HLSPO
concerning its operations, as well as the documentation required to fully support the disbursements from the
credit account. MMO would handle day-to-day operations of the funds in accordance with a
Micro-Finance Operational Manual (the Operational Manual) acceptable to the Bank. The main sections
of the Operational Manual include: (i) governance and management of the MDF; (ii) eligible sub-projects;
(iii) type of financial institutions to be eligible to participate in the project; (iv) qualifying (accreditation)
criteria for MFIs; (v) uses of funds (lending and sub-lending); (vi) terms and conditions (currency, lending
rates, maturity, sub-project financing, collateral, default, and prepayment) for loans to MFIs and sub-loans
- 75 -



to final beneficiaries; and (vii) environmnental protection, audit, supervision and reporting. A draft
Operational Manual was reviewed by the Appraisal Mission and found to be satisfactory. In order to
ensure a full coordination and efficient use of credit resources, MMO's implementation of policies and
lending operations would be supervised by a inter-institutional Micro-Finance Development Board (MDB),
to be established with representatives from the Borrower's MoFE (as chair), HLSPO, and BoM, as well as
representatives from the private sector (i.e., Mongolian Banking Association, commercial banks, and
micro-finance institutions), and academia. The Director of MMO would serve as Secretary of the Board.
As part of the Project's Mid-Termn Review, the Borrower and the Bank agreed to carry out a comprehensive
assessment of the institutional and financial performance of the Micro-Finance Outreach Component, in
general, and of the micro-finance development fund, in particular. Based on the results of this review,
Terns of Reference would be prepared for a more detailed and in-depth study of the micro-finance sector in
Mongolia, with the special objective of outlining alternative options for the future of the MDF. One of the
main options to be explored would be the privatization of the MDF, where the resources available could be
used by the GoM as its contribution to the equity of a new independent and financially autonomous apex
micro-finance institution. Consequently, the future of the MDF would be discussed in the context of the
preparation or the Phase II of this APL, and the irnplementation of the agreed actions included in the design
of this Phase II.
Uses of Funds. The funds under the MDF would be lent to accredited MFIs, according to a pre-agreed
selection criteria, under signed Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLAs) acceptable to IDA. Proceeds accrued
from the repayment of the subsidiary loans by MFIs (including principal, interest and fees) would be used
to establish and maintain the MDF as a revolving fund for re-lending for the same purposes and under the
same terms and conditions as those under the proposed IDA Credit. These MFIs would provide mainly
short-term sub-loans to project beneficiaries in the target areas (individuals, households, micro-enterprises,
and other juridical persons) to finance working capital for their viable initiatives. If needed, medium-term
loans (up to three years) to finance small capital investment would also be granted. Sub-loans under this
sub-component would be expected to average around US$400 for individual households and around
US$ 1,000 for micro-enterprises (employing at least two persons outside the immediate family). IDA
financing under subsidiary loans to MFIs would not exceed the equivalent of US$I million for any
individual MFI during the period of implementation, unless otherwise agreed with IDA.
On-lending Arrangements. The proceeds of the IDA credit allocated to this sub-component (Category 5,
amounting to around US$3 million) would be made available directly from the Special Account to support
sub-loans approved by accredited MFIs. The HLSPO would disburse and transfer (in local currency),
through MDF, the amounts required to cover those sub-loans approved, in accordance to the terms of SLAs
signed with the MFIs. These subsidiary loans to selected MFIs will be provided under lending terms to be
adjusted periodically according to criteria that fully reflect market interest rates. The lending variable rate
of interest will be adjusted monthly and intended to be equal to the adjusted cost of medium-term deposits
in local currency in the local market to avoid introducing distortions in the local market or discouraging the
mobilization of savings by the financial intermediaries. A market-based indicator, reflecting the actual cost
of loanable funds in the banking system, to be used as a reference for setting and adjusting these interest
rates would be agreed upon, as indicated in the Operational Manual, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
The Borrower would assume the full foreign exchange risk and the interest rates on the loans to MFIs
would cover this foreign exchange risk, as well as all administrative costs incurred in the establishment and
operation of the MMO, and the credit risk associated with the subsidiary loans to MFIs. The on-lending
terms from MFIs to final sub-borrowers (on the sub-loans) would be determined freely by the MFIs,
according to market forces and their assessment of the associated credit risks and adequate margins. These
rates should be sufficient to cover the cost of funds and their operating expenses, as well as provisions for
possible loan losses and adequate level of profits, to allow for further lending expansion to the target
- 76 -



population without undermining their prudent equity to risk asset ratio. The Borrower, through
MDF/MMO, would exchange views and discuss possible adjustments with IDA on: (i) the interest rates on
subsidiary loans to participating MFIs; and (ii) the level of interest rates charged by MFIs on sub-loans to
final sub-borrowers. This would be done twice a year, not later than March 31 and September 30 each
year, commencing on March 31, 2003.
Process ofMFIAccreditation. In order to safeguard the MDF's financial assets and its long-term
sustainability, and to ensure a successful implementation of the micro-finance sub-component, the MFIs
would be selected based on agreed accreditation criteria to be detailed in the Operational Manual. The
accreditation criteria ensure that the participating MFIs pass the tests of legality, solvency, liquidity,
profitability, efficiency and lending performance, ownership and management capacity. Selection would
involve two steps: (a) the MFI would have to meet the requirements specified in the Operational Manual,
based on a thorough evaluation of its financial performance and operations, in order to receive
accreditation; and (b) once the accreditation is decided, the final credit evaluation would be based on the
proposal by the MFI on how to use the project's funds to provide sub-loans to the target beneficiaries in
compliance with the project's overall objectives and strategy.
In principle, the following institutions would be allowed to participate: commercial banks, joint-stock urban
and rural banks, cooperatives, credit-granting NGOs, and any other financial institution interested in
micro-finance activities that meets the related accreditation criteria and is legally authorized to provide
loans under the existing legal framework.
Accreditation Criteria. The main criteria include the following elements:
(a)    BoM Regulations. MFIs would comply with all BoM regulations, particularly those related to the
review of loan portfolio and other risk assets, definition of past due loan accounts, loan classifications, and
adequate provision for expected loan losses. In the case of banks, compliance with BoM' s minimum
capital requirements is a necessary condition for accreditation. In the case of non-banking institutions, they
would have to meet other criteria as specified in the Operational Manual and provide collateral at the
discretion of the MDF.
(b)    Solvency Requirements. Eligible MFIs would comply with a minimum net equity base of at least
8% of their risk assets. The net equity base would be computed applying the criteria established by the
Bank for Intemational Settlements ("Basel" or BIS), at the time of accreditation. In addition, eligible MFIs
would maintain a net past due over equity of not more than 25% and a Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR),
defined as equity over risk assets:, of not less than 10%. The eligible cooperatives and credit-granting
NGOs would maintain a net capital (or fund balances for NGOs) ratio of at least 12% of the risk assets.
(c)    Liguidih. Eligible MFI:s would comply with minimum liquidity ratio (liquid assets over short-term
deposits and bills payable) of not less than 30%.
(d)    Profitability Requirements. Eligible MFIs would demonstrate their profitability in real terms
during the life of the sub-loans, measured by the Return on Equity (ROE) of return on earning assets. If
their profits obtained are positive in real terms, then it would be considered that the real profitability
criteria has been met.
(e)    Oualitv of Portfolio. The eligible MFIs would have to maintain a net overdue rate of not more than
10% of the loan portfolio (where net overdue means total overdue loans less loan provisions).
(f)    Ownership. Managemernt. and staff Oualitv Requirement. MFI's ownership, management, and
staff quality should be satisfactoiry to MDF. This would include qualified management team of good
reputation, presence of adequate and qualified staff, sound operation policies and procedures, compliance
with all relevant laws, decrees, and regulations.
- 77 -



If an existing MFI does not meet the criteria, it could be selected to receive technical assistance to prepare
an Institutional Development Plan (IDP) and to receive adequate training, as long as it agrees on a detailed
timetable for its institutional strengthening and for achieving full compliance.
In the event that a MFI already accredited loses its accreditation status (having failed to meet one or more
of the accreditation criteria), then MDF would: (i) cancel the uncommitted portion of the line of credit
granted to the MFI; (ii) take the necessary actions to safeguard the committed portion extended to the said
MFI; and (iii) notify IDA on actions taken.
Structure of the Micro-Finance Management Office (MMO). The institutional structure of the MDF
would be established prior as a condition of disbursement for the funds allocated to the sub-component. As
the unit in charge of the operation of the MDF, the MMO would be responsible for implementing the
sub-component in compliance with the Operational Manual. It would handle day-to-day matters related to
implementation of the micro-finance sub-component and manage the resources in available in the Fund on
behalf of the GoM. The MMO shall be operationally independent from the BoM and would maintain a
separate account for all project activities, which would be annually audited by private independent auditors.
The MMO would have the following five key responsibilities: (i) MFIs evaluation and accreditation; (ii)
appraisal of subsidiary loan proposals presented by qualifying MFIs; (iii) monitoring and evaluation of
loans and sub-loans; (iv) accounting and disbursement; and (v) environmental screening. The staff of
MMO would comprise a Director and a minimum of 8 permanent staff.
Sub-component 2: Strengthening of Revolving Loan Funds (RLFs). This sub-component seeks to
improve the operational performance and financial health of the existing, local government-owned and
-operated micro-credit RLFs that were created at the sum level under NPAP. The process of strengthening
these RLFs would include: (i) review of their governance and management arrangements; (ii) collection and
analysis of information on current operations and on-lending arrangements, quality of loan portfolio, and
financial statements; (iii) selection of best-performing RLFs, which have the best chances of achieving
financial sustainability; (iv) design of business plans for the selected RLFs to help them improve their
efficiency; (v) provision of financial resources to help the selected RLFs approve new sub-loans, according
to their business plans, and improve their portfolio quality and financial situation; and (vi) eventual
privatization of the best-performing RLFs. Those RLFs qualifying for privatization would have four
options: (a) to become a savings and credit cooperative, that is legally able to offer members savings
services as well as credit services; (b) to register as a NGO, along lines similar to the network of sum and
aimag level NGOs that make up the Mongolian Women's Federation; under current law, they cannot
legally offer savings services to potential clients; (c) to dissolve the RLF and 'graduate' clients into existing
financial institutions, such as registered banks or non-banking financial institutions (NBFIs), although
recognizing that there may be a reluctance on the part of banks and NBFIs to accept any but the very 'best'
clients; or (d) become a fully-fledged NBFI or an accredited branch office of an existing NBFI. Once
privatized, these institutions may put themselves forward for possible selection, provided they meet the
qualifying criteria, as accredited MFIs eligible for loans from the MDF. As conditions for the
disbursement of IDA funds aUlocated to the provision of sub-loans by the selected RLFs (Category 6,
for a total equivalent to about US$ 500,000), the Borrower would: (a) establish a MIS adequate to
monitor micro-finance portfolio quality; and (b) prepare a detailed Action Plan for the use of these
Funds, acceptable to IDA, with the objective of strengthening the selected RLFs. This Plan would
include the institutional arrangements and responsibilities, the on-lending terms and conditions, the criteria
for the selection of RLFs eligible to receive new financing for sub-loans, the purposes and uses of these
sub-loans, as well as the steps to be taken towards the eventual privatization of these RLFs.
- 78 -



Sub-component 3: Development of an Index-based Livestock Insurance Scheme. During the first year
of the project, international and local consulting services would be financed to assist in the development of
a risk index, on the basis of which eligible, participating private insurance companies would offer livestock
insurance to individual herders, herding households, or other juridical persons owning livestock to cover
covariant risk arising from dzud, drought, or other weather-related events. The index, based on objective,
third-party verifiable indicators such as weather data, livestock mortality rates, and/or indices of range
vegetation condition (e.g. a nonnalized, differentiated vegetation index (NDVI) derived from processing of
satellite imagery), would differentiate relative risk at an appropriate level (most likely at sum level) based
on historical data. Indemnities under the scheme would be triggered once the index exceeded a given
threshold level specific to that sum. Insurance cover would be for productive activities including: the
replacement value of livestock; the value of goods or services to support risk preparedness and/or enhance
livestock productivity, such as hay and fodder production or purchase, acquisition of veterinary drugs and
services, construction of livestock shelters, and breeding services; and/or the value of goods and services to
allow policy-holders to engage in alternative or supplementary livelihood strategies. Payments to
participating insurance companies, for claims paid to policy-holders against covered risks and for such
productive activities, would be rmnade when the aggregate amount of those claims exceeds the agreed level of
liability, as specified in a stop-loss agreement between the Government and the participating insurance
company. The project would also finance training workshops for participating insurance companies and
public officials involved, and a nationwide information campaign to publicize the scheme and attract
policy-holders. The scheme would be launched during the second year of the project, and would be
expected to become profitable by the end of the project. The role of Government during the start-up phase
of the scheme (project years 2 to 4), would be to assume liability beyond the level agreed with participating
insurance companies by undertaking to finance the stop-loss payments from the proceeds of the IDA credit.
This stop-loss provision would take the place of international reinsurance, which would be unlikely to be
attracted until commercial viability of the scheme could be demonstrated. Conditions of disbursement of
IDA funds to finance the stop-loss amounts (Category 7, for a total equivalent to US$ 1,000,000)
would be the provision of evidence to IDA that the index-based livestock insurance scheme has been
established, that stop-loss agreements have been concluded between Government and any
participating insurance company, that insurance policies have been issued, that one of the covered
risks has occurred, and that claims under these policies have been filed. Under Phase II of the
Program, the index-based insurance scheme would be expected to operate in a financially and
institutionally sustainable manner, without the need for Government to offer a stop-loss provision.
Insurance companies offering index-based livestock insurance would then be expected to seek intemational
reinsurance.
Project Component 3 - USS 9.11i million
Local Initiatives Fund
Guidingprinciples in design cof the component:
*   respond to the community lpriorities and particularly those of the more vulnerable segments in those
communities;
* provide funding for both rural and peri-urban areas, with the prime focus being rural an(d the selected
eight core aimags;
*   build on the experience and capacity developed under the LDF and continue to support its operations
nationwide during a transitional period;move the main focus for fund management and decision maldng
from the center and aimag to the sum;
- 79 -



*   require a compulsory community contribution of 10% to the financing of sub-projects selected under
the LIF; and
*   operate through an 'open menu', but one that would be 'steered' by a negative and positive list of
sub-projects, with the positive list based on sub-projects that have been proven to be successful, are
economically/socially 'viable', sustainable in operating/maintenance terms, and where relevant are
consistent with development policies, priorities and plans.
Approach:
Component design was guided by the need to: (i) balance between regional and national initiatives; (ii)
facilitate convergence between the old LDF and the new, community-driven LIF; (iii) progressively
incorporate the LIF into the government budget; (iv) harmonize community-identified project priorities with
government plans and policies; (v) develop effective communication strategies to ensure transparency and
accountability; (vi) ensure that the projects benefit poor and vulnerable groups; and (vii) guarantee that
women are actively involved in project prioritization, selection and planning.
The LIF's target group are all members of sums and bags in the core aimags. The project will be driven by
the active participation of all these communities and will invest in sub-projects that have been identified,
prioritized and selected by them. They will be allowed to propose projects from an 'open menu', in practice
the community mobilization/ planning process will use as a guideline a 'positive list' and a 'negative list'.
The negative list comprises: predominantly private economic goods that would result in establishment or
rehabilitation of private assets; activities that would benefit relatively few households; activities that could
have negative environmental impacts or negative social consequences; activities that would result in the
rehabilitation or construction of religious facilities; and/or activities financed from other sources.
The HLSC, particularly at the sum level, will expend considerable resources to ensure that the sub-project
identification and selection process provides accurate representation of the target communities priorities. In
deciding on the combination of sub-projects to be included, sums will assign priority to sub-projects that:
*   respond to the priority needs of the community as these are publicly articulated;
*   result in the greatest benefit to the benefiting households;
*   demonstrate a positive 'gender balance';
*   reach the greatest number of poor/ vulnerable households;
*   benefit the maximum number of households; and
*   involve rehabilitation/ repair rather than new construction; and have the minimum additional recurrent
cost implications and an assured method for covering these costs.
Description of investment required:
The LIF component involves three sub-components: (i) local initiatives funds, (ii) training and capacity
building, and (iii) a fiscal decentralization initiative.
(i) Local Initiatives Funds. Two separate investment funding facilities would be financed under this
activity: the Local Initiatives Fund (LIF) and the Local Development Fund (LDF).
The Local Initiatives Fund (LIF) is a new fund that will be piloted in the eight core aimags and one
duureg. Financial ceilings for all sums participating in the first phase of the SLP have been established as
follows: $8,000 for sums in the core aimags and $15,000 for the pilot duureg. These amounts will be
reviewed on an annual basis by the LIF Working Group for those sums in the core aimags and may be
increased based on a number of criteria such as poverty levels, implementation performance, and
fund-management capacity (a detailed description of the operating guidelines is provided in the "LIEF
Project Implementation Manual").
- 80 -



Local Development Fund: The main objective of the LDF is to provide financial resources to small-scale
poverty-related projects at the sum and bag level. Similar to the LIF, the key operating principle of the
LDF will be to ensure communily participation at the sum, khoroo and bag level in the identification of
priorities and the formulation andi implementation of projects. The key difference between the LDF and the
LIF will be that the appraisal and approval of all LDF sub-projects will be undertaken at the aimag level
for sum-level projects, and at Ulaanbaatar level, for the duureg-level projects. The review and approval of
these sub-projects would come fiom the aimag and Ulaanbaatar Household Livelihood Support Councils.
In addition, all sums participating in the LDF will have a financial ceiling of $4000. The policies and
procedures used under the NPAI' for implementation of the LDF will continue to be used for the SLP. A
detailed description of the implementation guidelines is provided in the "LDF Project Implementation
Manual".
The activities of the LIF component will be divided into three Phases with durations of four years each,
over the 12-year duration of the SL Program:
*   Phase 1: The LIF and LDF operate independently of each other during the first phase. The LDF will
carry out its activities only in the 13 non-core aimags and eight duuregs while the LIF will operate
only in the 8 core aimags and one duureg. In addition, during this phase a contract will be provided to
a research institute to consider options for integrating the LIF into fiscal government budgets;
*   Phase 2: The LDF will cease to operate and its activities will be fully merged into the LIF. During this
phase, pilot-testing of approaches to fiscal decentralization will begin. A decision would need to be
reached prior to appraisal oi Phase 2 on the proposed geographical coverage of LIF under Phase 2, but
it would be intended to extend beyond the 8 core aimags, perhaps to national level; and
*   Phase 3: Phase 3 would see full integration of an LIF-type mechanism with regular government
budgeting and planning process for activities at the sum and bag level nationwide.
Within Phase 1 of the program (i.e. the project), the LIF would be implemented in two distinct stases:
*   Ist Stage: The principal objective of this first stage is to pilot the basic operations, procedures and
processing involved in implementing and managing the identification, prioritization, selection, and
implementation of sum and bag-level projects in two sums of each of the eight core aimags. During
this period, various procedures will be tested, refined, and modified, if necessary, before full
implementation of the LIF in all sums of the eight core aimags.
*   2nd Stage: Provided the re;3ults of the first two stages are successful, the LIF will begin to provide
financing for bag-level, inter-bag, and sum-level projects in all 143 sums within the 8 core project
aimags starting in the project's second year.
- 81 -



Summary of LIF Component Implementation Strategy By Phase
PHASE I
PHASE II       PHASE III
Stage 1           Stage 2         (4 years)      (4 years)
(lst year)        (3 years)
pilot process and
implementation in 2  143 sums from 8  nationwide
LIF        sums from each of  core aimags & 1   (LDF merges     nationwide
the 8 core aimags     duureg          into LIF)
and I duureg
L  3 non-core aimags  13 non-core aimags  merge  t  cease to exist
LDF          and 8 duuregs     and 8 duuregs     operations
begin research in
identify research   2nd year and    b     lmted    integration of
Fiscal      institute/NGO to   thereafter begin  fegi sl e        LIF with
Decentralization  conduct action-   action-research  d    iscala     government
research       activities in PY3  ecentralization  budgeting
I .   and PY4
Under Phase I of the project, the LDF will continue to operate as it did under NPAP with regard to
methodology and implementation in all aimags/duuregs, other than the 8 core aimags and one duureg in
which the LIF will be piloted during Phase 1.
The project will implement the LIF in parallel with the normal budgetary process, much in the same way as
the LDF operated under the NPAP. However, during the first phase of the program a number of processes
will be initiated which will facilitate its transformation into a community-based funding mechanism to
provide local government with discretionary funds to meet high-priority capital expenditures in the sums
and bags. This will involve the following: demonstration that the sums can manage the identification,
planning and implementation of local investment projects (through the 'parallel' LIF program), creating an
enabling policy and legislative framework to permit the transfer of resources from central to local level,
creating the financial capacity at sum level to efficiently manage and be accountable for the funds (LIF),
and piloting in a few selected sums the operation and management of the LWF under a reformed budget
procedure.
(ii) Training and Capacity Building. Because of the importance of community participation, the
complexity of managing such processes successfully, and the need to build up institutional and
implementing capacity of the sums (and duureg), a substantial provision has been included under this
component for training and capacity building. At the beginning of the project, a training needs assessment
will be carried out to provide a strategic framework for managing the component's training program. It will
focus particularly on the eight core aimags, but will also take account of the requirements for modifying
the LDF. Following its completion, a contract will be provided to assist the HLSPO in the preparation of
training materials to form a LIF training manual. There will be two main sources for the drafting of this
material: in the first instance, the training material currently in use for the LDF and, subsequently,
experience derived during PYI from the planning and piloting of LIF interventions in the first 16 pilot sums
will be used to revise the manual.
- 82 -



Funding would be provided for workshops and capacity building on all administrative levels but with the
main focus at sum level and be] ow. These activities will primarily be for orientation, skills development in
administration and management study tours and exchanges, refresher training, and for the development of
appropriate training material.
(iii) Fiscal Decentralization Iinitiative. The funds to be provided by LIF - like those provided by LDF -
will represent a supplementary source of funding to local government and specifically to the sums and
duuregs. The little revenue generated within the sums/duuregs (from fees collected and taxes levied) goes
towards meeting recurrent expenditures, and at that covers on average less than one quarter of these
expenditures. The rest is provided through central government transfers. In order for the project to be
successful, it must demonstrate that making available discretionary funds to the sum level local government
is an efficient and responsive way of meeting part of the demand for rural/peri-urban infrastructure.
In order to assess the potential for incorporating the LIF into the regular government budget, the project
would finance a three-year, pilot action-research program to explore the modalities and options for
decentralized fiscal management of capital expenditure. Eight sums would be involved in the process using
resources generated from: (i) an increased level of local revenues and taxes; and (ii) fund allocation from
the central to the sum level. This combination of funds would be made available to the sum in a similar way
that recurrent expenditures are provided and accounted for.
Implementation arrangements:
There will be a LIF Coordinator within the HLSPO that would have principal responsibility for the
component and would liaise wiih the LIF Working Group. This Working Group would be made up of
senior staff from MoFE, MoSTEC, MoH, and MoSWL; two NGOs; and two ex-officio members: namely,
the HLSPO Program Coordinalor and the LIF Coordinator. The LIF Working Group will assist in
providing overall oversight of ihe operations and management units at each administrative level, the most
important of which will be the s um HLSCs. In addition, it would contribute to promote adequate
cooperation and support from all the relevant line ministries in the implementation of the LIF. The MoFE's
responsibility for the budget and for management of the government's finances will be key to facilitating
the implementation of the component.
Implementation Responsibilities. At the central level, a LIF Coordinator would be located within the
HLSPO that would liaise directly with the LIEF Working Group. The HLSPO would be responsible for
managing the funds for LIF and LDF operations and would maintain fiduciary oversight for the units at
aimag and sum levels and coordinate the training programs to be financed under the component. The
proposed staffing would be similar to that of PAPO for the LDF. The aimag HLSC, through the person of
the aimag HLSC Secretary, will receive the list of sub-projects approved for funding by the sum HLSC. It
will review the proposals to ascertain whether they accord with the aimag's development plan and
sustainable livelihoods strategy. Once the review is completed, the aimag HLSC secretary will: a) certify
the sub-project proposals' consistency with the aimag development plans and sustainable livelihoods
strategies; b) enter the relevant sub-project infornation into the MIS, updating it in the light of ongoing
reports from the sum HSLCs; c provide advice and assistance to the sum HLSCs, including mobilizing
technical advice and support from aimag technical staff; and d) submit a compiled financial report on
sub-project activities to the HL3C.
At sum level, while the selection of LIF sub-projects would be with the commnunities, their approval and
implementation would be handled primarily by the sums, except for small bag projects that the
cormmunities themselves would manage. In this capacity, the sum HLSC will: mobilize the community in
- 83 -



support of the project; receive all sub-project proposals from the bags; review and approve sub-project
proposals for financing; submit approved sub-project proposals to the aimag HLSCs for review; and
oversee and manage the contracting process, including contracting with communities and contractors.
At bag level, project activities would focus on groups that would be composed of households from within
the bag. They would be the catalyst that would develop project ideas and initiatives within the community
and provide the forum in which the needs of the bag are debated and project ideas discussed. They would
facilitate an interactive process of prioritization and ensure that the interests of the poorer members of the
community are heard and reflected in the process.
LIF Project Planning Process. The LIF sub-project planning process starts in the community. At the
beginning of the process, a meeting open to all members of the community would be organized at bag level,
based on the regular bag khural meetings. Participation would be promoted through facilitation techniques,
active dialogue and debate encouraged and people's views actively solicited. Through a process involving
three or four sessions in each bag, sub-projects would be identified, discussed and priorities established.
This process would be a guided one in which the sum-level team would indicate those sub-projects that
cannot be included - the negative list - and those that have been successfully implemented elsewhere - in
essence a 'positive list'. During this process, the community would be informed about the priorities as
presented in the sum development plan and, in particular, the sum sustainable livelihoods strategy. The
community would be required to identify and prioritize bag-level sub-projects and/or sum-level
sub-projects. For bag sub-projects, the decision of the community would be expressed through the bag
governor or citizens' representative to the sum HLSC. For sum or inter-bag sub-projects, there would need
to be an agreement among all the bags in the sum. Once a sub-project had been ratified, a sub-project
management committee would be set up either within the bag or within the sum, depending on the nature of
the sub-project, and together with the sum HLSC, the detailed planning and preparation would take place.
The sum collectively with the bag groups would be at liberty to decide on how to allocate the LIF money to
sub-projects. The full amount available within the funding ceiling could be allocated to say one sum
sub-project and one large bag sub-project, or to one sum sub-project and a number of smaller bag
sub-projects. This decision would be made based on the priorities of the communities and compliance with
the eligibility criteria.
After the first round of sub-project investment, the ceiling would be adjusted up or down for the subsequent
year based on a number of criteria, including: the performance of the sum (and bags) and adherence to
sub-project goals and implementation procedures, timely completion of the sub-projects, absence of cost
overruns, absence of financial management irregularities, proof that the project-supported facilities are in
use and are used by poor households and women, and a positive rating on community scorecards.
The process in the LIF pilot duureg would be similar to that described above but due to the close proximity
of the commnunities in duuregs, communication and the organization of meetings would be considerably
easier than in rural sums. The khoroo would be the focus of the participatory processes in the duureg. It
would organize the communities and facilitate the identification, prioritization, selection, planning and
implementation of the sub-projects in a similar way to the bag in a rural context.
- 84 -



Project Component 4 - US$1.25 million
Project Management and Polic) Support
Guiding principles in design of ihe component:
*   establish project management as part of the regular government structure and minimize creation of new
institutional entities whenever possible;
*   capitalize on the experience, skills and capacity developed under NPAP and utilize their staff whenever
possible at sum, aimag and central levels;
*   work within those institutions that will have the long term responsibility for management of project
activities and that will oversee sustainable livelihood and poverty alleviation initiatives within the
country;
*   decentralize decision making and responsibility for project activities to the maximum exteni possible
within the capacities that can be created and sustained at those levels; and
*   develop the capacity to generate inputs for policy/legislative formulation/reform from the lowest level
up.
Approach:
Based on these principles, the project will not establish additional project management facilities at central,
aimag, sum/duureg and bag level. Instead, the project will employ the existing system to implement the
project and will treat capacity building of the existing system as the priority. The HLSPO would serve as
central PIU and undertake overall responsibility for coordination and implementation under the guidance of
the National Committee on Household Livelihood Capacity Support Program and with technical assistance
from the three technical Working Groups. Local government would carry the main responsibility for
implementing the project through its officers (HLSC secretaries) and structures (aimag and sum HLSCs) at
aimag, sum and bag levels.
Description of investment required:
The component would finance: (i) the operational costs of the Household Livelihoods Support Program
Office (HLSPO) under the National Committee on Household Livelihood Capacity Support Program,
including vehicles, equipment, recurrent costs and consulting services; (ii) technical assistance to support
activities to generate proposals of policy and legal reforms identified during implementation, (iii)
information dissemination/ communication, (iv) project orientation workshops and training, (vi) monitoring
and evaluation, and (vii) auditing.
Implementation arrangements:
The main features of the project management structure are:
*   The National Committee on Hlousehold Livelihood Capacity Support Prograr (ex-NPAC) will have
overall responsibility for the 'Sustainable Livelihoods Program.
*   HLSPO, as the executing office of the National Committee, will serve as the central PIU and provide
capacity building, coordination, monitoring and evaluation, information dissemination, and policy
guidance to project implementation.
*   Three technical Workinz Groups will be established to provide technical and policy assistance to the
HLSPO to implement the project and will be made of members of the relevant line ministries and
technical specialists. The fourth component, Management and Policy Support, will be managed directly
- 85 -



by the Household Livelihoods Support Program Office.
*   The day-to-day responsibility for implementing project activities will be with the local government,
primarily though the sum/duureg and aimag Household Livelihoods Support Councils and where
appropriate, community groups.
*   Communities and households within the framework of the bags (and the khoroos in the peri-urban
areas) will participate in project implementation through committees and informal groups established to
assist the project in formulating, prioritizing, planning and implementing project activities.
Project Implementation Manual (PIA). Detailed implementation guidelines for all aspects of the project
are provided in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM). This includes separate sections dealing with:
pastoral risk management, local initiatives fund, local development fund, micro-finance operational manual,
revolving loan funds, environmental management plan, resettlement policy framework, ethnic minorities
participation framework, financial management and reporting (including format of FMRs as an appendix),
procurement (including sample documents as appendices), and monitoring and evaluation. It is a condition
of effectiveness that the PIM has been finalized and adopted in a form acceptable to IDA, and that staff of
the HLSPO and of the HLSCs in all aimags and duuregs, and in the 16 sums selected to participate in the
project for the first year of activities, have completed a training course satisfactory to IDA on the
provisions of the PIM.
- 86 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MONGOLIA: Sustainable Livelihoods Project
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                 US $million   US $million   US $million
1. Pastoral Risk Management                                 4.52          0.86          5.38
2. Micro-Finance Outreach                                   5.77          0.22          5.99
3. Local Initiatives Fund                                   8.85          0.15          9.00
4. Management and Policy Support                            0.91          0.23          1.14
Total Baseline Cost                                        20.05          1.46         21.51
Physical Contingencies                                                                 0.00
Price Contingencies                                        0.56          0.05          0.61
Total Project Costsl              20.61          1.51        22.12
Total Financing Required               20.61          1.51         22.12
Local        Foreign        Total
-  - - . .-  Project.Cost,By Category            *US $million   US $million  US $million
Goods                                                         0.16           0.62         0.78
Works                                                         1.82           0.37         2.19
Vehicles                                                      0.01           0.04         0.05
Training/Services (international)                             0.00           0.29         0.29
Training/Services (Local)                                     1.56           0.19          1.75
Micro-finance Sub-loans                                       4.50           0.10         4.50
Livestock Insurance Stop-loss. Provision                      1.00           0.10          1.00
Herder Group Sub-projects                                     1.92           0.(0          1.92
Community Development Sub-projects                            7.46           0.10          7.46
Recurrent Costs                                               2.18           0.10         2.18
Total Project Costs      20.61           1.51         22.12
Total Financing Required      20.61           1.51         22.12
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0.1 1 (USSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 22.01 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 85.08% of
total projoct cost net of taxes.
- 87 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
MONGOLIA: Sustainable Livelihoods Project
Pastoral Risk Management Component
Summary of benefits and costs:
The benefits of pastoral risk management are reduction in dzud-related animal losses, which include both
direct economic costs due to animal deaths and the wider economic and social costs such as reductions in
cashmere and milk production resulting from animal deaths; the cost of government relief activities;
disruption of schooling and other social services; and environmental costs such as tree felling caused by
lack of animal dung forger stoves. Total livestock losses to dzud since 1950 were over 36 million animals,
which at current prices would have a value of US$1.27 billion. The direct benefits of the PRM component
in reducing animal losses were estimated by considering the value of combined losses during the 1999/2000
and the 2000/2001 dzud in comparison with normal years. The two dzud years resulted in the loss of 7.15
million animals (22% of the national herd) at an estimated cost of US$252 million compared with average
stock losses over the past 51 years (dzud and non-dzud years combined) at an average rate of 720,000
animals with a value of around US$27 million. The average annual loss for each of the two dzud years was
US$125.8 million. When 51-year average losses are deducted, the incremental savings are US$98.5 per
annum in dzud years.
Table 1 Estimated Value of Livestock Losses due to Dzud
Total lo.s Avg.Ions  :DfDd losses 1999 2001  EAveiage  Aserage loss  50Q% loss
1950-   950-          2000i*-* Total* . lO95us  1999-2001 less 'reduction md.zud
.. -     .         . .  .... 2001  2001  2000  2001  9-  1999-2001 1  -yrav eage  year due to SLP
n of narional heTd loia               2     8sh    13      22 4      II          921           4 6
Animal losses (million heads)  36.17  0.72  2.98  4.17     7.15     3.58        2.86          1.43
Avg. value/lost animal MINT  38,000  38,000  38,000  38,000  38,000                         38,000
Avg. value/lost animal US$  35.19  35.19  35.19  35.19    35.19                              35.19
Value of stock lost million MNT  1,374,460  27,300 113,240  158,460  271,700  135,850  108,550  54,340
Value of stock lost million US$  1,273*  25  105   147      252     125.8       98.5           50
Source: TCP/MON/0066 Pastoral Risk Management, Discussion Note No.1 - Managing the Risk of Drought and Dzud, Concepts and Issues, Aug.
2001 and UNDP, 2000, Lessons Learntfrom the Dzud 1999-2000, Ulaanbaatar, 2000, pp. 5-7. UNDP and FAO figures were updated by the mission
to include losses during the 2001 dzud. * at current prices.
This suggests that, on average, if adoption of PRM nationwide (estimated at US$10 million every four
years if modelled on the Phase I proposal) could cut national losses in dzud years (such those in 1999/2000
and 2000/2001) to those of normal years, Mongolia would save an average of nearly US$100 million per
year in dzud years. If we assume that dzud occurs one year in every five, the PRM component would easily
pay for the entire project (US$20 million). If adoption of PRM were to reduce losses in dzud years by 50%
on average, Mongolia would save around US$50 million per year during dzud years. If dzud were to occur
only once in 10 years, the savings would still cover entire the cost of the PRM component (nationwide cost
for ten years would be around US$22 mnillion). The time-series data cited in Templer, Swift and Payne (
The changing significance of risk'. Nomadic Peoples 33: 1993) since 1944 suggest that a dzud was declared in
one or more aimags of Mongolia in 26 of the 56 of years, although major losses involving many aimags
occurred on average only once in 10 years.
Potential production of raw cashmere that was lost during the 1999/2000 dzud amounted to more than 130
tons, valued at about US$5 million. The poor 2001 season, on top of the poor 2000 season, means that goat
- 88 -



stocks were almost 2 million dcown on the figure that would have been reached if seasons had been normal.
The loss in potential cashmere in 2001 amounted to about 240 tons, which has a value of the order of
US$10 million. These estimates do not include indirect costs, which are virtually impossible to quantify.
The implication of this very rough analysis is that if planned PRM        can reduce the economic costs by a
fairly small proportion, it is likely to be economically viable.
Table 2 Effects of Poor 2000 and 2001 Seasons on Cashmere Production
1998   - |-I999 .   l     2000   '..I'   2001      :-v2002b
NumberofGoats 000 ia)                                11061 9      1 1033 9      102309        95000- te)      9758 9
Breeding Females '000 (a)                             4890.3       4835.2    4483.3* (e)      4163.0* (e)     4257.8
Raw Cashmere Produced (tons) (c)                      3126.7       3194.8        3088.2          3005.7       2961.7
Estim. production in normal season (tons)                                        3219.4          3249 6
Potential Raw Cashmere lost in Poor Season (tons) (d)                             131.2           243.9
% fall in herders' income compared to normal season (f)                           -4.2%           -8.1%
Source: Filmer, Richard J., The Mongolian Cashmere Industry, Aug. 2001 (p. 29).
Notes: * = estimation
(a) Except where indicated otherwise, figu es are Census figures for December
(b) Figures for 2002 are estimated on assumption that 2002 has seasons similar to 1998-1999
(c) Raw Cashmere produced has been estimnated based on the goat population in April classified by age and multiplied by yield/age ratios.
The production figure includes an allomwance for cashmere derived from skins.
(d) Cashmere lost has been estimated by nmning the goat model for 2000 and 2001 on the assumption of seasonal conditions similar to
1998-1999 and subtracting the actual ceishmere produced from these implied estimates.
(e) Estimates based on discussions with Prulessor Zagdsuren, Mongolian Research institute of Animal Husbandry
(f) Note that herder income rose between 1999 and 2000 because of increased prices
Main assumptions:
(a) for estimated value of livestock losses, the average cost per head of livestock of MTG 38,000
(US$35.19) was obtained by dividing total value of losses reported by UNDP by total animals lost
(US$1=1090 MTG).
(b) for estimated value of cashmere lost, see Filmer (above).
Sub-component 1.4: Hay and Fodder Enterprise Development
Economic Rates of Return for indicative business models for hay and fodder enterprises using alternative
technologies are as follows:
Table 3. Hayinaking (Tractor unit, rain-fed model, 1400 ha)
In 000' MNT
Yearl     Year2     Year3    Year4     Year5     Year6     Year7    Year8     Year9     Year1O-17
Revenue          14,00    14,00     14,00     14,00     14,00    14,00     14,00     14,00     14,00     14,000
0         0        0         0         0         0         0        0         0
Yield         700        700       700       700       700      700       700       700       700       700
Price/kg      0.02       0.02      0.02      0.02      0.02     0.02      0.02      0.02      0.02      0.02
Other          1,000     1,000     1,000    1,000      1,000     1,000    1,000     1,000     1,000     1,000
income*
Investment
Land use fee    700      700       700       700       700      700       700       700       700       700
Tractors        36,00
0~~~~
Mower           5,000                                                _
Rake            1,500
- 89 -



Baler        6,500
Operating
Costs
Fuel         5,544   5,544   5,544   5,544  5,544   5,544   5,544   5,544  5,544   5,544
Machine     50       50      150     50     150     50      50      150    50      150
maintenance
Labor**      480    480     480     480     480    480     480     480     480     480
Income       40,774  8,226   8,126   8,226  8,126   8,226   8,226   8,126  8,226   8,126
IRR          18%                   I _   _                        I _
Notes: * Tractors for transportation; ** labor valued at MNT 2000/person day.
Table 4. Haymaking (Tractor unit, 200 ha)
In 000' MNT
_Yearl   Year2   Year3   Year4  Year5   Year6   Year7   Year8   Year9   YearIO-17
Revenue      8,000   8,000   8,000   8,000  8,000   8,000   8,000   8,000   8,000  8,000
Yield       400     400     400     400     400     400    400     400     400     400
Price/kg    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02   0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02
Other       1,000    1,000  1,000  1,000    1,000   1,000   1,000  1,000   1,000   1,000
income*
Investment
Land use fee  100    100    100     100     100     100     100     100    100     100
Tractors     24,00
Mower        2,500
Rake         1,500
Baler        6,500                                 _
Operating
Costs
Fuel         528     528     528     528    528     528     528     528     528     528
Machine      50      50     150      50      150    50      50      150     50      150
maintenance
Labor**      120     120    120     120     120     120     120     120     120    120
Income      *26,298  8,202   8,102   8,202  8,102   8,202   8,202   8,102   8,202   8,102
IRR 130%                           I                _                             I
Notes: * Tractors for transportation; ** labor valued at MNT 2000/person day.
- 90 -



Table :5. Haymaking (Horse drawn, 45 ha)
In 000' MNT
_  Yearl  Year2  Year3   Year4  Year5   Year6  Year7   Year8   Year9   Year1O- 015
Revenue      450     450    450     450     450    450     450     450    450     450
Yield      22.5     22.5    22.5   22.5    22.5    22.5   22.5    22.5    22.5    22.5
Price/kg   0.02     0.02    0.02   0.02    0.02    0.02   0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02
Investment
Land use fee 22.5   22.5    22.5   22.5    22.5    22.5   22.5    22.5    22.5    22.5
Horses      500                    200                    200
Mower       650
Rake        350
Operating
Costs
Machine                     50                     50      50                     50
maintenance
Labor*      60      60      60      60     60      60      60     60      60      60
Income      -1,133  367.5   317.5   167.5   367.5  317.5   117.5   367.5  367.5   317.5
IRR          22%                                     _                            __
Notes: * labor valued at MNT 2000)/person day.
Table 6. Fodder Production (Concentrates)
In 000' MNT
Yearl   Year2  Year3   Year4   Year5   Year6  Year7   Year8   Year9  Year IO
Revenue        11,700  11,700  11,700  11,700  11,700  11,700  11,700  11,700  11,700  11,700
Yield        90       90      90     90      90      90     90      90      90      90
Price/kg     0.13     0.13    0.13   0.13    0.13    0.13   0.13    0.13    0.13    0.13
Investment
Building      2,500
rehabilitation               .                                      .
Grinder       8,500
Mixer         5,000
Operating
Costs
Wheat barn     3,960  _
Straw          1,584
Cracked        1,975
wheat
Minerals/salt  99
Electricity    450    450     450     450     450    450     450     450     450     450
Machine Maint.        40      40      40      40     40      40      40      40
Labor*        450     450 T   450    450     450     450     450    450     450     450
Income        *12,818  10,760  j 10,760  10,750 10,760  10,760 10,750  10,760 10,760  10,800
IRR            61%   1
Notes: * labor valued at MNT 2000.'person day.
-91-



Micro-Finance Outreach Component
Economic Rates of Return for some representative production activities eligible for MFO component
support are as follows:
Table 7. Ger Felt Cover
In 000' MNT
Yearl   Year2   Year3   Year4   Year5   Year6   Year7   Year8   Year9   YearlO
Revenue      1,000  2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000
Investment     _    _                      _       _
Equipment   1,100     _
Operating
C o sts__                              _ _  __ _ _  __ _ _  __ _ _  __ _ _  __ _ _  __ _  _ _
Materials   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000
Labor*      200     200     200     200     200     200     200     200     200     200
Income**   -1,300   800     800     800     800     800     800     800     800     800
Income*** -1,500    600     600     600     600     600     600     600     600     600
IRR**       61%                     _
IRR***      38%       _.
Notes: * labor valued at MNT 1000/person day; ** before family labor; *** after family labor.
Table 8. Saddle Making
In 000' MNT
Yearl   Year2   Year3   Year4   Year5   Year6   Year7   Year8   Year9   Yearl 0
Revenue     450     550     550     550     550     550     550     550      550     550
Investment                                                                               . __
Equipment   500                            .
Operating
C osts__               _ ___                                   _ _  __ _ _  __ _ _   __ _ _ _
Materials   200     200     200     200     200     200     200     200     200     200
Labor*      80      80      80      80      80      80      80      80      80      80
Income**   -330     270     270     270     270     270     270      270     270     270
Income*** -410      190      190     190     190     190     190     190     190     190
IRR**       81%
IRR***      45%
Notes: * labor valued at MNT 1000/person day; ** before family labor; *** after family labor.
- 92 -



Table 9. Shoe Maldng
In 000' MNT
Yearl   Year2   Year3   Year4   Year5   Year6   Year7   Year8   Year9   YearlO
Revenue     900      1,100  1,100    1,100  1,100    1,100  1,100   1,100   1,100   1,100
Investment ___
Equipment   800            _                                                        _
Operating
Costs
Materials   500     500     500     500     500     500     500     500     500     500
Labor*      100     100     100     100     100     100     100     100     100     100
Income"    -500     500     500     500     500     500     500     500     500     500
Income*** -600      400     400     400     400     400     400     400     400     400
IRR**        100%           _                         =                               ______
IRR***      66%                _=                                                         _ -
Notes: * labor valued at MNT 1001)/person day; ** before family labor; *** after famnily labor.
Table 10. Vegetable Preserves
In 000' MNT
Yearl   Year2   Year3   Year4   Year5   Year6   Year7   Year8   Year9    YearlO
Revenue     950     1,200    1,200   1,200  1,200    1,200  1,200    1,200  1,200    1,200
Investment
Equipment   1,800          _
Operating
Costs                    ______                   _
Materials   300     300     300     300     300     300     300     300     300     300
Labor*      80      80      80)     80      80      80      80      80      80      80
Income**   -1,230   820     820     820     820     820     820     820     820      820
Income*** -1,310    740     740     740     740     740     740     740     740      740
IRR**        66%          _                                                         _
IRR***      55%            _                                                        _
Notes: * labor valued at MNT 100(1/person day; ** before family labor; *  after family labor.
- 93 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MONGOLIA: Sustainable Livelihoods Project
Years Ending
2006
Year I    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          4.0       5.4       5.7       4.8        0.0      0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.4        0.6       0.6       0.6       0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs         4.4       6.0       6.3       5.4       0.0       0.0       0.0
,Total Financing            4.4        6.0       6.3       5.4       0.0       0.0      0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                 3.7        5.1       5.4       4.6       0.0       0.0       0.0
Govemment                0.5        0.6       0.4       0.4       0.0       0.0       0.0
Central                          0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Co-financiers            0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.2       0.3       0.5       0.4        0.0      0.0       0.0
Other                       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    4.4       6.0        6.3       5.4       0.0      0.0       0.0
Other                      0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 94 -



Annex 6: F'rocurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MONGOLIA: Sustainable Livelihoods Project
Procurement
1.     The Bank's Guidelines The Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" (January 1995 revised in January, August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised
September 1997 and January 1999) will govern all Bank-financed procurement.
2.     Procurement Features
(i)    Decentralized Procuremaent Activities. Due to the scattered locations and staggered
implementation schedules of project activities, each participating aimag and sum HLSC would undertake
its own procurement for civil works and goods except for vehicles, office equipment, and other equipment
which can be packaged together J.-or centralized procurement. The roles and functions of the Household
Livelihoods Support Program Office (HLSPO) with respect to procurement management are: (a) to
manage all procurement under NCB and international shopping, (b) to manage all consultant services
required under each component c,f the project; (c) to supervise procurement work handled at aimag and
sum levels; (d) to organize and provide procurement training; (e) to coordinate and update the procurement
plan and prepare procurement reporting; and (f) to provide other support to aimags and sums if needed. All
procurement documents subject to the Bank's prior review will be sent to the Bank through HLSPO. The
procurement profile is shown in Table A.
(ii)   Annual Program Approach. Given the phased program approach to project implementation, only
the procurement plan for the first year has been prepared. The plans for other years will be prepared and
submitted to the Bank for its no objection by June 30 in each subsequent year of the project. Under the
Local Initiatives Fund Component, annual project activities would be selected and approved by local
communities based on their priorities in accordance with the principles and methodologies agreed at
appraisal and as stipulated in the PIM. While a precise plan for this component cannot be prepared in
advance, a sample procurement plan for the major expected activities has been prepared and will serve as
guidance for local HLSCs during project implementation.
(iii)  Procurement Documents. The Bank's Standard Request for Proposals (SRFP) including Form of
Evaluation Report (SFEP) for Selection of Consultants will be used where applicable. Other sample
documents have been developed by the HLSPO with the approval of the Bank and are found as attachments
to the Project Implementation Manual (PIM), including: National Competitive Bidding (NCB),
International Shopping (IS), National Shopping (NS), a simple Request for Quotations for Procurement of
Small Works (SW), and samnple clocuments to guide selection according to Consultants' Qualifications
(CQ) and Individual Consultants (IC). The acceptability of these sample documents will be confirmed when
the final version of the PIM is reviewed and adopted prior to Credit effectiveness.
3.     Procurement Packaging. Due to the scattered locations of project activities and phased project
implementation, the majority of works and low-value equipment which are available on the local market at
competitive prices would not be suitable for large packaging. They would therefore be purchased locally.
Vehicles and other relatively high -value items of equipment which are not available on the local market or
for which quality cannot be guaranteed would be packaged together for centralized procurement across
different sums and different years for optimum procurement results. HLSPO was advised at appraisal that
- 95 -



vehicles and office equipment may be purchased directly from IAPSO, but HLSPO prefers to use
international shopping for the purchase of vehicles and office equipment.
4.     Procurement Capacity Assessment. A procurement capacity assessment was carried out during
project pre-appraisal in November 2001 and updated at appraisal in March 2002. The assessment
identified the following weaknesses: (1) a lack of qualified procurement staff at each level; (2) absence of a
detailed procurement training plan; (3) the respective roles and functions of HLSPO and aimag and sum
HLSCs are insufficiently defined; (4) the quality-control system is inadequate; and (5) the MIS requires
upgrading. The above weaknesses were judged to lead to high project risk if not properly addressed prior to
credit effectiveness. In order to minimize the potential risks and ensure smooth project implementation, the
following action plan was proposed at pre-appraisal and agreed at appraisal:
(a)    HLSPO staff will be increased from 8 to 16, and one part-time staff member in the sum-level
Household Livelihoods Support Council (HLSC, formerly 'Poverty Alleviation Council') will be converted
to full-time equivalent. New staff shall be recruited as early as possible before effectiveness so as to be able
to train them and ensure full operational capability at effectiveness, and to assist in carrying out those
actions to be completed by negotiations. All HLSPO essential staff should be recruited and the office
should be operational as a condition of effectiveness. This "core" staff includes a coordinator for each of
the main components, a disbursement officer, an accountant, and the procurement officer. The procurement
officer should have an engineering background and at least three years work experience in procurement
procedures.
(b)    It has been agreed that all project staff will be recruited with levels of salaries competitive in the
local market, in order to ensure that high-caliber staff can be selected to ensure accountability and to avoid
the possible mismanagement of funds. All staff will be under fixed-term consulting contracts (since they are
not civil servants) and their salaries would be financed from the proceeds of the IDA Credit from the
consulting services category.
(c)    The roles and functions of HLSPO would be: (a) to manage all procurement under NCB and
international shopping procedures; (b) to manage all consultant services required under the project; (c) to
guide and supervise procurement work handled at aimaglsum level (national shopping, small works,
community participation, and direct contracting); (d) organize various trainings; (e) prepare and update the
procurement plan and procurement reporting; and (f) provide assistance and technical support in
procurement aspects to aimag and sum HLSCs when needed.
(d)    A procurement training workshop for staff of HLSPO and aimag and sum HLSCs will be
organized immediately after project negotiations, consistent with the overall project training plan. Training
will include procurement of goods, works, and consultant services. The World Bank Resident Mission in
Ulaanbaatar will provide assistance the organization of the course, supported by Bank staff and
consultants, if needed.
(e)    Sample contract documents for NCB, CQ/IC, small civil works, and IS/NS for goods, in a form
acceptable to the Bank, will be included in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) and will serve as
guidance for aimag and sum HLSCs in carrying out small civil works procurement and shopping
procurement for goods, and for HLSPO staff for consultant selection and NCB procurement.
(f)    For quality-control purposes, it was agreed that a technical group would be established at aimag
level to help prepare technical specifications for works and conduct quality inspection and provide technical
advice during contract implementation. This should be done by project effectiveness.
- 96 -



(g)    Vehicles and office equipment required by HLSPO and aimag and sum HLSCs such as computers,
printers, and copy machines are included in the procurement plan and would be financed from the proceeds
of the IDA Credit. As agreed at appraisal, GoM may take up the option of retroactive financing for these
goods up to a ceiling of $100,000, to be procured under procedures acceptable to the Bank, at any time
between the start of appraisal (February 25, 2002) and the date of effectiveness.
(h)    HLSPO would hire a consultant to develop the software for the project MIS. Draft TORs for this
assignment should be submitted to the World Bank for review.
(i)    At appraisal, HLSPO w,as advised that vehicles and office equipment may be directly purchased
from UNDP's LAPSO, often at lower cost. However, HLSPO prefers to use international shopping to
purchase vehicles and office equipment.
(k)    A Procurement Plan needs to be updated periodically based on the format and activities which were
agreed with the Bank for each component of the Project.
5.     Procurement Arrangements
A.     Procurement of Works. Civil works worth about US$ 11.32 million would be required for the
project to support the rehabilitation of wells and irrigation schemes and the construction or rehabilitation of
storage facilities under the Pastoral Risk Management component, and to finance public goods such as the
rehabilitation of schools, health centers, repair of rural roads and bridges and other public facilities agreed
under the Local Initiatives FundiLocal Development Fund component. Since all works would be
geographically scattered over 143 sums in the eight core aimags, and would be spread over four years with
only a very short summer construction season each year, they are not anticipated to be of interest to foreign
contractors. The largest contract is not expected to exceed US$ 100,000. Therefore, no ICB is expected.
(i)    National Competitive Bidding (NCB). The works for rehabilitation of irrigation schemes under
the Pastoral Risk Management component, with an estimated cost of no more than US$ 100,000 equivalent
per contract up to aggregate amount of about US$ 0.21 million, would be procured and awarded contract
in accordance with NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank.
(ii)   Small Civil Works Procurement. Works costing less than US$ 30,000 equivalent per contract up
to an aggregate amount of US$ 45.95 million would be suitable for lump-sum and fixed-price contracts
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified and in response to a written
invitation advertised locally. These include aggregate amounts of about US$1.72 million for the PRM
component and around US$5.23 million under the LIF/LDF component.
(iii)  Community Participati[on. These include small works with an estimated cost of less than US$
5,000 per assignment up to an aggregate amount of US$ 4.16 million, which are labor-intensive and do not
require professional contractors (such as the repair of school facilities or rural roads), and for which
procurement would be carried ou1t using Community Participation procedures. Under such arrangements,
communities would purchase materials from local markets and mobilize the labor required to undertake the
works. Following the completion of works, the technical group established at sum evel would conduct final
inspection and certify completioni to an acceptable standard. These include about US$1.92 million under
the Herders Groups component, and around US$2.24 million under the LIFALDF component.
- 97 -



B.     Procurement of Goods. Goods worth about US$ 1.3 million would be required for the project
(iv)   International Shopping. Goods such as vehicles, office equipment, agricultural and weather
forecasting equipment and other high-value items of equipment up to an aggregate amount of around US$
750,000 ($730,000 of various goods and $19,000 for vehicles) for which estimated cost per contract is less
than US$ 100,000 and which are not available on local markets, would be procured through international
shopping in accordance with procedures set out in the Bank Guidelines. HLSPO will be responsible for
international shopping with the participation of aimag and sum HLSCs.
(v)    National Shopping. Goods such as furniture for schools, health centers, and other low-value
items of equipment required under the project, including one vehicle for use by HLSPO, for which
estimated cost per contract is less than US $30,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$ 69,000 (of which
$28,000 are vehicles) and which are available on local markets at competitive prices, would be procured
through national shopping procedures as required in the Bank Guidelines. All shopping contracts will
require at least three price quotations. Aimag and sum HLSCs would organize national shopping
procurement under the guidance of HLSPO; in the case of the vehicle, HLSPO would be directly
responsible.
C.     Consultant Services. Consultant Services and training worth a total of around US$ 3.5 million
are required for carrying out research, technical assistance, project management, project monitoring and
evaluation, auditing, development of the MIS, and other assignments. Training is closely linked with the
consulting services and would form an integral aspect of the Terms of Reference for consultant contracts.
In a number of areas, including the technical assistance and training activities envisaged under the Pastoral
Risk Management component, and training in participatory learning and action methods for project
monitoring and evaluation, there are sufficient numbers of qualified local firms and individuals. Under such
circumstances and where contracts are small, and competition including international consultants is not
justified, short-lists comprising entirely local firms or individuals would be acceptable. However, if any
qualified foreign firm has expressed interest it shall not be excluded from consideration.
(vi)   Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS). For larger assignments for which consultants would
be hired as a firm, such as the employment of an auditing firm, and for the development of a training
strategy, the "Quality- and Cost-Based Selection" (QCBS) procedure would be used. All consulting
assignments over US$200,000 would be advertised in the United Nations' Development Business to seek
expressions of interest.
(vii)  Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications (CQ). For those assignments for which contracts
with firms are small (less than US$100,000), such as the assignments concerning the preparation of
grazing management plans and application of pasture tenure instruments, conducting of training of trainers,
ecological control of rodents, and other small assignments, "Selection Based on Consultant's
Qualifications" (CQ) procedures would be used, for a total amount of US$ 1.18 million. Owing to the need
for distinct sets of skills and experience, and for services to be delivered in widely dispersed locations and
at different times, the grouping of such contracts into larger packages suitable for QCBS is impracticable.
(viii) Individual Consultants. Individual consultants for project management, supervision, and
preparation of training materials, including staff of HLSPO such as accountants, financial management
staff, or M&E staff, up to an aggregate of around US$ 2.03 million, would be employed in accordance
with the procedures applicable to individual consultants under the Bank Guidelines.
- 98 -



(ix)   Single-Source Selectioni. For those assignments which meet single-source selection criteria set out
in the Bank Guidelines, single-source selection may be used with the prior approval of the Bank. It is
expected that single-source selection may be used for consulting services which require continuity of
contracts or for which unique skills and experience of exceptional worth are required. At appraisal the
following such circumstances were foreseen: design of the index-based livestock insurance scheme under
the Micro-Finance Outreach component; support for the organizational strengthening of herder self-help
groups under the Pastoral Risk Management component; and training in participatory learning and action
methods for project monitoring and evaluation under the Project Management and Policy Support
component. All those contracts would be under US$50,000 per contract, with an aggregate arnount
estimated to be not more than US$150,000.
D.     Micro-Finance Sub-Loans. Some US$ 4.5 million would be provided as loans to financial
intermediaries, to be on-lent as sub-loans to individual clients (households and micro-enterprises) for
financing small productive enterprises. The maximum size of each sub-loan would be US$ 400 to
individual clients and US$ 1,00(1 for micro-enterprises, for which centralized procurement is not required.
Procurement of goods, works, and/or services under this component would be carried out by each
individual client in accordance with usual private-sector commercial practices.
E.     Incremental Ooeratin ! Costs. For goods required for purposes of incremental operation under
the project, including vehicle operation and maintenance; small items of office equipment, consumables,
and stationery; hire of meeting rooms and other direct costs associated with workshops, up to a total
amount of US$ 480,000, procurement under the Borrower's usual commercial practices would be used with
due observance of the principle of efficiency.
6.     Bank Review. (i) Prior Review: Since most contracts under the project are small and scattered
across 143 sums, it would not be cost effective to conduct prior review for a high percentage of contracts.
However, to ensure compliance with Bank requirements, it was agreed that that all goods and works
contracts above US$30,000 per contract and the first two small civil works contracts (below $30,000) for
each aimag in the first year would be subject to the Bank's prior review. All consultant contracts over US$
50,000 for both firms and individuals are subject to the Bank prior review. In addition, all TORs and
justification for single-source selection would also be subject to Bank prior review. The total value of
contracts subject to prior review is estimated to be around US$ 3.03 million. (ii) Post Review: All other
contracts which are not subject to prior review would be subject to ex-post review by supervision missions
or ex-post review missions. The sampling ratio for ex-post review would be one out of every five contracts
under the project. The first ex-post review mission would be arranged at the end of the first year of project
implementation. Details are provided in Table B.
7.     Procurement Reporting and Supervision. A procurement filing system would be established at
each level under the project MIS system. Procurement reporting will be provided to the Bank on a quarterly
basis according to the format developed at appraisal. The frequency of procurement supervision missions is
proposed to be one every six months including ex-post procurement review/audits.
- 99 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ '000)
Method     Consulting
Expenditure Category         NCB       Other *      Services    N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                            210       6,949                     254        7,413
(189)     (6,510)                              (6,699)
2. Goods                                        820                                 820
(712)                                (712)
3. Consulting Services and Training             150         1,900                   2,050
(141)       (1,817)                 (1,958)
4. Community Participation (under              4,160                                4,160
Herder Group and LIF/LDF                      (3,085)                              (3,085)
Sub-projects)
5. Micro-Finance Sub-loans                     4,500                                4,500
(3,521)                              (3,521)
6. Livestock Insurance Stop-Loss               1,010                                1,010
Provision                                     (1,010)                              (1,010)
7. Incremental Operating Costs                  480         1,451       249         2,180
(380)       (1,364)                 (1,744)
210       18,058       3,352        503        22,123
Totals                            (189)     (15,359)      (3,181)                (18,729)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the I)A credit. All costs include contingencies.
* Other Methods includes the following (in thousand dollars):
1. Works: Small civil works: $1,723 under Pastoral Risk Management component and $5,226 under LIF
component
2. Goods (including vehicles): International shopping: $751; and National shopping: $69
3. Consulting services: Single source selection of consultants: $150
4. Community Participation: Herder Groups sub-projects: $1,920; and under LIF/LDF: $2,240
5. Micro-finance sub-loans: private-sector commercial practices: $4,500
6. Livestock insurance stop-loss provision: private-sector commercial practices: $1,000
7. Incremental operating costs: private-sector commercial practices $480.
- 100-



Table A.1: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
'='.I~  -11,;, ,            .r S1 '~,'''Selection Method
Consultan-t Services
Expenditure Category  QCBS    QBS     SFB     LCS      'CQ     Other   N.B.F. Total Cost
A. Firms               0.29    0.00     0.00    0.00     1.18    0.00    0.00      1.47
(0.28)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (1.11)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (1.39)
B. Individuals         0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     2.03    0.00     2.03
(0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (1.93)  (0.00)   (1.93)
Total  0.29     0.00    0.00    0.00     1.18    2.03    0.00      3.50
(0.28)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (1.1 1)  (1.93)  (0.00)    (3.32)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Qualityr-based Selecton
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of Individual Consultants (under Section V of Consultants Guidelines). NB.
This includes an allocation of $1.4 mn for HLSPO/HLSC staff costs.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold             Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)            Method              (US$ thousands)
1. Works                      <$100                   NCB              >$30; All ($210)
<$30                 Small Works        >$5; 2 per aimag in yr 1
($400)
<$5             Community Participation        N.A.
2. Goods                       <$100                    IS              >$30; All ($750)
<$30                    NS                   N.A.
3. Services                 Firms: >$100              QCBS               >$100; All ($290)
Firms: <$100           CQ/ Sole-Source     >$50 and single source;
All ($1,180)
_lndividual Consultants   Individual Consultants     >$50; ($200)
* Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$ 3.03 million
- 101 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Disbursements from the IDA Credit would be made on the traditional system: from the Special Account
with reimbursements made based on full documentation or against Statements of Expenditure (SOE) and
direct payments from the Credit Account. Disbursement of the proceeds of the Credit would be made
against the categories shown in Table C below.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in USSmillion         Financing Percentage
1. Works                                   1.75                         80%
2. Goods (including vehicles)              0.71           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
and 87% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
3. Consulting services (including          3.32                         94%
training)
4. Herder group sub-projects               0.96                100% of arnounts disbursed
5. Micro-finance sub-loans                 3.01                100% of amounts disbursed
6. RLF sub-loans                           0.51                100% of amounts disbursed
7. Livestock insurance stop-loss            1.01         100% of stop-loss amounts under eligible
provision                                                 claims specified in livestock insurance
policies and stop-loss agreements
8. Community development sub-projects      3.57                100% of amounts disbursed
(LIF)
9. Community development sub-projects      3.51                100% of amounts disbursed
(LDF)
10. Incremental Operating Costs*           0.38                        73%**
Total Project Costs                        18.73
Total                                      18.73
* Incremental operating costs include: office equipment and consumables, vehicle operation and maintenance, and
hire of meeting rooms. ** Average over 4 years of project. Recurrent costs calculated on a declining basis as
follows: 85% in Year 1, 80% in Year 2, 70% in Year 3, and 60% in Year 4.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements would be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) for: (i) incremental
operating costs; (ii) actual expenditures against sub-project financing below US$ 30,000 equivalent; (iii)
works contracts below US$ 30,000 equivalent; (iv) goods and equipment contracts below US$ 30,000
equivalent; and (v) consultant contracts for individuals and for local training below US$ 50,000 equivalent
and for firms below US$ 100,000 equivalent.
For expenditures incurred on the basis of SOEs, all records and supporting documentation for those SOEs
will be maintained by HLSPO, HLSCs and other relevant project implementation units for review by the
Bank and by independent auditors. Contracts above these limits will be fully documented upon request for
withdrawal.
- 102-



Disbursements for works and ecluipment would be based on physical completion declared in the Project
Implementation Manual and certified by the aimag and sum HLSCs, the contractor (where applicable) and
the supervising engineer. Disbursements for equipment would be 100% of C.I.F. costs for imported items
and 100% of ex-factory cost for locally purchased items. Expenditures for training and consulting services
would be reimbursed at 94%, consistent with the Standard Disbursement Percentage (SDP) recently agreed
for the Mongolia country program. Operating expenses other than government staff salaries would be
reimbursed at 90%.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation and disbursements, HLSPO, under MoFE's authority and
permission, will establish and operate a Special Account at a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank,
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The account would be denominated in US dollars, with
an authorized allocation of US$, 1,500,000. Partial advances shall be made with an initial deposit of US$
500,000. However, the authorized allocation shall be limited to US$ 500,000 until disbursements and
outstanding commitments agairst the Credit equal or exceed SDR 2,000,000 (US$ 2,497,240 equivalent).
The special account will be replenished monthly to ensure liquidity of funds, and all replenishment
applications will be accompanied by bank statements from the depository bank showing all transactions
during the month and the statement of Bank Reconciliation.
Attachment: Financial Management Assessment Summary
A review of the Financial Management System for the proposed project was carried out by Bank staff
during pre-appraisal in Novemlber 2001 and updated at appraisal in March 2002. The full Financial
Management Assessment Report is held on file. The assessment concluded that the project would meet
minimum Bank financial management requirements subject to the following being implemented: (1)
strengthening controls and procedures to cope with decentralization through designing reporting and
monitoring features to track and verify the use of the project proceeds and flow of funds at each level; (2)
strengthening oversight and audit functions along the line from central level through provincial and district
levels; (3) upgrading the existing accounting system and software as well as equipment and staff capacity;
(4) improving the reporting system to report regularly and more frequently in an agreed format that assists
management in timely monitoring and decision-making; and (5) finalizing the project Financial
Management Manual as part oi the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) and providing training to project
staff.
Country Issues. The World Eank has not to date prepared a Country Procurement Assessment Report
(CPAR) for Mongolia. The Bank-financed Fiscal TA Project aims to assist Mongolia in developing an
efficient and transparent public financial management system. Annual audits for several IDA credits were
supported under this TA project during fiscal 2000 with a view to upgrading local capacity in auditing. The
Asian Development Bank (ADB) assessed country-level financial management issues in its report,
"Financial Management and Governance Issues in Mongolia", with a particular focus on accounting and
auditing arrangements and practices, and governance arrangements in the country. This assessment
identifies deficiencies and provides recommendations to address these deficiencies. ADB has also actively
supported the improvement of accounting and auditing systems in Mongolia since 1996. The "Improving
Accounting and Auditing Systems" TA project, for example, included the preparation of a training manual
for accountants, an auditing manual, and a draft audit law.
Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA). A draft CFAA has been prepared for Mongolia,
and is in the final stage of completion. The draft identifies the following sources of risk in financial
accountability at the country level: (i) budget fragmentation, including off-budget funds; (ii) settlement of
- 103 -



transactions primarily in cash rather than electronic transfer; (iii) insufficient control over the number of
bank accounts held by budget entities; (iv) accuracy of financial reporting is poor; (v) Government auditors
do not certify the financial statements of entities they have audited; (vi) there is inadequate public
disclosure concerning policy matters; and (vii) private-sector accountability is also incomplete, notably in
accounting and auditing standards. Overall, there is clearly a measure of fiduciary risk in the use of public
resources at the country level, particularly given that the budget process is not yet transparent and public
access to government financial information is limited. At the level of the Sustainable Livelihoods Project,
however, funding will be on-budget, and fiduciary risk is considered to be manageable provided the actions
identified in the financial management action plan (see below) are completed in a timely manner.
Government has also committed to addressing some of the above country-level weakness in the context of
the Public Expenditure Review (PER) that is nearing completion.
Implementing Entity. The proposed project would be implemented by the Household Livelihoods Support
Program Office (HLSPO), the same implementing agency responsible for the previous IDA-financed
Poverty Alleviation for Vulnerable Groups Project (Cr. 2760-MN) and the Sustainable Livelihoods Trust
Fund. The HLSPO, previously named the Poverty Alleviation Program Office (PAPO), will be responsible
for overall project financial management activities including planning and budgeting, preparing
consolidated the financial statements and progress reports, and ensuring a smooth flow of funds to their
respective project activities. It will manage the project's Special Account and maintain a local currency
account and ensure their timely replenishment including preparation of statements of expenditure and
reimbursement claims. It will monitor and train aimag and sum financial staff in project accounting
procedures and financial operations.
HLSPO will have two divisions: (1) Program Implementation Coordination Division; and (2) Finance,
Auditing, and Evaluation Division. The minimum agreed number of staff shall be 16 persons, which is
twice the current staffing level, including three additional staff in the Finance, Auditing, and Evaluation
Division. The proposed organizational structure of HLSPO was reviewed and was deemed to be
appropriate for the needs of the project (see Annex 15).
Funds Flow. The proposed project will establish a financial management and accounting system to control
the flow of funds at each level at which the project will operate. The necessary and simple reporting and
monitoring features will be built into its system to track the use of project proceeds implemented by
communities at the sum and aimag levels. Such procedures will be documented in the Project Financial
Management Manual.
At central level, HLSPO will operate two bank accounts comprising: (1) a Special Account denominated in
US dollars to receive funds from IDA; and (2) a MNT (local currency) account to receive funds from
government budgetary allocations.
HLSCs at aimag and sum levels will each open two bank accounts comprising: (1) a MNT account to
operate project funds, regardless of project components; and (2) another MNT account to separate the
receipt of the repayment collections and maintain as a revolving fund account.
The Special Account will be opened at a commercial bank acceptable to Bank. At the time of review, the
Trade and Development Bank, which is only the reliable commercial bank at this moment, would be
considered an acceptable bank. At aimag and sum levels, the bank will be selected based on availability of
branches, time taken in transferring funds, capability in providing monthly bank statements, and the
financial health of the Bank. The available banks, at the time of review, comprise: (1) Post Bank; and (2)
Agriculture Bank.
- 104-



A chart summarizing the project flow of funds from the Bank, Government, and other financiers is included
in the full Financial Management Assessment Report.
Staffing. Key HLSPO staff hare previous experience with the Bank's disbursement and procurement
procedures. However, their knowledge and experience with international accounting and financial
management standards and their familiarity with the Bank's financial reporting requirements are quite
limited. The Financial, Auditing and Evaluation Division currently has four accounting staff plus a driver.
The division is headed by the Hlead of Finance. To cope with the expanded activities of the proposed
project, the division will be increased to 8 staff members to assume the functions of financial management,
disbursement, financial inspection, and monitoring and evaluation. This staffing level is deemed to be
adequate, however the roles and job description of each position should be specified and documented.
Training needs to be provided prior to project effectiveness. The organization structure, job title,
responsibilities, educational background and professional experiences will be documented in the Project
Financial Management Manual.
Accounting Policies and Procedures. The accounting controls at all levels are weak, and verification and
documentation are inadequate. Journal and Payment vouchers are not adequately prepared and checked.
Except for the Special Accoun:, other bank transactions have never been reconciled. The filing system does
not facilitate subsequent auditing. Staff at aimag and levels do not have adequate accounting skills.
Segregation duties are impractical given staffmg constraints.
To mitigate these weaknesses, HLSPO should establish controls and procedures for flow of funds, financial
information, accountability, and audit in relation to aimag and sums. Such procedures will be part of the
Project Financial Management Manual.
Planning and Budgeting. HL'SPO will prepare budget proposals for inclusion of those expenditures that
must be reflected in national and local budgets; and compilation/verification of AWPBs for each
component
External Audit. An annual audit of project accounts and financial statements would be carried out by an
independent, internationally recruited auditing firm under terms of reference (TOR) acceptable to the World
Bank. The annual audit report would be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of the Borrower's
fiscal year, i.e. by June 30 of each year, with the first such report due by June 30, 2003.
Reporting and Monitoring. HILSPO prepared financial statements for the previous project quarterly and
annually. The statements were prepared on the basis of Mongolian accounting standards which are
understood to be compatible with International Accounting Standards (IAS). A sample of reports was
reviewed and found to be satis Factory but some reed to be adapted to be fully used as a tool of project
management and monitoring. A financial management reporting system should be elaborated. The reports
should be produced more frequently and systematically. A set of Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs)
was proposed and need to be modified to comply with the project cost structure. These reports will also be
required to be submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis. The draft FMR format was submitted to the
Bank for review at appraisal.
The content of FMRs comprise:
1.    Discussion of Project Progress
2.     Sources and Uses of Funds Statement
3.     Uses of Funds by Expenditure Type
- 105 -



4.     Output Monitoring Report
5.     Procurement Report
Information Systems. The accounting system is computerized; auto-generated reports from the accounting
program named "Simply Accounting". It was developed locally by a Mongolian company. The capacity is
limnited to produce only basic books and standard reports such as trial balance, general ledger, balance sheet
and income statements, and capture data only to 10 digits.
The hardware and accounting software were reviewed and found to be inadequate. New accounting
software needs to be developed to meet the expanded needs of the project, to be flexible, and able to be
customized to meet the specific reporting requirements of the project. Data/ reports need to be imported
into a suitable spreadsheet program so as to facilitate the preparation of the Statement of Expenditure
(SOE) attachment sheet to the Withdrawal Application. Below is a list of requirements for the software:
* multi-level reporting by project, sub-project or any component level;
* multi-currency support;
*   capability to track/link to physical performance indicators;
* capability to track and report on procurement/ contract basis;
* capability to track and report using flexible reporting cycles (monthly, quarterly, annually, or any
user-defined period);
* capability to track based on Actual, Budget, Forecast, and Life of Project;
* multiple location and consolidation facility;
*   multi-level help ay screen and field levels, as well as on-line documentation; and
* drill-down feature to take user to origin of transaction from the Query screen, providing for audit trial
Project Financial Management ManuaL The manual will be used as staff guidelines and as a basis for
training. The manual shall describe flow of funds, authorities and delegation of responsibilities of the
project staff, disbursement procedures, intemal controls, financial and accounting policies and procedures,
and transaction flows as well as budget preparation procedures. A draft Financial Management Manual
was submitted to the Bank for review at appraisal. Detailed comments have been provided for its revision,
to be finalized prior to Effectiveness.
Supervision Plan. The supervision of the project will include close monitoring of the FM related aspects
and implementation of the project by the HLSPO. Quarterly FMRs are to be submitted to the Bank within
45 days from the last quarter period. Bank supervision is planned at least twice a year.
- 106-



Financial Management Actioni Plan: The following financial management action plan has been agreed
with the Borrower to improve the system so as to meet the Bank's minimun requirements:
Action:                                 Responsibility:  Completed by:
1.    Staffing:
*     Three additional staff appointed to financial division of  HLSPO       Effectiveness
HLSPO and all job descriptions finalized.
*     New financial staff at central level trained in operation of
project financial management system and Bank financial         HLSPO         Effectiveness
management requirements and procedures.
*     Staff training completed and workshops conducted at central,  HLSPO    Effectiveness
aimag and sum levels.                                                     _
2.     Project Financial Maiiagement System:
*      Computer hardware and software procured and capable of   HLSPO        Effectiveness
producing FMRs acceptable to the Bank.
3.     Project Financial Management Manual:
*      Project financial management system clearly documented in a  HSPO     Effectiveness
Financial Management Manual acceptable to the Bank, as part of the
PIM.
4.     Reporting and Monitoring:
*      Financial reporting system upgraded to produce Financial  HLSPO       Effectiveness
Monitoring Reports (FMRs) in a format acceptable to the Bank.
Quarterly FMRs to be submitted to the Bank within 45 days from the
last quarter.
5.    External Audit:
*     An independent auditing firm acceptable to the Bank
appointed to perform annual aadits of project financial statements
under TOR acceptable to the flank, having been selected through  HLSPO       December 3 1,
interational advertisement following the Bank's procurement                   2002
guidelines for QCBS.
- 107 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MONGOLIA: Sustainable Livelihoods Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                    Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     26                           26
First Bank mission (identiflcation)             12/13/1999                  12/13/1999
Appraisal mission departure                     02/25/2002                  02/25/2002
Negotiations                                   04/22/2002                   04/29/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  07/01/2002
Prepared by:
Robin Meams, Task Team Leader
Preparation assistance:
1. UK DFID support for consultant inputs in project identification linked to the operationalization of a
Sustainable Livelihoods approach;
2. Government of Japan-financed PHRD grant (TF#02625 1), executed by GoM, which financed
international and local consultant inputs to conduct feasibility studies for the three main project
components, plus a social assessment, inputs to the environmental assessment, two Project Cycle
Management (LogFrame) workshops in June and August 2001, and professional auditing services;
3. Supplementary consultant inputs financed by the World Bank for the pastoral risk management
component, notably to assess the feasibility of indexed livestock mortality or weather-based insurance; and
to conduct a decentralization assessment (including matching funding from the Community-Based Rural
Development thematic group);
4. EU-TACIS/World Bank Joint Environmental Program (JEP) grant support for the preparation of a
stand-alone environmental assessment of the proposed project;
5. FAO-CP preparation support mission to assist with the completion of the Project Implementation Plan
(PIP), building on the work of the PHRD-financed and other consultants; and
6. At the additional request of GoM, Irish consultant trust funds mobilized to assist with the design of the
Project Management Support component, to finance consultant inputs during pre-appraisal mission and,
with the support of a local consultant, to support SLPO in finalizing project management arrangements, the
PIM, and the PIP.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Robin Mearns                      Sr. Natural Resource Management Specialist, Task Team Leader
Guzman Garcia-Rivero              Sector Leader
Guo Li                            Agricultural Economist
Nathan Belete                     Rural Development Specialist
Anthony Whitten                   Sr. Biodiversity Specialist
-108 -



Behdad Nowroozi                   Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Mary Judd                         Sr. Anthropologist
Nipa Siribuddhamas                Financial Management Specialist
Jinan Shi                         Procurement Specialist
Keith McLean                      Decentralization Specialist
Hoi-Chan Nguyen                   Project Lawyer
Lisa Bhansali                     Project Lawyer
Rosa Muleta                       Disbursement Officer
Comelis de Haan                   Peer Reviewer
Daniel Sellen                     Peer Reviewer
Michael Goldberg                  Peer Reviewer
Tsolmon Bat-Ochir                 Operations Officer
Evelyn Bautista Laguidao          Program Assistant
Cecilia Tan                       Team Assistant
Cecilia Belita                    Program Assistant
Kathryn Cherrie                   Program Assistant
Jeremy Swift                      Consultant (identification/ pastoral risk management)
Jerry Skees                       Consultant (index insurance for livestock)
John Morton                       Consultant (pastoral risk management)
Dennis Sheehy                     Consultant (scoping of EA for pastoral risk management)
Suvira Chaturvedi                 Consultant (local initiatives fund)
Enjiang Cheng                     Consultant (micro-finance)
S. Ganbold                        Consultant (micro-finance)
B. Enkhbat                        Consultant (local initiatives fund)
Daniel Miller                     Consultant (pastoral risk management)
N. Batjargal                      Consultant (pastoral risk management)
Doug Smith                        Consultant (environmental assessment)
J. Byambadorj                     Consultant (environmental assessment)
Olexi Kabyka                      Consultant (environmental assessment)
Natasha Pairaudeau                Consultant (social assessment)
R. Gantumur                       Consultant (stakeholder participation/ social assessment)
E. Tungalag                       Consultant (social assessment)
Alice Carloni                     Consultant (FAO/CP preparation support mission leam leader)
Stephan Baas                      Consultant (FAO/CP pastoral risk management)
Joe Remenyi                       Consultant (FAO/CP micro-finance)
Howard Johnson                    Consultant (FAO/CP local initiatives fund)
Seamus Cleary                     Consultant (project management support)
- 109 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MONGOLIA: Sustainable Livelihoods Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan: Volume 1, Main Report, March, 2002 (revised).
Project Implementation Plan: Volume 2, Annexes, November 2001.
Project Implementation Plan: Volume 3, Working Paper 1 (Pastoral Risk Management
Component), November 2001.
Project Implementation Plan: Volume 4, Working Paper 2 (Microfinance Component), March,
2002 (revised).
Project Implementation Plan: Volume 5, Working Paper 3 (Local Initiatives Fund Component),
November 2001.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Filmer, Richard. 2001. The Mongolian Cashmere Industry. World Bank/Applied Economic
Solutions, Canberra, Australia, August 2001.
Hanstad, Tim, and Jennifer Duncan. 2001. Land Reform in Mongolia: Observations and
Recommendations. RDI Reports on Foreign Aid and Development No.109. Seattle: Rural
Development Institute for the World Bank.
McLean, Keith. 2001. An Assessment of Decentralization in Mongolia. Draft Policy Research
Working Paper. World Bank, June 2001.
Mongolia: Sustainable Livelihoods Project - Project Concept Document, November 2000.
NSO and World Bank. 2001. Mongolia Participatory Living Standards Assessment 2000. National
Statistical Office of Mongolia and World Bank, 2001.
Shi, Jinan. 2002. Procurement Capacity Assessment Report. March 2002.
Siribuddhamas, Nipa. 2002. Financial Management Assessment Report. March 2002.
World Bank. 2001. Implementation Completion Report: Mongolia Poverty Alleviation for
Vulnerable Groups Project (Cr.2760-MN). Report No. 22232-MN.
C. Other
Government Documents
Government of Mongolia, 2000. Action Program of the Government of Mongolia, 2000-2004.
Government of Mongolia, 2001. Good Governance for Human Security Programme: Policy
Document.
Governnent of Mongolia, 2001. National Household Livelihoods Capacity Support Programme.
Government of Mongolia, 2001. Resolution No.47 on Drought and Dzud (March 13, 2001).
- 110-



Government of Mongolia, 2001. Proposed amendments to 1994 Land Law (Draft, D)ecember
2001).
Government of Mongolia, 2001. Draft Policy on Regional Development.
Government of Mongolia, 2002. Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper.
Govemment of Mongolia, UNDP, and World Bank. 1999. Joint Evaluation of National Poverty
Alleviation Programme and Future Options.
Project Preparation Reports
ERM and Natasha Pairaudeau. 2001. Environmental and Social Assessment of the Sustainable
Livelihoods Project. Final Report, December 2001. London: Environmental Resources
Management.
Chaturvedi, Suvira. 2001. Mongolia: Sustainable Livelihoods Project - Community Investment
Fund Component, August 2001.
Cheng, Enjiang. 2001. Mongolia: Sustainable Livelihoods Project - Micro-finance Component,
August 2001.
Miller, Daniel. 2001. Mongolia: Sustainable Livelihoods Project - Pastoral Risk Management
Strategy And Action Plan, September 2001.
Morton, John. 2001. Report of a Consultancy on Pastoral Risk Management in Mongolia. Report
to the World Bank and the Ministry of Food and Agriculture, Government of Mongolia. Natural
Resources Institute, tJniversity of Greenwich, UK
Skees, Jerry R. 2001. Report on Feasibility of Livestock Insurance in Mongolia. October 2001.
Donor Documents
ADB: Various Agriculture/ Rural/ Social Sector TA Reports and Loan Documents.
FAO: Pastoral Risk Management TCP Project (various reports).
IFAD: Mongolia Rural Poverty Alleviation Program, Formulation Report, June 2001.
UNDP: Griffin, Keith, A Strategy for Poverty Reduction in Mongolia, Mission Report, July 2001.
UNDP: Draft Micro-Finance Policy Paper.
UNDP: Project Documents for 'Poverty Research and Employment Facilitation for Policy
Development' and 'Sustainable Grasslands Management'
USAID: Gobi Business News (various issues from 1999).
*Including electronic files



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MONGOLIA: Sustainable Livelihoods Project
02-May-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                          disbursements
Projrct ID    FY   Purpose                                    IBRD        IDA                        Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig   Frm Rev'd
P074001       2002 Mongolia Legal Reforn Project                  0.00      5.00                          0.00      4 99      0.00      0.00
P040907       2001 ENERGY SECTOR                                  0.00     30.00                          0 00     29.03      214       0.0o
P056200       2001 MN-Transport Develop                           0.00     34.00                          0 00     28.77     10.40      0 00
P088071       2000 MN-Flnanaal Sector Adjustment CredIt           000      32.00                          0.00     1906      10.46      0.00
P049789       1999 MN-PRIV.SEC. DEVT CR                           0.00     12.00                          0.00      5.21      3 60      0 00
P051855       1998 MN-Fiscal Technical Assistance Project         000       5.00                          000       3.34      348       0 07
P036052       1998 MN-ULAANBAATAR SERV. IMPRMVT                   0.00     16.70                          0 00      4.82      5`15      1 67
Total:       0.00    134.70                          0 00      95.21     35 23      1 74
MONGOLIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                 Disbursed
IFC                                      IFC
FY Approval              Company                               Loan     Equity     Quasi      Partic     Loan     Equity     Quasi      Partic
1997                     SEF G&M Leather                        1.05      0.20      0.00       0.00       1.05      0.20       0 00      0.00
Total Portfolio:                1.05      0.20       0.00       0.00       1.05      0.20       0.00      0.00
Approvals Pending Cofmmitment
FY Approval             Company                                   Loan       Equity       Quasi        Partic
2001                    SEF XAC                                    0.40        0.00         0.00        0.00
Total Pending Commitment:                  0.40        0.00         0.00        0.00
- 112 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MONGOLIA: Sustainable Livelihoods Project
East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Asia &     Low-
Mongolia     Pacific  Income      Development dlimond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                        2 4     1,853     2,459                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, USS)                    390      1.060       420
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                      0.95     1,984     1,030
Average annual growth, 1994400
Population (%)                                         1.1       1.1       1.9
Labor force (%)                                        1.9       1.4       2.4    GperI                             Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year aveal3ale, 1994-00)                             capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national pivertv line)   36
Urban population (% of total population)                64        35        32
Life expectancv at birth (years)                       67         69        59
Intant mortalitv (per 1,000 live births)                58        35        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              13        13                     Access to Improved water aource
Access to an Improved water source (% ol population)   60         75        76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15.)                   37         14        38
Gross primarv enrollment (% ofschool-age population)    88       119        96            -M    ongoli
Male                                                 88        121       102                  Low-Income group
Female                                               91        121        88
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TE.RM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                                              0.91      0.97
Gross domestic investment/GDP                   ..    38 1      28.5      30.0
Exports of goods and services/GDP               .     24 0      61.2      65.5                     Trade
Gross domestic savinas/GDP                      ..     92       15.1      13.6
Gross national savings/GDP                      ..      ..      14.8      12.9                      /J\
Current account balance/GDP                                     -13 7     -17.1     Domestic                    Ivte
Interest payments/GOP                           ..       .       1.0        10     savinvesmen
Total debtGDP                                   ..       .      98.4      88.6
Total debt service/exports                      .        .       4.6       4 5
Present value of debt/GDP                       .               55.9
Present value of debt/exports                  ..               89.1
Indebtedness
19B0-90  1990-00     1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  54       1.0      3.2       1.1       4.0             -     Mongolia
GDP Per capita                       3.0     4.3       2.3       0.3       2.0              L    Low-income group
Exports of goods and services          ..      ..      4.7      12.8       3.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000      Growth of Investment and GOP (%)
({ of GDP)                                                                         is
Agriculture                                    ..     17.4      37.0      33.3
Industrv                                       ..     30.4      20.7      18.5     10
Manufacturing                                 ..       ..       5.9       5.4
Services                                        ..    52.2      42.4       48.2      o        '          e
Private consumption                            ..     58.4      66.8      66 3             9S 9. 957        98         00
General government consumption                  ..    32.4      18.1      20.0                     GDI      il  GDP
Imports of goods and services                   ..    52.9      74.6      81.9
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000      Growth ot exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)                                                            1
Agriculture                                   1.4      3,2        4.2       1.6      .                                 A
Industrv                                      6.6     -0.5       1.1        1.1   ix
Manufacturina                                 ..       ..      -2.7       3.2
Services                                      8.4      0.1       3.4       0.6
Private consumpton                             ..       ..       1.4       -4.8    o      95    g     97
General government consumption                 ..       ..      -5.0       6.2     -5
Gross domestic Investment                       ..       .       -3.6     12.4                   Exporun      Imports
Imports of goods and services                  ..       ..      -2.4      11.4
Note: 2000 data are preliminary eatimateii.
The diamonds show tour kev indicators In the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. It data are missina. the diamond will
be incomplete.
-113 -



Mongolia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                     so
Consumer prices                              ..       ..      10.0      9.5    so
Implicit GDP deflator                        ..      0.0       9.7     11.6    40
Govemment flnance                                                              20
(% of GDP, includes current grents)                                             0
Current revenue                              ..     54.1       ..        ..           95    96    97    9e    99
Current budget balance                       ..     -1.5                              -     GDP deflator  C  CPI
Overall surplusdeficit                       ..    -14.5     -11.9     -9.9
TRADE
1980     1990      1999     2000     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                          ,,     661       454      529     Boo
Copper                                      ..     260       119
Meat                                        ..      56        ..       ..    Boo
Manufactures                               ..
Total imports (cd )                                 924       567      679     2 
Food                                                                         200... .
Fuel and energy                             ..
Capital goods                               ..      .,        ..       ..      a
94   95  9g    97   98   99   00
Export price Index (1995=100)                 ..
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      ..        ..       ..               U Exports     M Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
l1980    1990      1999     2000     Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                 ..    493       554      635      s
Imports of goods and services                ..    1,101      675      794
Resoure balance                                     -6.08    -121     -159      o
Net income                                           -44       -10     -15      -s1.      1
Net current transfers                                 0         7         8    -I                             I   i
-10
Current account balance                            -651      -124      -166
Financing hems (net)                                598       140      224     .15
Changes In net reserves                              53        -16     -58     -20
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)       ..       ..      157       188
Conversion rate (DEC, locaUUS$)               ..       -    1,021.9  1,076.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                  ComposItion of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         ..       ..      891       859
IBRD                                       ..                 0         0                 F: 17 G: 14
IDA                                         ..      ..      130       137                             B 137
Total debt service                           ..       ..       26        29
IBRD                            o                             0         01                                 c s0
IDA                                         ..      .C:5
E:337
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            ..       ..       49
Official creditors                                           1S1       46
Private creditors                                            -3        43
Foreign direct investment                  ..       ..       30
Portfolio equIty                           ..       ..        0         .
World Bank program
Commitments                                ..       ..       12        32     A- IBRD                   E - Eitateral
Disbursements                              ..       ..       14        14     B-IDA    D - Other multlateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                       ..       ..        0         0     C - IMF                   G - Short-taem
Net flows                                   ..      ..       14        14
Interest payments                          ..       ..         1        1
Net transfers                              ..       ..       13        13
Development Economics                                                                                           11/5/01
-114-



Additional Annex 11: Proglram Vision and Approach, with Letter of Development Program
MONGOLIA: Sustainable Livelihoods Project
Program Vision
The overall program purpose is: "vulnerability reduced and secure and sustainable livelihoods achieved
by targeted poor and vulnerable near-poor households and individuals nationwide". The Sustainable
Livelihoods Program is intended to support the shift in Mongolia's national anti-poverty strategy away from
welfarist measures towards those that promote secure and sustainable livelihoods for all.
The program development obiective is: "target groups and individuals adopt improved livelihood
strategies that build and main fain human, social, financial, physical and natural capital while reducing
vulnerability to shocks". This would be achieved through investments in four components: pastoral risk
management; micro-finance outtreach; local initiatives fund; and program management and policy support.
Synergies among the components are an important feature of program design. These synergies derive from
their complementary approaches to promoting asset creation so as to reduce vulnerability and enhance
livelihood security.
By the end of the programn, a national strategy would be in place and resourced appropriately to ensure that
adequate steps are taken by aci:ors at various levels (national, aimag, sum, bag, household) to reduce
herders' exposure to risk in the pastoral livestock sector, prepare for risk episodes, and respond quickly and
effectively in the event of serious covariant risks to reduce their overall impact on pastoral livelihoods. To
the extent that external financing remained necessary, this strategy would have the force of national policy,
such that all donor-financed activities support the overall strategy. Restocking, for examnple, may remain
part of a post-risk recovery strategy, but would be financed in such a way that it did not undermine
management incentives or sustainability of the micro-finance sector more generally.
A wide range of micro-finance services would be available to low-income and vulnerable households,
including those in remote rural areas, to enable them to smooth consumption and manage risk without
needing to liquidate assets. Herders would be able to sell animals rapidly and destock in advance of risk
episodes, facilitated by livestock marketing (including marketing facilities created through demand-driven
local investments) and by the possibility of converting livestock into alternative, more liquid, assets
including secure savings. Those in rural areas who do not see a future for themselves in livestock
production have opportunities open to them to pursue alternative livelihood strategies, facilitated by access
to affordable micro-credit. Some of these activities may be in livestock product processing, for example,
but may also be in areas unrelatted to livestock production such as tourism. Institutionally and financially
sustainable approaches to livestock insurance would also form part of the available range of micro-finance
products. Indemnification would promote management incentives.
Vibrant local economies in rural areas would be facilitated by public expenditure allocation responsive to
local needs and demands. Local infrastructure creation and maintenance, and social service provision,
among other public goods, would help to provide a supportive environment for private sector-led growth, in
turn facilitated by opportunities to build private assets through access to appropriate financial products and
services. Ecologically appropriate investments in the infrastructure required for pastoral risk management,
including sustainable pasture land management, would be made as necessary, determined by the particular
needs of each agro-ecological zone and locality. Local governments would have discretionary control over a
significant share of the total state budget, but would be downwardly accountable to local communities in
- 115 -



detennining how these public funds are spent. Participatory, community-based mechanisms for
determining the pattern of such expenditures would operate throughout the country, irrespective of 'sectoral'
boundaries. Public access to information about such expenditures would be widely available. This higher
level of transparency would result in the creation of public goods of higher quality, yet at lower cost than at
the start of the program.
Sustainable Livelihoods Approach
The emphasis of a sustainable livelihoods approach is on reducing vulnerability so as to enhance livelihood
security. The program therefore focuses on ways to improve the assets and capabilities of poor and
vulnerable groups, and therefore their future income-earning potential or livelihood sustainability, rather
than their current income or consumption levels alone.
The relevant assets to be created under the program include both private goods (via access to
micro-finance products and services) and public goods (community-level infrastructure and social services,
and institutional arrangements for pasture land management and conflict resolution, for example). Certain
assets will fall between these two extremes, such as wells or revolving funds owned and managed by small
groups of herders, and may be thought of as semi-public goods.
The public subsidy element in asset creation will vary along the continuum between private and public
goods, requiring a sliding scale of beneficiary contributions. There would be little or no subsidy in the
provision of private goods/assets; that is, no subsidy of interest rates in micro-credit, for example, although
the MDF would implicitly subsidize institutional innovation in the development of new micro-finance
products accessible to the poor and those in remote rural areas. Public assets created under the LIF would
require beneficiary contributions of around 10% to ensure local ownership and sustainability.
- 116-



Government Letter of Development Program
,
i4-l
MIMSTRY O(F FINANCE AND)
EICONOMY OF MONGOLIA
2t0648 Nasden undestdll gudani 5t1. Zasolln azrUn it bair.
Ch4ngeltM oauurg UlNinbsta. MONGOLIA
T+*L Fax: (97.11) 32-0247. E - mall: ubaCPod&smot.g.v.nir
ite,   2t      /,O
To: IE. Ian Portr
Country Director for Mongolia
East Asia and Pacifio
Dear Mr Porter,
Lemor ofOevelopme,rJ Programme
Since July 2000, the Governmentof Mongolia has made poverty reduction the
comerstone of its Action Plan. Over the last 18 months, we have sought to develop
policies and operational programmes to heip make this goal a reality. A Poverty
Reduction and Growth Facility has been agreed with the IMF, and the hnterim Poverty
Reduction Stategy Paper Q-PSP) we have prepared has beo appnnved by the Boards
of the IMF and the World Baunl The full PRSP is cunntly being labontted in a
participatory manner for completion by autumn 2002, and will ideniy the Govemment's
prionties in bringing about a sustained reduction in the incidence of poverty over e
medium tenm.
A grat deall of valuable experaece was gained in the imilementation of the.
Naional Poverty Al11viation P ogmeram (NPAP) over 1994-2000. iw th suippot from the
World Bank and other international donors and organizations. While NPAP achieved
somie notable successes, paticularly in building local capacity to realize needed
investments in the physical and human development infirstructure vital for private
sector-ted growth. it did not succeed in reducing the ovea numter of people living
below the poverty linm New economic oppomunities continued to be denied to many
people. particularly those living in remote rural ares. hsufficietit atetion was also paid
to reducing vulnerLbility to natunl hazards, such as the summer droughts and arsh
vintts emcrienoced in 1999-2002.
At least two major lessons wser leamed wuder NPAP. Pinst, policies to promote
economic growth shlould not be sepaated fom those designed to reduce poverty; these
twin goals should tie comiderld together. And second, poverty is tnot only a matt of
insufitcient income or levels of consumption; it is also chraterized by vulneability to
extetnal shocks such as international comomodity prices or natural ba;ids.
- 117-



With these lessons in mind, and in the broader context of our evolving PRSP, the
Government of Mongolia enacted seveal importnt pieces of legislation in 2001. One
was Resolution 47 (March 13. 2001) to improve risk preparedness and protct those who
depend on livestock from the effets of drought and harsh winter/spring conditions. A
sond was our regional and rural development conoept, designed to reduce rral and
urban development disparities and bring mo  sustainable use of naural resouroes such
au pasture land And a third wa Resolution 108 (May 10, 2001). which established the
National Household Livelihoods Capacity Support Programme (NHLCSP) as a follow-Mup
programme to NPAP.
Over the period 2001-2006, the NHLCSP seeks to build on the past successes of
NPAP while also addressing its shortcomings. It aims to reduce the incidence of poverty
among poorand extremely poor households, and preventvulneable non-poorhouseholds
fiom falling below the poverty line, by extending the coverage of social services and
promoting the economic opportumities necessary for developing human capacity and
promoting sustainable development Sevesl important principles underlie the NELCSP,
and the PRSP more broadly, including: developing mechanisms to tailor public policies
and expenditues to the specific needs of the population in differentgeographical contexts
and bridging urbn and rural arenas; promoting opportunities for enhanced particiwpion
and coordination of the public and private sectors and civil society; ancouraging gender
equity; and fostering transpaency and accountability in govemance through more open
public access to information.
These recent efforts on the pat of the Govemment am putting in place policies
and operational progammmes to bring about more widely shared economic growth and a
sustained reduction in poverty over the medium term. However, they are also laying the
foundations for a more prosperous future for Mongolia. the fitU effects of which may not
be realized for perhaps a decade or more We envisge the Susuinable Livelihoods
Progammme as making an important contribution to realizing this longer-term vision, with
a primary focus in the main areas of the development strategy outlined in the following
paragraphs.
Consitent with its regional and rual development concept, and Resolution 47 to
promote risk preparedness, the Govemment of Mongolia will promote more widely
shared economic growth in order to bring about a sustained reduction i both the
incidence of poverty and vulneabtaiy to extemal shocks; In keeping with the goals of
the NHLSP, this will result in improved lif conditions fow the extrely poor, the
graduation of the able-bodied poor out of poverty; and reduced vulnerability of low-
iAcome. non-poor groups. These goals will be realized by empowering communities to
select and execute infrastructure imprv   and other activities to contribute to
economic diversification; and through the firther development of the micro, small and
medium enterprise sector. Tbis will expand the range of market-responsive employment
opportunities, including altemative income-gnrting s_ttes for marginal herdes to
enable them to eoit the livestock sector. increasing aces to financial svices, and
taining in business and vocational skills, are crtical to achieving this vision.
- 118-



Tne Govemment recognizes th cenwral rol, that a vibrnt rurl sector must play
in contributing to sustained povarty reduction at the national level. We believe that rural
and uban development shDuld not be treated separaty. but must be approsched in an
interated manner so as lto enable Mongoliaes compaative advantage in  tensive
livestock production to bib combined wvth the pursuit of human development goals
through urban-based services  Susainability in livestock production has been
compromised in recent years with an increase in grzing pressure in more market-
aceossible areas. leaving much good pasture under-utilized. Over the medium- to long-
tern, the Governmnt will pursue a stuategy of restoring the compeitiveness and
sustainability of livestock production combined with rural oonomic diversification. Vital
elements in achieving this; vision include putting in place measures to increase risk
management in the livestock seor, consistent with Resolution 47; productivity
enhancing investmets in ihe agriculture sector more broadly, including water supply,
hay and fodder development, and agricultual services; investnents in basic infiatructure
to improve market access; and acoess to financial services to facilitate sustained private
sector-led growth in ruml ar-eas.
With the support of intemational organizations, the Govemment is pursuing a
long-term strategy to onsurt that public administation and fiscal afakirs are decentralized
to dw extmet appropriate fIr Mongolia's large and divers teitory. In the short run, we
are taking steps to improe the level and efficiency of public revenue-raising. But in
pawallel with this we ae also developing a transparent, formula-driven approach to
deternining inter-governmental trnsfers so as to ensure a hir and equitable distribution
of public resourcews takdng into account poverty-targeting and other criteria. At the local
level, it is essential that scarce public resources are then made available and used in a
manner which is responsive to local needs, priorities, and aspirations. The Local
initiatives Fund of the Sustinable Livelihoods Programnune, building on experience with
the Local Development Funad under NPAP, aims to develop such local-level mechanisms
for resource allocation acwss sectors while remaining cosistent with national-level
sector strategies. The devilopment of transparent mechanisms for resource allocation
across sectos and between regions and localities is critical to achieving the
Government's overdl vision in fostering widely shared economic growth.
Tlhe Govemmnt is committd to incroasing the outrach of mifco-finance
seorvices to able-bodied poor and vulneable non-poor groups i remote rural areas on a
sustainable basis, and believes that this will make a vital contributio to securbW more
widely shared and diversified economic growth over the long werm. Savings mobilization
and the anticipated development of micro-insumnoe products to help smooth
consumption, mamae external shocks, and dive,sify the assets of low-income and
vulnerable households anr as important to this vision as promoting the sustainable
outrea  of micro-credit The possible development of a profitble and sustainable
commercial scheme for livestock insurace is one such area in which the support of the
Sustainable Livelihoods Progmme wull be vital, building on internationl expience
with innovave, indx-based approaches that are consitent with incentivs for
sustsaible livestock mgemnent The proposed Mongolia Micro-finance Development
-119-



The. 15 ~   4     -   ri                     :
other don      
, ' ;,~~~~~~~~~~~~~-C' .'' ;'.'v-. ;'
. ,
. p ,  . s -  .   ,   ,  .   -r c7 -.  r';
_  S   t           .  . r  ;  s_~'"~'  t   C
ChUl~an  *' -*  K K .4r1 ;""e
10, s
-120-



Additional Annex 12: Relevant Donor-Supported Activities
MONGOLIA: Sustainable Livelihoods Project
Project identification over September 1999-January 2000 was conducted jointly with ADB, UNDP and
SIDA, in conjunction with the joint evaluation of the National Poverty Alleviation Program (NPAP) for
which these agencies had also been co-financiers. Although they do not have an operational program in
Mongolia, U5K DFID also financed additional consultant inputs in project identification, guided by a
sustainable livelihoods approach, and in parallel with their support for the Participatory Living Standards
Assessment (PLSA).
Several priorities for future anti-poverty efforts in Mongolia were identified in the course of the joint
evaluation of NPAP and the national stakeholder workshop conducted in December 1999 as part of the
identification process for the Sustainable Livelihoods Project. Among these were (i) vocational training; (ii)
national-level capacity building in poverty-related policy research and advice; (iii) reform of the state social
welfare system; (iv) support for the development of a national strategy and investments to support pastoral
risk management; (v) micro-finance outreach, particularly in rural areas; and (vi) community-driven
investments in local infrastructure and social services provision.
Agreement was reached in dialogue among Government and leading donor agencies to follow-up NPAP
with a coordinated set of programs and projects, all or most of which would fall under the auspices of the
Government's Household Livelihoods Capacity Support Program (HLCSP), the successor anti-poverty
program to NPAP. Most notable amnong these complementary initiatives were: (a) support from UNDP and
SIDA for a 'Poverty Research and Employment Facilitation for Policy Development' project, aimed at
building institutional capacity in poverty research, monitoring, and policy advice (issue (ii) above); and (b)
support from ADB for a 'Social Security Sector Development Program', aimed at reform of the social
welfare system and increasing support for vocational training (issues (i) and (iii) above). It was agreed at
this time that World Bank would take the lead in supporting efforts to address issues (iv), (v), and (vi)
above, under the Sustainable Livelihoods Program/Project.
Identification of the pastoral risk management component also drew on detailed lessons learned from (i)
the FAO-supported TCP project on herd restocking in Arkhangai aimag in 1995; (ii) the IFAD)-supported
Rural Poverty Alleviation projecls in Arkhangai and Khuvsgul aimags that scaled-up the approach to
restocking piloted under the earlier FAO TCP project; and (iii) the World Bank-supported emergency
restocking response to the 1999-2000 dzud, financed from the Poverty Alleviation for Vulnerable Groups
Credit, that further refined the restocking 'model' developed in Mongolia to date. Other relevant experience
on restocking was offered by the smaller-scale SCF(UK)-supported initiatives in Bayan-Olgii, Uvs,
Khovsgol, and Domod aimags that fell under the auspices of NPAP. It was widely recognized that NPAP
had done little to reach the rural poor and herders in particular, or to reduce vulnerability to drought and
dzud. The serious dzud episodes of 1999/2000 and 2000/2001 brought home to Government and the
intemational donor community the overwhelming importance of promoting livelihood security for herders
and others dependent on livestock production by improving risk preparedness.
A second FAO-supported TCP project began activities in 2000 to pilot-test in Tov and Uvs aimags certain
elements of a pastoral risk management strategy (e.g. hay and fodder development). This TCP project is
explicitly designed as a 'testing ground' for ideas that could be scaled-up operationally under the
Sustainable Livelihoods Project, wvhich includes the same two aimags in Phase I. Other donor-supported
efforts that complement the pastoral risk management component include: (i) ADB support for
community-based pasture land management pilots under the Agriculture Sector Development Program that
- 121 -



will begin work in 2002 in a number of western aimags; (ii) USAID support for pastoral and agricultural
development under the Gobi Regional Economic Growth Initiative; (iii) UNDP support for
community-based pilots in sustainable grasslands management executed by the Ulaanbaatar-based Center
for Policy Research (CPR) in three sums of Tov, Bayankhongor, and Khentii aimags. There is close,
operational-level interaction between local teams worling on these activities and on the pastoral risk
management component, in areas such as: Gobi Initiative's experience in promoting radio and newsprint
communications with herders on issues of market prices, land tenure, and weather forecasting; and CPR's
experience in promoting herder self-help groups and land tenure mapping.
The other major area in which the SLP is coordinating with other donor-supported activities concerns
micro-finance outreach. Most important among relevant donor-supported activities are: (i) the ADB
-supported Rural Finance Project, which is focusing primarily on savings and credit cooperatives; (ii) a
small-scale pilot project financed by DFID and EU-TACIS through the local MFI Credit-Mongol to
explore ways of expanding rural micro-finance outreach; (iii) USAID's support for the MFI
'Goviin-Ekhlel', founded under the Gobi Regional Economic Growth Initiative, which has recently merged
with the highly successful urban-based 'XAC' MFI to form 'XACBank'. (XAC, in turn, was created under
UNDP's Micro-Start Initiative). Relevant work has also been supported by the Canadian Cooperative
Association in supporting savings and credit cooperatives, primarily though not exclusively in urban areas.
To varying degrees, each of these MFIs has been planning to increase outreach in rural areas, and would be
potential partners for the Micro-finance Development Fund under SLP.
- 122-



Additional Annex 13: Institutional Capacity-Building Measures
MONGOLIA: Sustainable Livelihoods Project
The NPAP succeeded in creating capacity to manage poverty alleviation programmes at central level and in
establishing a well-functioning network of Poverty Alleviation Councils (PACs) in all aimags and sums
across the nation. These units (renamed Household Livelihoods Support Councils, HLSCs) now form an
integral part of local governments' institutional structure and the structure through which many of the
project's activities will be impleimented. If the project management structure is to be responsive to
community demands, it requires that management capacity be created and strengthened at the lowest
effective administrative level - the sum in rural areas and the duureg in peri-urban areas - and that clear
links be built to the communitie;s and procedures established to facilitate their involvement in the system.
This has been a guiding principle for the management of all three project components.
The three components, while all contributing to improving household livelihoods, will have different types
of operations and thus place diflerent demands for institution- and capacity building. The PRM component
is technical in nature with operational activities that will directly address key constraints on risk
management in livestock production. The MFO component, while to an extent pilot in nature, will upgrade
and restructure an ongoing nation-wide credit programme (Revolving Loan Funds, RLFs); in parallel,
develop a national micro-finance outreach apex structure for wholesale lending to MFIs; and develop an
index-based approach to commercially viable livestock insurance. The LIF component will operate a large
nation-wide funding facility (LDF), while at the same time piloting and developing a new funding facility
driven by community participatory and fiscal decentralization (LIF).
With regard to capacity building, the program components will receive technical guidance from three
different Working Groups made up of senior technical staff from various ministries, agencies, private
sector, and civil society groups relevant to the implementation of their respective component. Within the
Household Livelihoods Support Program Office (HLSPO) and at the national level, a coordinator for each
component will be responsible for coordinating all activities with their respective Working Group (or
Board, in the case of MFO). The coordinators would also play a policy advisory role as required for the
implementation of their respectivfe components.
The composition of the Working Groups will vary by component: Ministry of Food and Agriculture would
take the lead in Pastoral Risk Management, but include representation from the Ministry of Nature and
Environment and relevant affiliates (Institute of Hydrology and Meteorology and the Land Administration
Authority); while Ministry of Finance and Economy would take the lead in both the Micro-finance
Development Board (with representation from the central bank and leading private finance institutions) and
the LWF Working Group (with representation from other relevant line ministries including infrastructure,
health and education).
Implementation and capacity building will thereafter be undertaken at the sub-national and district levels
for the activities of the PRM and LWF components, with a separate working group at aimag level for the
PRM component. The aimag HI,SC would: (a) coordinate project activities in the aimag and ensure
adequate support from line ministries; (b) compile and harmonize sum-level sustainable livelihood
strategies, in order to eliminate d'ouble-counting of sub-projects under different programs; (c) provide
technical, financial and administrative backstopping of sum HLSC operations; (d) evaluate the performance
and impact of project activities within the aimag and monitor the attainment of targets; (e) coordinate
training activities; and (f) provide overall financial oversight for project operations within the aimag.
- 123-



The sum HLSC would interact directly with and be accountable to participating communities, primarily
through bag khurals and herder groups established through the project. The sum HLSC would be
administratively responsible to the Governor of the sum. They will also be responsible and accountable to
the aimags which will provide technical support and backstopping for the activities carried out under the
project. Each sum HLSC currently has a part-time secretary, financed from the Government budget. In all
the sums in which pilot activities will be implemented under the project, this position will be upgraded to a
full-time position, financed from the proceeds of the Credit.
The sum HLSCs will ensure that the activities implemented are consistent with the overall development
strategy and plans of the line ministries and government. They will be responsible for preparing the sum
-level sustainable livelihoods plan to supplement the existing sum-level development plans. The sum
HLSCs would directly manage the LIF activities and ensure that procedures and processes and adhered to
in the identification and approval of all activities, provide support to the MFO Coordinator through the
activities of the revolving loan funds, and coordinate implementation of the PRM component.
Numerous specialized training events will be held and consulting services for technical assistance will be
provided throughout the duration of the project. Most of these will be to enhance capacity at the sum and
aimag levels in management and program implementation. In addition, numerous workshops have also
been envisaged for community leaders, herders, and other community members in areas such as leadership,
livestock management, and training of trainers. Total expenditure on training and technical assistance
services accounts for some 3% of total project cost. Grant financing is being sought to meet the costs of
additional technical assistance and capacity-building efforts.
- 124-



Additional Annex 14: Environmental and Social Assessment Summary
MO4GOLIA: Sustainable Livelihoods Project
Introduction and process
Consistent with the World Banik's Operational Policy OP4.01, environmental and social assessment for the
proposed SLP is regarded as an ongoing process that began around the time of project identification. This
assessment (hereafter referred to as 'the EA') therefore draws upon several steps in the process of project
identification and design. The znvironmental component was carried out over three stages from
August-October 2001: firstly scoping of impacts and desk-based review of reports; secondly, in-depth
stakeholder consultation carried out over three weeks in Mongolia in September 2001, including a series of
interviews and workshops with stakeholders and key informants in Ulaanbataar and rural Mongolia; and
finally the preparation of a draft EA report, on which detailed comments from GoM, the World Bank, and
the team responsible for PIP preparation were received. During drafting of the report, the key conclusions
of a separate, dedicated social assessment (conducted over October-November 2001) were incorporated.
The final report (December 19, 2001), in two volumes, presents both the dedicated EA and dedicated social
assessment in a single, consolidated document.
Major EA Findings
The SLP has the potential to deliver a significant overall positive environmental impact, through a
contribution to reduced land degradation in Mongolia. This conclusion is based on the following reasoning:
*   There is evidence of c]rimate change in Mongolia, which is probably accelerating land degradation
directly due to drought, and indirectly due to the socio-economic irnpact of drought and dzud.
* In addition, current pasture management patterns in Mongolia are accelerating land degradation,
particularly in localized areas, for example due to concentration of herds around sum centers and
aimag centers.
* Therefore, successful actions to reduce herders' vulnerability through pastoral risk management
offer a significant opportunity to contribute to reduced extent and severity of land degradation.
Indeed it will be neces;3ary to reduce land degradation in order to reduce herders' vulnerability to
drought and dzud.
*   Community-level or bag-level management planning of pasture is proposed as a key part of the
project's integrated approach to pastoral risk mnanagement The empowerment of herders or herder
associations to manage their pasture is of potential for reducing land degradation, both in times of
drought and dzud, and at all other times.
The SLP therefore will contribute to several commnitments of the GoM to address land degradation,
including those set out in the draft National Environmental Action Plan.
Furthermore, the SLP has the potential to deliver an overall positive social impact, by empowering herders
to manage their livelihoods, and by contributing to rising living standards among poor households and
herder households. This conclusion is based on the following reasoning:
*   The intensive learning [CR carried out for the PAVGP, concluded that the PAVGP had a positive
impact on poverty. The continuation of the LDF should maintain and further extend this impact.
* The Micro-finance Services Outreach component will improve the currently limited access of
poorer households to rricro-finance. Limited access constrains the ability of the poor to act to
- 125-



reduce their poverty and their vulnerability through savings, livelihood diversification and other
actions.
*   The design of the LIF component is based on the recognition of the perceived weakness of the LDF
to adequately target the poor and to ensure social investments are demand driven. By paying
additional attention to these issues, the SLP will ensure that positive social impacts are maxinized
and negative impacts avoided.
*   Positive social impact should be greater still in the 8 core aimags where the combined actions of the
LDF, LIF, PRM and micro-finance components will reduce the vulnerability of the poor and the
rural poor. In the no-project situation, drought, dzud, land degradation, and increased vulnerability
would continue to significantly reduce living standards among poor and middle-poor herder
households.
*   Lower living standards in rural Mongolia are associated with rising malnutrition, increased
incidence of disease, lower school attendance, depression, increased incidence of drunkenness,
divorce, and higher incidence of domestic violence.
Mitigation of Potential Negative Impacts
The potential of the SLP to deliver positive improvements in reduced land degradation should far outweigh
any localized environmental impacts of activities to be supported by the project. But in spite of the overall
positive impact, certain of the project activities could have localized negative impacts.
Most of the developments under the PRM and LIF components will be small in scale, and the significance
of the direct negative environmental impacts is likely to be small. This is especially the case in comparison
to other developments that are increasing in frequency in rural Mongolia, for instance mining projects.
However, in the event that some of the activities are scaled-up to wider areas following their successful
piloting, there may be cumulative impacts. This provides the SLP with an opportunity to ensure that the
pilot activities fully integrate the mitigation of environmental risks, in order that negative cumulative
impacts are avoided when the activities are scaled-up.
The Micro-Finance Outreach component is not expected to have any direct environmental impacts, but it is
likely to have indirect impacts. Indirectly, by contributing to an increased tendency amongst herders to
convert their livestock assets into cash savings, it has potential to deliver positive environmental impacts.
But there is also a risk that individual herders might use their access savings and credit to increase their
herd sizes or to invest in income-generating activities that have a negative environmental impact. This
provides opportunity to ascertain whether the improved access to micro-finance does indeed result in a more
sustainable management of the environment by herders. Therefore the EA proposes that this issue is
explicitly examined during the project MTR and ex-post evaluation.
Due to the demand/community driven nature and 'open menu' approach of the LWF component, and the
consequent unpredictability of specific LIF and LDF sub-projects, it is difficult to assess their potential
environmental impacts. But the negative impacts of community infrastructure projects are not likely to be
significant. Whether particular sub-projects have significant negative impacts will depend on their scale &
location, and will be context-specific and localized. Those with potentially significant environmental
impacts should undergo environmental screening or EIA, under the Mongolian system of EIA, before a
decision on approval.
The EA has considered all of the potential negative impacts of SLP activities, in particular in discussion
with GoM and the FAO team that assisted with preparation of the PIP. GoM and the FAO team have
striven to ensure that potential negative enviroranental impacts of the project will be avoided or minimized,
- 126-



and indeed have proposed a number of suggested alternative actions or strategies. The full EA report
provides details on several activities that may have negative impacts, and proposes mitigation actions based
on discussions with GoM and the FAO team. These are: community-based rodent control,
community-based control of predation, community-based construction and rehabilitation of wells,
emergency restocking, haymaking, inter-sum/inter-aimag otor reserves, and veterinary services.
Maximizing positive social impacts
The dedicated social assessmznt identified a series of recomnmendations to enhance the positive social impact
of the project. Examples of are that: the stated target groups for SLP should be broadened, so they include
all groups implicitly included in project documents, including herding and settled communities in rural and
peri-urban areas; local contributions under the LDF/LIF should be calculated on a project-by-project basis,
rather than by a standard percentage; three-way contracts should be used under LDF/LIF and PRM
components to define responsibilities of local government and groups or herders' associations; members of
members of sum local government should act as community social workers, to ensure that the poorest
herding households gain access to herder associations and other benefits of the PRM component; there
should be allowance for participatory M&E; and that social assessment is integrated into the system of
identifying, planning and monitoring projects.
Environmental and Social MIanagement Plan
The EA sets out an environmental and social management plan (EMP), with an associated environmental
management system. The design of the EMP will ensure that environmental sustainability is not considered
in isolation of social, economic and institutional sustainability in the rural space. For example, it would be
counterproductive if the SLP were to place a disproportionate burden on sum- or aimag- level
environmental inspectors while other work, such as EIA of mining projects, deserve a more, significant
proportion of their time.
The bulk of inputs to this project are required at aimag and sum levels. At these levels, there is an
opportunity to build on the close working relationship of agricultural, environmental, social and health
officers, and improve awareness of sustainable pastoral risk management among all officers. The SLP also
provides an opportunity to build a closer working relationship and a shared understanding between the
Ministry of Food and Agriculture and the Ministry of Nature and Environment on sustainable livelihoods.
The proposed screening system is intended to be fully mainstreamed into the process for identifying,
planning, implementing and rnonitoring activities of sub-projects. A concise set of forms and checklists
have been developed, which will be merged fully with the LDF/LIF project implementation manual, and the
overall system of project management.
The EMP sets out limited training requirements to ensure that environmental sustainability is fully
mainstreamed into the SLP. T'he most significant training activity is to improve awareness of sustainable
livelihoods and pastoral risk management among government officials and herders. There is a natural
tendency to equate pastoral risk management (i.e. reducing people's vulnerability) with pasture
management, although there is a clear difference. Other areas in which training is required are the
environmental management system, and integrated pest management (in association with the rodent control
activities). In addition, opportunities should be found to allow officers from aimags and sums to join
together to train one another on their experiences as the project progresses.
- 127-



Additional Annex 15: Organograms
MONGOLIA: Sustainable Livelihoods Project
National Committee on Household Livelihoods
Capacity Support Program (NCHLCSP)
Household Livellho ds
Support Program Office I
- 128 -



Sustaiinable Livelihoods Program
Iniplementation Arrangements
Representatives from thePRM4,JF Vorking(Groups and the MrB
F)irectous of D)(nor Financ~ed Pr jeits (UJND)PIEVIFAAI)IWB)
Piivate Sector/Civil Society
Ig roonp - Natdonal Level  Micro-finatnc Daclom,ment Board
I    W Risk Management      Micro-finance Management Office
1 Local Initiatives Fund       (in Bank of Mongolia)
ou e  iveiboo  Su prt Counaci
!- _jj7a                                1
Wmg Coup (Aimag Level)                  1j~I.ia
Herder rOmups         (muiyGop             SbbnwrIIct
- 129-



0
HI
S -           --      -
!Ii !!
IIs: :
2m  Iit  II'
   iii
i-u                 Ihi  
,0,  .                                               -
'p                  i  :"

0                         iI   ii
I.                1.!'  L
IN'
uiII
0
Ii



88a            92             966              100             14                                                             IBERD 31854
R U S S I A N  FEDERATION
_ 2~~~~~~                                                                      ~                                       - c;  ,  5<-  ?-X n Dj 
--s __                                      \ .'L
44' .   ,   ; ,,-.s -.n:.,d's                                                     wa!   BAYA'NKH,QNG9R -I .:.  /  :.  -  ,.
~~~-t         T,, j Q  SGO   j  L. W D R H N 1     _                \            N   GO t %   -
Z"\9DNC;;JTIH         -  _,   !  '                                                                            - -:   't5MN--t5'Go.vg  v   .. .H  
SUSTAINABLE LIVELIHOOD5 PRO)ECT               X                     '.o                               GRAVELROADS~~~~~~~~KHO 
CORE alhl>GS~~~-  -;                                          :, -- - - - - - -r
ZAVKHAN tORORO                              SELMAGS                               RIVER
Linon.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
O 9G 2                Z AR                 KH AG i  I                    108-
i f   - ..   A k   1 k " '   ; .   .~~~~~B   G A N '~~~   ~K f l E N 7 I I   O o b o IiaI l 2R  PRSI  200
V  .    7 .."0,o                                              TOAWIA G I                                  a"  
-Ot            - M vu Ut9'lim
f9                                                                'i"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
44~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4i
IXON&D042                                              v 'j AANHOGO 
-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PVDFOD
SUSTAINABLE LIVELIHOODS PROJECT                                                                      GPAVOELJOGOvDS
CORE   AIMAGS                                                                       WMVED EARTH ROADS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
I   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -  '-   P~~~~~~~~AVEDROADS
Lk   CORE AIMAGS                                                                                            R IVEO3(ROS NE CPT
PIL FOT SUMS IRURAL DISTRICTS] SELECTED                 C  H   I  N  ACD                                    JMGPOV E C tTL
POR THE FIRST YEAR OF PROJECTtoNA                                                                           NLCPFL
00  206  ~~~~3200-                                                  AJOGA (PROVINCE] BOUNDARIES
ROGMETERS                                       - ' -. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNAI1ONAL BOUNDARIES
92'               916'              100'                4                 E low'116'
APRIL 2002






aa                   gio                         9o-                         100-                       l14^                        lA921 2                                                  1].                         IBRD 31 855
x t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 oc                           ;     3   D    O   N   aO-            ;                           A6n
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F9920 \1^:                                           1, ; 
SveleyoH_idm1999/00ond~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2400J1 rI, t.;:i
- -5 - IM9 hmbl oFhKbd elShe'I99D  r D00
a dewfyoohm hoC Y=                                                                                                                                                                       '-' -'"r
|.^<S g Sll_m y aHw ed In elRhel ] 299/2090 or 2b O/0 ]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
|  | M emtey Hp mdm h h eors        f3   AlfAG [FRVfNCE]CAFITLS                                                                                                            SEUNGLDXRKHAl 
kBAYANeehQHcb OLIn lhrl999 l20/1NTOA                                            hPTA                                                                                                                    AKA    U uin      0
:fld not o h m he oRh=r_ . " _ AU/vAG fFROVINC] BOUNDARIE
nCe d den dos osss >fl loa frm verge nnul l;s f  --  NTENATONA BONDAIESFcooleTherls rok n ofA SFI 'Ee onoE
92-                                                                                                                                            Are nfmedim rsk o dxd: Akhonol oyonhonor Slga
1  964               IOOo                             I04'                             10S-                             }25        Kb edo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D0 NCD'v           PI20






88n  77                6                100-              14                 108              112                1,6-~~              ~~ IBRD 31856
i>'_                                           I                                    . .
- , ',,,- 5~~~KO.SGOL                 -: _ I<             ---r -'  7
_;~~~~A        |        ==|Sl>Y               ,,HZC-;/w%~_- 
jo >.t.s> --.e- . ............ ; Li-'k'"!.- j        "';. '"._/"-_\ -,*.- 
MONGOLIA - --, - "<; >;. ' :-t- ...................... ,,--;g, .... ; . * * - . fA w 
SUSTAIN~~~~~~A6ELVKLHODPRJC              .. a;N . :-t
DONOR                   UPPORTD PROJCTS I 5-;-:' ! C e - -.:.s .-.>> ,oM:Nofovi:: . i--. .eH1 .rfl
AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELPMENT  X-  'I  -  ! .v e.  -  U r .A .        : 
wE3eTEf C>e A moEs h,, sLARKHANGAI
r~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                                                         R FDRrlPvlyAlltnPqrmeo  
| '5H.we, ;i TAC S Rurol Dm _lopment Progromme ureo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1'//| ADBA9rlcQlhreBrFrDovolopmentprqm                                                      <,.>nvaPROVINCE)CAPITALS~~~~~~~-
\ \ )   F A o p o s b r lr, 5 k s i o n o 9 e e n lt c P p l o l m t  o   l o o   2 0 0   7 0   C   H   I   N  _ , _   A I M A G < P R O V C E )tV S U M B E R
AIO E E S_                                                                 . _ . I T E N   C   L B U D R E
92-~~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~( 96  Ao A0 TO'A'2',Vo                                       ARL 









IMAGING
Report No.:         24155  MOG
Type:     PAD



