Final Report
E509
Vol. 1
Goveri emneiLt ot'Iongolia
Euro pcar Cfoi nlission Tiicis oigriammne
Vorld Bank
Environmental and Social Assessment of
the Sustainable Livelihoods Project
December 2001
Pr-epar ed bvI
Enivironmyental Resources Managemient
ERMv, 8 CavendUsh Square, London WI M OER
Telephone +44 (0) 20 7465 7200 Facsimifle +44 (0) 20 7465 7272  ERM



Presented here are the reports of the environmental assessment and social
assessment of the proposed Sustainable Livelihoods Project.
Volume I is the report of the dedicated environmental assessment carried out by
ERM under the Tacis-funded Joint Environment Programme. Key findings and
conclusions from the separately commissioned social assessment report have
been incorporated into this.
Volume 2 is the report of the dedicated social assessment. This was separately
commissioned, and carried out by Natasha Pairaudeau. It is not an ERM report
and therefore has not been subject to ERM procedures of quality control.



FINAL REPOR I'
World Bank
Volume 1: Environmental and Social
Assessment of the World Bank
Sustainable Livelihoods Project
November 2001
Reference 6536.14
Tacis Joint Environment Programme (JEP 14)
Prepared by: Doug Smith, J.Byambadorj, Olexi Kabyka,
Jeremy Swift, D. Odonchimeg
For and on behalf of
Environmental Resources Management
Approved by:
Signed:
Position:
Date:
This report has been prepared by Environmental Resources
Management the trading name of Environmental Resources
Management Limited, with all reasonable skill, care and diligence
within the terms of the Contract with the client, incorporafing our
General Terms and Conditions of Business and taking account of the
resources devoted to it by agreement with the client.
We disclaim any responsibility to the client and others in respect of
any matters outside the scope of the above.
This report is confidential to the client and we accept no
responsibility of whatsoever nature to third parties to whom this
report, or any part thereof, is made known. Any such party relies on
the report at their own risk.
In line with our company environmental policy we purchase paper for
our documents only from ISO 14001 certified or EMAS verified
manufacturers. This includes paper with the Nordic Environmental
Label.



CONTENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY                                          iii
I          INTRODUCTION                                                1
1.1        LAYOUT OF THIS REPORT                                       1
2          POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK                  4
2.1        MONGOLIAN POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK        4
3          METHODOLOGY AND CONSULTATION                                6
3.1       INTRODUCTION                                                 6
3.2        SCOPING AND DESK-BASED REVIEW                               6
3.3        MONGOLIA-BASED WORK                                         6
3.4        WRAP UP AND COMPLETION                                      7
4          DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT                         9
4.1        BACKGROUND                                                  9
4.2        THE PROJECT AND THE PROGRAM                                 9
4.3        PASTORAL RISK MANAGEMENT COMPONENT                         10
4.4        MICROFINANCE OUTREACH SERVICES                             13
4.5        LOCAL INITIATIVE FUND (LIF/LDF)                            14
4.6       IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENT FOR THE OVERALL PROJECT          18
5          BASELINE INFORMATION                                       19
5.1        POVERTY                                                    19
5.2        POPULATION                                                 19
5.3        ETHNICTFY AND GENDER                                       19
5.4        LIVELIHOOD-ENVIRONMENT LINKAGES                            20
5.5        LIVESTOCK                                                  21
5.6        PASTORALISMINRURAL MONGOLIA                                25
5.7        SOCIAL CAPITAL                                             26
5.8        ECOLOGICAL REGIONS                                         27
5.9        LAND DEGRADATION AND DESERTIFICATION                       28
5.10       WATER RESOURCES AND QUALITY                                30
5.11       BIODIVERSITY AND PROTECTED AREAS                           31
6          IMPACTS                                                    33
6.1        OVERALL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT                               33



6.2        OVERALL SOCIAL IMPACT                                    33
6.3       IMPACTS OF ACTIVITIES UNDER THEPRM COMPONENT              35
6.4       RURAL MICRO-FINANCE                                       45
6.5       LOCAL INITIATIVES FUND                                    46
7         ANALYSIS OFALTERNATIVES                                   49
7.1       PRM COMPONENT WITHOUT COMMUNITY-BASED APPROACHES          49
7.2        USE OF FINANCIAL INCENTIVES, TAXES, OR DIRECT GOVERNMENT INTERVENTION49
7.3       LIF COMPONENT WITHOUT ADHERENCE TO SCREENING AND ASSESSMENT    50
7.4       'No PROJECT' SITUATION                                    50
8          ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT PLAN                  51
8.1        KEY PRINCIPLES                                           51
8.2       MEASURES TO MAXIMIZE POSITIVE SOCIAL IMPACTS              52
8.3        RESETTLEMENT AND LAND ACQUISITION                         53
8.4        ETHNIC MINORITIES DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY                    54
8.5        TRAINING                                                  55
8.6        COSTS OF THE EMP                                         56
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1 -LIST OF AUTHORS
ANNEX 2 - ITINERARY OF VISIT TO MONGOLL4
ANNEX 3 - BACKGROUND TO THE SLP
ANNEX 4 - WORLD BANK ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT POLICY
ANNEX 5 - MONGOLIAN POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE
FRAMEWORK
ANNEX 6 - LIST OF PAPERS REVIEWED
ANNEX 7- STAKEHOLDERS CONSULTED
ANNEX 8 - SUMMARY OF THE DEDICATED SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
ANNEX 9 - BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY IN MONGOLIA
ANNEX 10 - ABSTRACTS OF JOURNAL ARTICLES ON SALMONELLA-
BASED PESTICIDES
ANNEX 11 -DETAILS OF COMMONLY USED RODENTICIDES
ANNEX 12 -PROPOSED ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM



Acknowledgements
Many individuals contributed generously to the production of this report. The authors
would like to thank all of the people they met, interviewed or worked with in Mongolia.
We would like to give our greatest thanks to Mr. Puntsagtseren, Mr. Dalai, Mr.
Sambalhundev of MoFA, and Mr. Banzracht and Dr Banzracht of MNE/EPA. Many
thanks to Alice Carloni, Stefan Baas and their team co-members, for providing helpful
information and guidance. And without the help of Monconsult office staff, drivers and
Mr. Purevtseren, we would not have got very far.
Glossary of Mongolian Terms
Aimag       Province. The largest sub-national administrative unit. Mongolia is
divided into 21 aimags.
Baglheseg    Sub-district. The smallest administrative unit. Sumlkhoroos are divided
into bags/hesegs.
Duureg      Urban district.
Heseg       The smallest administrative unit in urban centers. Khoroos are divided
into hesegs.
Khoroo      Urban sub-district (in Ulaan Baatar).
Khural      Elected Council of Citizens' Representatives (found at each level of
public administration: bag/heseg, sum/khoroo, aimag/duureg, and national
levels).
Sum         District. The sub-national administrative unit below aimag level.
Ger         Felt dwelling used by nomadic herders.



Acronyms
APAC        Aimag Poverty Alleviation Council
CIF          Community Investment Fund Component
CIFMC        Community Investment Fund Management Committee
CITES        Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species
DEIA         Detailed Environmental Impact Assessment
EA           Environmental Assessment
EIA          Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP          Environmental Management Plan
EPA          Environmental Protection Agency
FAO          Food and Agriculture Organisation
GEIA         General Environmental Impact Assessment
GoM          Govemment of Mongolia
JEP          Joint Environmental Program
LDF          Local Development Fund
LIF          Local Initiative Fund
MAP-21       Mongolian Action Plan for 21 Century
MNE          Ministry of Nature and Environment
MoFA         Ministry of Food and Agriculture
MOC          Microfinance Outreach Component
NGO          Non-Governmental Organisation
NPAC         National Poverty Alleviation Committee
NPAP         National Poverty Alleviation Program
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PAPO         Poverty Alleviation Program Office
PAVGP        Poverty Alleviation for Vulnerable Groups Project
PIP          Project Implementation Plan
PLSA         Participatory Living Standards Assessment
PMU          Project Management Unit
PRM          Pastoral Risk Management
PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SLP          Sustainable Livelihoods Project
LSPO         Livelihoods Support Program Office
UMENGO    Union of Mongolian Environmental NGOs
UNDP         United Nation Development Program
WASH-21    Water Supply, Sanitation and Hygiene Education Program
WHO          World Health Organisation
II



Executive Summary
This is the report of the environmental and social assessment of the proposed Sustainable
Livelihoods Project (SLP) in Mongolia. Consistent with the World Bank's Operational
Policy OP4.01, environmental and social assessmentfor the proposed SLP is regarded as
an ongoing process that began around the time of project identification. This assessment
(hereafter referred to as 'the EA') therefore draws upon several steps in the process of
project identification and design. The environmental component was carried out over
three stages from August-October 2001: firstly scoping of impacts and desk-based review
of reports; secondly, in-depth stakeholder consultation carried out over three weeks in
Mongolia in September 2001, including a series of interviews and workshops with
stakeholders and key informants in Ulaan Bataar and rural Mongolia; and finally the
preparation of a draft EA report, on which detailed comments from the Government of
Mongolia, the World Bank, and the team responsible for PAD and PIP preparation were
received. During drafting of the report, the key conclusions of a separately conducted
dedicated social assessment were incorporated.
The Sustainable Livelihoods Project
The project consists of three main components:
* Pastoral Risk Management (PRM), supporting the preparation and implementation of
an integrated strategy to reduce herders' vulnerability to covariant risks due to dzud
and drought;
- Micro-Finance Services Outreach (MSO), supporting structural change in commercial
and civil society provision of microfinance services in order to reach the poor and
vulnerable;
* Local Initiative Funds (LIF), supporting demand-driven mechanisms for beneficiary
groups to select, co-finance, and execute investments in basic infrastructure and social
services.
Following environmental and social safeguards screening procedures, the SLP has been
assigned Category B.
Major EA Findings
The SLP has the potential to deliver a significant overall positive environmental impact,
through a contribution to reduced land degradation in Mongolia. This conclusion is based
on thefollowing reasoning:
. There is consensus that around 11 million ha (7% of Mongolia's pastureland) is
sufferingfrom land degradation.
* There is evidence of climate change in Mongolia, which is probably accelerating land
degradation directly due to drought, and indirectly due to the socio-economic impact of
drought and dzud.
* In addition, current pasture management patterns in Mongolia are accelerating land
degradation, particularly  in  localized    areas, for example due to concentration
III



of herds around sum centers and aimag centers.
. Therefore, successful actions to reduce herders' vulnerability through pastoral risk
management offer a significant opportunity to contribute to reduced extent and
severity of land degradation. Indeed it will be necessary to reduce land degradation in
order to reduce herders' vulnerability to drought & dzud.
* Community-level or bag-level management planning of pasture is proposed as a key
part of the project's integrated approach to pastoral risk management. The
empowerment of herders or herder associations to manage their pasture is of potential
for reducing land degradation, both in times of drought and dzud, and at all other
times.
The SLP therefore will contribute to several commitments of the GoM to address land
degradation, including those set out in the draft National Environmental Action Plan.
Furthermore, the SLP has the potential to deliver an overall positive social impact, by
empowering herders to manage their livelihoods, and by contributing to rising living
standards among poor households and herder households. This conclusion is based on the
following reasoning:
. The intensive learning ICR carried out for the PAVGP, concluded that the PAVGP
had a positive impact on poverty. The continuation of the LDF should maintain and
further extend this impact.
. The Microfinance Services Outreach component will improve the currently limited
access of poorer households to microfinance. Limited access constrains the ability of the
poor to act to reduce their poverty and their vulnerability through savings, livelihood
diversification and other actions.
' The design of the LIF component is based on the recognition of the perceived weakness
of the LDF to adequately target the poor and to ensure social investments are demand
driven. By paying additional attention to these issues, the SLP will ensure that
positive social impacts are maximized and negative impacts avoided.
* Positive social impact should be greater still in the 8 core aimags where the combined
actions of the LDF, LIF, PRM and microfinance components will reduce the
vulnerability of the poor and the rural poor. In the no-project situation, drought, dzud,
land degradation, and increased vulnerability would continue to significantly reduce
living standards among poor and middle-poor herder households.
. Lower living standards in rural Mongolia are associated with rising malnutrition,
increased incidence of disease, lower school attendance, depression, increased incidence
of drunkenness, divorce, and higher incidence of domestic violence.
Mitigation of Potential Negative Impacts
The potential of the SLP to deliver positive improvements in reduced land degradation
should far outweigh any localized environmental impacts of activities to be supported by
the project. But in spite of the overall positive impact, certain of the project activities could
have localized negative impacts.
IV



Most of the developments under the PRM and LIF components will be small in scale, and
the significance of the direct negative.environmental impacts is likely to be small. This is
especially the case in comparison to other developments that are increasing infrequency in
rural Mongolia, for instance mining projects. However, in the event that some of the
activities are scaled-up to wider areas (for example rodent control) following their
successful piloting, there may be cumulative impacts. This provides the SLP with an
opportunity to ensure that the pilot activities fully integrate the mitigation of
environmental risks, in order that negative cumulative impacts are avoided when the
activities are scaled-up.
The Microfinance Services Outreach component is not expected to have any direct
environmental impacts, but it is likely to have indirect impacts. Indirectly, by
contributing to an increased tendency amongst herders to convert their livestock assets
into cash savings, it has potential to deliver positive environmental impacts. But there is
also a risk that individual herders might use their access savings and credit to increase
their herd sizes or to invest in income-generating activities that have a negative
environmental impact. This provides opportunity to ascertain whether the improved
access to microfinance does indeed result in a more sustainable management of the
environment by herders. Therefore the EA proposes that this issue is explicitly examined
during the project MTR and ex-post evaluation.
Due to the demand/community driven nature and 'open menu' approach of the LIF
component, and the consequent unpredictability of specific LIF and LDF sub-projects, it is
difficult to assess their potential environmental impacts. But the negative impacts of
community infrastructure projects are not likely to be significant. Vhether particular
sub-projects have significant negative impacts will depend on their scale & location, and
will be context-specific and localized. Those with potentially significant environmental
impacts should undergo environmental screening or EIA, under the Mongolian system of
EIA, before a decision on approval.
The EA has considered all of the potential negative impacts of SLP activities, in particular
in discussion with the Government of Mongolia (GoM) and the FAO team that has
assisted PAD and PIP preparation. GoM and the FAO team have striven to ensure that
potential negative environmental impacts of the project will be avoided or minimized, and
indeed have proposed a number of suggested alternative actions or strategies. This report
provides details on several activities that may have negative impacts, and proposes
mitigation actions based on discussions with GoM and the FAO team. These are:
community-based rodent control, community-based control of predation, community-
based construction & rehabilitation of wells, emergency restocking, haymaking, inter-
sum/inter-aimag otor reserves, and veterinary services.
Maximizing positive social impacts
The dedicated social assessment identified a series of recommendations to enhance the
positive social impact of the project. Examples of are that: the stated target groups for SLP
should be broadened, so they include all groups implicitly included in project documents,
including herding and settled communities in rural and peri-urban areas; local
V



contributions under the LDF/LIF should be calculated on a project-by-project basis, rather
than by a standard percentage; three-way contracts should be used under LDF/LIF and
PRM components to define responsibilities of local government and groups or herders'
associations; members of members of sum local government should act as community
social workers, to ensure that the poorest herding households gain access to herder
associations and other benefits of the PRM component; there should be allowance for
participatory M&E; and that social assessment is integrated into the system of
identifying, planning and monitoring projects.
Environmental and Social Managemnent Plan
The EA sets out an environmental and social management plan (EMP), with an
associated environmental management system. The design of the EMP will ensure that
environmental sustainability is not considered in isolation of social, economic and
institutional sustainability in the rural space. For example, it would be counterproductive
if the SLP was to place a disproportionate burden on sum- or aimag- level environmental
inspectors while other work, such as EIA of mining projects, deserve a significant
proportion of their time.
The bulk of inputs to this project are required at aimag and sum levels. At these levels,
there is an opportunity to build on the close working relationship of agricultural,
environmental, social and health officers, and improve awareness of sustainable pastoral
risk management among all officers. The SLP also provides an opportunity to build a
closer working relahtonship and a shared understanding between the Ministry of Food and
Agriculture and the Ministry of Nature and Environment on sustainable livelihoods.
The proposed screening system is intended to be fully mainstreamed into the process for
identifying, planning, implementing and monitoring activities of sub-projects. A concise
set of forms and checklists have been developed, which will be merged fully with the
LDF/LIF project implementation manual, and the overall system of project management.
The EMP sets out limited training requirements to ensure that environmental
sustainability is fully mainstreamed into the SLP. The most significant training activity
is to improve awareness of sustainable livelihoods and pastoral risk management among
government officials and herders. There is a natural tendency to equate pastoral risk
management (i.e. reducing people's vulnerability) with pasture management, although
there is a clear difference. Other areas in which training is required are the environmental
management system, and integrated pest management (in association with the rodent
control activities). In addition, opportunities should be found to allow officers from
aimags and sums to join together to train one another on their experiences as the SLP
progresses.
VI



INTRODUCTION
The Government of Mongolia (GoM) has requested IDA financing for the
Sustainable Livelihoods Project (SLP), which will support aspects of the second
phase Sustainable Livelihoods Program (following the 1994-2000 National Poverty
Alleviation Program) and the recently approved GoM National Program to
Establish a System for the Protection of Livestockfrom Drought and Dzud, within the
framework of the draft interim poverty reduction strategy paper (IPRSP).
This is the report of the dedicated environmental and social assessment (EA) of
the proposed SL Project. The objectives of this EA are:
* To assess the likely environmental impacts of the proposed project activities,
whether positive or negative;
* To assess the likely social impacts of the proposed project activities, whether
positive or negative;
* To devise measures for mitigating any adverse impacts; and
: To prepare an environmental/social management plan for the project,
including arrangements for screening of sub-projects.
This environmental and social assessment was carried out by consultants through
the Tacis Joint Environment Program (EP), drawing on a separately
commissioned dedicated social assessment. The authors of this report are listed in
Annex 1. The EA included a consultancy team mission to Mongolia from 3-21
September 2001, carried out simultaneously with the visit of the FAO team
preparing the project appraisal document (PAD) and assisting GoM with
preparation of the project implementation plan (PIP). The itinerary for the EA
mission is given in Annex 2.
The SLP follows on from the Poverty Alleviation for Vulnerable Groups Project
(PAVGP; 1996-2000), and will contribute to the National Program to Assist the
Protection of Livestockfrom Drought and Dzud. Further detail on the background to
the SLP is given in Annex 3.
In Box 1.1, we cite a number of issues that are central to the environmental
assessment of the SLP.
1.1          LAYOUT OF THIS REPORT
This report is structured as follows.
Part I - Introduction and context
* Chapter 1 - Introduction (this section)
* Chapter 2 - Policy, legal and administrative framework
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT         SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
1



* Chapter 3 - Methodology and consultation
Part II - Baseline data
* Chapter 4 - Description of the proposed project
* Chapter 5 - Baseline data
Part III - Impacts
* Chapter 6 - Significant environmental impacts
* Chapter 7- Analysis of alternatives
Part IV - Environmental management system
* Chapter 8 - Environmental management system
Box 1.1 Key issues in carrying out the environmental assessment of the SLP
Positive and negative impacts
The long-term success of the SLP is closely associated with sustainability, including environmental
sustainability, and with minimizing potentially negative environmental impacts. Sustainable
livelihoods of rural Mongolians depend directly on environmental resources. This enviromnental
assessment therefore considers both the positive (beneficial) and negative (adverse) environmental
impacts of the project.
Indirect, cumulative, and unpredictable impacts
The approach of the SLP has a number of implications for its environmental assessment, and
environmental management system:
* Induced environmental impact. To predict the environmental impact of the project (and indeed
the developmental impact), it is necessary to understand Mongolia's rural economy and society
(i.e. rural people's livelihood strategies). There may be induced environmental impacts that occur
as a result of the project impact on local economies and society. These indirect induced impacts
are not predictable.
*  Cumulative impacts. Individual developments supported by the project, such as community
infrastructure, are not likely to have a significant environmental impact. But cumulatively, the
effects of a large number of small developments may have significant environmental impacts.
. Environmental management system. The precise details of sub-projects to be financed under the
community investment funds, or the precise location of all activities under the pastoral risk
management component, for example, are not yet known. Therefore it is not possible to
ascertain impacts at this stage, necessitating an environmental management system that can
screen specific developments as they are identified.
'Environment'
In conducting this environmental assessment, the authors have been conscious of the inadequacy of
'environment' as a single word to describe the various aspects of the environment that the SLP has
potential positive or negative impacts on. 'Environment' includes issues of, for example, land
degradation, human health, water resources, water quality, people's access to the benefits of natural
resource use, gender differentiation in use of the environment, natural habitats, protected areas,
biological diversity, and agricultural biodiversity. In conducting this environmental assessment, we
have recognized that a particular activity or development can have positive impacts on one aspect
of 'environment' while having negative impacts on another aspect.
ENVfRONMENTAL REsouRCEs MANAGEMENT               SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
2



X        <                               '9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~ a ~~~ Dar+    >                        ; 
Bayan-Olgii                                                                  5X_ Bula <                                                        orno 
9    0      g           ~~~~~Zavkhan       _                                             -         \a\\
Khv                                     g         Arhnga                           Ulaaj!atar              Khentii     , 
>"-    |         ~~~Govi-Altai       )                5Ovorkhangai            Dngv                     
<                    / ~~~~~~Bayankhongor (D)ndgovi                                                     _ 
< ) ) X X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dornogovi 
0   _:     q                    ~~~~~~~Omnogovi                                X
Figure 1
~~~~~~~ ~~~~~Administration Map of
Mongolia
ERM



2            POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
This EA has been undertaken to meet the requirements of both Mongolia's
environmental impact assessment regulations and the World Bank's project
appraisal process. This chapter describes the relevant Mongolian policy, legal and
administrative framework for environmental assessment. Relevant World Bank
policies and guidance are discussed in Annex 4.
2.1          MONGOLIAN POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
Mongolia's policies on environmental resources are underpinned by two key
aspects of the constitution:
• Article 6 of Mongolia's constitution states that the land, its groundwater,
forests, water, wildlife, plants and other natural resources are public property
and are protected by the state. Land other than pastures, common use land,
and land for state special needs is owned by the citizens of Mongolia.
- Article 16, paragraph 2, states that citizens of Mongolia have a right to live in
an ecologically clean environment and to be protected from environmental
pollution and ecological imbalances.
The EIA law of 1998 is the key law concerning environmental assessment in
Mongolia, and is implemented by the Ministry of Nature and Environment
(MNE), in collaboration with aimag and sum local government. Box 2.1 describes
the key provisions of this law.
2.1.1        Ministry of Nature and Environment
The mission of the Ministry of Nature and Environment (MNE) is to ensure that
Mongolia maintains an ecological balance and ensures that its present and future
citizens can live a clean and healthy environment consistent with sustainable
development objectives (1).
2.1.2        Local government in Mongolia
Local Government in Mongolia consists of 21 aimags, divided into 334 sums, in
turn consisting of a total of 1,630 bags (see Figure 1). The central authority at aimag
and sum levels of local government is the Governor.
Annex 5 provides further detail on the government structure at aimag and sum
levels. Key points are that aimag environmental agencies are typically staffed
with 4-6 persons, often including a head separate from the aimag's environmental
(1) Business Strategy and General Structure ofMNE
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT         SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL A9SESSMENT
4



officer. In addition, most sums have one environmental officer, plus rangers in
sums within protected areas.
Box 2.1 EIA Procedures in Mongolia
The Mongolian law on Environmental Impact Assessment of 1998 establishes general
requirements, procedures and implementing aspects of environmental impact
assessment. The main purpose of this law is to regulate environmental impact
assessment and the decision-making on the implementation of projects.
The law stipulates that any projects or development initiatives are the subject for
Environmental Screening or General Environmental Impact Assessment (GEIA). The
project proponent is required to submit summary and technical documentation to
Ministry of Nature and Environment or to the local aimag authority in line with screening
criteria established in the law. These criteria stipulate that any development projects in
the agriculture sector except water reservoirs, irrigation facilities, and the cultivation of
virgin land are under the responsibility of aimag and sum authorities.
On the basis of conclusions of environmental screening and GEIA, one of the following
decisions will be made:
* To provide approval for implementation without further assessment, if the project
impacts and consequences meet the requirements of existing environmental standards
and requirements;
* In cases where negative impacts are deemed to be unlikely and/or insignificant.
Project implementation may be approved subject to specific conditions regarding
management and organizational measures to be taken;
* In cases where negative impacts are regarded as likely and or significant, the project
may be required to undergo more detailed assessment or Detailed Environmental
Assessment (DEIA).
If a DIEA is required, the project proponent is responsible for contracting one of
Mongolia's licensed environmental consultancies (of which there are currently 21) to
conduct the DEIA in accordance with the requirements set out in the GEIA. Enforcement
and monitoring of the implementation of Environmental Management Plans set out in
DEIAs are the responsibility of local government agencies.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT             SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASSESSmIENT
5



3           METHODOLOGY AND CONSULTATION
3.1         INTRODUCTION
This EA was carried out in three stages: (i) office-based review of literature; (ii) in-
depth stakeholder consultation over three-weeks in Mongolia; and (iii) office-
based wrap-up and completion stage, including incorporation of conclusions
from the dedicated social assessment.
3.2         SCOPING AND DESK-BASED REVIEW
Desk-based analysis of reports describing project components was carried out
during August 2001. In addition, the draft report of a scoping study focusing on
the PRM component, separately commissioned by the World Bank, was reviewed.
The list of reports and documents reviewed is provided in Annex 6.
3.3         MONGOLIA-BASED WORK
From 3-23 September 2001, the EA team (including consultants from ERM,
Monconsult, and, from 3-9 September, the Institute of Development Studies of the
University of Sussex, UK) conducted a series of interviews and workshops with
stakeholders and key informants in Ulaan Bataar and rural Mongolia. The
itinerary for the visit to Mongolia is given in Annex 2.
In UlaanBaatar, the EA team worked in close cooperation with the FAO project
preparation team contracted by the World Bank. The EA field mission and FAO
team visit to Mongolia were conducted over the same period.
3.3.1       Stakeholder consultation
Stakeholder consultation was one of the key tools to achieve the EA objectives. An
intensive schedule of interviews with key stakeholders and informants, as well as
joint meetings/workshops with groups of stakeholders was followed. A typical
agenda of a meeting would include an introduction of participants, a brief
overview of the project, views and comments of the consultees, and specific
questions from the EA team regarding the details of environmental and social
sensitivities, people's interaction with the environment, and potential impacts of
the project. Interview and workshop techniques included time budgets and
ranking exercises.
Some stakeholders were interviewed on two or three occasions, in order to
discuss conclusions in detail. Key stakeholders consulted on the project included:
* National government agencies;
* Local government (aimag and sum levels);
* Herders in rural and peri-sum and peri-aimag areas;
ENVIRONMEN fAL RESOURCES MANAGEMEN r      SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCiAL ASSESSMENT
6



* Environmental NGOs;
* Research institutes;
* Private sector;
* International development agencies;
* Local consultants involved in the preparation of project components.
A detailed table of those consulted and key issues discussed is attached in Annex
7. Box 3.1 lists a selection of the content of meetings with key stakeholders.
3.3.3        Field visit
A field visit to three aimags (Dundgovi, Omnogovi, and Ovorkhangai) was carried
out from 9-15 September 2001. The objective of the visit was to meet and consult
with local governments in aimags and sums, as well as with herders, and verify
our initial analysis of rural livelihoods and potential environmental impacts of the
project.
A stakeholder consultation workshop was conducted in Dalanzadgad (Omnogovi
Aimag) on 11 September. Twenty-five participants took part in the event. After
welcome speech from Deputy Governor and project introduction by EA team,
participants discussed key issues, problems and obstacles, potential solutions,
and required activities in three working groups: (i) environment and agriculture;
(ii) social issues; and (iii) capacity-building and training. Findings of the field visit
have been incorporated into Chapters 6-8 of this report.
3.4          WRAP UP AND COMPLETION
The final phase included the incorporation of comments received from
stakeholders during the presentation of initial findings at wrap up meetings in
Ulaan Baatar, and the incorporation of comments from GoM, the World Bank,
and the FAO preparation team, as well as completion of the final report.
In addition, the draft report was amended to include the findings and
recommendations of the dedicated social assessment. The social assessment was
carried out over September-October 2001, and included a similar pattern of
stakeholder consultation and field visits in Mongolia.
Throughout the environmental assessment, the Government of Mongolia (GoM)
and the FAO team assisting PAD/PIP preparation have striven to ensure that the
potential negative environmental impacts of the project will be avoided or
minimized, and indeed have proposed a number of suggested alternative actions
or strategies.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT         SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
7



Box 3.1 Selected meetings in Ulaan Baatar
Ministry of Food and Agriculture
Key issues discussed covered pastoral risk management issues, project management,
relationship with the Ministry of Nature and Environment (MNE) on the project, land
tenure, herder cooperatives, background on food and agriculture in Mongolia, local
capacity and experience to assess environmental impacts at aimag/sum levels. The
conclusion of the EA, and a draft of the environmental management plan were also
discussed, through the use of an aide memoir, translated into Mongolian.
Ministry of Nature and Environment and Environmental Protection Agency
Key issues discussed included institutional arrangements for environmental management
in Mongolia, environmental issues in the country, national EIA requirements, procedures
and capacity, environmental impacts, role of MNE in the project, structure and
responsibilities of the EPA, and protected areas. The aide memoir, EA draft conclusions
and the EMP were also discussed with MNE.
Land Administration Authority
Key issues discussed included land use and degradation of land, new land law that is
currently being considered by the Parliament, pasture management, emergency
forecasting, land use and 'risk' maps.
Poverty Alleviation Program Office
Issues discussed included institutional and management arrangements of the project,
NPAP/LDF experience and lessons, and stakeholders. The aide memoir, EA draft
conclusions and the EMP were also discussed with PAPO.
Union of Mongolian Environmental NGOs
Issues discussed included environmental NGOs in Mongolia, their views on the project as
well as potential roles in environmental monitoring and awareness raising.
Research institutes
Several environmental and social research institutes were visited, including Center for
Policy Research, Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, and Institute of Geoecology.
Issues discussed included herders' livelihood strategies and needs, land law, NGOs,
environmental baseline information and monitoring, and environmental issues in
Mongolia.
Private sector and local consultants to project components
Several local consultants (currently working for private sector firms) that were involved
in preparation of separate project components were interviewed. Organizations included
private sector consultancies, and licensed environmental consultancies such as MNEC.
The issues discussed covered each of the project components; pasture ecology, national
environmental capacity, and potential environmental impacts of project activities.
International donor organizations
The EA team worked in close collaboration with FAO team throughout, and the relevant
information was exchanged and discussed regularly. Other international organizations
met included UNDP, the UNDP-supported project to develop Mongolian Action Plan for
21 Century (MAP 21) and National Water Supply, Sanitation and Hygiene Education
Program (WASH 21), as well as the USAID-sponsored Gobi Initiative.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT             SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
8



4            DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT
4.1           BACKGROUND
Since July 2000, the Government of Mongolia has made poverty reduction the
centerpiece of its Action Program. Building on the significant achievements and
lessons learned during the implementation of the National Poverty Alleviation
Program (NPAP) over 1994-2000, GoM is in the process of formulating a second-
phase national program to help bring about a sustained reduction in the incidence
of poverty in Mongolia, within the overall framework of its Interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper.
Concurrently, in response to successive dzud of 1999/2000 and 2000/2001, GoM
recently approved a National Program to Establish a System for the Protection of
Livestock from Drought and Dzud, under government resolution no. 47. The
resolution sets out a series of responsibilities for sum, aimag and national
government.
4.2          THE PROJECT AND THE PROGRAM
GoM has requested support from the World Bank for parts of the second-phase of
the NPAP and the national program on drought and dzud, and has prepared the
proposed Sustainable Livelihoods Project (SLP) for financing by IDA to address
these parts.
The second phase of the NPAP will be renamed the sustainable livelihoods program,
and the sustainable livelihoods project that is proposed for IDA financing is a
four-year investment, as part of this 12-year program. In several respects, the
project will pilot activities in eight of Mongolia's 21 aimags, with a view to scaling
approaches up to cover all aimags in later phases of the 12 year program.
The development objective of the project is:
Effective approach & capacity to promoting improved near-term sustainable livelihood
strategies demonstrated, validated and ready for scaling up in phase II [of the program].
This is intended to contribute to the program goal of Targeted poor [rural & urban
middle-vulnerable poor, the poor and the uery poor] improve their sustainable livelihood
outcomes and reduced vulnerability.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT           SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
9



4.2.1        Components
The project includes four components:
• Pastoral Risk Management. This component will support the preparation and
implementation of an integrated strategy to reduce herders' vulnerability to
covariant risks due to dzud, drought, disease, and prices.
* Micro-Finance Services Outreach. This component will support structural
change in commercial and civil society provision of microfinance services
(savings and credit), in order to improve the outreach of these services to poor
and vulnerable households and individuals in rural areas.
* Local Initiative Fund. This component will support the development of
demand-driven mechanisms to facilitate beneficiary groups to prioritize, select,
co-finance, and execute investments in basic infrastructure and social services.
The component will build upon the experience of the Local Development Fund
(LDF), implemented under phase 1 of the NPAP, through the continuation of
this fund in 21 aimags. In addition, the component will support a new fund, to
be piloted in 8 aimags.
* Project Management. This component will support project management. In
particular, it will seek to progressively devolve responsibilities to aimag and
sum levels within local government. Overall coordination, monitoring and
evaluation, and fiduciary oversight will be held at a central/national level.
4.3          PASTORAL RISK MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
This component will support the GoM National Program on drought and dzud,
and reduce households' and individuals' vulnerability to the risk of drought and
dzud, through the development of an integrated, field-tested pastoral risk
management strategyframezvork, which is flexible enough to respond to the need for
regional-specific fine-tuning. It will focus on eight of Mongolia's 21 aimags.
Pastoral management in Mongolia has been subject to significant change in recent
decades, resulting in an increase in the vulnerability of herders to risk.
4.3.1        Risk cycle
Conceptually, this component can be viewed as contributing to the actions as part
of a risk 'cycle', at micro (individual, household and bag) levels, meso levels (sum,
and aimags), and macro (national) levels. 'Risk' here refers to covariant risk, i.e.
risks that groups of people are subject to, such as climatic events or natural
disasters, as opposed to idiosyncratic risks, which individuals are subject to
depending on their individual circumstances.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT          5LP - ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
10



4.3.2        Activities
The component will carry out activities in the following areas. Further details are
provided in Table 4.1:
* Integrated sum-level risk management plans;
* Pasture and grazing management, including herder organizations;
* Winter preparation of herders and livestock;
* Hay and fodder development and management;
* Water and well development;
* A restocking model as an emergency recovery mechanism;
* Microfinance services for herders;
• Emergency forecasting systems; and
* Implementation capacity building.
4.3.3       Implementation responsibilities
The Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MoFA) is primarily responsible for the
implementation of the PRM component, in combination with sum and aimag
govemments. Inter-disciplinary PRM Working Groups will be established at
sum-levels to oversee implementation, and a national-level Inter-ministerial
working group, including representation from the Ministry of Nature and
Environment, will have a key role in synthesizing lessons and feeding experience
into policy and legal developments.
4.3.4        Scale
The component will work at national, aimag and inter-aimag and sum levels and
below. The component supports the testing of selected key strategies outlined in
GoM resolution 47: strengthening institutional and organizational mechanisms at
macro and meso levels, and pilot-testing activities at micro levels. The eight
'core' aimags in which pilot activities are to be carried out are subject to discussion
within GoM, but the following were indicated as the likely aimags during the field
mission of the environmental assessment (west to east):
Bayan Ulgii; Uvs; Byankhonghor; Overkhangai; Omnogobi; Dundgovi; Tov;
and Dornod.
A variety of sums will be selected to carry out pilot activities. The selection of the
sums is yet to be confirmed, but the component will work in 6 sums in year 1,
scaling-up to work in an additional 16 sums in year 3.
4.3.5        Budget
Table 4.2 shows the planned budget for the PRM component, as at 23 September
2001. This reveals greater detail on the planned activities for the component.
With the exception of the re-stocking fund, sub-components and activities can be
ENVIRONMENTAL REsOURCES MANAGEMENT          SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
11



seen to each account for a small share of the budget (less than 16%). Individual
budget-lines also reveal the scale of the planned activities: for instance it is
planned that 66 wells will be rehabilitated, and 18 new wells will be drilled in
total (under the grazing management sub-component in addition to the well
development sub-component).
Table 4.1 Activities of the PRM sub-components
Sub-           Household/ Bag/ Sum/Aimag                    National
component
Integrated sum-  .  Support to the iterative process of sum-level
level risk        risk management planning;
management    *  Awareness-raising among herders about
plan              the SLP and resolution 47
development    *  Participatory workshops to develop annual
sum-level PRM plans (including sum- and
bag- level responsibilities).
Pasture and    .  Bag / Sum level land use maps;             *  Repair infrastructure (winter
grazing        *  Improved grazing discipline / practices       shelters, wells and service
management    *  Apply / enforce existing land law and          points) of 2 existing inter-aimag
grazing rights                               otor reserves;
*  Inter-sum emergency winter otor reserves;   *  Pilot alternative community-
based rodent control methods.
Herders'       .  Pilot the development of herders'
organizations     associations, NGOs, and cooperatives, and
training for these associations
- Establish association- or NGO- owned and
managed revolving multipurpose funds
- Establish improved mechanisms to reduce
animal losses due to theft and wolves
Winter         *  Household preparations (hay-making and
preparation of     storage, loans for shelter rehabilitation/
herders and       construction, firewood preparations, etc);
livestock      *  Strengthen emergency-related anti-parasitic
veterinary services.
Hay and fodder  .  Pilot mechanized, commercial hay-making;
development    .  Pilot household hay-making with animal-
and               drawn harvesters;
management    .  Pilot commercial fodder and concentrate
production;
* Develop and test a model for revolving
Aimag emergency fodder funds.
Water and well  .  Rehabilitation of wells;
development    *  Construction of new wells and reservoirs.
Restocking                                                  *  In response to demand,
model as an                                                     restocking, and using resources
emergency                                                       shifted from LIF and RMF.
recovery
mechanism
Microfinance                                                 *  Research on savings & credit;
servicesfor                                                  .  Work with Ag Bank to serve
herders                                                         herders' needs;
* Piloting of livestock insurance.
Emergency                                                   *  Improve emergency forecasting
forecasting                                                     (weather & vegetation data);
systems                                                      *  Improve dissemination of
information to herders.
Implementation  *  Capacity-building and training for sum   *  Project management and
capacity-         officials, bag governors, and selected aimag  implementation group at
ENvIRONMENTAL REsoURcEs MANAGEMENT                   SLP - ENvIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASSEssMENT
12



building          representatives to implement the           MoFA;
component through PRM Working Groups.  * Inter-ministerial national level
PRM Working Group to assess
program policy implications;
0 M&E of the PRM component.
Table 4.2 Planned budgetfor the pastoral risk management component
Sub-component/budget   US dollars   %        Relevant details
line
Government personnel     268,480      6.2
Capacity building        306,700      7.1    Mainly international inputs and
workshops. Includes a small amount for
PCs and motorbikes.
Grazing management       157,200      3.6   Includes:
* 24,000 for pilot rodent control activities
(training, laboratory equipment and
safety gloves and masks)
* Inter-aimag otor reserves including 90
new stone animal shelters, 30 wooden
rehabilitated shelters, drilling of 6 new
wells, and rehabilitation of 2 new
wells.
Winter preparation       48,000       1.1   Including 16 pilot animal dips, and a lump
sum of 12,000 for animal shelters
Support and training to    577,200    13.4
herders' groups
Fodder and haymaking     650,500      15.1  Includes 372,500 for machinery and
buildings, 50,000 to pilot horse-drawn
mowers and rakers, and a 200,000
revolving fund
Well construction and    244,400      5.7    64 wells to be rehabilitated, 12 new wells
rehabilitation                               to be drilled
Livestock insurance      616,000      14.3
piloting
Emergency forecasting    200,000      4.6
system
Restocking fund          1,000,000    23.2
Recurrent costs          240,000      5.6
Total                    4,308,480
4.4            MICROFINANCE OUTREACH SERVICES
The SLP microfinance component seeks to address the problem of inadequate
access that poor people have to financial services, by increasing micro-finance
outreach to poor households in a financially sustainable manner. Better outreach
should enable poor households to access savings products, insurance products,
credit at prices they can afford, and other financial services.
Currently, credit is the area of micro-finance that is most well developed in
Mongolia, but the shortage of loanable funds means that poor households are
unable to qualify to borrow from most providers, with the exception of NPAP.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURcES MANAGEMENT                 SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOIAL ASSESSMENT
13



Demand for credit is overwhelming, evidenced by levels of interest from 1% per
day to 60% per annum. At these interest rates, the poor cannot afford to invest in
their assets, and micro-enterprises and micro-finance providers cannot be
financially viable.
The component will seek to improve access to financial services by the following
strategies:
* Savings-linked access to increased supply of funds for credit;
* Development of an expanded range of micro-finance products tailored to the
needs of the poor;
* Investment in capacity-building for financially sustainable micro-finance
outreach to the poor; increased revolving loan fund activities, building on
NPAP phase 1;
* Strategic links between micro-finance providers and herder associations and
sum- and aimag- level NGOs;
* Savings-based resource mobilization through savings products, coordination
of donor support for microfinance, a line of credit to fund microfinance
outreach to the poor, and the creation of an apex body (the Mongolia
Microfinance Outreach Foundation), to coordinate a national program of
microfinance outreach.
The Mongolia Microfinance Outreach Foundation would be the main thrust of the
component, to be established by MoFE over two years. In the transition period,
the focus of activities will be on the privatization of sum-level revolving funds as
part of a strategy to improve capacity and financial sustainability, product
diversification, and links with the PRM component. The latter will support pilots
in the establishment and development of herder NGOs as managers of revolving
loan funds and extension of savings-based products in alliance with the licensed
banking sector.
4.4.1       Implementation arrangements
The microfinance component will be overseen by the Ministry of Finance and
Economy (MoFE), and the proposed Microfinance Outreach Foundation will report
to MoFE. Partner MFIs will apply to and be held accountable to the foundation.
4.5          LOCAL INITIATIVE FUND (LIF/LDF)
This component will continue to support the LDF that was established under
NPAP, but in parallel will establish a new fund which will facilitate a transition
from the LDF to a more demand-driven, participatory fund that can over time
become incorporated into the regular local government budget process. The
objective of the LIF is:
ENVIRONMENIAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT         SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
14



To create an accountable and community-responsive mechanisms developed and adopted to
facilitate community prioritization, selection and participation with government infinancing and
execution of investments in basic infrastructure.
This approach responds to the acknowledged strengths of the LDF: it has built
capacity and experience in the operation of funds, and is the only investment
fund that sumslkhoroos have discretion over. But the approach seeks to correct
the weaknesses of the LDF: community participation has been weak, resulting in
poor community commitment to operation and maintenance, and the poor
perceive that many of their pressing needs were not addressed, because sum and
aimag planners focused on sector priorities & 'higher-level' requirements.
4.5.1        Key aspects of LIF design
The LIF will be built on the capacity, experience and momentum created under
the Local Development Fund (LDF) and facilitate a transition from mostly top-
down LDF operations to a more participatory, demand-driven facility. This
facility would respond to both sum level and lower level (bag) needs and
priorities, initially through both the new fund and the LDF in a twin-track
approach, but then later through a single facility (the LIF) with two funding
windows. The eventual aim is to create a facility that will be sustainable without
international funding: funding would come from local sum/duureg funds and
central government. Table 4.3 gives some basic details of the LIF and LDF.
Table 4.3 The LIF and LDF
Local Initiatives Fund                Local Development Fund
* Piloted in eight 'core' aimags      * Will continue to operate in all
* Piloting in one aimag and one sum in  sums/khoroos in the country
PY1, to be extended to two sums in  * Each sum/khoroo to be allocated a
each of the eight aimags within 6     budget ceiling
months to a year (during PY2)      * New procedures will be introduced,
e In PY3 the LIF will be introduced in   along with training, to develop a more
the remaining sums in these eight     participatory demand-driven
aimags (127), i.e. LIF will absorb the  approach, thereby facilitating its
LDF to become one fund with two       integration with the LIF in the 8 core
windows                               aimags
* In the other 13 aimags, continuation
(or total allocated amounts) of the
LDF will be conditional on its
performance, including its
performance in becoming more
demand-driven.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT            SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASSESSMNENT
15



4.5.2        Likely projects to befinanced
Under the LIF, or under a more demand-driven LDF, there is a degree of
uncertainty over what types of sub-projects will be implemented: the 'menu' of
sub-projects will be open, and the funds are intended to be fully demand-driven.
However we can make predictions, based on the experience of the LDF, and our
field observations. Typical activities will be the rehabilitation of health facilities,
school buildings and dormitories, roads and bridges, and domestic drinking
water supplies, for example. Financing will not be provided under LIF for
economic/private investments. It will be limited to investment in public
infrastructure facilities.
It is of note that the participatory process will be progressively channeled
towards a set of sub-projects that have been proven to be successful, and are
economically, socially and environmentally 'viable', and their
operation/maintenance is sustainable. Box 4.1 lists examples of LDF sub-projects
funded under NPAP thus far.
Box 4.1 LDFfinanced activity areas
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT            SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
16



Public works:
* Maintenance of feeder roads, repair of bridges
. Renovation of buildings for public use
* Improvement of water supply systems
* Improvement of communal services and sanitation systems
* Commnunity forestry
* Fuel collection
Education:
* Renovation of sum schools
. Establishment of bag schools for out-of-school children
* Establishment of sum school farms
* Provision of electric power for remote sum schools and dormitories
* Strengthening of training facilities
Rural health services:
. Sum hospital and maternity home renovation
* Bag feldsher transport and equipment
. Sum hospital transportation
* Training of Community Health Volunteers
Pre-school:
. Expansion of kindergarten services
* Kindergarten repair and establishing ger kindergartens
* Establishment of Community kindergarten and training of community education volunteers
. Pre-school teacher training
. Production of toys
* Establishment of kindergarten farms
* Food contribution for children from poor households
Supportfor Disabled:
* Special equipment needs of institute training of employing disabled adults
. Purchasing of specialized equipment for disabled persons, e.g. Braille kits and paper,
specialized typewriters
* Support to mentally and physically handicapped children to attend nurseries and
kindergartens
4.5.3          Implementation arrangements
The demand-driven nature of the LIF gives bag and sum/duureg community's
major decision-making authority, ownership and responsibilities for proposed
community investments. Bag groups will be the main institutional unit at
grassroots level for identifying community priority needs and elaborating these
into sub-project proposals. These proposals will be agreed by the khurals and then
submitted to the PAC management teams (PAC/MTs) that will be established at
sum level and aimag levels. The sum PAC/MT will be the main body at sum level
for decision-making and final approvals for sub-projects, and for technical and
financial monitoring.
The project management unit for the LIF component will be located in MoFE.
ENVIRONMENTAL REsouRecs MANAGEMENT                 SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL AssESSMENT
17



4.5.4        Training, capacity and awareness
Capacity building and training for both beneficiaries and government personnel
is seen as a key strategy element in the LIF to drive the community participation
and to sustain impact.
It is planned that bag and sum communities will be trained in group organization
and leadership development, technical skills in planning, simple accounting/
bookkeeping, procuring, implementing, maintaining and managing sub-projects.
In parallel, it is planned to strengthen capacity of local government personnel in
community participatory approaches, and group organization, technical,
managerial, maintenance, and monitoring skills, including financial management
and monitoring. This will enable them to be better able to facilitate and assist
communities and groups.
Community awareness and access to information is recognized as an important
strategy element of the LIF. A two-way information flow between local
communities' government and key stakeholders will be facilitated. This will
include information about inter alia the objectives, methodology and procedures
of the LIF, sub-project implementation experience, market opportunities, prices,
and demand for new products, and legal issues.
4.5.5        Budget
While the final budget is being finalized, the provisional total costs of this
component are currently estimated at USD 7.1 million, with the funding provided
to finance sub-projects under LIF and LDF representing about 87% of the total.
4.6         IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTFOR THE OVERALL PROJECT
Apart from the specific arrangements for the individual components described
above, arrangements for managing the overall project have been proposed. The
Office of the Prime Minister will have overall responsibility for the project,
through a national committee embracing both the sustainable livelihoods
program and social assistance activities.
Furthermore, a Livelihoods Support Program Office (LSPO) will be created,
acting as a secretariat to the national committee. This will be similar to the role of
PAPO under the NPAP - it will provide oversight, coordination, monitoring and
evaluation, policy guidance etc, for a range of projects promoting sustainable
livelihoods. This LSPO will house a 'project facilitation unit' dealing specifically
with the World Bank financed SLP.
ENVIRONMENTAL REOsuRCES MANAGEMENT         SLP- ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
18



5           BASELINE INFORMATION
This chapter presents the environmental and socio-economic context of relevance
to sustainable livelihoods in Mongolia, and of particular relevance to the activities
of the SLP.
5.1         POVERTY
The report of the dedicated social assessment provides details on the
demographic and socio-economic profile of Mongolia (Annex 8). Incidence of
poverty has increased across Mongolia in the past decade. It is higher in aimags
that are more remote from the center (Dornod, Uvs, Bayan Olgii and Bayankhongor),
but the percentage of households below the poverty line is below the national
average in three of the aimags likely to be the 'core' aimags for PRM component
activities (Tov, Omnogobi and Dundgobi). The poorest people overall are those in
sum and aimag centers in the more remote aimags who cannot afford to move to
more central urban centers where opportunities are greater, and have limited
support networks and few income-earning opportunities.
5.2         POPULATION
Almost forty-three percent of Mongolia's population lives in rural areas, i.e. 1.03
million out of Mongolia's total population of 2.4 million, according to the
population and housing census of 2000. Forty-five percent of the population are
under the age 15, and 70% of the population are under 35, but the population
growth rate is declining (from 2.6% quoted in 1990 to 1.4% in 2000). The
proportions of men and women are 49.5% and 50.5% (Mongolian Statistical
Yearbook, 2000). Population and livestock distribution is depicted in Figure 2.
5.3         ETHNICnIY AND GENDER
There are over 30 ethnic groups in Mongolia. Khalkh Mongols are the national
majority (90%) and are the ethnic majority in six of the eight core aimags. Kazakh
are the majority ethnic group in Bayan Olgii and Buriad are in the majority in five
sums of Dornod. Uvs is the most ethnically diverse of the pilot aimags, where
Dorvod and Bayad are the main groups.
Cultural differences among the different ethnic groups are relatively minor. All
groups speak mutually comprehensible Mongolian dialects except for the Kazakh.
The Kazakh are Islamic while other groups practice a mixture of Buddhism and
shamanism. Despite this, Kazakh livelihoods are not significantly different from
those of other ethnic groups.
Khalkh Mongolian is the official national language and the language of
instruction in schools except in those areas with high numbers of Kazakh
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT        SLP - ENVIRoNMENTAL ANO SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
19



speakers. Language or tribal differences have not become significant political or
social issues in Mongolia, although the movement of armed Tuvan gangs across
the border to parts of Uvs to steal livestock, and the return of Mongolian Kazakhs
from Kazakhstan are more localized migratory patterns from which social
concerns arise.
Information is not currently available to disaggregate social indicators by
ethnicity. An indication of variation among ethnic groups can be inferred from
aimag-level data: for example a higher level of maternal mortality is evident in
Bayan Olgii (majority Kazakh).
The gendered division of labor within herding households sees men customarily
undertaking herding and heavy manual work and women responsible for
domestic tasks and preparing dairy products. However both men and women
may take up the work of the opposite sex when the need arises. In settled areas,
family-run businesses usually involve all members of the family. It is acceptable
for both women and men to hold down salaried jobs but women may have
heavier workloads as they are also considered to be responsible for domestic
work.
It is doubtful that there will be varying attitudes between ethnic groups about
participation of women in the project. While gender and ethnicity are means by
which people identify themselves, there was no evidence in the field sites visited
during the dedicated social assessment of community groups organized along
these lines.
5.4          LIVELIHOOD-ENVIRONMENTLINKAGES
Annex 8 includes a table describing the typical livelihood strategies of households
of different levels of well being in Mongolia. Sections 5.5-5.8 below describe
livestock and pastoralism in Mongolia. Sustainable livestock management is
closely associated with sustainable pasture management - hence the key livelihoods-
environment linkage in rural Mongolia is that between livestock and the natural habitat of
pastures.
Despite the dominance of livestock-pasture management in rural livelihoods,
several other aspects of the environment are of importance to rural people's
livelihood strategies and vulnerability. Some of these are dealt with in further
detail in sections 5.9-5.11. Examples, drawn from the Participatory Living Standards
Assessment and from our field observations, include:
* Groundwater. Shallow wells (less than 5m depth) and deeper wells constructed
with sum/aimag support in the past. Water is essential for livestock health and
productivity well as human health and sanitation. Herders often divide their
water resources between livestock and human (e.g. livestock at the lake,
humans from the well);
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT          SU - ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOIAL ASSESSmENT
20



* Surface water resources. Rivers, streams, and lakes of varying size.
* Fuelwood. Use of fuelwood in areas near to forests;
* Timber and poles. For construction of gers, winter shelters, and household tools
and agricultural implements (trailers etc);
* Berries, nuts and mushrooms. Seasonally gathered from forests in some areas;
* Herbsfor cooking. Wild herbs gathered from pasture;
* Medicinal plants. There is limited use of medicinal plants, gathered from
pasture. Traditional medicines are used to treat livestock as well as people;
• Waste. The disposal of solid waste may pose a hazard to human health in
Mongolia's urban areas. In smaller urban centers, solid waste is dumped on
the outskirts of the sum or aimag center.
* Hunting. Households use and sell meat and fur products from hunting;
* Dogs. Dogs are abundant around gers, aiding livestock herding, security, and
disposal of waste meat and bones.
The PLSA highlighted the importance of good health to herder families, further
underlining the importance of water quality, access to health services and access
to traditional medicinal herbs and services.
5.5          LIvEsTocK
For the last several decades, between a third and a half of the population of
Mongolia has made a living from herding cattle, yaks, horses, camels, sheep and
goats, under a nomadic pastoral economy. A substantial proportion of
Mongolia's economy is concerned with processing, trade, etc: processing of food
and textiles accounts for c.20% of Mongolia's gross industrial product; and trade
of livestock products accounts for over 50% of exports.
Since privatization of collectivized livestock in the early 1990s, total livestock
numbers have increased from 25.8 million in 1990 to 33.5 million in 1999. There
was a nearly threefold increase in the number of herding households from 74,710
in 1990 to 191,526 in 2000. This is partly associated with massive urban to rural
migration in the early to mid-1990s, which has now reversed.
But continued increases of livestock number have been halted in the summer and
winter of 1999/2000 as result of drought followed by dzud. The 2001 livestock
census is expected to reveal further declines in livestock numbers due to the
consecutive dzud in the winter of 2001.
Over the same period, herd structures have significantly changed in response to
changing market demand. For example, the number of goats increased by 100
percent between 1990 and 2000, reflecting increased opportunities to market
cashmere. The number of camels decreased from 537,500 in 1990 to 322,900 in
2000.
ENVIRONMENTAL REsouRcEs MANAGEMENT           SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
21



|    f  -A<-  a     10 iO938                    ,          2,269.S              Z   en                    
Byn- Iii              1,579.3                                                      2.0                                                       /
X 1,310.4     _/                            t,JJ                                       5 .S          4     2    a    8 
Zavkhan                            22.8    1                               Khentii           4 908          _  ~
1,836.3                                 y                                   t ~>2,022.1  Sukhbaatar 
(   fJ   X                 ,0                                  _><VX                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7.324  g
<      |        ~~~~Govi-Altai     8                    vrkhanga          Dundgovi                                  1 ,492.   C
\          ~~~9.602           Bayankhonor(        19'65             8.242528        <    Dornogovi    g
9 ,035.1               2,375.7                                                   4.201 (
a   |  :_,     ;      S                          \        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,036.6 
9                             ~~~~~~~       ~~Omnogovi                      f
>                            ~~~~~~~~~7.044/
1,489.6                           <         iure 2
< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Population and livestock
distribution in Mongolia
Green text denotes number of livestock (in 000')
Red text denotes number of herder
households (in 000')
1+                         X   11~~~ER



Fi re 4. A herder family durn fel interviews
Fi tir 5E A   ica Mo  oa  e r
Figue 6 A  onglia hederon horseback
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ l41 1011 ! 1       M



7)
-I
K
-'<
/
2
ki
-N
42/
N                                                                      ii
/1
p
V
JUl



5.6           PASTORALISMINRURAL MONGOLIA
Under the nomadic pastoral economy, family labor is used to manage grazing
animals on largely unimproved natural pastures. Rural Mongolians are directly,
and almost exclusively dependent on the use, exchange and sale of dairy, meat
and other products from their livestock (2).
The following points emphasize the dominance of livestock and in rural people's
livelihoods:
* Family labor is used to manage grazing animals on natural habitats of the
central Asian steppe and semi-desert grasslands;
* All pasture lands are common property resources;
* There are very few herders who also cultivate crops or fodder;
* Herders' diets and incomes are highly seasonal, for example in dairy products
(high summer and early autumn), fresh meat (summer and early autumn),
stored meat (winter), cashmere wool marketing (early summer);
( Cash-based markets are poorly distributed, herders have to rely on visiting
traders, and herders often have to barter their products for goods;
* Herders are nomadic, transporting their movable ger in order to locate suitable
pastures, according to the seasons;
* Herders rely on livestock for animal-drawn transport (yak and horse drawn
trailers), horses for rapid local transport and to assist in herding;
* Herders also rely primarily on livestock for dung as fuel;
* There is great prestige attached to the breeding of racehorses and participation
in regional and national traditional racing events.
5.6.1         Transitionfrom central planning
Prior to the 1990s, most livestock were owned by collectives (negdel) each of
which comprised the area of one sum, and which were collectively owned by their
members, who contributed their labor to the management of the livestock.
Individual herders were allowed to keep a small number of private livestock for
personal use.
During the first phase of privatization in early 1990s, the collective livestock,
machinery, buildings etc were distributed among negdel members, but the
transition from central planning proved to be difficult for herder livelihoods.
Production risk was transferred from the state to individual herders
simultaneously with the dismantling of the existing social and economic
(2) Most Mongolian herders are pastoralists by definition. The usual definition is that 'pastoralists' receive over 50 percent of
gross household income (cash income and the imputed value of own-produce consuwned within the household) from livestock-
related operations. Nomadism implies movement of the entire household at intervals throughout the year, and the lack of a
permanent base.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENr               SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOIAL AssESSMENT
25



organization of herding. Herders suffered from a collapse in their terms of trade
due to the retention of price controls on herder products alongside market
liberalization for inputs or household items herders need to buy. This, in
combination with shortages of petrol, meant that rural markets disappeared, and
cash ceased to circulate in the countryside.
In response, herders retreated into species diversification, livestock-accumulation
and barter in an attempt to protect minimum consumption levels and reduce risk.
Poverty grew rapidly, and herders became more vulnerable to environmental,
economic, and social risks from which they had been protected for almost 50
years. The foundering of the formal arrangements for pasture allocation, without
the official re-establishment of customary rules, led to increasing disorder in
rangeland and water use.
5.7          SOCIAL CAPITAL
In rural Mongolia, there are social conventions, inter-household trust and
relations within households that can be considered as a significant asset to
individuals and households.
* Intra-household relations. Generally speaking, roles are defined by gender
and age. Women participate significantly in livestock management, and
additionally carry most of the responsibility for home-making activities such
as milking, cooking, collecting fuel, and sewing. Men as well as women
manage livestock range over the pastures, but apparently men travel longer
distances to take livestock to better pasture in times of emergency and to go
hunting. In many households, boys are kept out of education, to manage
livestock, while girls are kept in education. This pattern emerged following
liberalization, but is now decreasing in frequency.
* Khot ail groups. Households usually group together in khot ail groups, made
up of extended family and friends. Khot ails cooperate in daily herding tasks
such as shared herding and marketing. Some khot ails have strong leaders
who make decisions on behalf of the group, while others cooperate much more
flexibly.
* Neg nutginkhan. In some cases, a number of khot ails group around a shared
ecological feature, such as a river, and provide a basis for sharing information
and possibly cooperation. 'Neg nutginkhan' means 'the people of one place',
and there are similar terms such as neg usniikhan (the people of one well) or the
'people of one valley'.
* Conventional pasture rights. All herding groups have a clear idea about
where 'their' seasonal pastures are, and, although there are no explicit
mechanisms to exclude other households, encroachment by others is widely
considered to be trespass. Protection of winter-spring pastures from out-of-
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT          SLP- ENVIRONMENrAL AND SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
26



season grazing by others has become a priority task as traditional grazing
discipline has broken down following liberalization.
* Rural-urban links. In many cases, there are links between rural households
and extended family in aimag and sum centers. These may take the form of
remittances from income earned in urban centers (among relatively wealthy
families), and provision of meat and other livestock products from rural-based
to urban-based parts of the family.
5.S          ECOLOGICAL REGIONS
Along with recent administrative history and access to markets, ecological
variations determine the pattern of nomadic pastoralism in Mongolia. Mongolia
is commonly divided into five major ecological regions, each with different
dominant livestock species and livelihood patterns. Table 5.1 summarizes.
In the mountainous Altai region, herders move in a largely vertical pattern,
covering long distances between upland and lower seasonal pastures. These
movements are often channeled through mountain passes used by large numbers
of people and animals several times a year. In the nangai-Khuvsgull region, also
mountainous but with extensive forest steppe areas, movements are more spread
out and horizontal, although summer pastures still tend to be at high altitudes,
with winter pastures at mid-altitudes, and inter-seasonal pastures along river
valleys. In the Gobi, water sources dominate movements for much of the year,
giving rise to moves towards and away from water. In all ecological zones,
exceptional long-distance moves are undertaken in response to severe weather
conditions.
Box 5.1 Livestock movements: administrative history and markets
Movement patterns are influenced by many factors other than ecology. Two are especially
important. Recent administrative history has constrained the movement patterns of many
households. After the 1921 revolution, the new administrative division of aimags cut
across many customary migration routes, especially hampering Gobi herders who had
previously used neighboring mountain valleys for summer pasturing. The ecological
complementarity between zones, which is very useful to herders, was broken in some
cases. Important differences in market access between regions also strongly affect herding
patterns. The Central and Eastern steppe area has limited access to markets, and the Altai
region has its main markets in Russia, which are vulnerable to changing political and
economic relationships.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT            SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
27



Table 5.1 Ecological variability in Mongolia
Ecological region   Ecological characteristics              Main livestock species
Khangai/Khuvsgul    * Mountain slopes and valleys           Yak, sheep, goats
* Forest & steppe                       horses, some cattle
* Cold snowy winters, annual precipitation
200-400 mm, 60-100 frost-free days
* Largely an equilibrium ecosystem
Selenge/Onon basin  * Main watershed of Lake Baikal         Cattle and sheep,
* Cold snowy winters, annual precipitation  associated with
250-400 mm, 70-120 frost-free days  irrigated and rain fed
* Largely an equilibrium ecosystem      cropping
Altai               * High mountains and desert valleys     Cattle, sheep, goats,
*  Cold snowy winters, annual precipitation  and horses in the
400-500 mm, 60-120 frost- free days  north, sheep, goats,
* Equilibrium ecosystem in north, non-  camels in the south
equilibrium in south
Central and Eastern  * Treeless central Asian grass steppe  Sheep, goats, horses,
steppe              * Cold snowy winters, annual precipitation  cattle
150-250 mm, 110-140 frost-free days
v Equilibrium ecosystem
Gobi                * Semi-desert and desert                Sheep, goats, camels
* Cold winters/hot summers, annual
precipitation 100m un but highly variable,
90-130 frost-free days
Adaptedfrom D.P. Sheehy and J.Byambadorj, 2001, Environmental Assessment: Pastoral Risk
Management.
5.9           LAND DEGRADATION AND DESERTIFICATION
Land degradation and desertification are widely recognized as significant
problems in Mongolia. The Land Administration Authority estimates that
approximately 11 million hectares or 7% of the total land area is degraded to
some extent. But as Table 5.2 indicates there are many figures quoted for areas of
land degradation, some of which are conflicting. This may be due to the difficulty
of measurement, even using satellite data, in a country where desert comprises
c.40% of the land area, and to the annual variability of vegetative growth.
However there is consensus among scientists, national and local government, and
herders that land degradation is increasing, particularly around certain features,
such as urban areas, roads and wells, and in areas with little water. In addition,
there are areas of undergrazing in some remote locations, which can equally lower
the livestock productivity of pasture.
The principal factors leading to degradation and desertification are considered to
be:
* Climate change (especially increased drought);
* Overgrazing from concentration of livestock near population centers, wells
and along the main roads in proximity to market;
ENVIRONMENTAL RESouRCEs MANAGEMENT               SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOaAL ASSESSMENT
28



* Wind erosion of cultivated areas and abandonment of cultivated land;
* Degradation due to rodent and insect damage to pastures;
* Damage caused by vehicles.
Table 5.2 Areas of land and land degradation in Mongolia
This table shows some of the available statistics on land degradation, some of which is
conflicting: while the Land Administration Authority estimates that 11 million hectares are
degraded to some extent, the UNDP MAP-21 estimates the total area of damaged or
depleted land is over 121 million hectares. These differences are most probably due to
different means of measurement, and the issue of the area of land subject to degradation is
complicated by the large proportion of Mongolia's land that is desert, comprising 41.3% of
Mongolia's land area. Note that the total area of degraded pasture (as estimated by the
Land Administration Authority) in the 8 core aimags is 4,279,000 ha, i.e. 39% of the area
estimated to be degraded to some extent by the LAA, and 2.9% of Mongolia's pastureland.
Area (hectares)            Source
Total Mongolia Land Area    156,410,000 (100%)        GoM 2000 Mongolian Statistical
Yearbook 2000
Rangeland for agricultural    130,541,000 (83.5%)     GoM 2000 Mongolian Statistical
purposes                                              Yearbook 2000
Degraded to some extent    11,000,000 (7%)            Land Use Policy Institute (now Land
Admninistration Authority)
Total area of damaged or   121,700,000 (77.8%)        UNDP 1998 MAP-21: Mongolian
depleted land                                         Action Plan for the 21st Century
Pastureland severely       8,600,000 (5.5%)           UNDP 1998 MAP-21: Mongolian
degraded due to intensive                             Action Plan for the 21st Century
use of pasture through the
year
Area of grasslands damaged  30%                       UNDP 1998 MAP-21: Mongolian
due to use without                                    Action Plan for the 21st Century
scheduling of periods for
regeneration
Area of govi desert        (41.3%)                    UNDP 1998 MAP-21: Mongolian
Action Plan for the 21W Century
Increase in extent of sandy    38,000 (0.024%)        UNDP 1998 MAP-21: Mongolian
area over last 40 years                               Action Plan for the 21st Century
Area of pasture estimated to  7%                      National Environmental Action Plan
be heavily degraded                                   2000
Degraded pasture areas in
selected aimags:
Bayan Olgii             465,900                    Land Use Policy Institute (now Land
Bayankhongor            462,400                    Admninistration Authority), 1997
Dornod                  605,000
Dundgovi                610,100
Omnogovi               647,600
Ovorkhangai             495,200
Tuv                     216,800
Uvs                     776,000
Subtotal S core aimags  4,279,000
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                 SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
29



5.9.1         Climate change
The majority of informants in Mongolia, including government officials, academic
experts, and herders, believe that the increased frequency and magnitude of
drought and dzud, are due to climate change. However evidence of climate
change in Mongolia remains equivocal, and it is not clear that climate change
would necessarily lead to increased frequency of drought or dzud.
The Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology of Mongolia has an intemational
reputation for the study of climate change. In June 2001, the institute hosted a
China-Mongolia symposium on climate change in arid and semi-arid regions in
northern Asia, at which several analyses including future climate scenarios,
assessment of the impact of climate change, and drought assessment and
monitoring were presented:(3)
* According to records from the last 60 years, the annual air temperature in
Mongolia has increased by an average of 1.56C. This increase was greater in
the winter (3.61C), lesser in spring (1.4-1.5C), and a decrease in summer (-0.3C).
* General circulation models show that air temperature would increase by 1.8-
2.8C by 2040 and 2.8-4.6C by 2070.
* Soil carbon and nitrogen will decrease significantly as a result of climate
change, levels of precipitation will increase but the increase in evapo-
transpiration is expected to increase 7-1OX the increase in precipitation.
5.10          WATER RESOURCES AND QUALI7TY
Access to water resources is an issue for human and livestock consumption, and is
a major factor influencing the availability and management of grazing land. It is
estimated that 42.2% of people have access to a safe water supply. Limited access
to safe water is considered to be a significant factor explaining the increase in
rates of infectious disease observed in the last few years. Diarrhoeal diseases
occur mostly in sum and aimag centers.(4)
There are three major drainages in Mongolia: rivers in the west drain to the
enclosed great lakes basin, rivers in the east drain to Russia, via the Onon Gol and
Ulz Gol, and to China, and rivers drain via the Selenge Gol to Lake Baikal in
Russia. Although Mongolia's water resources are relatively low in absolute
volumes compared with other countries, given Mongolia's small population the
amount of water per person is relatively high. The annual water reserves
available for use in Mongolia total in 34.6 km3 of which 6.1 km3 are groundwater
resources. Surface water (rivers, streams and lakes) is extensive in northern and
central regions, but govi and steppe areas in the southern parts of the country
have to rely on solely on groundwater resources. The quality of groundwater in
steppe and govi regions has high mineral content (0.7-1.2 g per liter, compared to
(3) Institute for Meteorology and Hydrology 2001 Fourth Mongolia and China symposium on climate change in and and semni-
and regions in northern Asia.
(4) UNDP 1998 WASH-21: Issues and position papers on national water sub-sector policy
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT             SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL AsSESSMENT
30



lg per liter maximum established in Mongolia's water quality standards). The
low quality of drinking water causes a high occurrence of liver, gallbladder,
stomach, intestine and teeth diseases.
5.11         BIODIVERSITY AND PROTECTED AREAS
Mongolia's diversity of species is due to its position at the transition from desert
to steppe to taiga. There are low levels of endemism to Mongolia per se, but
Mongolia's ecosystems remain relatively intact, in contrast to ecosystems in
neighboring countries: for instance the Gobi desert ecosystem is of global
importance since it supports several species or sub-species that are already extinct
in China. Mongolia's anthropogenic grasslands are of particular interest, and
cannot be found on the same scale elsewhere.
Annex 9 provides detail on some key features of Mongolia's biological diversity.
The features of Mongolia's biodiversity that is of most relevance to this project,
apart from the need to avoid contravention of protected area regulation, are its
economic importance, particularly to the poor, and the value of Mongolia's
agricultural biodiversity.
5.11.1       Economic and social importance of biodiversity
Based on secondary sources of information, and our field observations, it appears
that biological diversity is economically important in several ways, listed in Table
5.3. This EA has not found any formal assessment of the relation between living
standards and dependence on biological diversity, but some indications from our
interviews and field observations are also provided in Table 5.3.
Table 5.3 Economic and social importance of biodiversity
Economic importance                   Importance for maintaining living standards
* Biodiversity, particularly among    * Herders are reliant on biodiversity to
grasses and herbs, may make a         maintain pasture (& therefore)
significant contribution to the       livestock productivity
ecological resilience of pastures;  * Pastures and forests provide
* Beneficial predators, for example birds    traditional medicines (for both people
of prey, control pest species;        and livestock) used where modern
* Natural habitats of pasture and forest  medicines are not available or not
provide medicinal and food plants     affordable
that are gathered from the wild; it is    * Some species can provide 'safety net'
estimated that there are 845 species of    income, following loss of livestock
medicinal plants, and 120 species of  due to dzud or at any other time of
food plants, such as seeds for bread  need: for example small-scale hunting
and pine nuts in Mongolia (National   to provide meat and fur for sale.
Biodiversity Action Plan);
* Natural habitats provide mammals
that can be hunted and traded for
their meat and fur.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT            SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
31



5.11.2       Agrobiodiversity
There are thirty-two recognized breeds of livestock, four each of horses, camels
and cattle, fifteen of sheep and five of goats. Examples of local breeds'
characteristics include horses from Tes and Galshar, renowned for their speed
and endurance, and the sheep from Gobi Altai and Bayad, known for their large
size and high quality fleeces.
5.11.3        Protected areas
A total of 20,530,588 ha are currently designated as protected areas (13% of
Mongolia's total area). Mongolia's protected areas system consists of four
designations, described in Table 5.4.
Table 5.4 Protected Area Designations in Mongolia
Designation    Current   Total area       Protected status
number
Strictly       12         10,494,283 ha    Representative of unique features
protected                                 and have preserved their original
areas                                     condition. Of scientific or cultural
significance.
Internal zonation into pristine zones,
conservation zones, and limited use
zones.
National       14         1,133,420 ha    Relatively well preserved, with
Conservation                              cultural, scientific, educational or
Parks                                     ecological importance. Designated
for tourism development.
Intemal zonation into special zones,
travel and tourism zones, and limited
use zones.
Nature         16         1,823,580 ha    Designated to create conditions for
Reserves                                  protecting, or restoring natural
features.
Monuments    6            79,305 ha       Natural unique formations,
designated to protect historical and
cultural monuments.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOuRCES MANAGEMENT             SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL ANLD SOCAL ASSESSMENT
32



6            IMPACTS
This chapter presents our conclusions on the potential environmental and social
impacts of the SLP. The chapter discusses both the positive impacts and the
negative impacts of the project, and begins with the assessments' conclusions on
the overall impacts of the project. Specific impacts are described in more detail
for each of the components.
6.1          OVERALL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
The SLP has the potential to deliver a significant overall positive environmental
impact, through a contribution to reduced land degradation in Mongolia. This
conclusion has been reached based on the following reasoning:
• As cited in Chapter 5, at least 7% of Mongolia's pastureland (around 11 million
ha) is suffering from land degradation and desertification.
* Also as cited in Chapter 5, there is evidence of climate change in Mongolia,
which is probably accelerating land degradation directly due to drought, and
indirectly due to the socio-economic impact of drought and dzud.
* In addition, current pasture management patterns in Mongolia are accelerating
land degradation, particularly in localized areas, for example due to
concentration of herds around sum centers and aimag centers, partly as a result
of the impact of dzud and drought, resulting in patterns of livestock
distribution and pasture over-use that have adverse effects on the
sustainability of pasture.
: Therefore, successful actions to reduce herders' vulnerability through pastoral
risk management offer a significant opportunity to contribute to reduced
extent and severity of land degradation - indeed it will be necessary to reduce land
degradation in order to reduce herders' vulnerability to drought & dzud.
• Community-level or bag-level management planning of pasture is proposed as
a key part of the project's integrated approach to pastoral risk management.
Our field observations and discussions with herders indicate that the
empowerment of herders or herder associations to manage their pasture is of
potential for reducing land degradation, both in times of drought and dzud,
and at all other times.
6.2          OVERALL SOCIAL IMPACT
The sustainable livelihoods project has the potential to deliver an overall positive
social impact, by empowering of herders to manage their livelihoods, and by
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT           SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
33



contributing to rising living standards among poor households and herder
households.
This conclusion is based on the following reasoning for the 13 aimags where the
LDF and microfinance component will operate:
* The intensive learning ICR carried out for the PAVGP concluded that the
PAVGP had a positive impact on poverty. The continuation of the LDF should
maintain and further extend this impact.
* Limited access of poorer households to microfinance, limits the ability of the
poor to act to reduce their poverty and reduce their vulnerability through
savings, asset accumulation, consumption smoothing and livelihood
diversification.
* The design of the LIF component is based on the recognition of the perceived
weakness of the LDF to adequately target the poor and to ensure social
investments were demand driven. By paying additional attention to these
issues, the SLP should ensure that positive social impacts are maximized and
negative impacts avoided.
Our conclusion is based on the following reasoning for the 8 core aimags where
the LDF, LIF, PRM and microfinance components will operate:
* Drought, dzud, land degradation, and increased vulnerability of herders is
leading to significant reductions in living standards among poor and middle-
poor herder households; and as cited in Chapter 5, the Mongolian rural
economy and society centers around livestock management;
* Also cited in Chapter 5, lower living standards in rural Mongolia are
associated with rising malnutrition, increased incidence of disease, and lower
school attendance. As herders lose their livestock, they are increasingly
attracted to sum and aimag centers, in order to reduce their insecurity, leading
to concentrations of livestock around these centers, and further falls in
livestock productivity and survival;
* Herders that have lost all of their livestock, are vulnerable to social breakdown
in sum and aimag centers, resulting in malnutrition, depression, increased
incidence of drunkenness among men, divorce, and increased incidence of
domestic violence;
* This project, through the combined actions of the PRM, LIF and microfinance
components has potential to contribute to increased empowerment of rural
people over their livelihood strategies, and thereby halt & reverse the fall in
living standards among the poor and middle-poor (i.e. low income earners) of
rural areas.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT         SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
34



Differences in livelihoods between the ethnic groups are too minor to warrant
distinct approaches in the project design for different ethnic groups. The SLP
design allows for decision-making on component details to be made at more local
levels, which should allow for the preferences of different ethnic groups to be
met. Many Kazakh people do not speak or read Mongolian and thus their access
to project information would be restricted if it were only distributed in
Mongolian. No ethnic beliefs or customs were identified that might conflict with
or be adversely affected by the project activities. Sacred sites are unlikely to be at
risk from planned project activities.
Annex 8 notes a number of stakeholders' concerns about the project's social
impact, and their indicators of success for the SLP. These form the basis of the
measures proposed in the SLP.
6.3         IMPACTS OF ACTIVITIES UNDER THE PRM COMPONENT
The potential of the whole project to have a positive environmental impact on
reduced land degradation is largely due to the pastoral risk management
component. Indeed, this component is likely to be proven to be an essential
complement to community infrastructure or rural microfinance in achieving
environmentally sustainable reductions in herder vulnerability in rural Mongolia.
The potential of the component to deliver positive improvements in reduced land
degradation - in the core eight aimags - should far outweigh any localized
environmental impacts of activities to be supported by the project.
The pastoral risk management component therefore has the potential to
contribute to several commitments of the GoM to address land degradation:
* Mongolian Action Program for the 21st century: several activities, such as
creating an integrated approach to land use planning, under actions to achieve
the sustainable use and protection of land resources, and actions to combat
desertification;
* National Environmental Action Plan (draft, 2000): actions under
environmental and natural resources management, and to abate
desertification;
* Biodiversity Conservation Action Plan for Mongolia (GoM 1996): action 3.2.10
to prevent pasture deterioration through overgrazing.
Table 6.1 indicates which of the component's activities we consider may have
localized negative impacts, and which we consider vital to ensuring the PRM
component succeeds in delivering an integrated approach to pastoral risk
management, and in so doing has a positive impact on land degradation. Table 6.2
indicates the specific risks associated with activities, and sections 6.3.2-6.3.7
provide further detail.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT          SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCAL ASSESSMENT
35



6.3.1       Impacts of small-scale developments under the component
Rural Mongolia is very sparsely populated, and has very few large-scale
infrastructural developments. Most of the developments under the PRM
component are small in scale: the significance of the direct negative environmental
impacts is likely to be small. This is especially the case in comparison to
developments that are increasing in frequency, for instance mining projects, or
petrol stations at sum/aimag centers.
However, in the event that some of the activities are scaled-up to wider areas, for
example following their successful piloting, there may be cumulative impacts. A
good example is rodent control: while in the pilot stage, the significance of the
negative environmental impacts may be small, but when scaled-up, impacts
could become significant. This provides the SLP with an opportunity to ensure
that the pilot activities fully integrate the mitigation of environmental risks, in
order that negative cumulative impacts upon scaling-up are avoided.
6.3.2        Pest control
A species of vole Micro tis brandtii, commonly referred to as 'mice' in Mongolia, is
widely seen by stakeholders as an agent of pasture degradation over large areas.
Field observations indicated that local infestations of the rodents are widespread,
and several informants described how areas as large as entire sums are infested by
the voles. But M.brandtii is rare outside steppe areas with sandy soils, and does
not occur in taller grass pastures.
In response to this problem, over the past two years, MoFA has been carrying out
large-scale aerial distribution of seed treated with Zinc phosphide in order to
control the rodent. Discussions of the FAO project preparation team with MoFA
officials led to this method being excluded from financing under this project, in
favor of piloting of alternative methods. The activity to pilot alternative methods
presents a key opportunity to influence the development of environmentally
sustainable methods of controlling this pest in Mongolia. Current plans are to
pilot the development of the use of a biopesticide, Saliminol 239, which is based
on Salmonella enteridis bacteria, and has been developed and used in the former
Soviet Union and Cuba for some years.
Salmonella based rodenticides
As part of this environmental assessment, we have investigated public
information on Salmonella-based rodenticides. Extensive Internet searches
yielded no reference to this approach, but a search on databases of international
journal abstracts found thirteen journal papers between 1972 and 2001 on the
subject. The database output, with abstracts, is given in Annex 10. Several of the
papers concern technical testing of the biopesticides on rodents, while two (one
English, one Swedish), concern associated human safety issues.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT          SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
36



Figure 7. Trucks delivering hay supplies for winter in Omnogobi
Fi ure8. A    ical1 winter shelter
Fi  re 9. A woman in Ovorkhan ay displaying medicinal herbs
K               



Table 6.1 Environmental impacts of activities under the Pastoral Risk Management Component
Key: """ vital to positive impact, V  significant positive impact, V limited positive impact, xlimited negative impact
Activity                                         Positive     Negative   Comment
impact      impacts
Integrated risk forecasting, management and contingency planning
Improve emergency forecasting (weather &            V                    Should have positive impact as part of
vegetation data);
Improve dissemination of information to herders.    V                    An integrated approach to risk management.
Support to the iterative process of sum-level risk  I/aV/                Improved risk management is likely to lead to better local natural resource
management planning;                                                     management.
Awareness-raising among herders about the SLP
and resolution 47
Participatory workshops to develop annual sum-                           As above
level PRM plans
Pasture and gzating management
Bag / Sum level land use maps;                                           This activity is central to ensuring that herders can be empowered to sustainably
manage their pasture and land resources
Improved grazing discipline / practices            /                     Control of out of season grazing, improved otor, better regulations, and attempt to
maintain winter stocking below carrying capacity will all contribute to more
balanced grazing pressure.
Apply / enforce existing land law and grazing      V"V           x       Improved pasture allocation on basis of widely accepted rights will contribute to
rights                                                                   better grazing management. Access rights of poor herders with few animals need to
be safeguarded.
Inter-sum emergency winter otor reserves;                                Reserves will allow grazing pressure to be better spread over available pasture in
drought and dzud years, rather than continuing to exploit stressed pastures. The
reserves will be used only temporarily, and there will be sufficient time to allow
pastures to recover following use in dzud years.
Repair infrastructure (winter shelters, wells and  ""x                   Otor reserves are of importance to improving pastoral risk management. Their
service points) of 2 existing inter-aimag otor                           environmental benefits outweigh the risk of relatively insignificant negative impact
reserves;                                                                associated with localized degradation around new wells, or building construction.
Pilot alternative household-based rodent control   9'x                   Rodent control is an important part of pasture recovery in heavily degraded areas.
methods.                                                                 But there are potentially negative impacts depending on methods used. Biological
poisoning with Salmonella is proposed, but this may carry significant human
health risks when the pilot-tested approach is scaled up. Engaging the Ministry in
an investigation of altemative methods could have significant wider benefits.



Table 6.lEnvironmental impacts of activities under the Pastoral Risk Management Component (continued)
Key: VVV vital to positive impact, II significant positive impact, V limited positive impact, climited negative impact
Activity                                         Positive     Negative   Comment
impact      impacts
Herder=s 7rganizatinsX
Pilot activities to support the development &      "",                   Likely to empower herders to be able and willing to manage pasture & land more
training of herders' groups/ associations, NGOs                          sustainably
and cooperatives;
Establishment of revolving multi-purpose funds,                          Can contribute to better pasture and land management by herder associations.
managed by associations/NGOs;
Wner preprationofherders anditvestock                0         0 0        0      l                   $  0                   .  :            t    0 
Household preparations (hay-making and storage,    VV                    Winter preparation is a vital part of reducing livestock losses due to dzud, and as
loans for shelter rehabilitation/ construction,                          part of the integrated approach should contribute to reduced land degradation.
firewood preparations, etc);                                             The incremental increase in timber or fuelwood use that will result from this
activity is likely to be insignificant in comparison to wider patterns of timber and
fuelwood use.
Strengthen emergency-related anti-parasitic                      x       Potentially harmful effects associated with the storage, disposal and packaging of
veterinary services                                                      the chemicals. Training of veterinarians could mitigate this.
Hayand fdder preparation:0 00000; -0000000:00   0  -0;70l     ;00  X  
Pilot mechanized, commercial hay-making;           b"            x       Each of these activities should contribute to sustainable pasture management as
part of the integrated strategy.
Pilot household hay-making with animal- drawn       II                   The avoidance of local oil spills or disposal or spare parts or disused machinery
harvesters;                                                              could be integrated into the piloting of mechanized haymaking, so that, when
scaled-up, following the pilot, there will be no significant environmental impact.
Pilot commercial fodder and concentrate                                  There may be localized impacts associated with storage facilities or processing of
production;                                                              concentrates, but these are highly unlikely to be significant.
Develop and test a model for revolving Aimag                             Negative impacts may occur if hayfields are not periodically fallowed (100 %
emergency fodder funds.                                                  biomass removal) to allow the ecosystem time to recover. Increased hay
availability in winter may reduce (to a certain extent) the grazing pressure on
winter pastures in winter/early spring. Hay storage by the sum emergency fodder
funds may have a very positive impact on poor herding households who benefit
from the fodder funds in times of need. The positive social and economic impacts
of increased hay availability will outweigh the possibly negative environmental
impacts.



Table 6.1 Environmental impacts of activities under the Pastoral Risk Management Component (continued)
Key: 111 vital to positive impact, // significant positive impact, i limited positive impact, xlimited negative impact
Activity                                       Positive    Negative   Comment
impact     impacts
Water and well development
Community-based rehabilitation of wells;         V/           x       Water and well development will have an overall positive environmental impact,
as long as user rights are clearly demarcated, since water improvement will spread
existing grazing pressure over a wider, reducing grazing pressure around existing
wells: the project will be taking a community-based approach, so this should be
ensured.
Construction of new wells and reservoirs in areas  "'                 If this community-based approach is not taken, the risks of spreading degradation
where grazing resources are underutilized due to                     to new wells (as well as failing to solve that around the existing) will be higher.
lack of water
Restocking model as an emergency recovery mechanism
In response to demand, restocking, using resources  IV        "       Positive, if restocking is also used to improve livestock management and grazing
shifted from LIF and RMF.                                             practices: this is exactly what is planned under the SLP. But there is a risk of
restocking exacerbating land degradation if it is not allied to sustainable pasture
management.
Microfinance services for berders
Research on savings & credit;                                         No impact.
Work with Ag Bank to serve herders' needs;                            Positive if savings encourage assets to be held in bank accounts rather than in
livestock.
Piloting of livestock insurance.                                     Improved risk management is likely to lead to better local natural resource
management.
Institution-building and organizational capacity-
building
Capacity-building and training for sum officials,                     Improved institutional capability is likely to lead to enhanced ability to co-manage
bag governors, and selected aimag representatives                     natural resources.
to implement the component;
Project management and implementation group at                        No direct positive or negative impacts.
MoFA;
Inter-ministerial national level PRM Working                          Key opportunity to involve Ministry of Nature and Environment, and to
Group to assess program policy implications.                          mainstream action to reduce land degradation into national policy and legal
developments.
M&E of the PRM component                                              Key opportunity to learn lessons on impact on land degradation



Table 6.2 Risks of activities with limited negative impacts, depending on their location and exact nature.
Activiity                      ECO    LAND    H20    WAST    HUNT    HEAL   STOR   Mitigation &Monitoring
Pilot alternative household-     t                 it       it                   i         it    *  Select bio- or chemical pesticide with least environmental and
based rodent control                                                                                human health impact. Integrate environmental & safety issues
methods                                                                                             ino  evlpmntealato  of the pilot. ...
Strengthen emergency-                                        it                            i     *  Ensure vets are trained to store, handle and apply treatments
related anti-parasitic                                                                              and dispose of wastes safely.
veterin~ary services
Pilot mechanized,                                            it                                  *  Support to only existing enterprises is proposed.
commercial hay-making                                                                            *  Integrate environmnental concerns (e.g. disposal of oils or parts)
-.-.- .~~~~~~~...   ~~~~~. .         -. ....             ~ ~ itodei~~~gn and evaluation of thepilot.
Pilot comimercial fodder and                       it        t                             it    *  Ensure solid waste associated with packaging or inputs is
concentrate production                                                                              disposed of carefully, away from watercourses etc
*  If storage facilities are to be constructed, ensure seepage of any
effluents from the storage is contained and not allowed to
ensure watercourses.
*  Integrate environmnental concerns into the design and
evaluation of the pilot.
Rehabilitation of wells and               it                                                        As is already foreseen, ensure user rights, and herder-
construction of new wells                                                                           association based arrangements in the areas around the wells.
and reservoirs
Emergency restocking.                                                                            *  Ensure that restocking is allied to measures to encourage
sustainable land management, such as herder groups and sum-
level land use plans.
*As is already planned, maintain the rule that restocked animals
are bought in the same local area as the restockees so there will
be no irmmediate increase in the total livestock in the area.
*As is already planned, consider timing of restocking carefully,
in order that restockees are able to have their new stock fully
prepared for winter.
Key
ECO   Indiscriminate ecological impact, LAND =Localized land degradation, H20 =Pollution of watercourses or streams, WAST =Solid waste disposal, HUNT
-_ Increased hunting, to unsustainable levels, HEAL = Human health risks in handling, storage etc, STOR = Land or water contamination during transport or
storage.



* Friedman, CR., Malcom, G., Rigau-Perez, JG., Arambulo, P., and Tauxe, RV. 1996
Public health riskfrom Salmonella-based rodenticides. The Lancet 347: 1705-1706.
The authors draw attention to a rodenticide, "salmocoumarin" (Biorat), which is
produced in Cuba and sold and distributed in developing countries world wide for
the control of rats and mnice, particularly in agricultural settings. The product contains
S. enteritidis and warfarin. Because of doubts about the efficacy of such a product and
concerns about the employment of a human pathogen in a rodenticide, the use of this
product is questioned.
* Andersson, SA. and Nilsson PO. 1991 Bacteriological warfare against rats and mice.
Svensk-Veterinartidning 43: 4, 173-176.
The use of cultures of Salmonella spp. earlier this century to control rats and mice is
described. The same species (S. typhimurium, S. enteritidis and S. dublin) are seen in
disease outbreaks in animals and man at the present time, and it is suggested that their
use as rodenticides may have introduced them to the ecosystem.
The papers conclude that there are significant risks to wider human health, since
the biopesticide, in effect, distributes Salmonella, which is also a human
pathogen. This evidence suggests that development of this biopesticide for wider
use in Mongolia would carry the potential of human health risks, and therefore
the activity would contravene the World Bank safeguard policy on pesticides. The
project preparation team has proposed that expert opinion on the pathogenicity
of Saliminol 239 is sought, and if it is confirmed to pose human health risks, its
use should be excluded from the SLP.
Alternatives
If Saliminol contains live bacteria, the SLP should carry out a full review of the
potential alternative methods for rodent control, using an integrated pest
management approach. A key observation, cited to this assessment by several
independent informants, is that the rodent infestation is a symptom of pasture
degradation, rather than a cause: pasture management in combination with
integrated pest control methods therefore offer the opportunity to tackle the
rodent problem while avoiding significant environmental and human health
impacts. When the SLP identifies what approach to take to piloting IPM
methods, it will be essential to adhere to an environmental management plan to
ensure the integration of environmental and human health concerns into the
development and piloting of any approach.
Annex 11 lists the properties of the most commonly used chemical rodenticides, as
listed in the WHO guidelines on the use of pesticides. Some of these are known to
be highly toxic to other species and to humans. The following rodenticides are
considered to be the least toxic to humans and non-target species:
* Brodifacoum, an organobromine that is stable at room temperature and
insoluble in water. If it is used correctly it is not hazardous to humans or
wildlife;
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                   SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
42



* Chlorophacinone is very stable in most conditions, and is of low toxicity to birds;
* Phosphine, a colorless gas with only a slight solubility in water, which had
rarely led to poisoning to humans, mainly due to carelessness;
* Warfarin, a colorless crystal with a low solubility and relatively high stability.
Warfarin may be the most suitable rodenticide to use in a human environment,
as it has no major effects on humans.
6.3.3        Rehabilitation and construction of wells
The PRM component will rehabilitate sixty-six wells, and construct 18 new wells
(compared to a total of 5,800 former wells that are currently not in use due to lack
of repair). It is unlikely that there will be any cumulative effect on groundwater
resources, since the total expected extraction of groundwater will be a tiny
fraction of total groundwater resources. For the three aimags where SLP will
invest in the construction of new wells, groundwater availability will be a
criterion for siting of wells, based on hydro-geological surveys carried out by
MoFA.
A second issue is localized pasture degradation around wells. The activities of
land use planning, land certification, and construction of new wells will combine
to reduce localized land degradation around existing wells:
* Although rehabilitation & construction of wells could lead to localized pasture
degradation around wells, the project intends to carry out activities of land use
planning and certification of herders' tenure in advance of well rehabilitation
and construction, as part of an integrated strategy on pastoral management.
* The SLP will give priority to construction and rehabilitation of wells in areas
where pasture is currently underutilized due to water scarcity. The breakdown
of existing wells during the economnic transition has led to unnecessary
concentration of herds around too few functioning wells. This will lead to an
immediate reduction of livestock concentrations around existing wells. This
reduction will be maintained over subsequent years due to better land use
planning and land certification.
6.3.4        Restocking
Restocking will take place in case in sums that have experienced a declared dzud,
and animal losses at sum level are greater than 15 %. Risks of increased land
degradation as a result of restocking will be minimized since restocking is not
likely to add to the total number of animals, since it will be fully integrated into
the broader pastoral risk management component:
* There is a risk of an overall increase in livestock numbers, without better
distribution, leading to increased severity of land degradation, particularly
around sum and aimag centers. But immediate increases in livestock numbers
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                   SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
43



due to restocking will be avoided by maintaining the rule that restocked
animals are distributed only within a local area. This is specified in the Project
Implementation Manual. Under PAVGP, of the 95,000 animals distributed to
1,728 herder households, the vast majority was procured from within the same
district or sub-district. Procurement from within the same local area also
ensures that restocked animals are of local genetic provenance and therefore
suitable for local pastoral ecology. Furthermore, the allied activities of land use
planning and improved grazing management should prevent longer term
increases in livestock numbers as a result of herders' or restockees' wish to
increase their herd sizes;
* There is a risk of loss of restocked livestock due to drought and dzud, leaving
beneficiaries with debts that they are unable to re-pay, and a possibility of
aggravating social problems. According to PIM criteria, all beneficiaries must
have proven herding skills and to have owned viable or near viable herds prior
to the dzud. All restocked livestock are to be insured and restocking will only
be implemented in combination with actions to reduce risk that restocked
livestock might die due to drought and dzud.
Under the PAVGP, most restocking was carried out over June-August. This is
because restockees would not have sufficient hay or pasture to enable their new
stock to survive through the spring or summer. Autumn restocking was avoided
since it would not allow restockees sufficient time to prepare the stock for winter,
or may leave potential restockees without stock, or with too few stock, over
summer. The SLP will continue the practice of the PAVGP, and consider the
timing of restocking carefully, in order to enable restockees' to prepare their new
and old stock for winter and the risk of dzud without having to over-use their
pastures.
6.3.5        Veterinary services
The PRM component will support the provision of veterinary services for the
control of parasites that compromise animals' winter survival. The disposal of
wastewater from anti-parasitic livestock dips may carry risks of the pollution of
watercourses, since dips need to be sited in the vicinity of a water source, but
negative impacts are unlikely to be significant. A common practice is to channel
the wastewater to divert it away from watercourses, and generally speaking,
Mongolians take great care to keep their surface and well water clean. Training of
veterinarians and herders, plus vigilance for negative impacts by environmental
inspectors and rangers are required mitigation efforts.
A further issue is the creation of increased levels of disposal of packaging and
unused medicines, although we expect the quantities involved will be minimal.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCEs MANAGEMENT                   SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
44



6.3.6        Hay-making and inter-sum!inter-aimag otor reserves
The location of haymaking and otor reserves has been planned to ensure that they
are not in any of Mongolia's protected areas, including strictly protected areas
and national parks. In addition, it is important to ensure that the establishment of
inter-sum and inter-aimag reserves does not lead to sigrnficant displacement of
herders from their traditional /conventional otor or winter pasture areas: indeed
the project preparation team has ensured the exclusion of areas with such risks in
discussions with MoFA.
Mechanized haymaking is to be piloted over a negligible area (200 ha). However,
were mechanized haymaking to be scaled-up over a greater area, there may be
some limited localized risks of oil or fuel pollution of watercourses. There is an
opportunity to ensure any machinery is designed to enable straightforward
maintenance by herders, based on the availability of spare parts and available
materials. There is an opportunity to include examination of possible actual
environmental impacts during the pilot, in order that mitigation of pollution can
be integrated into the designs /approach resulting from the pilot.
6.4          RURAL MICRO-FINANCE
The RMF component is not expected to have any direct environmental impacts,
although it may have some indirect impacts.
6.4.1        Possible positive impacts
Indirectly, through contributing to reduced poverty and increased control of poor
people over their livelihoods, particularly in combination with the pastoral risk
management component, it has potential to deliver positive environmental
impacts. For example, the component may result in herders converting part of
their livestock assets (which herders in effect use as savings), into cash savings,
thereby reducing their numbers of livestock. In combination with increased
empowerment of herders or herder association to manage their pastures with
bag-level plans or certified land-users' rights, the micro-finance component
should enhance the options that herders have to sustainably manage their
environmental assets.
6.4.2        Uncertainty
But predicting individuals' asset management strategies may not be so
straightforward. An individual herder may seek to increase as well as diversify
their asset portfolio, and may use their ability to access savings and credit to
increase their herd sizes. Also, some individuals may use their improving asset
base to invest in alternative income-generating activities. A negative impact on
land degradation or of income-generating activities on the environment cannot be
ruled out.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                   SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
45



There is therefore an opportunity to ascertain whether the improved access to
microfinance does indeed result in a more sustainable management of the
environment by herders. Affirmation of this result should create significant
interest among government, NGOs and international agencies working towards
sustainable development in Mongolia. We therefore propose that examination of this
issue is explicitly included in preparations for and during the project MTR and ex-post
evaluation.
6.5          LOCAL INITIATIVES FUND
Due to the demand/community driven nature and 'open menu' approach of the
LIF project component, and therefore the unpredictability of specific LIF sub-
projects, it relatively difficult to assess their potential environmental impacts.
However, in general terms, the negative impacts of community infrastructure
projects are not likely to be significant.
Whether any sub-projects will have significant negative impacts will depend on
their scale, location, and other factors, and will be context-specific and localized.
Those with potentially significant environmental impacts should undergo
environmental screening or DEIA, under the Mongolian system of EIA, before a
decision on approval.
Table 6.3 below summarizes the probability of environmental impacts potential
LIF/LDF sub-projects, partly based on experience of the LDF to date.
6.5.1        Screening and monitoring
One of the key requirements to prevent any negative environmental impacts is
sufficient capacity and qualification of the staff responsible for the environmental
management. Therefore, it is essential to provide adequate training to the
environmental officers in aimag and sum centers in environmental screening,
monitoring, and assessment/measurement of environmental impacts.
There is an opportunity to include specific activities to encourage development of
environmental NGOs at the aimag (and possibly sum) levels. This would increase
the environmental capacity at local levels as well as widen the community
involvement in the project. Environmental NGOs can play a role in
environmental monitoring and well as implementation of sub-projects with
environmental components. This can also be done in conjunction with other
World Bank initiatives to catalyze the development of environmental NGOs in
Mongolia.
6.5.2        Potential environmental impacts
If implemented successfully, the LIF/LDF could have overall positive
environmental and social impacts, such as:
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
46



* Improvement of health care and sanitation facilities;
* Improvement of education and training facilities.
6.5.3         Suggestions to enhance environmental benefits of the LIF
The LIF component provides an opportunity to encourage communities to
undertake projects with explicit environmental objectives. For example, sum and
aimag centers have significant and visible problems with collection and disposal
of solid waste, suggesting potential projects could address solid waste
management. Examples such as forest regeneration in mountainous regions, and
tree planting in the areas affected by soil erosion were eligible and were financed
under the LDF previously.
"Environmental" projects will be eligible under the LIF, but the key change with
LIF, as described in chapter 4 is to ensure a more demand-driven approach, and a
greater self-help contribution. There is no reason to expect no demand for
projects with "environmental" objectives. In fact a demand-driven approach is
essential to ensure the economic, social and institutional sustainability of all sub-
projects: for instance, tree planting would fail to achieve either environmental or
social objectives unless the community has a stake in tree survival.
Box 6.1 Potential environmental projects under LIF
* Solid waste management. (In fact previously under LDF solid waste was cleared as part of
preparations for housing sites).
. Tree planting for timber, fuelwood and erosion control.
* Community propagation of seed banks for crop seeds, medicinal plant seeds etc.
ENVIRONMENTAL REsouRCEs MANAGEMENT                     SLP - ENVIRONMENrAL ASSESSMENT
47



Table 6.3 LIF/LDF potential direct environmental impacts
Activity                                    Probability of environmental impacts   Comments
positive           negative
Current LDF activities
Maintenance and rehabilitation/repair of minor  medium           medium         . Construction of bridges may prevent destruction of river beds at
roads and tracks and bridges                                                       crossings;
Renovation of buildings for public use,         low                low          * Potential impacts may include disposal of building materials, and health
including schools, hospitals, kindergartens, etc.                                  and safety issues during construction
Improvement of existing domestic water supply  medium              low          . Positive impacts may include safer drinking water and health
systems                                                                            improvements
Improvement of communal services and            high               low          . Health improvements due to better sanitation
sanitation systems
Community forestry                              high               low          * Positive impacts of tree planting
Fuel collection                               medium             medium         . Reduction of the incidence and spread of forest fires due to collection of
dead wood; negative impacts of cutting trees for fuel wood
Establishment of sum school and kindergarten    none               none
farms
Provision of electric power for remote sum    medium             medium         .  Potential positive impact of reducing the consumption of fuel wood;
schools and dormitories                                                            potential negative impacts of localized air pollution if local generator is
used
Production of toys for kindergartens            none               low          * Difficult to assess potential negative impacts without further knowledge
of manufacturing methods proposed; use of plastics in manufacture may
have environmental impacts
Transport and equipment for rural health        none               low          * Disposal of medical wastes
services
Potential LIF activities
Rehabilitation/construction of domestic wells  medium            medium         * Potential positive impacts on pasture due to better distribution of
livestock as a result of more wells; potential negative impacts on water
levels and availability
Rehabilitation of Small community irrigation    low              medium         * Impacts on water courses and salinization
systems



7           ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES
There are few conceivable alternatives to the activities planned under the PRM
component that will deliver reduced vulnerability of herders, since the pastoral
economy is the dominant feature of rural Mongolia. Indeed, the activities
planned under both the PRM and LIF components are being addressed by several
other internationally funded initiatives.
In this chapter we consider four alternatives: (i) that the pastoral risk
management is implemented without the vital activities listed in chapter 6, (ii) the
use of financial incentives, taxes, or direct government intervention in the
pastoral economy; (iii) that the LIF component is carried out without adherence to
environmental screening and assessment required under Mongolian law; and (iv)
the'no-project' situation.
7.1         PRM COMPONENT WITHOUT COMMUNITY-BASED APPROACHES
In the altemative that the PRM component is implemented without several of the
activities that we conclude are vital to ensuring reduced land degradation, the
potential of the component to deliver reduced land degradation is significantly
reduced, and the risks of negative environmental and social impacts are
significantly increased. Our reasoning set out in chapter 6 establishes that the
potential positive impact of the PRM component centers upon the following
activities:
*  Support to the establishment of herders' groups/associations, NGOs and
cooperatives;
*  Support to the iterative process of sum-level risk management planning;
*  Improved grazing discipline / practices;
*  Apply / enforce existing land law and grazing rights.
Implementation of only the activities within the PRM component that carry the
least positive potential, and greatest negative risks - such as fodder & concentrate
preparation, pest control, veterinary services, well construction, restocking -
would weaken the entire project strategy and place positive social and
environmental at risk.
7.2         USE OF FINANCIAL INTCENTIVES, TAXES, OR DIRECT GOVERNMENT INTERVENTION
Interviews and consultation with stakeholders in national and local government
indicates that community-driven approaches to pastoral management are not yet
well founded in Mongolia, (although there are notable exceptions such as the
work of the Center for Policy Research carried out with UNDP funding).
Responses to the question of how to address land degradation commonly include
either a return to elements of the central planning and management carried out
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCE5 MANAGEMENT               SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL AssEssMENT
49



prior to liberalization, or a heavy reliance on taxes or financial incentives to
reduce livestock numbers and influence livestock distribution.
But analysis of rural livelihoods indicates that these approaches would fail to
address the driving forces of land degradation and the increasing vulnerability of
herders: indeed they would be likely to further disenfranchise the poorest herders
from decision-making on pasture management, potentially lead to increased
poverty and increased conflict over degrading pastures, and offer little prospect
for reducing pasture degradation.
7.3          LIF COMPONENT WITHOUT ADHERENCE TO SCREENING AND ASSESSMENT
In the alternative that the LIF and LDF proceed without effective environment
and social screening and assessment, it is possible that there will be localized
negative environmental and social impacts of sub-projects, depending on the
nature of the sub-projects. As set out in chapters 6 and 8, it is necessary for
screening and assessment to be integrated into the sub-project implementation
system.
7.4          'No PROJECT' SITUATION
In the 'no-project' scenario, poverty and land degradation are likely to increase in
extent and severity in the eight 'core' aimags and the pilot sums within these
aimags. The same conclusion may be drawn for all other aimags - if it is the case
that the LIF and LDF succeed in targeting the rural poor, and if the RMF
component allows herders to liquidate livestock into cash more readily - since
reduced poverty may allow herders to more sustainably manage their pasture
resources.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                   SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
50



8            ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
This chapter describes the proposed environmental and social management plan
(EMP) for the SLP. Tables 8.2 and 8.3 detail the EMP actions, responsibilities,
training requirements and costs. In addition Annex 12 provides draft screening
forms, guidance and checklists that are referred to in the EMP.
8.1          KEY PRINCIPLES
This EMP has been prepared on the basis of the following principles.
Firstly, we have sought to avoid considering environmental and social
sustainability of the SLP in isolation. Instead we have considered:
(i) How can sustainability (i.e. environmental, social, economic and institutional
sustainability) be ensured at bag-, sum- and aimag- levels? and
(ii) How can the SLP's contribution to this sustainability be maximized?
For example, it would be counterproductive if the SLP was to place a
disproportionate burden on sum- or aimag- level environmental inspectors while
other projects, such as mining projects, with greater negative impacts require a
significant proportion of their time.
Secondly, since the SLP is intended to be progressively decentralized, we consider
that the bulk of environmental inputs to this project are required at aimag and sum
levels. At these levels, there is an opportunity to build on the close working
relationship of agricultural, environmental, social and health officers, and
improve awareness of sustainable pasture management among all officers.
Thirdly, the SLP provides an opportunity to build a closer working relationship
and a shared understanding between MoFA and MNE on the issue of sustainable
pasture management.
Fourthly, the EMP does not propose an elaborate system of screening and
assessment for activities or sub-projects within the SLP components. Instead, it is
proposes that environmental and social considerations are fully mainstreamed
into the process for identifying, planning, implementing and monitoring activities
or sub-projects. The forms and checklists in Annex 12 are intended to be merged
fully with the LDF/LIF project implementation manual, and the overall system of
project management. In addition, the approach taken is to ensure vigilance and
screening in order that any activities or sub-projects requiring further assessment
can be fed into the locally owned environmental assessment procedures used by
aimag environment officers and agencies, and MNE.
ENVIRONMENTAL REsouRcEs MANAGEMENT                   SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
51



8.2          MEASURES TO MAXIMIZE POSITIVE SOCIAL IMPACTS
Full details of the recommendations of the dedicated social assessment can be
found in Annex 8. Most of these have been recognized in the design of the SLP.
Key recommendations are:
*  Broaden the stated target groupsfor SLP so they include all groups implicitly
included in project documents. This is to ensure that stated target groups reflect
actual beneficiaries, and that account is taken of the role of middle income
and better off households in building sustainable livelihoods. Target groups
would therefore include herding and settled communities in rural and peri-
urban areas, with a focus on the able bodied poor and low-income households
vulnerable to impoverishment and economic shock.
* Calculate local contributions under the LDF/LIF on a project-by-project basis, rather
than by a standard percentage. This will ensure that local contributions are
coherent within the project design, reasonable for poor households and that
expected local contributions are easily understood by everyone. In other
words, local government and the community should agree upon what part of
the labor and what type of materials local people are able to contribute to a
given project.
* Develop three-way contracts under LDF/LIF and PRM components between
local government, groups or herders' associations using the facilities and
specific individuals who are to hold primary responsibility for maintenance.
This will make responsibilities clear for the maintenance of infrastructure.
* Members of sum local government (most likely in the social welfare and service
center) should act as community social workers. This will ensure that poorer
herding households gain access to herder associations, are included in pasture
risk management, and will benefit from PRM activities.
* Allow for local-level monitoring systems that are meaningful to local people, and
ensure a clear M&E system that is manageable at wider levels. For example, the
project should distinguish between what higher administrative levels need to
monitor and what local people need/want to monitor about project activities.
*  Integratefurther social assessment exercise into the system of identifying, planning
and monitoring projects. Social issues are integrated into the EMS proposed in
Annex 12. This includes a means of identifying any requirements for focused
topical studies to answer questions of immediate relevance to the project as
they arise.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                   SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
52



8.3          REsETTLEMENT AND LAND ACQUISITION
The resettlement policy framework for SLP will apply to (i) construction and/ or
rehabilitation of small scale infrastructure sub-projects, such as roads, bridges,
buildings, structures, water supply and sanitation facilities, and other civil work,
and (ii) potential eviction of people from land to be used under the SLP. Annex 13
describes the resettlement policy framework in full.
The SLP will avoid or minimize any potential relocation of people by exploring
alternate designs, including through full consultation with potential affected
people during the process of screening for social impacts. Affected people will be
fully consulted during the planning and implementation of resettlement
activities.
Where involuntary resettlement or negative impacts are unavoidable, it will
follow the Constitution of Mongolia (Article 16, sub-article 3) and the Mongolian
Law on Land, November 11, 1994 (Article 37) in that all affected people should
be:
* Provided with an equivalent amount and type of land in the area for their
losses;
* Compensated at replacement cost for structures and other property/assets;
* Given transportation assistance and assisted with the move.
The SLP will take the following measures to ensure that, in cases where
resettlement is unavoidable, social impacts are minimized or avoided:
All sub-projects requiring resettlement will prepare a resettlement plan;
The compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation activities or community
options will be satisfactorily completed before funds are disbursed for the sub-
project;
Affected people will be able to file complaints to the project authorities in the
following order: Bag, Sum, Aimag and finally to LSPO in Ulaan Bataar;
The cost of compensation and rehabilitation will be the responsibility of the
local government at the sum level;
Community solutions and options for resettlement will be eligible for funding
from the Local Initiative Fund (LIF);
All project related staff and consultants will be provided orientation and
training on resettlement issues and implementation;
*  The SLP will assign staff at the central and aimag levels to guide and monitor
resettlement activities;
*  Monitoring for resettlement matters will be a regular part of project
monitoring.
Table 8.3 below sets out clear actions and responsibilities required to ensure that
these measures are implemented, and the screening system proposed for the
project includes screening for all social impacts including resettlement (see Annex
12).
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                   SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
53



8.4           ETHNIC MINORITIES DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
The SLP will adopt an ethnic minorities development strategy to guide its
approach to working with ethnic minority communities. The principles
underlying the ethnic minorities development strategy are:
* ethnic minorities will benefit from the Project;
potentially adverse effects on ethnic minorities caused by project activities
will be avoided or mitigated.
The strategy will be based on the Constitution of Mongolia which states that: "No
person should be discriminated against on the basis of ethnic origin, language, race, age,
sex, social origin and status, property, occupation and post, religion, opinion or education.
Everyone should have the right to act as a legal person" (Article 14, sub-article 2); and
the "Right tofair acquisition, possession and inheritance of moveable and immovable
property" (Article 16, sub-article 3).
The strategy will be based on the Mongolian law under which there are no
differences in the entitlement of the different ethnic groups to natural resources.
In areas inhabited by ethnic minority communities, project implementation will
be based on the following procedures:
* there will be informed participation of the ethnic minority people themselves;
* local preferences will be identified through direct consultation;
* indigenous knowledge will be incorporated into project approaches; and
- sub-project proposals will be determined and prioritized by the ethnic
minority communities themselves.
Project staff and community mobilizers in aimags such as Bayan Olgii, Uvs, and
parts of Dornod will be of the same ethnic group as the ethnic minority
beneficiaries themselves.
Additional information dissemination and community outreach will be made to
ethnic minority communities. For example, in Kazakh areas and other ethnic
minority areas where needed, the local language will be used in print, media and
in consultation. This is also confirmed in the Constitution of Mongolia, which
allows "national minorities" are allowed to use their native languages (Article 8,
sub-article 2).
Under the LIF component, more flexibility in the choice of sub-projects within the
project menu will be allowed for ethnic minorities, especially as strongly
requested by the people themselves. One example is the pressing community
need and frequently requested service for the rehabilitation of housing for
Kazakh returnees.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                   SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL AssEssMENT
54



Monitoring and evaluation activities will include monitoring of the progress of the
project among ethnic minority communities. Regular project progress reports will
integrate all sum and aimag reports on the fulfillment of the project's ethnic minority
development strategy.
8.5          TRAINING
The EMP also refers to training requirements associated with the specific actions
proposed. Put together, the training can be seen to address a number of areas:
* The need to improve awareness of sustainable livelihoods and pastoral risk
management among government officials and herders. There is a natural
tendency to equate pastoral risk management (i.e. reducing people's
vulnerability) with pasture management, but there is a clear difference. This is
required in advance of the project launch workshops and at intervals
throughout the project. This proposal responds to our observation that
understanding of pastoral risk management is relatively weak, compared to
understanding of animal husbandry for example, among these officials.
Expertise on pastoral risk management is strong within research institutes of
both MoFA and MNE.
• Training for the LSPO, PMUs, APACs and SPACs on the screening and
reporting system proposed for the project, as set out in Annex 12. This can be
mainstreamed into the training that will be required for the smooth operation
of the entire project management system, and in demand-driven approaches
under the LIF/LDF;
* Training to build the capacity of local environmental inspectors, to ensure
adequate screening of impacts of the PRM component. The requirement for
this should be confirmed or rejected at the end of PY1 in the sums in which the
PRM activities have been focused;
* Training in integrated pest management for relevant personnel, associated
with the pilot activities in pest control;
* On-the-job training for staff of the LSPO or the PMU of the microfinance
component, through working with international consultants, in advance of
MTR and ex-post evaluations, to determine whether increased access to
microfinance, results in herders changing their asset management strategies,
and whether that includes a reduction in livestock numbers.
* Bringing together groups of environmental inspectors and officers from aimag
and sum levels, to encourage inter-aimag and inter-sum training, for example in
ideas for environmentally positive LDF sub-projects.
There is also a number of information and training needs arising from the
ENVIRONMENTAL REsouRcEs MANAGEMENT                SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL A'SRSSMENT
55



dedicated social assessment. Suggestions are set out in Table 8.1.
Table 8.1 Suggestions to address information and training needs in social
assessment
Herders associations
*  seminars providing information on the relative advantages of working in association, being
formally registered, as either co-operatives or NGOs.
*  training/ seminars in business and financial management and seminars in marketing that
would directly link them to market information and sources of supply/ buyers of livestock
products.
Bag leaders
Training in group meeting and leadership skills, group organization, proposal formation and
writing, community participation, including gender issues and outreach to poor households.
Community Social worker training
* Professional social work training, with attention to gender issues and outreach to poor
households.
Overall Information needs
* Post public information about project activities - activities financed under SLP, breakdowns of
monies available for and spent on each activity - at sum government offices. In Kazakh
speaking sums these posters should be posted in Kazakh language.
8.6            COSTS OF THE EMP
The costs of the EMP are modest and can be easily incorporated into costs of
project management. There are few financial costs (c. USD 55,000), and the
majority of that is a sum (c. USD 50,000) to cover contracting of local consultants
to carry out any environmental screening, or assessments that may be required.
Other costs are the time required of officers at national, aimag and sum levels to
ensure environmental sustainability is maximized, totaling c. 37 man-months, and
inputs to be made by the World Bank to monitoring and review at MTR and at
the ex-post evaluation.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                       SLP - ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
56



Table 8.2 Environmental management plan: key issues and actions
Issue                   Action                          Responsibility        By When           Training                   Cost
Pastoral risk management  .  Invite local experts on pastoral  LSPO / PAPO and  During          There is an opportunity to    5000 USD to cover
is not widely understood   risk management to contribute  MoFA, in liaison with   preparation for  provide training in issues of  participation of local experts
by stakeholders to be more    to project launch workshops    MNE              project launch    pastoral risk management to  in sustainable pasture
than pastoral management  * Invite representatives from                       workshops in      MoFA, MNE and aimag staff  management in workshops
alone.                     UMENGO and from MNE                                Spring 2002       in advance of the launch   or to facilitate training in
institutes to project launch                                        workshops.                 sustainable pasture
workshops                                                                                      management.
Need to ensure targeting    .  Broadening of stated target    LSPO            Continuous        Include targeting as an topic  No incremental costs
of all social groups cited in  groups so that they include                                      in training on PRM or
project document            all target groups stated in the                                     sustainable livelihoods
project documents
Monitoring of inclusion of
target groups
Ensure access of poorer  *  Assign sum-level staff with    Sum-level environment  Continuous    As above on targeting      No incremental costs
households to herder        responsibility to work with    officers and inspectors,
associations, and are       the poorest to ensure this  or social department
included in PRM activities                              staff
Need to base monitoring    *  Identify what local people  LSPO, with aimag and    During inception   None                  No incremental costs
and evaluation on           want to monitor the project   sum-level staff
information that is         for
meaningful to local people  .  Carefully distinguish
between local people's
monitoring needs, and the
needs of higher
administrative levels
Resettlement issues     *  Implement resettlement plan   LSPO                 Throughout        None                       No incremental costs
as set out in Table 8.3
Ensuring ethnic minorities  .  Implement ethnic minorities   LSPO             Throughout        None                       No incremental costs
receive benefits of the     development plan
project



Table 8.2 Environmental management plan: key issues and actions (continued)
Issue                   Action                          Responsibility        By When           Training                   Cost
Pastoral risk management component
Vigilance for, screening of,  . Environmental inspectors and   PRM Working Groups   Continuous  During PRM activities in the  - Man-days for
and monitoring of specific  officers kept fully informed of                                     pilot sums in PYl,            environmental
developments under the     PRM activities through                                               conclusions should be         inspectors and officers to
PRM component, whilst      involvement in PRM working                                           drawn on whether              participate in PRM
avoiding increased work-   groups                                                               environmental officers and    working groups;
load for environment    * Aimag / sum level                                                     inspectors require additional  *  50,000 USD to cover any
officers and inspectors    environmental officers &                                             training to improve           contracted inputs for
inspectors include reporting                                        screening for PRM             screening or assessment
on PRM in regular reporting to                                      component impacts.            that are required.
Governors & MNE
Include environmental   .  Sum-level environmental      *  MoFA agree with    By end of first   This action directly concerns  Included in costs of
officers in capacity-      inspectors included in PRM      aimag/aum-level    quarter of the    training.                  capacity-building and
building and training on   Working Groups' training        governors of level   project (July 2002)                        training sub-component
pastoral risk management  * Aimag-level environmental      of involvement of
officer identified and included  environmental
in PRM aimag-level             officers and       Continuous
coordination and               inspectors         through the
implementation units        .  Environmental      project
officers and
inspectors attend
Environmental inputs to    Environmental inspectors     .  Sum governors      Annually in        Training requirements for    32 mandays (1 man-day
annual sum-level PRM    included in participatory          agree involvement   advance of the   this are addressed above.    annually of environmental
plans                   workshops to develop annual        with environmental  participatory                               inspectors' time)
PRM plans                         inspectors         workshops
*  Environmental
inspectors attend
workshops
Potential to include     Sum and aimag level agricultural   Sum and aimag-level    During       Environmental officers     Environmental officers will
environmentally positive   and environmental officers draw    environmental   discussions on    should be brought together   be APAC and SPAC
projects under multi-    up list of possible           inspectors             multipurpose      to share ideas and         members therefore no
purpose funds            environmentally positive projects                    funds at aimag    experience on              incremental cost.
and sum levels    environmentally positive
sub-projects.
Lesson learning on      PRM Working Groups, including   PRM Working Groups   During PRM         Training requirements are    Included in cost of PRM
sustainable pasture     environmental officers, consider                      Working Group    included above.             Working Groups
management as part of    lessons learned                                      lesson learning
M&E of the component                                                          discussions



Table 8.2 Environmental management plan: key issues and actions (continued)
Issue                     Action                          Responsibility          By When            Training                    Cost
Inclusion of MNE in       . MoFA invite MNE to            MoFA, with MNE          By project start in                            No incremental cost
interministerial national    participate in this                                  Spring 2002, &
PRM Working Group            interministerial group                               regular
*  MNE identify regular officer                         attendance
for inclusion in the group                           thereafter
Potential to include MNE    .  MoFA Implementation Unit    MoFA, with sum-level   Continuous         n/a                         No additional cost in MoFA
/ Land Administration        discuss land-use data with   agricultural inspectors                                                / sum inspectors' time
Authority data on land use   LAA                          and LAA
in bag- and sum-level land-  .  Exchange of ideas and                                                                            20 man-days from LAA (5
use maps                     information between sum-level                                                                       per year)
officers involved in
preparation of land-use and
LAA officers
Human health risks        .  Reconsider the SLP approach    MoFA with World       end of November   n/a                          Cost of piloting IPM
associated with piloting of  to pest control: abandon     Bank project appraisal   2001                                          activities component are
biopesticides                proposal to pilot Salmonella-   team                                                                unlikely to differ greatly
based pesticides and adopt                                                                         from the cost of piloting
piloting of IPM                                                                                    biopesticides
Need to reduce or mitigate  .  Information in this report to be  MNE pass this    By project start   Training in IPM approaches   Negligible incremental cost
environmental impact of      passed to aimag-level        information onto        (Spring 2002)     for relevant staff may be    of mitigating environmental
pest control                 environmental officers       environmental officers                     required                    risks.
* Aimag-level environmental                            During project
officers participate in      Aimag-level             inception / as part                           15 man-days of aimag-level
discussions on integrated pest  environmental officers   of investigation of                       environmental officers' time
management with MoFA                                 alternatives in                               per pilot
/agricultural inspector                             pest control
* Aimag-level environmental                             During                                         10,000 USD to cover cost of
officers implement EMP for                           implementation of                             training in IPM
pilot IPM measures                                   pest control
Opportunity to associate    Sum and aimag officers in charge    Sum and aimag officers   During well  None required              168 man-days (2 man-days
health & sanitation       of well rehabilitation and      in charge of well      rehabilitation and                              of health officers / nurses
awareness with well       construction invite aimag and sum   rehabilitation and  construction                                  time per well)
rehabilitation and        level health officers, and nurses to  construction, with  activities
construction              train well-users in sanitation  health officers / nurses
issues



Table 8.2 Environmental management plan: key issues and actions (continued)
Issue                   Action                         Responsibility        By When           Training                  Cost
Sharing of experience and   MoFA and MNE jointly draw up   MoFA and MNE      Continuous        None required             20 man-days of relevant
lessons learned with other  list of all ongoing initiatives                                                              officers in total over 4 years
initiatives in pasture
management &            MoFA and MNE regularly
environmental capacity    arrange meetings between
individuals from project
implementation units to share
lessons & raise mutual awareness
Microflnance Outreach Services
Will liquidation of     Examination of this issue through   LSPO with assistance   In advance of  Training of key counterparts  No incremental costs (inputs
livestock assets into cash    participatory appraisal of micro-   from World Bank lask   MTl and ex-post  in MoFE, MoFA, and MNB    of local consultants on
savings reduce livestock    finance impact in advance of and   Manager       evaluation        as part of this investigation   appraisal of microfinance
numbers?                during project MTR and ex-post                                                                   impact are included in
evaluation.                                                                                      project budget).
Local initiatives fund/Local-developmentfund
Vigilance for, screening of,  . PMU in MoFE to prepare  PMU in MoFE with     By project launch   Training in screening and    Incremental costs:
and monitoring of sub-     management system for LIF /   MNE assistance, plus                  monitoring system during    5 man-days MoF / MNE
projects, whilst avoiding  LDF targeting, project      APAC and SPACs                          capacity-building in      time in total
increased work-load for    identification and reporting                                        targeting, participatory
environment officers and   that includes key sections on                                       approaches etc            252 mandays of aimag-level
inspectors                 environment [based on                                                                         environmental officers (4
annexed draft - yet to be                                                                     years X 21 aimags X 3 man-
donel, agreed with MNE                                                                        days per year)
* MoFE ensure awareness of
LDF / LIF officers of shortlist                                                               Plus use of the budget for
of projects requiring limited                                                                 necessary contracted inputs
environmental review                                                                          in screening and assessment
Aimag / sum level                                                                             (cited above under PRM
environmental officers &                                                                      component).
inspectors include reporting
on LIF / LDF sub-projects in
regular reporting to Governors
& MNE



Table 8.2 Environmental management plan: key issues and actions (continued)
Issue                   Action                        Responsibility        By When          Training                  Cost
Potential to encourage  . MoFE draws up list, based on   PMU in MoFE        By project start in  See above under PRM   Negligible cost in man-
environmentally positive   draft (based on draft included                   Spring 2002      multipurpose fund         hours
projects                  in annex)
* Inform aimag and sum level    Aimag and sum-level    At launch of LDF                        Included within LDF / LIF
managers of the eligibility of    managers of LDF / LIF   / LIF                             management
environmental projects
* Proactively raise awareness
among sum and bag-level
beneficiaries of the eligibility                 Continuous
of environmental projects /                      through the
businesses                                       project
N0i Wonal an intern a ' nXl pro^ ct monitoring and ealuatio
Requirement for concise    . MoFE and MoFA agree with    LSPO, MoFE and     . amend and      Limited training in the use   20 mandays in total (5 man-
analysis of environmental  MNE and World Bank, a      MoFA, in liaison with    agree draft    of reporting formats      days of MoF / MoFA
impact, based on           concise format for annual  MNE and World Bank       format [to be   adopted for the project  officers per year)
information from aimag    reporting on environmental                           annexed] by
and sum levels            impact, and on synthesis                             project launch
reports in preparationfor                        . complete
project mid-term review and                         annual reports
ex-post evaluation                                 in September
MoF and MoFA complete                               of each year;
annual and synthesis reports                        complete
using this format                                   synthesis
reports in
advance of
MTR and
evaluation
Requirement for         World Bank appoint local or   World Bank Task       In advance of    None required             To be resourced by World
environmental evaluation  international environmental  Manager              MTR and ex-post                             Bank.
& lesson learning in MTR   specialist, with approval of MNE,                evaluation
and ex-post evaluation  to provide inputs to MTR and ex-
post evaluation
Total costs  *  USD 55,000
*  Approximately 26
manmonths of officers'
time
*  World Bank inputs



Table 8.3 Involuntary Resettlement and Land Acquisition Procedures
Resettlement Procedures                                                                 Men                Who is
responsible
1.   Assign staff at central and aimag levels for guiding and monitoring social matters. (These can be the  Start of overall  LSPO
same staff assigned to environmental screening and monitoring).                        project
implementation.
2.   Provide orientation to central, aimag and sum project staff on resettlement guidelines, approval and   Start of project  LPSO
implementation procedures. Provide detailed training to Community mobilizers in screening and   implementation in
implementation procedures.                                                             particular location
3.   Consultations during bag and sum meetings:                                              At bag and su1tl    SPAC members
a.   Consult with people during community outreach/public relations activities regarding  consultations    and
potential negative social impact related to proposed sub-project proposals;       during community   Community
b.   Discuss local government and community approaches to solving any potential negative  outreach         Mobilizers
impacts;
c.   Obtain agreement from affected households on proposed options and/or compensation;
d.   Document the agreement and have signatures from head of household and bag/sum official;
signed documents should be attached to sub-project proposals.
4.   Screening of designs for construction and rehabilitation of proposed civil works in each submitted   During review of    SPAC
sub-project (see checklist in Annex 12):                                               sub-project
a.   Review designs for impact on affected people due to land acquisition and/or impact on  proposals
property, assets and business;
b.   Approve designs if there are no negative social impacts or if mitigation measures are
appropriate;
c.   If designs are not approved, request for redesign or alternative plans or for specific
mitigation measures and re-submit;
Conduct 2nd review of re-submitted designs and so on.
5.   Prepare resettlement plan for affected people, if required. It should include:          After approval of    Community
a.   a baseline survey of affected households (name of head of household, age, sex, occupation,   sub-project  Mobilizer
no. of household members), impact on type and amount of land/property/assets/business;   proposal and
b.   detailed information on amount of compensation and other assistance to be provided to the   before
affected households or community options;                                         disbursement of
c.   schedule for compensation provision and assistance;                               funds
d.   cost estimate and funding source or community options.
6.   After satisfactory provision of compensation and other assistance or completion of community               SPAC
options, request for disbursement of funds for sub-project.
7.   Monitoring of social matters and preparation of short report for LPSO. (A standard format can be   Semi-Annual  APAC
developed for this report). World Bank will conduct spot checks during supervision missions.



: f::ff:ff0000000 Resettlement Procedures                                                                                                      When 00 $00 0 ff:::: :XiS f;; :00 t00:00000 00:fff | :: :0: ft ::X00tp SQ:: :0Who is
r       n erpoI sibl
8.   Integrate all sum and aimag reports for inclusion into regular project progress reports.                                                          Semi-Annual                     LSPO



ANNEX 1- LIST OF AUTHORS
Douglas Smith, Consultant, ERM Ltd, UK
J.Byambadorj, Monconsult Ltd, Mongolia
Olexi Kabyka, Consultant, ERM Ltd, UK
Davaasuren Odonchimeg, Monconsult Ltd, Mongolia
Jeremy Swift, Institute of Development Studies, University of Sussex, UK
Natasha Pairaudeau authored a dedicated social assessment, from which we have
drawn several conclusions and recommendations in this report.



ANNEX 2 - ITINERARY
2 September 2001      * Arrival in Ulaan Baatar
3-7 September 2001    * Meetings with stakeholders and key informants in
Ulaan Baatar
8 September 2001      * Visit to UNDP project day in Tov Aimag
9 September 2001      * Travel to Mandalgovi, Dundgovi Aimag
10 September 2001     * Interviews with Dundgovi aimag governor and officers
* Visit to Mandalgovi agricultural fair
* Travel to Dalanzadgovi
11 September 2001     * Workshop and interviews with Umnogovi aimag
governor and officials
* Interview and site visit with governor of Khangor sum,
Umnogovi aimag
* Travel towards Ovorkhangay aimag
12 September 2001     * Interview with herders, Bayangol sum, Ovorkhangay
aimag
* Meeting and interviews with Ovorkhangay aimag
officers
13 September 2001     * Further interviews with Ovorkhangay aimag officers
* Travel to Khujirt sum, Ovorkhangay aimag
* Interview with Khujirt sum officers
14 September 2001     * Interviews with herders and rangers, Khujirt and
Batzulii sums, Ovorkhangay aimag, and Lun sum, Tov
aimag
* Travel to Tov Aimag
15 September 2001     * Arrive Ulaan Baatar
16 September 2001     * Writing
17-21 September 2001    * Writing
* Interviews and wrap-up meetings in Ulaan Baatar
22 September 2001     * Depart Ulaan Baatar



ANNEX3 - BACKGROUND TO THE SLP
GoM initiated its National Poverty Alleviation Program (NPAP) in 1994, when
the economy was in deep crisis, suffering from hyperinflation, a massive
population shift from cities to rural areas, and a rapid rise in unemployment and
poverty, as a result of the break-up of the Soviet Union and the collapse of
COMECON.1 The NPAP, with support from 15 international agencies, including
USD8.85m of IDA credit for the Poverty Alleviation for Vulnerable Groups Project
(PAVGP; 1996-2000) carried out a broad range of actions including emergency
public works, small-scale enterprise development, health, education and social
welfare. Under the NPAP, the Poverty Alleviation Program Office (PAPO) was
formed, reporting to the chairman of the National Poverty Alleviation Committee
(NPAC), ie the Prime Minister. Following the 1999-2000 dzud, a livestock
restocking component was added to the PAVGP.2
The Mongolian National Statistical Office (NSP) carried out a Participatory Living
Standards Assessment (PLSA) in 2000, as a building block towards the PRSP. The
assessment was the first of its kind in Mongolia, using participatory learning and
action methods to broaden and deepen understanding of poverty at the national
level, and to provide an opportunity for the voices of rural and urban people to be
heard in national policy-making. The need to reduce risk in pastoral livestock
production, improve social infrastructure in rural areas and smaller urban centres
were among the key conclusions of the assessment.
Based on lessons from experience under NPAP and on the recommendations of
the joint Government/ UNDP/ World Bank evaluation mission, Government of
Mongolia prior to the general election of July 2000 drafted its own proposals for
the scope and content of a second programme to address the major sector issues
identified above. This programme was given the working title of the Household
Livelihood Capacity Support Programme (NHLCSP - or LSP for short). Following
the change of Government after the July 2000 general elections, the previous
Government's proposal regarding LSP was reexamined, endorsed and finalised
by the new Cabinet in May 2001. GoM recently approved a National Program to
Assist the Protection of Livestock from Drought and Dzud.3 GoM has requested
World Bank support for aspects of this program, and has begun to prepare the
SLP for financing by IDA, with possible grant contributions from other agencies.
(1) The first Living Standards Measurement Survey in 1995 found that 36.3% of the population were below the poverty line.
(2) World Bank 2001 Implementation Completion Reportfor the Poverty Alleviationfor Vulnerable Groups Project. Report No. 22232-
MN.
(3) Government of Mongolia 2001 Government Resolutions on Drought and Dzud. Decree No. 47 and No. 48.



ANNEX 4 - WORLD BANK ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT POLICY
This annex provides further detail on relevant aspects of World Bank policy on
environmental assessment.
The World Bank applies environmental and social safeguard policies in the
following areas:
Environmental safeguard    Social safeguard policies  Legal safeguard policies
policies
* Environmental         * Cultural property     & Projects in disputed
assessment           * Indigenous peoples       areas
* Natural habitats      * Involuntary           * Projects on
* Pest management         resettlement             international
* Forestry                                         waterways
* Safety of dams
In particular, the relationship of the environmental assessment of this project with
the project's legal documents is based on the following World Bank Operational
Procedures, Best Practices and Guidelines:
- OP4.01, BP4.01, GP4.01 (Environmental assessment);
- 0P4.04, BP4.04, GP4.04 (Natural habitats);
- OP4.09 (Pest management).
Following the World Bank environmental and social safeguards screening
procedure, the proposed project has been assigned Category B. This means that
limited environmental analysis of the SLP is considered appropriate, since the
project may have specific negative environmental impacts. Recognition of the
SLP's B rating is consistent with regional practice for community-driven project
components and for those with significant involvement in the livestock sector.
Accordingly, environmental and social assessments are required during project
preparation.
In accordance with OP4.01, the environmental assessment of the SLP is
considered as an ongoing process, beginning with project identification.
Therefore, this report presents the conclusions of a dedicated environmental
assessment which is only a part of this ongoing process. The process has
included lessons learning from related previous World Bank-financed experience
in Mongolia (particularly under the PAVGP) and will continue through project
appraisal, implementation, monitoring and evaluation.
The following aspects of World Bank safeguard policies are considered to be of
most relevance to the SLP, and are described in further detail below:
* World Bank experience and guidance on environmental assessment of
community investment projects;



* World Bank experience and guidance on sectoral-level and strategic
environmental assessment;
* Operational policy 4.09 on pest management;
* Operational policy 4.04 on natural habitats.
1.1.1        Environmental assessment of community investment projects
In conducting this environmental assessment, particular reference has been made
to the following policies and best practice:
* Graham, D., Green, K. & McEvoy, K. 1998 Environmental guidelines for social
funds. Prepared for the World Bank Latin America and Caribbean Region;
* GOPA-Consultants 2001 Mainstreaming safeguard policy compliance within
community-driven development initiatives in World Bank-funded operations. Report
to the World Bank;
* World Bank 1998 Environmenrtal assessment sourcebook update: Environmental
assessment of social funds;
* World Bank Environmental Assessment Sourcebook, Chapter 6 on Sector and
financial intermediary lending and environmental review.
These reports refer specifically to cases in which World Bank financing, or parts
of this financing, is distributed to intermediaries such as local development funds
administered by local government, or other agencies. The community investment
fund component under the SLP, for example, are obviously similar cases. Best
practice developed from World Bank experience in several parts of the world,
indicates that environmental assessments of such funds should develop
environmental screening and monitoring procedures for sub-projects to be
financed by the funds.
In addition, the following key points arise from experience:
= Community investment funds can proactively seek to finance envirorunentally
beneficial projects;
* The development of screening & monitoring mechanisms for the fund can
have knock-on benefits in helping environment ministries in their
development of their screening procedures;
* Mainstreaming of environment into the sub-project cycle, requires attention to
targeting and promotion of the fund, environmental screening, finding cost-
effective and simple means of environmental assessment of sub-projects where
it is required, environmental monitoring, and training requirements;
* Community investment funds should be consistent with national sustainable
development strategies or land use plans.
1.1.2        Sectoral-level EA and Strategic EA
In conducting this environmental assessment, reference has been made to the
following documents:
* ERM 1999 Case studies on regional and sectoral EA: an analysis of lessons learned.
Report to the World Bank;
* ERM 1999 Sectoral environmental assessment. Report to the World Bank.



World Bank 1998 Environmental assessment sourcebook update: Strategic
environmental assessment.
To some extent this environmental assessment can be viewed as a sectoral-level
environmental assessment, since the SLP addresses a vast geographical area. In
addition, the exact location and nature of many (though not all) of the specific
activities to be financed by the SLP is not yet known. This is especially the case
for the LIF.
A selection of key issues arising from sectoral-level environmental assessment
are:
* Environmental assessment at this level often encounters difficulties in the
availability of baseline data, and in the assessment of cumulative impacts;
* Consultation with stakeholders should continue before, during and after the
environmental assessment;
* There are significant benefits in sectoral-level assessment, since the need for
detailed environmental assessment of sub-projects can be significantly
reduced;
* By carrying out sectoral-level assessment, alternatives with lower adverse
environmental impacts or greater positive impacts can be identified before
sub-projects are identified;
. The sectoral EA process provides an opportunity for more strategic and
continuous collaboration between concerned ministries / agencies.
This experience provides the basis for aspects of the environmental management
plan in chapter 8, and environmental management system in Annex 10.
1.1.3        Pest management
The World Bank policy on pest management states:
In assisting borrowers to manage pests that affect either agriculture or public health, the
Bank supports a strategy that promotes the use of biological or environmental control
methods and reduces reliance on synthetic chemical pesticides.
With particular reference to agricultural pest management, the policy states that
the World Bank supports integrated pest management, and the safe use of
agricultural pesticides. Within the context of the World Health Organization's
Recommended classification of pesticides by hazard and guidelines to classification, the
World Bank applies the following criteria (to both chemical and biological
pesticides):
* Pesticides must have negligible adverse human health effects;
* They must be shown to be effective against the target species;
* They must have minimal effect on non-target species and the natural
environment;
* Their use must take into account the need to prevent the development of
resistance in pests.
Furthermore, the World Bank requires that any pesticides it finances must be
manufactured, packaged, labelled, handled, stored, disposed of, and applied



according to standards acceptable to the Bank. The World Bank does not finance
pesticides in WHO categories IA and IB at all, or in category II, if they are likely to
be accessible to lay personnel, farmers, etc.
1.1.4        Natural habitats
The World Bank policy on natural habitats states that the Bank supports the
protection, maintenance and rehabilitation of natural habitats. The Bank promotes
and supports natural habitat conservation and improved land use by financing
projects designed to integrate the conservation of natural habitats and the
maintenance of their ecological functions into national and regional development.
The policy goes on to state:
"The Bank does not support projects involving the significant conversion of natural
habitats unless there are nofeasible alternativesfor the project and its siting and
comprehensive analysis demonstrates that overall benefitsfrom the project outweigh the
environmental costs."
The policy defines 'natural habitats' as 'land and water areas where (i)
the ecosystem's biological communities are formed largely by native plant and
animals species, and (ii) human activity has not essentially modified the area's
primary ecological functions. Under this definition, a significant proportion of
Mongolia's pastures can be regarded as natural habitats.



ANNEX 5 - MONGOLIAN POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE
FRAMEWORK
1.1.1       General Legal Framework
One of the provisions of the new Constitution adopted in 1992 was Article 16,
which assures the citizens of Mongolia, right to a healthy, safe environment and
the right to be free from environmental pollution and ecological imbalance.
Article 6 of the Constitution states that the land, its groundwater, forests, water,
wildlife, plants and other natural resources are public property and are protected
by the state. Land other than pastures, common use land, and land for state
special needs is owned by the citizens of Mongolia. Article 16, paragraph 2, states
that citizens of Mongolia have a right to live in an ecologically clean environment
and to be protected from environmental pollution and ecological imbalances.
Other basic laws have provisions on environmental issues as summarized in the
box.
The EIA law of 1998 is the key law concerning environmental assessment in
Mongolia. Detail on this law is given below
1.1.2       Policy and Institutional Framework
In June 2000 the new Government came in power and presented Action Program
to the nation. The Action Plan has specific sections on the Government policy on
environment.
The strategic objective of the Government is to ensure sustainable economic
development based on ecological balance and restoration of natural resources by
creating favorable legal conditions for protection of natural resources and by
promoting public participation. The following measures will be undertaken to
achieve the strategic objective:
• Develop and implement long-term and phased environmental management
plans and programs integrated with regional and economic development
concepts
* Improve environmental legal system specifically with regard to the integration
of roles and responsibilities of central state administrative organizations, local
administrations, NGOs and communities.
* Encourage and support any initiatives on cleaner production technologies



Box 1. Key environmental laws of Mongolia
* Article 17 of the Constitution states that all citizens are obliged to protect the
environment. Article 38.4 lists the plenary rights of environmental protection.
* Civil Code, 1994 Article 87 states that the land, except that under private ownership of
Mongolian citizens, as well as the subsoil and its resources, forests, water resources,
and fauna are the property of the state; other land, except pastures and areas under
public and special use, may be owned only by citizens of Mongolia.
* Articles 100.17 includes provisions regarding land ownership, lifetime possession,
inheritance, use for an indefinite period, use of land surfaces by owners of immovable
property, rights to limited use, transfer of rights, confiscation, etc.
* Law on Government, 1993, Article 11 defines the plenary rights of the state in respect
of environmental protection and the efficient use of natural resources.
* "Law on Administrative and Territorial Units and Their Management, 1992, Article 5
provides that the financial resources of administrative and territorial units consist of
the accumulation of taxes and payments charged in accordance with the laws of
Mongolia over income from all kinds of production and services, land, natural
resources, and business entities.
* Articles 14.17, 15.3, 16.3, 19.3, and 19.7 contain provisions regarding environmental
protection, use of natural resources, and restoration of damages.
* Law on the Legal Status of Cities and Villages, 1993, Article 6 contains legal provisions
for land ownership by cities and villages. Articles 17.4 and 19 assign cities and
villages certain powers and duties regarding land use and environmental protection,
and establish citizen obligations to protect the environment
* Law on Health Article 4 includes measures to be taken for the protection of public
health, including prevention of pollution of the soil, water, plants, and air, as well as
appropriate measures to improve environmental quality.
* Law on Tax, Articles 16 and 17 states that state and local taxes include taxes on natural
resources.
* Law on Foreign Investment 1993, Article 10.2.3 states that foreign investors should be
responsible for environmental protection and restoration. Article 12 provides the legal
basis for land ownership by economic entities with foreign investment.
* Law on Borders, 1993, Articles 20 and 21 provide for hunting and protection of
wildlife and the environment in border areas.
* Law on Administrative Penalties, 1992, Articles 46 and 51 provide mechanisms for
administrative and judicial appeals.
* Criminal Law, 1993, Chapter VII contains provisions on criminal liability, including:
violations of regulations governing use of mineral resources (including gold, other
precious metals, gemstones, etc.); violations of laws on land and water use; arson in
forests or steppe areas; illegal cutting of trees or damaging of forests; illegal hunting,
air pollution, etc.
* A package of 17 new environmental laws was passed between 1995 and 2000,
including a general Environmental Protection Law as well as specific laws on land,
hunting, water, forests, protected areas, natural plants, air, protection from chemicals
and environmental impact assessment.



* Establish standards for protection and restoration of natural resources
* Strengthen measures on protection, restoration and proper use of forest
resources. Develop and implement Action Plan on Forestry.
* Expand and improve management of Special protected areas. Take measures
on improving living conditions of inhabitants in surrounding areas.
* Regenerate endangered species of plant and wildlife
* Improve institutional performance and operations of the environmental
monitoring network. Refurbish equipment and facilities used for monitoring of
environmental degradation, meteorological forecast and radiation.
• Improve environmental information system and statistical data
* Provide legal incentives for long-term land possession by individuals and
organizations to encourage sustainable use of land resources
* Provide assessment to desertification process and implement programs to
arrest land desertification and degradation.
* Control rodents and insect to protect forest, land and pasture resources
* Improve solid waste management in the main urban centers.
Environmental regulations and policies have been implemented in three
administrative levels. In the central level, Ministry of Nature and Environment is
main body for implementing of the Government policies.
The mission of the Ministry of Nature and Environment (MNE) is to ensure
Mongolia maintaining an ecological balance and to ensure that its present and
future citizens can live a clean and healthy environment consistent with
sustainable development objectives'. The objectives of MNE are to:
* monitor implementation of environmental legislation;
* organize the rehabilitation of natural resources damaged by unlawful actions;
* approve, monitor, and provide technical assistance to local authorities and
state agencies for implementation at the local level;
* provide coordination across sectors and among regions;
* establish limits on resource use and to develop and have approved appropriate
standards of environmental quality; and
* promote research and development, international cooperation, and the
dissemination information on environmental issues;
It is notable that the MNE is given responsibility for organizing the
implementation of environmental policy, rather than directly implementing it.
The structure of MNE is reflected in the Government Resolution.
MNE has the following units:
* Environmental Strategic Management and Planning Department
* Department of Environment Policy Coordination
(1) 1Business Strategy and General System of Structure of the MNE



* Administration and Management Department
* Information, Monitoring and Evaluation Department
* International Cooperation Division
There are three agencies are allied with MNE namely: Environmental Protection,
Land Administration Authority and Agency of Environmental Monitoring and
Hydrology.
1.1.3       Local government in Mongolia
Local Government in Mongolia consists of 21 aimags, divided into 334 soums,
which in turn divided into of 1,630 bags. The central body at all levels of local
government is the Governor. The Governors are the representatives of the State
and directly report to the respective higher-level Governors. The Governor of the
aimag and city is proposed by the respective khurals and appointed by the Prime
Minister.
There are also citizens' representative khurals at each level of the government.
However, their powers are largely powers of approval, supervision and direction.
In fact, the real decision-making power has come to be concentrated in the hand
of governors, while the khurals have to come to exist only to approve the
decisions of the local governor's office.
The administrative arm of the governor is the governor's office, the structures and
staff that are to be determined by resolution of the Government. Aimag core
Governors office in each aimag consists of the following units in addition to
Governor and Vice-Governor:
* State Administration Department
* Legal Department
* Production, Trade, Agriculture and Environmental Department
* Financial and Economic Policy Department
* Social Policy Department.
In addition, there are numerous agencies under the Governor such as
Environmental and Agricultural. Environmental agencies are staffed with 4-6
persons at the aimag level, in addition to the sum-level environmental inspectors
and rangers.
Analogously, soum Governor's Offices are limited to a maximum of 5 - 10
persons, such as: the Governor; Vice Governor; Head of Governor's Office; Social
Development Officer (education, health care); Agriculture and Environmental
Officer; Social Care Officer (Poverty reduction, employment and social care);
Operations Officer.
Local government functions are set out in the Law on Administrative and
Territorial Units and Their Governance. In addition, there are at least 29 other



laws containing 280 provisions to the functions of local authorities and too
numerous of Government Regulations, Ministerial Orders, and other Instructions
and Guidelines produced by agencies of the central government. The aimag and
soum governors receive numerous orders, guidelines, and directives from the
higher level Government, line Ministries and agencies. However, these orders
and directives do not have resources both financial and human to implement.
Local administrative staff often lacks the managerial and technical capability to
design and implement appropriate service delivery and local development
support programs.
1.1.4       EIA Procedures in Mongolia
The Mongolian Law on Environmental Impact Assessment of 1998 establishes
general requirements, procedure and implementing aspects of Environmental
Impact Assessment. The main purpose of this laws is to regulate relations to
environmental impact assessment and the decision making on the
implementation of projects.
The law stipulates that any projects or development initiatives are the subject for
Environmental Screening or General Environmental Impact Assessment (GEIA).
The project proponent shall submit summary and technical documentation to
Ministry of Nature and Environment or to local administrative body in line with
Screening Criteria established in the law. Any development projects in
agriculture sector except water reservoir, irrigation facilities and cultivation of
virgin land are under responsibilities of aimag and soum administrative bodies.
On the basis of conclusions of environmental screening and DEIA, one of the
following decisions will be made:
* To provide approval for implementation without further assessment, if the
project impacts and consequences meet the requirements of existing
environmental standards and requirements
* In cases where negative impacts are deemed to be unlikely and/or
insignificant. Project implementation may be approved subject to specific
conditions regarding management and organizational measures to be taken
* In cases where negative impacts are regarded as likely and or significant, the
project may be required to undergo more detailed assessment or Detailed
Environmental Assessment (DEIA)
If a DIEA is required, the project proponent is responsible for contracting a
licensed organization to conduct or implement the DEIA in accordance with the
requirements set out in the GEIA. Any entities can obtain a license from Ministry
of Nature and Environment. The application for license shall contain information
of organization and personal information of proposed environmental experts. The
DEIA report shall contain the following information:



* Local environmental conditions (climatic and atmosphere data, water, geology,
soil, biology, land use and types, physical conditions, historical heritage, socio-
economic conditions etc.)
* Project alternatives and costs
* Recommendation for the mitigation of environmental adverse impacts
* Analysis and evaluation of the extent and scope of any negative impact and it's
consequences
* Environmental risk assessment
* Environmental Management Plan
* Environmental Monitoring Plan
* Outcome of public consultation
* Other issues related to the project.
Once DEIA is completed, the project proponent is required to inform any
concerned organizations, as well as the general public, about the results of the
DEIA and to submit the report to the organization which carried out the original
DEIA for revision and approval. The project proponent is also required to
develop an environmental management and monitoring plans with the following
information:
* Measures to reduce or mitigate adverse environmental impacts which have
been identified during the DEIA and budget and timing of planned activities
* The Environmental Monitoring Plan shall contain activities to monitor changes
revealed during the project implementation and relevant ways of reporting
results as well as methodology for monitoring
Enforcement and monitoring of the implementation of Environmental
Management Plan in compliance with the terms and conditions of EIA permit is
the responsibility of local government agencies. To this end, local governments
receive copies of all relevant EIA reports and letters from the MNE. The law also
required for environmental audit in case of damage occurred to human health
and environment from economic activities. For this purpose, MNE shall appoint
working group to verify cases with DEIA report. If the audit finds the entity
which had conducted the DEIA is liable for damage, MNE will require to conduct
the DEIA again or may suspend license of the entity.
The law specifies rights and obligations of project proponents and license-holder.
In accordance with EIA procedures, a licensed organization has the following
responsibilities and rights:
* A licensed organization is expected to work systematically to improve the
qualifications of experts in carrying out the DEIA, to keep abreast of current
developments in science and technology, and to collect up-to-date information
on matters related to the protection of the environment and natural resources
• A licensed organization is expected to make a contract with the project
proponent to furnish an accurate estimate of the costs of carrying out the DEIA
in the most economical way.



* A licensed organization is expected to keep confidentiality of relevant
information on technology, equipment and business activities of the project
proponent.
* A licensed organization is expected to be responsible for the result of the
DEIA.
* A licensed organization is expected to amend if necessary the DEIA report in
response to comments and suggestions obtained from relevant agencies and
public.
* A licensed organization shall have right to obtain all necessary documentation
and if necessary to have free access to premises of the project proponent.
Under the EIA procedures, the roles and responsibilities of the project proponent
are as follows:
* Submit to MNE and the government units in aimag and soums the required
documentation of and information about the project in due time and provide
additional information if the decision making official requests to do so.
* If after the GEIA, it is decided that a DEIA must be carried out, the project
proponent has to negotiate with an organization licensed to carry out DEIA
* The project proponent is also required to develop an environmental
management and monitoring plans and to obtain the permit before the project
implementation.
* The project proponent is expected to meet promptly all terms and conditions
of applicable permits and to diligently implement any approved
environmental management and monitoring programs.
* Provide information and entry access to own premises to duly authorized
representatives from a license-holder contracted to carry out the DEIA.
1.1.5       International conventions
Mongolia is signatory to the following conventions:
• Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer
• Montreal Protocol on Substances that deplete the Ozone Layer
* UN Framework Convention on Climate Change
* Convention to Combat Desertification
* World Heritage Convention
* Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES)
* UN Convention on Biological Diversity
* Cooperation for Environmental Protection (Bilateral agreements with the
governments of Russia, People's Republic of China, and the People's Republic
of Kyrgyzstan).



ANNEX 6 - LIST OF PAPERS REVIEWED
Government of Mongolia:
Government of Mongolia 2001 Government Resolutions on Drought and Zud: Decree Nos. 47
and 48.
National Statistical Office of Mongolia 2001 Participatory Living Standards Assessment 2000
Papers relating to the PAVGP and the preparation of the SLP:
World Bank 2001 Implementation Completion Report: Poverty Alleviation for Vulnerable
Groups Project. Report Number 22232-MN.
Batkin, A., Bumhorol, T., Meams, R. And Swift, J. 1999 Independent Evaluation of the
National Poverty Alleviation Programme. Government of Mongolia/UNDP/ World Bank.
Hanstad T. and Duncan, J. 2001 Land Reform in Mongolia: Observations and
Recommendations. RDI Reports on Foreign Aid and Development #109.
Swift, J. 2001 Managing the Risk of Drought and Zud: Concepts and Issues: Report to FAO.
Carloni, A. et al 2001 Mongolia: Sustainable Livelihoods Project Preparation Support Mission
Draft Aide Memoire.
Chaturvedi, S. 2001 Mongolia: Sustainable Livelihoods Project Community Investment Fund
Component. Report to Government of Mongolia/World Bank.
Skees, J. and Enkh-Amgalan, A. 2001 Examnining the Feasibility of Livestock Insurance in
Mongolia. Report to GoM / World Bank.
Cheng, E. 2001 Mongolia: Sustainable Livelihoods Project Rural Microfinance Component.
Report to Government of Mongolia / World Bank.
John Morton 2001 Report of a Consultancy on Pastoral Risk Management in Mongolia. Report
to Government of Mongolia / World Bank.
Miller, D. 2001 Mongolia: Sustainable Livelihoods Project Pastoral Risk Management Strategy
and Action Plan. Report to Government of Mongolia / World Bank.
Sheehy, D. And Byambadorj, J. 2001 Mongolia: Sustainable Livelihoods Project Environmental
Assessment Pastoral Risk Management. Report to Government of Mongolia / World Bank.
Sources of baseline environmental data:
Environmental Protection Agency 2000 Mongolia Special Protected Areas of Mongolia. Ulaan
Baatar.
National Agency for Meteorology, Hydrology and Environment Monitoring of Mongolia
2001 Fourth Mongolia and China Symposium on Climate Change in Arid and Semi-arid Regions
over the Northern Asia. Ulaan Baatar.



National Statistical Office of Mongolia 2001 Mongolian Statistical Yearbook 2000. Ulaan
Baatar.
UNDP 1998 WASH-21: Issues and position papers on national water sub-sector policy. Ulaan
Baatar.
UNDP 1998 The Mongolian Action Programmefor the 21st Century. Ulaan Baatar.
Government of Mongolia 1996 Biodiversity Conservation Action Plan for Mongolia. Ulaan
Baatar.
Government of Mongolia 2000 National Environmental Action Plan Executive Summary and
Volume 1 Main Document. DRAFT.
Background papers on EA and World Bank Policy:
World Bank 1989 Environmental Assessment Sourcebook Volume 1 Policies, Procedures and
Cross Sectoral Issues.
Graham, DJ., Green, K., and McEvoy, K. 1998 Environmental Guidelinesfor Social Funds.
Report to the World Bank.
Gopa Consultants 2001 Mainstreaming Safeguard Policy Compliance Within Community
Driven Development Initiatives (CDDs) in World Bank Funded Operations: An Exploratory
Study Focusing on Africa. Report to the World Bank.



ANNEX 7- STAKEHOLDERS CONSULTED
Meetings in Ulaan Baatar   3-9 September
3 September 2001
Mr Puntsagsuren          Head, Policy Planning Division Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MoFA)
Ms Onon                  Director, Poverty Alleviation Programme Office (PAPO)
Mr Banzragch             State Secretary, Ministry for Nature and Environment (NINE)
4 September 2001
Mr Enkh-Amgalan          Centre for Policy Research
Dr Dolgormaa,            Senior Expert (EIA), NINE
Dr Banzragch             DG EPA, General State Inspector, Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
Ms Davaasuren            Executive Director, Union of Mongolian Environmental NGOs (UMENGO)
5 September2001
Ms Carloni, Dr Remenyi, Mr FAO project preparation team
Liu, Mr Baas
Mr Hanimhan              Deputy Director of Strategic Planning and Policy Department, Head of External
Relations, MoFA
Mr Dalantainyam Dagvaa   MoFA
Dr Natsagdorj            Director, Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology
FAO team inception       Meeting to discuss project preparation, including PAPO (including Mr UrlBatar),
Ministry of Finance and Economy, Ministry of Education, MNE (Mr Bayesgalan),
MoFA, Ministry of Social Protection, FAO team
6 September 2001
UMENGO meeting           [to be inserted]
Mr Siisel                Senior Partner Consulting Unit
Dr Tsogtbaatar           Director Institute of Geoecology
7 September 2001
Mr Gankhuyag             Director, Land Administration Authority
Dr Khuldorj              National Programme Coordinator, Secretary of NCSD, Mongolian Action
Programme for the 21 Century (MAP 21)
Mr Enkhbat               Director Credit Department, Trade and Development Bank of Mongolia
Prof. Erdenebaatar       Research, Information and Extension, Mongolian State University of Agriculture
Dr Badarch               Mongolian Nature and Environment Consortium
Ms Buyant                Environmental Protection NGO



8 September 2001
Visit to UNDP MAP-21 project open day
Field visit to Dundkovi, Omnogovi. and Ovorkhangai Aimazs  10-15 September
10 September2001 - Mandalgovi (Dundgovi Aimag centre)
Governor                 Dundgov Aimag
Ms.Sh.Otgontsetseg       Secretary of the aimag PAPO
Mr.N.Radnaagotov         Head of Division of Sports and Physical Culture of the aimag
Ms.D.Burmaa              Head of Employment Coordination Division
Mr.A.Tsolmon             Director of Social Policy Department
Mr.Sh.Baljinyam          Staff of Social Policy Department
Mr.D.Ganbold             Staff of Social Policy Department
Mr.T.Bazardar            Head of Environmental Bureau
A total of 5 herders     Informal interviews at the Mandalgovi agricultural fair
i1 September 2001 - Dalanzadgobi (OmnogoviAimag centre)
Workshop participants:
+ further detailed interviews with:
Mr Otgonbayar            Environmental Officer
Ms Zoya                  PAPO secretary
21 September 2001 - Omnogovi Aimag
Governor                 Khangor sum
12 September 2001 - Arvaykheer, (Ovorkhangay Aimag centre)
Individual herder + son  Bayangol sum
Joint meeting with:
Mr Shoovdor              Chairman of the governor's office
Mr Tserenyam             Chairman of the Environment Agency
Ms Banzar                Officer of the Health Agency
Mr Tserenyam             Chairman of the Environment Agency
Ms Odonchimeg            Officer for social development policy
Ms Enkhbuya              Officer of industrial and environmnental division of the governor's office



+ further detailed interviews with:
Mr Tserenyam and          Environment agency chairman and Environmental officer
Ms Enkhbuya
Ms Banzar and             Head of health agency and Officer for socia] development policy
Ms Odonchimeg
Dr David Dyer             Program Director for Agricultural Development, Gobi Regional Economic Growth
Initiative
13-14 September 2001 - Ovorkhangay Aimag
Governor, Khujirt sum
Agricultural inspector, Khujirt sum
Environmental inspector, Khujirt sum
Ms Enktua                 Ranger, Batulzii sum
Herder Khot Ail           Batulzii sum
Felt-makers by river
Herder Khot Ail near road   Lun sum (Tov Aimag)
FurtherMeetings in Ulaan Baatar 17-21 September
19 September 2001
Presentation of Aide Memoire at MoFA:
Mr Dawadorj               MoFA
Mr Puntsagseren           MoFA
Mr Bayesgalan             MNE
Mr Merkdaddak             MoFA
Mr Dalantainyam Dagvaa   MoFA
Mr Baas                   FAO
Mr Erdenbattur            Mongolian State University of Agriculture
Mr Sambalhundev           MoFA
Mr Khurenbaatar           Tacis National Coordinating Unit
20 September 2001



FAO team wrap-up        including PAPO, Ministry of Finance and Economy, Ministry of Education, MNE,
MoFA, Ministry of Social Protection, FAO team
21 September 2001
Mr Banzracht and Dr      State secretary, MNE and D-G of EPA
Banzracht
Ms Oyundar               Director, International Cooperation Department MNE
Mr Puntsagseren          MoFA
Andrew Laurie            Eastern Steppe Biodiversity Project UNDP-GEF
Gordon Johnson           Team Leader, Environment and Natural Resources Management UNDP
Ms Onon                  PAPO



Annex 8 - Summary of Findings and Recommendations of the
Dedicated Social Assessment, December 2001
Role of the SocialAssessment in Project Design
Overall purpose and scope
The overall question the social assessment sought to answer was how the proposed
project activities will affect the intended beneficiaries and other key stakeholders. Several
topics were pursued to that end: (i) the compatibility of the project design with the
livelihood strategies of the socio-economic groups targeted; (ii) differences in livelihood
strategies of richer and poorer households within the project area and the risk of
inequalities being worsened by the project or benefits being captured disproportionately
by elites; (iii) potentials for the proposed project to foster the participation of the poorer
and more vulnerable members of society; (iv) the potential role of local institutions in the
same process; and (v) the possible impact of the project on ethnic minority groups within
the project area.
The assessment focused on the core aimags where the project is to be implemented in its
first phase. Based on this analysis, recommendations are made for ensuring:
z  that the project is designed to avoid adverse impacts and minimize social costs to
local society;
=> that poorer and more vulnerable members of society actually benefit from
activities directed towards them, that they are supportive of the final project
design, and actively involved in its implementation.
The Social Assessment has been conducted in keeping with World Bank
recommendations for Social Assessment as described in GP10.05;
Methodology
The following methods were used to gather information for the social assessment:
*  A review of literature and socio-economic studies of the project population
residing within or near the proposed project area. Sources consulted are listed in
the bibliography at the end of the report;
*  A review of govemment statistics;
* In-depth interviews with government representatives, NGOs and representatives
of research institutions;
*  In-depth household interviews and group discussions. A total of 3 8 household
interviews were conducted.



Short field visits were made to five of the eight pilot aimags. Two sums in Tov were
visited in short day trips from the capital, and a two week field trip was conducted to
Uvs, Bayan Olgii, Bayankhongor and Ovorkhangai aimags.
Interviews were conducted in a total of 14 bags in 9 sums. The sums visited are listed
below.
Table 1. Sums visited
distance
to aimag
centre,
aimag          sum         km      bags visited    ecological zone
Zuunmod
Tov          town            at centre Zundelger    steppe
Tov           Erdene              80  Bag 5         steppe
Khairkhan,
Uvs           Zuunkhangai        340  Bayangol     mountain steppe
urban and open
Uvs           Ulaangom       at centre Bags 5, 7, 9    steppe
Namir,        gobi and mountain
Uvs           Omnogobi           180 Bayangol       forest
urban and
Bayan Olgii    Olgii         at centre Bag 8       mountain stepe
Bayan Olgii    Ulaankhus          45  Bags 8, 5    mountain steppe
no bag level
Bayankhongor  Bayankhongor  at centre visits       urban
120  Shargiin,    gobi, steppe,
Ovorkhangai   Nariin Teel     approx  Undurkhumug  mountain forest
As may be appreciated, the TOR for the social assessment required an extensive range of
topics to be studied in a short period of time, while budgetary, time and travel constraints
prevented extended field visits from being conducted. A decision was made to prioritise
potentially vulnerable ethnic minority groups in the selection of aimags to be visited.
This resulted in Uvs and Bayan Olgii being selected as the main field sites. While these
are both appropriate sites for studying ethnic diversity, they are two of the most remote of
the core aimag and thus do not present some of the problems typical of the more central
aimags (high concentrations of people and livestock, high levels of conflict over pasture
use).
Because of these constraints, the social assessment aims to provide an overview of the
main social issues to be addressed in the design and implementation of the SLP. Areas
which warrant more in-depth research as part of the on-going process of social
assessment are also identified in the recommendations at the end of the report.
2



Early drafts of the main conclusions and recomnmnendations were discussed in detail with
the social assessment team (CSD staff) and LSPO officers prior to the consultant's
departure from Mongolia.
The full social assessment report provides details of the findings and recommendations,
and annexes. Summary of Key Findings and Recommendations. Summaries of the
findings and recommendations are given below.
Targeting
KEY FINDINGS                        RECOMMENDATIONS
. Actual project benefits are expected   =>   Broaden the stated target groups
to reach beyond the stated target  for SLP so they include all groups
groups.                           implicitly included in project
documents. Target groups would
* 'Better-off' and 'middle -      therefore include herding and settled
vulnerable' households have a role to   communities in rural and peri-urban
play in building sustainable      areas, with a focus on the able-bodied
livelihoods, but do not have access to   poor and low-income households
sufficient credit to develop enterprises   vulnerable to impoverishment and
that would create jobs.           economic shock.
* Many of the very poorest households  =>   Ensure that public informnation
continue to have welfarist expectations  campaigns transmit clearly, throughout
of government; previous projects have  the life of the project, the message that
very publicly targeted 'poor      the SLP is intended to improve the
households' but, since they have not   livelihoods of poorer households, but is
provided handouts, PAPO officers  not a programme of government
have had to face demands for      handouts.
inmmediate assistance from the very
poorest, that they are not in a position
to fulfill.
3



=>   Simplify the steps for implementing
*   Local government officials  project activities at local levels (especially as
and local people are often     regards the LIF - see recommendations
unsure what is meant by        below): ensure, on the one hand, that elements
"community participation", and   essential to local people's informed
local authorities sometimes    participation are clearly defined and not
emphasise beneficiary          subject to misinterpretation, but on the other
obligations (e.g. local        hand, that steps in PIP related to participation
contributions) over beneficiary    are not over-designed.
involvement in decision-       =>   Include steps in PIP for public
making.                        meetings to take place, but leave it up to local
*   Local conditions advocate   people in each situation to determine how
against herding families gaining   many meetings are necessary and practicable,
ready access to information    and how these public forums are to take place.
about local government           >   Clarify and simplify procedures for
activities.                    beneficiary contributions: do away with
.   The demands of nomadic    expressing local contributions as a percentage
life mean that members of      of total investment: instead, employ
herding households may find it   agreements negotiated locally between
impractical to regularly attend    benefiting parties and the local authorities,
project-related meetings or to  about the types of labour and locally available
take on lengthy obligations    materials beneficiaries are able to contribute.
related to project activities.  =>   Establish uniform procedures for
.   Local people expressed     developing maintenance agreements between
their views and opinions very  beneficiaries and local authorities.
openly in social assessment    =>    Ensure information is posted publicly
fieldwork interviews.          (at sum government offices) informing people
*   A lack of clarity over levels  of project information for all project activities
of local contribution (and      (not just LIF), but keep these simple and low
suggested contributions which   cost (a sign informing the public of the
are relatively high for poor    implementation of the activity under SLP; a
households) risks putting an    breakdown of monies available for and spent
additional tax burden on        on each activity; completion dates;
beneficiaries rather than       responsible parties). In Kazakh speaking sums
fostering their active          these posters should be posted in Kazakh
participation in the project.   language.
*   Procedures that are kept as   =>   Include the arrangements
straightforward and as clear as   recommended above as basic content of the
possible are most likely to    radio information campaign.
ensure the informned
participation of beneficiaries.
4



Pastoral risk management
KEY FINDINGS                      RECOMMENDATIONS
*   Evidence from existing         >  Seek finance for social work
herders' groups/NGOs show that     training to enable a member of sum local
there are obstacles to incorporating  government (most likely in the social
poorer households (especially those    welfare and service centre) to act as a
with few skills to offer or who are  community social worker to assist the
viewed by others as lacking        poor in gaining access to existing
initiative) into these groups.     herders' associations, and ensuring they
benefit from other PRMI activities.
* While some poorer herders
may need a simple introduction and    >   Develop a programme of incentives
encouragement to be accepted into a    to encourage herders to work together in
herders' association, other poor  larger units.
households have members with
deep-rooted problems (alcoholism,  => Make publicity about herders'
disability) preventing them from   associations (the advantages of
gaining the confidence of others and    association, and the experiences of
being involved in community        successfully operating associations aimed
initiatives.                       at spreading interest) one of the main
topics covered in public radio broadcasts.
* Better-off herders make use of
a wider variety of pastoral resources
and can therefore be expected to
draw more benefits from the PRM
activities than poorer herders.
*   Herders' associations can only
be formed on the initiative of
herders themselves; local
govemments have a peripheral
rather than central role to play in the
process.
.   The organisation of herders
into their own associations can be
expected to form more slowly than
the pace of overall project
implementation.
5



P;;:astoa l r isk r m anage m ent   (con t.  ________________L________________LA;;LSL;   X    A;;?    ;;;;;   j;;;;   ASS
KEY FtNDINGS                           RECOMMENDATONS
* Possession certificates have
been readily issued for winter         X  Fully tap the potential for improving
campsites and shelters but                pasture management though
authorities are more hesitant to          strengthening systems of negotiation
issue land possession certificates        between local authorities and local
for pasture land (Tov appears to          people.
be the only core aimag where
possession certificates have been      => Avoid becoming involved in the
issued to groups or individuals for       issuance of possession certificates
pasture land).                             for pasture to either individuals or
groups.
. Existing agreements on land
use drawn up by local authorities
are subject to annual changes,
depending on available pasture in
a given year.
* Herders' traditional systems of
pasture use rely on the shared
distribution of risk; it is
understood that herders are
customarily entitled to infringe on
pastures used by others in times of
drought or dzud and for this
reason herders tend to be opposed
to the allocation of pastures for
individual use.
* Both PAPO and MOFA
representatives interviewed for the
social assessment stated that they
do not want to use SLP funds to
finance the issuance of land
possession certificates, because of
sensitivities sufrounding the issue.
6



Pastoral risk management (cont.)
KEY FINDINGS                      RECOMMENDATIONS
*   Sums that border Tuva in Uvs
aimag are facing a serious problem  >   Seek support from security forces to
of cross border raids and herders  resolve the security problems in areas
who remain in these sums are       along the northern border, and to defend
among the poorest in the province.    the livelihoods of herders in these areas
They cannot fully benefit from SLP  not only in times of dzud, but throughout
activities until the security situation    the year.
is improved.
.   It is doubtful that self-help
groups will be able to deal
adequately with armed gangs and
arming citizens to defend
themselves against incursions
across international borders is likely
to only add to the situation of
lawlessness.
*   Security is particularly
important for these groups in times
of dzud; herders in these areas have
suffered losses over the last two
winters that could have been
avoided had available pasture near
border areas been secure from
livestock rustlers.
*   Some herders who lost all      =   Include households in sum centres in
livestock moved to settled areas but    restocking activities in special cases.
claim they have no skills but      Those herders who have moved to sum
herding, and would like to restock  centres but wish to return to herding
to be able to herd again. Currently  should be eligible for restocking.
all households in bags at sum
centres are ineligible for restocking
activities.
*   Most people keeping livestock
in or near to sum centres balance  =   Include sum centre bags in grazing
jobs or other income generating    management activities.
activities with herding and have no
desire to increase their herds.
However, they too need to be
involved for rational negotiations on
pasture management to take place -
7



currently they are excluded.
8



Local Initiative Fund
KEY FINDINGS                                RECOMMENDATIONS
.   There is a widespread need for further
financing for basic public infrastructure, both    =>   Retain the LDF to
for minor repairs and major               finance public infrastructure and
rehabilitation/reconstruction.             social services, managed from
*   Sum government officials view          aimag level, and sum level
decentralization of responsibility for social  where it is practical to have the
services and infrastructure to their level (and    sum involved in contracting and
more local levels) as only one of a number of   procurement, while emphasising
pressing priorities, including sufficient funding  the increased involvement of
to rebuild structures in serious states of  local people in decision-making
disrepair (rather than only having budgets for   processes.
maintenance ).                             =>   Use the LIF to institute
*   Currently the only sum governments     local initiatives (i.e. those not
involved in contracting and procurement are    connected with the work of line
those located in aimag centres, due to the  ministries) managed by sum
difficulty for rural sums of coordinating this    level.
over long distances.                       =>   Hold off on bag managed
.   To date, no directives have been put in    projects, which are too
place by GoM to decentralise powers to more   ambitious at this stage but may
local levels; debate continues in government    become feasible later on; allow
over the issue.                            these activities to be managed
*   Several types of local initiative already    by the sum and focus at bag
exist: these are small-scale projects initiated by  level on strengthening the
sum governments and local people, usually to   systems of public information
assist poorer people in sum centres to generate  dissemination and public forums
some kind of income; there is a risk that these   and meetings to include people
types of activities, though of great help to  in the decision-making process.
poorer households, would not be eligible for  =>   Realistically, sum PACs
LIF funding as they might be interpreted as  (or aimag for some LDF
falling in the category of 'income generating    projects) will have to make the
projects for private households'.         final decisions on project
.   There is a lack of clarity in the LIF as to   selection, and this should be
how local people's choices would be        acknowledged openly; there is a
'harmonised' with local development plans if   risk otherwise of creating
higher level authorities do not have the right to  tensions and stand-offs if local
refuse local level proposals.              proposals cannot be refused but
.   The LIF is a very complex and ambitious  conflict with existing
component, taken both the very basic public    development plans.
infrastructure needs in the country, and the
current very preliminary discussions about
decentralisation in Mongolia.
9



KEY ELNINGSREOENAON
*   Public meetings already   >  Reduce the number of meetings required by
take place at bag level; they   local people to implement LIF: allow each
bring together household heads  bag to decide how many meetings it needs to
to discuss and agree on a       hold to get the work done.
number of different issues; it  ' Simplify the organisational structure of LIF
appears that people are         at local level - it is adequate to ensure that
comfortable to speak freely and    the bag population attends public meetings
express their opinions at these  related to LIF and LDF at which they can
meetings.                       volunteer their involvement in the planned
*   Very poor households        project; there is no need to establish a
often experience social         complex series of new project-related
problems and it may be very     "community groups" at local level.
difficult for them to express   Especially in rural bags, the beneficiaries
their views at public meetings.  should not be overburdened by
*   A network of women's        administrative responsibilities; these should
and youth federations is        be carried out by administrators. The
already in place and could play  beneficiaries' role in LIF and LDF is to
a key role in ensuring local    identify proposed projects at public bag
views are incorporated into     meetings; their bag leaders then draw up
plans for public spending both  proposals which they submit to the sum
at higher levels and at local   PAC. Once the selected projects are agreed
levels.                         on, a public meeting is held in the bag again
to agree upon local involvement in the
project.
z> Besides proposals coming from bag level
meetings, women's, youth or other interest
groups (located at sum level) should be
entitled to submit proposals for project
financing to the sum PAC.
> Promote broader public participation in
patterns of public spending for social
services by strengthening the ability of local
non-government organisations present at
aimag level to lobby for the interests of the
groups they represent (i.e. to lobby higher
levels of government with their suggestions
for improving the overall structure of social
services to meet local needs).
10



KEY FINDINGS                       TRECOMMENDATIONS
Microfinance
*   Many better-off and middle-    =, Confirm on the advice of
income households aspire to creating  microfinance professionals whether it
or expanding small-scale enterprises  is possible to develop a microfinance
that would create jobs for poorer     system which i) will lend small
households, but find it very difficult to  amounts to the poor at reasonable
obtain credit to do so.               rates of interest; while ii) making
*   The past experience with          available more flexible loan sizes that
microfinance has created limited views  will also allow better-off households
about what microfinance projects can  to use the services.
achieve.
Project Management
*   PAC secretaries at aimag level    =  Monitor management issues
expressed concerns that their            during project implementation for
workloads for the NPAP project had       early identification of any
been very heavy, that budgets for their  problems arising related to
operational costs were not sufficient to  division of project
allow them to carry out their work       responsibilities, operational
properly and responsibilities were not   budgets or workloads of key
clear cut for some activities.           project staff.
. Plans to include MoFA in
implementation of PRM component       > Create project procedures that are
are welcomed by PAC secretaries and      straightforward and closely in line
they anticipate this will ease their     with existing procedures in
workloads and bring in the needed        Mongolia, to ensure
professional expertise for this          administrative procedures are
component.                               quickly absorbed by staff taking
*   A high turnover of staff within      up new posts.
government bodies following elections
affects the staff of local governments,
khurals, and Poverty Alleviation
Councils and means that these
representatives have had little first
hand experience of incorporating the
'lessons learned ' from the previous
NPAP project into the SLP.
11



KE  EFINDINGS tl0f000;i; g';;       ii RECMEDED TRAINIGit0tt #S; 
RCONTENDT      D !
Suggested areas for training follow on    Herders' associations
from recommendations and main        =>   seminars providing information
findings mentioned above.            on the relative advantages of working
in association, and being formally
registered, as either co-operatives or
NGOs.
>   training/seminars in business and
financial management and seminars in
marketing that would directly link them
to market information and sources of
supply/ buyers of livestock products.
Community Social worker/community
mobiliser training
:*   Professional social work training,
with attention to gender issues and
outreach to poor households.
Bag leaders
=> Training in group meeting and
leadership skills, group organisation,
.proposal formation and writing,
community participation, including
gender issues and outreach to poor
households.
12



KEY FIINGS                           RECOMMENDATIONS
Ethnic Minority Issues
*   Ethnic differences do not create  z  The preparation of a separate
conditions in which any ethnic group     Indigenous People's Development
is disadvantaged in the development      Plan is unwarranted for Phase
process. Kazakh language differences      One of the SLP.
have been accommodated in project
recommendations.                      => Another assessment should be
made of ethnic groups in the area
*   As the project expands beyond        of expansion leading up to Phase
Phase One, the description of            Two of the SLP.
vulnerable ethnic groups as defined by
World Bank Operational Directive
4.20 may apply to one small group in
one possible area of expansion.
Involuntary Resettlement
*  Construction of small-scale       => World Bank Operational Policy
infrastructure under the PRM and LIF     on Involuntary Resettlement (OP
components is very unlikely to cause     4.12) is not invoked in the case of
resettlement of people or the            the Mongolia Sustainable
acquisition of personal assets.         Livelihoods Project.
.  The potential threat of herders   => If the acquisition ofproductive
being pushed out of unused inter-        assets remains a concern for the
aimag reserves once these are re-        Bank it is suggested that a
established appears to be unfounded.    proviso be added to both the PRM
and LIF components: that no
project which involves the
acquisition ofpersonal assets
should be carried out under the
two components.
13



KEY FINDINGS $                          EOMNAIN
*    Recommendations for             z    Distinguish between what higher
Monitoring and Evaluation are based    administrative levels need to monitor
on the experience of implementing    and what local people need/want to
manageable participatory monitoring    monitor about project activities.
systems for large scale projects     =>    Establish a framework for local
elsewhere (not in Mongolia).         level monitoring systems that is
meaningful to local people. This may
mean allowing each bag to determine
indicators to be used locally. Some bags
may choose to monitor a whole series of
indicators of community development;
others may only wish to know how the
money was spent.
=>   Create a monitoring framework
for higher administrative levels that is
manageable. Higher levels need to
measure the extent to which local people
participated in project activities and their
views of project outcomes. However,
this does not need to be gathered in
every bag in the core airnags. Many
projects that attempt this end up
overloaded with information that is
never used. Rather, data may be
gathered from a representative sample of
core aimags. This makes for a more in-
depth evaluation which can include
qualitative questions as part of the
evaluation and allows the views of
poorer households to be more
meaningfully included.
::Co .ntinuing  the prcss  of socialsessn ient000f; 0000000000000j4000;400t0000000;;t00S::t000t t0    t0
o   Requirements of the initial       => Integrate further assessment
social assessment exercise were          exercises into the system of
wide-ranging; it is anticipated that     monitoring and evaluation; and;
more detailed information on          =, Design focussed topical studies to
selected focused topics will be          answer questions of immediate
required as the project is               relevance to the project as they
implemented.                             arise.
14



ANNEX9 - BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY IN MONGOLIA
Table 1. Species diversity
Flowering      Over 3000 species, including Z29 endemic species
plants
Invertebrates   Numbers of invertebrates are poorly known, but it is estimated that there are 12,000
insect species.
Mammals        136 species, including 14 insectivores (mainly shrews), 12 species of bat, 4 species of pika,
3 of hares, 65 species of rodent, 22 species of carnivores (including canids, felids,
mutselids and brown bear) and 14 ungulate species.
Birds          426 species, including 108 passage migrants, 74 resident species, 231 summer visitors,
and 13 winter visitors. The bird fauna is particularly rich in waterfowl and shorebirds.
Reptiles       22 species, including agamids, gekkonids, lacertids and snakes. Of particular note are the
tatar sand boa (Eryx tataricus) and the Mongolian agama (Stellio stoliczkanus).
Amphibians    One species of salamander and eight species of frogs and toads.
Fish           There are very clear differences in fish fauna between the three main drainage basins.
The inland drainage basin has five species, the Arctic Ocean basin has 26 species, and the
Pacific Ocean basin supports about 40 species. There are four endemic salt-water species
in the inland drainage basin (where only five fish species occur in total).
Table 2 Biogeographical regions
Region /type    Description
Desert         Vegetation consists of gobi feathergrasses (Stipa spp.), black sympegma (Sympegma
regelii), and glasswort (Anabasis brevifolia). Oases of poplar (Populus diversifolia) and
Elaeagnus moorcroftii occur. Other typical plants include saxaul (Haloxylon
anmmodendron). Mammals include the bactrian camal (Camelus ferus), the gobi bear
(U.arctos), the asiatic wild ass (Equus hemionus).
Desert-steppe   Vegetation dominated by low grasses and shrubs, such as Cleistogenes songorica and the
Taana onion (Allium polyrrhizum). Many of central Asia's endemic plants occur in this
zone. Mammals include the wild ass, the goitered gazelle (Gazella subguturosa), the
long-eared hedgehog (Erinaceous dauuricus).
Steppe         Flats plains and rolling hills vegetated by feather grass and shrubs. Typical grass species
are Stipa spp. and Agropyron cristatum and unpalatable shrubs, Cartagana spp. and
Artemisia spp. are abundant. Mammals include saiga (Saiga tatarica), Mongolian gazelle
(Procapra gutturosa), marmots (Marmota sibirica) and Brandt's vole (Microtis brandtii).
Enormous herds of migrating gazelle provide a significant spectacle.
Forest-steppe   A combination of steppe flora and Siberian taiga forest, including species of pine (Pinus
sylvestris), aspen (Populus tremula) and eidelweiss (Leontopodium ochroleucum).
Mammals include elk (Cervus elaphus), wolf (Canis lupus), mannots (Marmota spp.),
black kites (Milvus migrans), buzzards (Buteo spp.) and grouse (Lyrurus tetrix).
Taiga          The southern edge of the Siberian taiga, the largest coniferous forest system in the world.
It is relatively species-rich. The forests consist mainly of larch (Larix sibirica) and
siberian pine. A total of 62 mammal and 277 bird species have been recorded in this
region, including muck deer (Moschus moschiferus), reindeer (Rangifer tarandus), sable
(Martes sibellina), snow leopard (Uncia uncia), moose (Alces alces), and brown bear
(Ursus arctos).
Alpine         Low shrubs and herbs, with sedges, mosses and grasses. Flora includes birch (Betula
rotundifolia), alpine meadow-rue (Thalictrum alpinum), and mountain saxifrage
(Saxifraga oppositifolia). Mammals include argali sheep (Ovis arnmon) and Siberian ibex
(Capra sibirica).
Wetlands       Mongolia's lakes, rivers, and wetlands have fish and other species of conservation value.
Wetlands include salt marshes, salt pans, freshwater marshes and river deltas. There are
a number of endemic fish species due to historical patterns of lake formation and
reduction.
Source: Government of Mongolia 1996 Biodiversity Conservation Action Plan for Mongolia.



ANNEX 10- ABSTRACTS OF JOURNAL ARTICLES ON SALMONELLA-BASED
PESTICIDES
The following is an output of a search on databases of international scientific journals on
Samlonella-based pesticides, from CAB International databases. A total of thirteen records
were found, as follows. A copy of one of these, from The Lancet, is also included here.
Search of CAB ABSTRACTS 1972-July 2001 for Doug Smith, ERM
Salmonella-based rodenticides
Compilation Copyright CAB International
All Rights Reserved
Record 1 oF 13 - CAB Abstracts 1972-1975
TI: [Susceptibility of piglets to Isachenko's bacterium (a variety of Salmonella enteritidis used in rodent control)].
OT: Izuchenie vospriimchivosti porosyat k bakteriyam Isachenko.
AU: Trakhanov-DF; Kadirov-AF
SO: Problemy-Veterinarnoi-Sanitarii. 1972, 42: 248-253.
LA: Russian
LS: English
AB: The authors point out that while a good deal is known about S. enteritidis Isachenko used for rodent control in pig houses,
little is known at present of the possible pathogenicity for pigs. Piglets 4-6 weeks old were fed heat-killed or live salmonellae, and
placed in contact with healthy piglets. Heat-killed salmonellae were non-toxic. Large doses (3X1010) of live salmonellae, and
contact infection, produced no clinical symptoms. The authors are of the opinion that (1) the administration of salmonellae
probably does not produce a true carrier state in piglets even if the organism can be recovered from the faeces and organs; (2)
even the administration of large doses does not mean that the animals will necessarily excrete for a long period; (3) however,
since the piglets did excrete salmonellae for a certain length of time, this may be of animal health importance.
PT: Journal-article
AN: 732205886
Record 2 of 13 - CAB Abstracts 1972-1975
TI: [Taxonomic position of bacteria used as rodenticides].
AU: Popov-NA
SO: Problemy-Veterinarnoi-Sanitarii. 1972, 43: 42-49.
LA: Russian
LS: English
PT: Journal-article
AN: 732219118
Record 3 of 13 - CAB Abstracts 1976-1978
TI: Susceptibility of lambs to Isachenko's bacillus (strain 5170 of Salmonella enteritidis, used for rodent control).
AU: Trakhanov-DF; Kadirov-AF
SO: Problemy-Veterinarnoi-Sanitarii. 1977, 57: 113-116; 9 ref.
LA: Russian
PT: Journal-article
AN: 782224561
Record 4 of 13 - CAB Abstracts 1976-1978
TI: Survival of Salmonella isachenko in foods.
AU: Omel'-yanets-TG
SO: Voprosy-Pitaniya. 1976, No. 5, 65-67; 5 ref.
LA: Russian
LS: English
AB: In connection with the use of S. isachenko (serotype D) in rodenticides (to combat harvest pests), the possibility of human
infection via foods such as meat, bread and milk was studied. Pasteurized milk was inoculated with 1 X 105 organisms/ml, and
stored at 0-4 deg or 18-22 deg C. The milk was then diluted with a physiological solution and cultured on meat-peptone or
bismuth sulphite-agar. The milk was sampled and analysed daily, using specific agglutinating serum, lysozyme and Stern's
broth. The numbers of organisms were then plotted against storage time. S. isachenko survived for 5 days at 0-4 deg C and for 9
days at 18-22 deg C. Some practical consequences of the use of this type of biocide are discussed.
PT: Joumal-article
AN: 760430673
Record 5 of 13 - CAB Abstracts 1976-1978



TI: "Baktorodentsid" for the control of rodents (preparation of Salmonella enteritidis).
AU: Rybin-AP
SO: Veterinariya,-Moscow,-USSR. 1977, No. 3, 52-53.
LA: Russian
PT: Journal-article
AN: 772294944
Record 6 of 13 - CAB Abstracts 1976-1978
TI: Baktoratindan, an effective rodenticide (composed of diphenadione and Salmonella bacteria).
OT: Baktoratindan, effektivnoe sredstvo protiv myshevidnykh gryzunov.
AU: Ostashev-SN
SO: Veterinariya,-Moscow. 1976, No. 2, 38-39.
LA: Russian
AB: "Baktoratindan" was prepared in 10-litre aluminium cans of wheat or oats. The grains were washed with water 3 to 4 times
beforehand. Then 5kg grainswere loaded into the cans, and 1.5% of diphenadione, 50 ml of 10% caustic soda were added and
thoroughly mixed. The mixture was autoclaved for 1 hour at 2 atmospheres twice in 2 days. After the second autoclaving 2.5
litres of 2-day culture of S. enteritidis were added. The bacteria were grown for 48 hours at 37-38 deg C. The preparation
contained 8 to 12 milliard cells per 9 of grain. Three experiments were carried out to test the efficacy of the preparation, which
killed rats within 10 to 14 days.
PT: Journal-article
AN: 762274622
Record 7 of 13 - CAB Abstracts 1984-1986
TI: Selection and storage of Isachenko's bacterium [Salmonella enteritidis] for the production of the rodenticide Baktorodantsid.
AU: Kuznetsova-OS: Osledkin-Yu-S
SO: Veterinariya,-Moscow,-USSR. 1985, No.1, 68-70.
LA: Russian
PT: Journal-article
AN: 852257081
Record 8 of 13 - CAB Abstracts 1990-1991
TI: Influence of environmental factors on a Salmonella enteritidis-warfarin preparation for the biological control of harmful
rodents.
OT: Infiuencia de los factores ambientales sobre un biopreparado microbiologico para la lucha contra los roedores daninos.
AU: Espino-R; Montero-G; Bornote-J; Diaz-M
SO: Revista-Cubana-de-Ciencias-Veterinarias. 1989, 20: 4, 267-278; 9 ref.
LA: Spanish
LS: English, French, Russian
PT: Journal-article
AN: 912225604
Record 9 of 13 - CAB Abstracts 1992
TI: The use of microbial preparations in the USSR.
AU: Khloptseva-RI
SO: Biocontrol-News-and-Information, 1992,13: 2, 27N-32N; 13 ref.
LA: English
AB: The most widely used microbial preparations against insect pests in the territores of the former USSR are based on
Bacillus thuringiensis. The total area of vegetables, fruit crops and cotton fields protected by bacterial preparations amounts to
over 2 million ha. Fungal and viral preparations are used on a small scale. Over 5 million ha are protected from rodent pests by
Bactorodencide, a preparation based on Salmonella enteritidis.
PT: Journal-article
AN: 921162640
Record 10 of 13 - CAB Abstracts 1992
TI: Bacteriological warfare against rats and mice.
OT: Bakteriologisk krigforing mot rattor och moss.
AU: Andersson-SA; Nilsson-PO
SO: Svensk-Veterinartidning. 1991, 43: 4,173-176.
LA: Swedish
AB: The use of cultures of Salmonella spp. earlier this century to control rats and mice is described. The same species (S.
typhimurium, S. enteritidis and S. dublin) are seen in disease outbreaks in animals and man at the present time, and it is
suggested that their use as rodenticides may have introduced them to the ecosystem.
PT: Journal-article
AN: 922274357



Record 11 of 13 - CAB Abstracts 1996-1998/07
TI: Public health risk from Salmonella-based rodenticides.
AU: Friedman-CR; Malcolmn-G; Rigau-Perez-JG; Arambulo-P Ill; Tauxe-RV
SO: Lancet-British-edition. 1996, 347: 9016, 1705-1706; 5 ref.
LA: English
AB: The authors draw aHtention to a rodenticide, "salmocoumarin" (Biorat), which is produced in Cuba and sold and distributed
in developing countries world wide for the control of rats and mice, particularly in agrcultural settings. The product contains S.
enteritidis and warfarin. Because of doubts about the efficacy of such a product and concerns about the employment of a human
pathogen in a rodenticide, the use of this product is questioned.
PT: Correspondence
AN: 970504430
Record 12 of 13 - CAB Abstracts 1996-1998107
TI: Efficacy of the rodenticide Salmocoumarin in cattle farms and urban targets.
OT: Efectividad del rodenticida Salmocumarin en objectivos pecuarios y urbano.
AU: Villafana-F; Montero-G; Diaz-M; Bornote-J
SO: Revista-Cubana-de-Medicina-Tropical. 1995, 47: 2, 83-87; 13 ref.
LA: Spanish
LS: English
AB: Salmocoumarin is a rodenticide containing Salmonella enteritidis [which is a human pathogen, and warfarin]. The authors
conducted trials of its efficacy against rodents in 2 cattle farms, a cattle feedlot and on urban waste ground in Cuba, and showed
effects on rodent activity, particularly where rodent populations were high.
PT: Journal-article
AN: 970504788
Record 13 of 13 - CAB Abstracts 1998/08-2000/07
TI: Protecting crop yield from 'mice invasion'.
AU: Teniav-AV; Donskva-NM
SO: Zashchita-i-Karantin-Rastenii. 1998, No. 11, 19-20.
LA: Russian
AB: Field experiments were carred out in the Ryazan' region of Russia in 1997-98 on the control of murine rodents in clover and
winter cereals and in orchards. The biological control agent Bactorodencide [based on Salmonella enteritidis) and the chemical
preparation zinc phosphide, applied on the basis of forecasting, were effective.
PT: Journal-article
AN: 20001106144



ANNEX 11- DETAILS OF COMMONLY USED RODENTICIDES.
The table is summarised from pesticide fact sheets produced by the International Programme on Chemical Safety (a joint initiative of UNEP, ILO
AND WHO). The fact sheets can be seen at http://www.inchem.org/pds.html
Common         Chemical Group  Synopsis                    Properties            Unintended     Absorption       Exposure        Toxicity to non  Precautions
Name                                                                             Effects                                         mammalian       in use
species
Brodifacoum    Organobromine   This compound is an indirect  It is an off white  Non toxic to    Brodifacoum is  -               Poisoning of    Wear
anti-coagulant, and an     odourless powder      plants, is not    mainly                        owls            protective
effective stomach poison   with a low solubility   hazardous to    absorbed from                                 clothing at
which inhibits prothombin   in water. It is stable at  wildlife,  the                                            all times,
formation and induces      room temperature      humans or       gastrointestinal                                respirator,
capillary damage. To be                          domestic       tract, however                                   avoid
effective it usually requires                    animals if used   dermal                                        contact
only a single ingestion of a                     correctly. May   absorption may                                 with mouth
bait formation in one feeding                    effect persons   also occur                                     and eyes.
to produce a kill. It is                         with blood                                                      Always
extremely toxic to a broad                       coagulation                                                     wash hands
spectrum of rodents and                          problems and                                                    before and
other small mammals but                          children                                                        after use.
due to its low bait                                                                                              Clearly
concentration and its                                                                                            mark
delayed effect it is                                                                                             containers,
considered to be only of low                                                                                     use only in
acute toxicity hazard to                                                                                         unoccupied
humans                                                                                                           premises
nad remove
within 24
hours,
search and



Common         Chemical Group  Synopsis                     Properties            Unintended      Absorption      Exposure         Toxicity to non  Precautions
Name                                                                              Effects                                          mammalian       in use
species
burn rodent
bodies
Chlorophacin  Indandione        Chlorophacinone is a        It is a white         It can be       Chlorophacino   -                It is of low    As this
one            derivative       chlorinated, diphenyl indane  crystalline solid, with  hazardous to    ne is mainly               toxicity to      derivative
derivative, an anti coagulant  a melting point of  other small    absorbed from                    birds.          can cause
amd metabolic inhibitor     1400C and non         mammals and   the                                                internal
which is highly toxic to    corrosive. It is soluble  birds as well as  gastrointestinal                           haemorrhag
rodents but only slightly to   in organic solvents    humans with    tract, however                                ing great
humans and non target       but only sparingly in  bleeding       dermal                                           care must
organisms. It is compatible    water. It is stable and   problems and    absorption and                            be taken
with a wide spectrum of bait  resistant to       children         dust inhalation                                  when
carriers and has no repellent  weathering effects.                may also occur                                   handling.
action                                                                                                             Wear
protective
clothing at
all times,
respirator,
avoid
contact
with mouth
and eyes.
Always
wash hands
before and
after use.
Lindane        Organochlorine   An organochlorine pesticide   It is a colourless  Can produce     Lindane is       There have      Toxic to fish,    Avoid
compound         of moderate mammalian       crystalline solid    taint in some    mainly          been reports of  bees and birds.  contact



Common        Chemical Group  Synopsis                    Properties           Unintended      Absorption      Exposure        Toxicity to non  Precautions
Name                                                                           Effects                                         mammalian       in use
species
toxicity, it degrades slowly    which is very soluble  crops, damage   absorbed  occupational    A cumulative    with mouth
in the environment and     in water. It is very  to potatoes,   orally.         exposure        effect is       and eyes,
accumulates in mammalian   stable in atmospheric  leeks, lettuce,               showing         evidentas well  always
tissues                    conditions and is    onions,                         digestive,      as egg damage   protect face
corrosive to        radishes and                    respiratory and                 and hands.
aluminium            walnuts has                    neurolgical                     Hands
been reported                  effects. In                     should be
with excess                    dietary studies                 washes
use. Can also                  in Europe and                   after use.
be harmful to                  Asia, lindane
young animals                  has been
detected in
human fat.
Methyl        Alkyl halide     A powerful fumigate gas    It is a colourless gas   It is phytotoxic  It is absorbed    Only mild  Toxic to fish  Should only
Bromide                       that is one of the most toxic   with a sweet odour.   to growing  in the lungs or  intoxication  and birds       be handled
of the common              Freely soluble in    plants          orally in       reported                        by a trained
organichalides. In a massive   organic solvents                 solution.                                       personeel
dosage it is narcotic with a    although forms a                                                                wearing
delayed neurotoxic delay.  precipitate in water.                                                                protecting
Very stable in air, non                                                             clothing,
flammable and non                                                                   not leather
corrosive                                                                           or rubber as
this is
permeable.
Wash
hands after
use,
ventilate



Common         Chemical Group   Synopsis                      Properties            Unintended       Absorption       Exposure         Toxicity to non  Precautions
Name                                                                                Effects                                            mammalian       in use
species
area
irnmediatel
Y.
Phosphine      Phosphide         A gas of high toxicity to    It is a colourless,   -                Inhalation or    Poisoning cases  -                Wear clean
mammalians effecting the     inflammable gas with                  ingestion of      are rare                         protective
gastrointestinal tract and   a fish like odour. It is               phosphide        generally due                    clothing at
central nervous system      slightly soluble in                     formulations    to careless                       all times,
water and                              are the main     handling                         washing
spontaneously                          routes                                            after use.
flanmnable in air                                                                         Wash
hands after
use.
Sodium         Fluorine          A water soluble salt of high    A colourless,      Very toxic to    The oral route    -               Low toxicity to   Wear
Fluoroacetate   containing       toxicity. Rapidly absorbed   odourless salt which    birds, domestic  is the main                     fish, but        protective
compound         from the gastrointestinal    is very soluble in     animals and      route                            extremely toxic  clothing at
tract but not readily       water and also very    wildlife. Can                                     to birds and     all times,
absorbed through the skin.    stable.              be harmful to                                      bees and        respirator,
carnivorous                                       general          avoid
and                                               wildlife.        contact
omnivorous                                                         with mouth
species via                                                        and eyes.
secondary                                                          Always
poisoning                                                          wash hands
before and
after use.
Clearly
mark
containers,
use only in



Common         Chemical Group  Synopsis                     Properties            Unintended      Absorption       Exposure        Toxicity to non  Precautions
Name                                                                              Effects                                          mammalian       in use
species
unoccupied
premises
and remove
within 24
hours,
search and
burn rodent
bodies
Thallium       Heavy metal salt Of high toxicity as a chronic  It is a colourless  Livestock,     Thallium         -               Moderately      Wear
Sulfate                         poison due to its cumulation  crystalline solid or  domestic      Sulfate is                       toxic to some    protective
especially in the liver, brain    white powder which   animals and  mainly                         fish, and highly  clothing at
and skeletal muscle.       is soluble in water    wildlife have    absorbed from                   poisonous to    all times,
and highly stable    been poisoned.  the                              birds            respirator,
under all conditions.   Carnivorous   gastrointestinal                                 avoid
It is also corrosive to   mammals,    tract, however                                   contact
zinc.                birds and        dermal                                           with nose,
sheep by        absorption is                                    mouth and
secondary       also possible.                                   eyes.
poisoning       All produce                                      Always
fatal results.                                   wash hands
before and
after use.
Clearly
mark
containers,
use only in



Common         Chemical Group  Synopsis                     Properties            Unintended      Absorption      Exposure         Toxicity to non  Precautions
Name                                                                              Effects                                          mammalian       in use
species
unoccupied
premises
and remove
within 24
hours,
search and
burn rodent
bodies
Warfarin       Hydroxycoumar  An anti coagulant that is     It crystals are       -               Absorbed from   Dematologic      Moderately      Clean
in compound      highly toxic to mammals on   colourless, tasteless                the             side effects    toxic to birds    overalls
repeated ingestion but of   and odourless. It has                 gastrointestinal  have been                      and gloves
variable toxicity to different   a low solubility in             tract or by      observed in                      must be
species when given as a     water and most                       inhalation and   patients                         worn. Care
single oral dose. It does not   organic solvents and             to a lesser      undergoing                       washing
accumulate in body tissues.  is relatively stable                 extent through   Warfin therapy                  equipment
intact skin                                      and hands
after use.
Label all
containers
well. After
use search
and destroy
all rodent
bodies.
Zinc           Inorganic        High mammalian toxicity    It is a grey powder    Its toxicity is    Absorbed from   Most cases are   Thought to be   Wear
Phosphide      phosphide        which in the presence of    with a high melting    lost under     the              through         toxic to fish,  protective
dilute acid will decompose    point that sublimes    exposed      gastrointestinal  ingestion by   birds, cows,    clothing,



Common        Chemical Group  Synopsis                   Properties           Unintended      Absorption      Exposure       Toxicity to non  Precautions
Name                                                                          Effects                                        mammalian       in use
species
to produce phosphine. It  when heated in the    conditions     tract or by     accident       goats, sheep,    respirator,
does not cumulate in body    absence of oxygen. It  within 2 weeks  inhalation of             pigs and wild   avoid
tissues                   is insoluble in water,               dust or                        rabbits         contact
stable when dry but                 phosphine gas.                                 with mouth
decompose slowly in                 It does not                                    and eyes.
moist air. Reacts                   absorb through                                 Always
violently with acids,               intact skin only                               wash hands
decomposes to                       through                                        before and
inflammable                         abrasions.                                     after use.
phosphine gas                                                                      Clearly
mark
containers,
use only in
unoccupied
premises,
remove
within 24
hours, burn
rodent
bodies



ANNEX 12 - ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
The following pages set out a proposed system of screening and assessment for the
activities to be funded under the SLP. Figure 1 below sets out a decision tree on the
screening and assessment of sub-projects funded by the LIF and LDF.
The screening system is sufficiently flexible to be used for the PRM component, should
environmental officers / inspectors on aimag- and sum-level PRM working groups
identify a need to screen or assess activities under that component.
Figure 2 sets out lines of reporting and advice in the system proposed here. The reporting
system covers the whole project, ie LIF, LDF, PRM and microfinance components. We
propose that this system should be merged with the mainstream project reporting system
to be used for each of the components.
It is extremely unlikely that the usual Mongolian Detailed EIA (DEIA) system will be
required for any activities under the SLP, since all individual activities are small in scale.
Hence the proposed system does not overlap with the DEIA system. An alternative, more
rapid system of reviews, and assessments is proposed.
Both diagrams refer to the report or checklist formats that are proposed and set out in this
annex.
Figure 1. Decision tree.
Se foract(on 
> Pr ~necessary
Targeting                                                                 r  r^
and     0 *       creening   *     v_                             N  ute
identification                         ('                       _-      ato
i              l  ~~~~Environmental 
.Seeformat (a)    _     Social Review                                   R
Seeformait (b)            Assessmen't          Revie |w
Seeformat (c)
Following targeting (in the case of the LIF/LDF) and identification (in which environmental staffare involved), each
proposed sub-project is checked against the screening checklist to decide whether nofurther assessment or whether a
brief environmental review is required. This decision is based on the type of sub-project. In the case where an
environmental review is required, the responsible officer draws conclusions on whether nofurther action is
necessary, or an assessment is required.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                     SLP ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENTSYSTEM
1



Figure 2. Lines of reporting and advice on SLP environmental impact
Sum                                    Aimag                                 National
SPACs nd PRM Working  Advice    A LPACs and PRM Working{  Advice +    SLP National Poverty                  Advice +        World Bank
Groups             support             Groups               support    Alleviation Committee       support
Reportformat (d)                         Report format (e)                     Reportformat Q)
(d)                                  (e)
Environmental Inspector               Environmental Officer or                    MNE and EPA                       SLP Mid-term Review and
Head of Aimag EPA          Advice +                               Advice +     ex-post evaluation
Avc ...p                               support                                support
support
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                                                                SLP ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
2



Fornat (a) - Screening checklist
Which of the following screening categories is this sub-project in? [Tick one
only]
Projects requiring environmental review    Projects not requiring environmental review
13 Roads, or bridges                       Education:
1 Renovation of buildings                  1 Bag schools
1 Water supply systems                     1 Training facilities
1 Sanitation systems                       El Sum school farms
1 Community forestry
1 Fuel collection                         Rural health services:
1 Electricity connection or generation     1 Bag feldsher transport and equipment
1 Manufacturing, transport and storage, for   1 Sum hospital transportation
example of concentrates                1 Training of Community Health Volunteers
13 Otor reserves                           Pre-school:
1 Construction of winter shelters          O Expansion of kindergarten services
1 Irrigation systems                       a Kindergarten repair and ger kindergartens
13 Veterinary activities                   1 Training of education volunteers
13 Wolf control activities                 1 Pre-school teacher training
1 Rodent control methods                   1 Establishment of kindergarten vegetable
13 Rehabilitation construction of wells or    gardens
reservoirs                             13 Food for children from poor households
F1 Restocking
Supportfor Disabled:
13 Equipment for disabled persons
1 Support for mentally and physically
handicapped children to attend nurseries
13 Other. Please describe: [type here]     13 Other. Please describe: [type here]
Completed by: [type here]
Name: [type here]
Position: [type here]
Date: [type here]
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                    SLP ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
3



Checklist (b) - Environmental and Social Review
Sub-project name                           [type here]
Estimated cost (Tugrig)                    [type here]
What is the project objective and          [type here]
activities?
How was the site of the sub-project        [type here]
chosen?
Location
Yes No
Does the project conflict with the plans set out in the sum pastoral risk  O     [
management plan?
If 'Yes', give details: [type here]
Is the project sited within a strictly protected area, national park, nature    g  D
reserve or natural/historical monument?
If 'Yes', give details: [type here]
Will the project involve the relocation of people or herders' livestock
from the site?
If 'Yes', give details: [type here]
Does the project involve any land acquisition?                             X     D
If 'Yes', give details: [type here]
Does the project reduce people's access (via roads, location etc) to the
pasture, water, public services or other resources that they depend on?
If 'Yes', give details: [type here]
Impacts
Yes No
Does the sub-project require large volumes of construction materials to    
be taken from local sources (eg gravel, stones, water, timber, firewood)?
If 'Yes', give details: [type here]
Does the sub-project require, or lead to, the disposal of wastewater, solid   D  Z
waste or any other solids or liquids into streams, rivers or lakes?
If 'Yes', give details: [type here]
Does the sub-project involve the use of pesticides?                        D     D
If 'Yes', give details: [type here]
Does the sub-project have human health and safety risks, during            L     L
construction or later?
If 'Yes', give details: [type here]
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                     SLP ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
4



Will the sub-project produce solid waste (including packaging, oils, or  El   El
discarded medical equipment or machinery parts)?
If 'Yes', give details: [type here]
Will the project result in an increase in hunting among herders?       E      El
If 'Yes', give details: [type here]
Will the project lead to changes in the distribution of people or of   E      L
livestock?
If 'Yes', give details: [type here]
Will the project lead to migration into the area?                      El   El
If 'Yes', give details: [type here]
Will the project adversely affect any ethnic minorities living in the area?   E  El
If 'Yes', give details: [type here]
Alternatives
Is it possible to achieve the objectives above in a different way, with fewer
environmental impacts?
[type here]
Conclusion
Summarise the above:                Guidance
El All the above answers are 'No'   * If all the above answers are 'No', there is no
need for further action;
El There is at least one 'Yes'     * If there is at least one 'Yes', an assessment is
required;
If the project requires relocation of people, a
resettlement plan is required.
Which course(s) of action do you recommend?
El No further action
El Assessment
El Resettlement plan
If your recommendation differs from the above guidance, please explain why.
[type here]
Completed by: [type here]
Name: [type here]
Position: [type here]
Date: [type here]
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOUIRCES MANAGEMENT                 SLP ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
5



Assessment - Format (c)
Please use short descriptions to respond to the following:
General Description of Sub-project
Sub-project objective
[type here]
Sub-project phases, components, and budget
[type here]
Alternatives rejected by Sub-project Presenters
[type here]
Baseline Description
Could the sub-project have a negative impact on any of the following features?
Physical-chemical environment       Biological Environment                     Socio-economic environment
E] Groundwater                      [] Pasture resources                       L  Poverty
2 Rivers, streams and springs       2 Wildlife                                  g Men's and women's roles
[I Soil                             FL Herbs and grasses                       L  Human health
g Forest                                      People's access to land they are currently using
.  IIEthnic communities
[]Cultural monuments
a Social infrastructure (drains, buildings etc)
Please give a short description of the baseline for each tick above.
[type here]



Negative Environmental Impacts
For each you have ticked above, please describe the type of impact, risk, significance, and proposed mitigation and monitoring.
Type of impact    Description of impact    Risk of impact (low,    Significance of impact    Mitigation and monitoring requirements
medium, or high)      (low medium, or high)
[type here]       [type here]              [type here]            [type here]              [type here]
[type here]       [type here]              [type here]            [type here]              [type here]
[type here]       [type here]              [type here]            [type here]              [type here]
[type here]       [type here]              [type here]            [type here]              [type here]
[type here]       [type here]              [type here]            [type here]              [type here]
[type here]       [type here]              [type here]            [type here]              [type here]
[type here]       [type here]              [type here]            [type here]              [type here]
[type here]       [type here]              [type here]            [type here]              [type here]
[type here]       [type here]              [type here]            [type here]              [type here]
[type here]       [type here]              [type here]            [type here]              [type here]
(expand as necessary)
Environmental and Social Management Plan
Please insert the actions you propose to ensure that negative impacts are mitigated, or any required monitoring.
Action                             Who by                              By when                             Cost
[type here]                        [type here]                         [type here]                         [type here]
[type here]                        [type here]                         [type here]                         [type here]
[type here]                        [type here]                         [type here]                         [type here]
[type here]                        [type here]                         [type here]                         [type here]
[type here]                        [type here]                         [type here]                         [type here]
[type here]                        [type here]                         [type here]                         [type here]
(expand as necessary)
Completed by: [type here]
Name: [type here]
Position: [type here]
Date: [type here]



Format (d) - Sum Environmental Inspector's Annual Report
(to SPAC, Sum PRM Working Group, and Aimag Environmental Officer)
Sum: [type here]
Reporting year: [type here]
Enter numbers of sub-projects screened in the diagram:
No action necessary
LDF:_____
CIF:___
PRM:___
Screening                                                  No further action
LDF:____                                                   LDF:LDF:
CIF:_                                                      CIF:_|
PRM:                                   ----                PRM:__
Environmental and
Social Review
LDF:__
CIF:____
PRM:                           Assessment
LDF:      -
CIF: -
PRM:
Were you personally involved in the targeting or identification of any sub-projects
under the LDF, CIF or the PRM component?
Ol Yes C: No
If 'Yes', please describe:
[type here]
Were any of the sub-projects environmentally beneficial projects such as for example
concerning solid waste management?
El Yes [l No
If 'Yes', please describe:
[type here]
Results of assessments
Type of projects that have   Impacts identified     How successful was the
been subject to assessment: included:               assessment in ensuring
that mitigation or
monitoring proposals were
carried out? If not, why
not?
[type here]               [type here]               [type here]
Is the SLP contributing to improved pasture management in your sum?
El Yes, it's contributing to an overall improvement
El No, it's worsening pasture degradation
El Too early to say
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                SLP ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
8



Please explain:
[type here]
Have any other environmental reviews been carried out by the SLP in your sum? If
'yes', please describe. If 'No' tick here f1
Review or study           Summary of key             Was the review
conclusions               successful? eg were its
recommendations carried
out? If not, why not?
[type here]               [type here]                [type here]
Were there any unforeseen environmental or social problems associated with the
SLP?
Problem                   Actions taken              Actions to be taken
[type here]               [type here]                [type here]
Training
Please list the training you have received   List TWO key areas of training you need
under the SLP                           in order to carry out your role in the SLP
[type here]                             1) [type here]
2) [type here]
Completed by: [type here]
Name: [type here]
Position. [type here]
Date: [type here]
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                SLP ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
9



Format (e) - Aimag Environmental Directors' Annual Report
(to APAC, MINE and SLPO)
Aimag: [type here]
Reporting year: [type here]
Enter numbers of sub-projects screened in the decision tree diagram:
No action necessary
LDF:_
CIF:______I :
PRM:____P
Screening                                                   No further action
LDF:_____LDF:____
CIF:_____CIF:____
PRM: copePRM:.
Environmental and
Social Review
LDF:____
CIF:____
PRM:                            Assessment
LDF:____
CIF:____
PRM:___
Summarise, from sum-level reports, the ways in which environnental inspectors have
been involved in the targeting or identification of any sub-projects under the LDF, CIF
or the PRM component.
[type here]
Summarise from sum-level reports the types of environmentally beneficial sub-
projects, concerning solid waste management for example, under the SLP?
[type here]
Results of assessments
Summarise the results of Assessments, from your knowledge and from the sum
inspectors' reports:
Type of projects that have   Typical impacts identified   How successful was
been subject to assessment: included:                 the assessment in ensuring
that mitigation or
monitoring proposals were
carried out? If not, why
not?
[type here]               [type here]                 [type here]
Is the SLP contributing to imnproved pasture maniagement in your aimag?
M Yes, it's contributing to an overall improvement
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                 SLP ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
10



No, it's worsening pasture degradation
2 Too early to say
Please explain:
[type here]
Summarise any other environmental reviews carried out by the SLP at sum or aimag
levels.
Sum or        Review or         Summary of key            Was the review
Aimag level  study              conclusions               successful? eg were its
recommendations
carried out? If not, why
____ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ not?
[type here]   I [type here]    [type here]                [type here]
Summarise any unforeseen environmental or social problems associated with the SLP
in your Aimag.
Problem                    Actions taken               Actions to be taken
[type here]                [ type here]                [type here]
Based on feedback from sums, what are the 3 priority training requirements under the
SLP?
Training requirement                     Who for
1) [type here]                           [type here]
2) [type here]
3) [type here]
Completed by: [type here]
Name: [type here]
Position: [type here]
Date: [type here]
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                  SLP ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
11



Format (f) - SLP Annual Environment and Social Report
(to the project director and working groups)
Reporting year: [type here]
Completed by: [type here]
Name: [type here]
Position: [type here]
Date: [type here]
Enter total numbers of sub-projects screened in the diagram:
No action necessary
LDF:      -
CIF:
PRM:___
Screening                                                   No further action
LDF:_____LDF:____
CIF:_____CIF:____
PRM:                                          _             PRM:_
Environmental and                s
Social Reviewv 
_    LDF:           _
CIF:~ ~ ~ ~ ~~I:____
- PCIF                            Assessmentt 
_   CIF:
PRM:
Based on the aimag-level reports, list the key points that require action to improve, or
maintain the environmental performance of the SLP.
[type here]
What were last years' key actions? Were they achieved? If not, why not?
[type here]
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                 SLP ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
12



Please describe progress, based on aimag-level environmental inspectors' reports and your own knowledge, against the actions set out in the environmental
management plan.
Issue                  Action                                          Progress
NProjecappriandl0uAXh
Pastoral risk          a Invite local experts on sustainable pasture   [type here]
management is not seen   management to contribute to project launch
by all stakeholders as   workshops
central to the project    * Invite representatives from UMENGO and from
MNE institutes to project launch workshops
Keysocl assessmetisues000i::0        .        :    000    0      00.       X     :0       00 0    000   :   t0  0 
Need to ensure         *  Broadening of stated target groups so that they    [type here]
targeting of all social   include all target groups stated in the project
groups cited in project   documents
document               *  Monitoring of inclusion of target groups
Ensure poorer          *  Assign sum-level staff with responsibility to  [type here]
households have access    work with the poorest to ensure this
to herder associations
and are included in
PRM activities
Need to base           *  Identify how local people want to monitor the  [type here]
monitoring and            project
evaluation on          *  Carefully distinguish between local people's
information that is       monitoring needs, and the needs of higher
meaningful to local       administrative levels
people
Resettlement issues    *  Implement resettlement plan as set out in Table   [type here]
8.3
Ensure ethnic          *  Implement ethnic minorities development plan    [type here]
minorities receive
benefits of the project
.Pastoral risk managentcoonent:
Vigilance for, screening  * Environmental inspectors and officers kept fully   [type here]
of, and monitoring of    informed of PRM activities through involvement
specific developments    in PRM working groups
under the PRM          * Aimag / sum level environmental officers &
component, whilst        inspectors include reporting on PRM in regular
avoiding increased       reporting to Governors & MNE
work-load for
environment officers



and inspectors
Include environmental   * Sum-level environmental inspectors included in   [type here]
officers in capacity-   PRM Working Groups' training
building and training    * Aimag-level environmental officer identified and
on pastoral risk        included in PRM aimag-level coordination and
management              implementation units
Environmental inputs   Environmental inspectors included in participatory   [type here]
to annual sum-level   workshops to develop annual PRM plans
PRM plans
Potential to include  Sum and aimag level agricultural and environmental  [type here]
environmentally       officers draw up list of possible environmentally
positive projects under  positive projects
multi-purpose funds
Lesson learning on    PRM Working Groups, including environmental   [type here]
sustainable pasture   officers, consider lessons learned
management as part of
M&E of the component
Inclusion of MNE in   * MNE identify regular officer for inclusion in the   [type here]
interministerial national    group
PRM Working Group
Potential to include  * MoFA Implementation Unit discusses land-use    [type here]
MNE / Land              data with LAA
Administration        * Exchange of ideas and information between sum-
Authority data on land  level officers involved in preparation of land-use
use in bag- and sum-    and LAA officers
level land-use maps
Human health risks    * Reconsider the SLP approach to pest control:  [type here]
associated with piloting  abandon proposal to pilot Salmonella-based
of biopesticides        pesticides and adopt piloting of IPM
Need to reduce or     * Information in this report to be passed to aimag-   [type here]
mitigate environmental    level environmental officers
impact of pest control   * Aimag-level environmental officers participate in
discussions on integrated pest management with
MoFA /agricultural inspector
* Aimag-level environmental officers implement
EMP for pilot IPM measures
Opportunity to        Sum and aimag officers in charge of well      [type here]
associate health &    rehabilitation and construction invite aimag and sum
sanitation awareness    level health officers, and nurses to train well-users in



with well rehabilitation  sanitation issues
and construction
Sharing of experience    MoFA and MNE jointly draw up list of all ongoing    [type here]
and lessons learned  initiatives
with other initiatives in
pasture management &   MoFA and MNE regularly arrange meetings between
environmental capacity  individuals from project implementation units to
share lessons & raise mutual awareness
Rural microfianMce                 O U    7000
Will liquidation of   Examination of this issue as part of the SLP's usual   [type here]
livestock assets into  appraisal of the impact of the micro-finance
cash savings reduce   component in advance of and during project MTR
livestock numbers?    and ex-post evaluation.
Local istmen fud/La dz t fung d                      9 UP% m N  9 CEO 12 ME  5 X        M  m X0 v
Vigilance for, screening  * MoFE to prepare management system for CIF /    [type here]
of, and monitoring of    LDF targeting, project identification and reporting
sub-projects, whilst    that includes key sections on environment [based
avoiding increased       on annexed draft - yet to be done], agreed with
work-load for            MNE
environiment officers    * MoFE ensures LDF / CIF officers are aware of
and inspectors           shortlist of projects requiring environmental
review
* Aimag / sum level environmental officers &
inspectors include reporting on CIF / LDF sub-
projects in regular reporting to Govemors & MNE
Potential to encourage   * MoFE draws up list, based on draft (based on  [type here]
environmentally          draft included in annex)
positive projects     * Inform aimag and sum level managers of the
eligibility of environmental projects
* Proactively raise awareness among sum and bag-
level beneficiaries of the eligibility of
environmental projects / businesses
Natona an ineratinalproec moniorig ad ealutio
Requirement for concise  * MoFE and MoFA agree with MNE and World    [type here]
analysis of              Bank, a concise format for annual reporting on
environmental impact,   environmental impact, and on synthesis reports in
based on information     preparation for project mid-term review and ex-
from aimag and sum       post evaluation
levels                * MoF and MoFA complete annual and synthesis



reports using this format
Requirement for      World Bank appoint local or international    [type here]
environmental        environmental specialist, with approval of MNE, to
evaluation & lesson  provide inputs to MTR and ex-post evaluation
learning in MTR and
ex-post evaluation



ANNEX 13
MONGOLIA: SUSTAINABLE LIVELIHOOD PROJECT
RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
December 14, 2001
DRAFT
Introduction
This report sets out the Policy Framework for Compensation, Resettlement and Rehabilitation of
Project Affected Persons for the Sustainable Livelihood Project (the Project). The Policy Framework
provides the principles and procedures to be followed to compensate people who may be negatively
affected by the Project so as to ensure that they will be assisted to improve, or at least restore their living
standards, income and/or production capacity to pre-project levels. While no resettlement or land
acquisition is anticipated, the Project has developed a policy framework to protect people who may be
negatively impacted from the possible community demand for the construction and or rehabilitation of
small-scale infrastructure sub-projects, such as, roads, bridges, buildings, structures, water supply and
sanitation facilities, and other civil work, Local officials confirmed that the rural countryside of
Mongolia has vast amount of land with low density population; therefore, land acquisition will be rare.
At the moment, the demand for the rehabilitation of small-scale infrastructure sub-projects will only be
known during project implementation. An integrated environmental and social screening process,
therefore, has been prepared which will check for possible negative impacts and for the necessary actions
required for such sub-projects.
Background
This is the first phase of a three phased program to support the shift in Mongolia's national anti-poverty
strategy away from welfarist measures towards those that promote secure and sustainable livelihoods for
all. The obiective of the proposed Project is to identify and pilot-test institutional innovations that will
enhance the capabilities of community groups and poor and vulnerable households and individuals to
better manage risk, build up income-generating assets, and participate in the rehabilitation and
maintenance of community-level infrastructure and basic services. To realize this development objective,
four components will be implemented in eight selected aimags (provinces). These are: a) Pastoral Risk
Management; b) Rural Micro-Finance Services; c) Local Initiative Fund; and d) Project Management.
Legal Framework
The national legal framework governing the implementation of this Policy Framework is based on the
Constitution of Mongolia and the Mongolian Law on Land.
The Constitution of Mongolia lists 18 rights for the citizens of Mongolia under Article 16. One of the rights
(sub-article 3) states the "Right to fair acquisition, possession and inheritance of moveable and immoveable
property. Illegal confiscation and requisitioning of the private property of citizens shall be prohibited. If
the State and its bodies appropriate private property on the basis of exclusive public need, they shall do so
with due compensation and payment."
In the Mongolian Law on Land (November 11, 1994), it states that "...the authorized government
organization shall change or take back the land with compensation by entering into a contract with



citizens, economic entities, and organizations possessing land through Sum and Duureg Governors"
(Article 36).
Article 37 provides further information on acquisition of land and property:
Sub-article 2: "Upon consideration of the release agreement with the land possessor, the value of
immovable construction, other property, and the costs for land release estimated at the time, shall be
reflected in the decision on changing or taking back with compensation the land possessed by others."
Sub-article 3: "Upon entering into the contract described in the sub-article 3 of the Article 36 of this Law,
the compensation for the land possessor shall be transferred from the State central budget to the Sum and
Duureg Governors."
Sub-article 4: "The Sum and Duureg Governor shall forward the compensation to citizens, economic
entities, and organizations formerly possessing land within 60 days after entering into the contract if not
indicated otherwise in the contract described in paragraph 3 of Article 36 of this Law."
Sub-article 5: "The land possessor shall release the land within 30 days after the compensation has been
paid in full if it is not otherwise indicated in the contract described in paragraph 3 of Article 36 of this
Law."
Supporting material for the resettlement policy framework also comes from the World Bank Operational
Policy OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement (September 2001) which includes the principles listed below.
Principles
The general principles for the Resettlement Policy Framework can be summarized as follows:
I. Land acquisition, other negative impacts and involuntary resettlement are to be minimized as
much as possible.
2. The resettlement and rehabilitation program should improve, or at least maintain, the affected
person's pre-project living standards and should warrant their participation in project benefits.
3. The compensations to be provide are:
a) Compensation at replacement cost for houses and other affected structures without deduction
for depreciation or salvage materials for houses and other structures
b) Compensation in terms of land for land of equal productive capacity acceptable to the
affected person for agricultural land (where land is not available, compensation is to be
provided in cash at replacement cost)
c) Replacement of premise/residential land of equal size acceptable to the affected person
d) Transportation allowance and assistance with the move.
4. Plans for acquisition of land and other assets and provision of rehabilitation measures will be
carried out in consultation with the project affected persons, to ensure minimal disturbance.
Entitlement Policy
Specifically, project affected people (PAP) will be entitled to the following types of compensation and
rehabilitation measures:
1.     PAPs losing agricultural land:
2



a) The general mechanism for compensation of lost agricultural land will be through provision
of land for land arrangements of equal productive capacity. satisfactory to the PAP.
However, if the PAP so wishes and the portion of the land to be lost represents 20% or less of
the total area of the landholding, cash compensation, at full replacement cost, may be
provided to the PAP.
b) PAPs will be compensated for the loss of standing crops and fruit or industrial trees at market
price.
c) PAPs whose land is temporarily taken by the works under the work contract will be
compensated for their loss of income, standing crops and for the cost of soil restoration and
damaged infrastructure.
2.     PAPs losing residential land and structures:
a) The mechanism for compensating loss of residential land and structures will be: (i) the
provision of replacement residential land (house site and garden) of equivalent size,
satisfactory to the PAP: and (ii) cash compensation reflecting full replacement cost of the
structures without depreciation.
b) If the impact on residential land and/or structure is minor, cash compensation at replacement
cost acceptable to the PAP will be provided.
c) If the residential land and/or structure is only partially being affected by the Project and the
remaining residential land is not sufficient to rebuilt the residential structure lost, then at the
request of the PAP the entire residential land and structure will be acquired at full
replacement cost, without depreciation.
d) Tenants, who have leased a house for residential purposes will be provided with a cash grant
of three months rental fee at the prevailing market rate in the area. and will be assisted in
identifying alternative accommodation.
3.     PAPs losing business
a) The mechanism for compensating loss of business will be: (i) the provision of alternative
business site of equal size and accessibility to customers, satisfactory to the PAP; (ii) cash
compensation for lost business structure reflecting full replacement cost of the structures,
without depreciation: and (iii) cash compensation for the loss of income during the transition
period.
Lack of legal rights to the assets lost will not bar the affected persons from entitlement to compensation
and rehabilitation measures. PAPs will also be exempted from all administrative, transfer and legal fees.
Full Resettlement Plan
In cases where the negative impacts are significant or where more than 200 people are affected by a sub-
project under the Project, a full Resettlement Plan for each such sub-project will be prepared by the
Aimag proiect office in accordance with the provisions of this Policy Framework. The full Resettlement
Plan will be furnished to the World Bank for its concurrence and clearance.
Each full Resettlement Plan will include: (a) a description of the sub-project and potential impacts; (b)
objectives of the resettlement plan; (c) baseline and socioeconomic surveys; (d) detailed compensation
3



and rehabilitation information; (e) institutional arrangements for implementation; (f) community
participation plan; (g) grievance procedures; (h) arrangements for monitoring and evaluation, (i)
implementation schedule; and (j) cost estimate and funding source.
After clearance from the World, the compensation. resettlement and rehabilitation activities of the
Resettlement Plan will be satisfactorily completed and verified by the Central project office before funds
can be disbursed for civil works under the sub-project.
Baseline Survey. The information in the baseline survey for each PAP household will include the
following:
a) number of persons;
b) number. type, and area of the houses to be affected;
c) number and area of all the residential plots to be affected;
d) number, category and area of agricultural land to be affected;
e) quantity and types of crops and trees to be affected;
0  businesses to be affected including structures. land and other fixed assets;
g) productive assets to be affected as a percentage of total productive assets;
h) quantity and category of other fixed assets affected by the Project; and
i) temporary damage to productive assets.
Socio-economic Survey. Information will include, among others, the following:
a) age, sex, and education of each family member;
b) main occupation and level of income of each family member;
c) ethnicity of family and ethnic composition of community;
d) residential history of family and of community;
e) potential economic and social impact from sub-project on family and on the community; and
f) impact on host community.
Partial Resettlement Plan
In case where the negative impact is minor and less than 200 people are affected, a Partial Resettlement
Plan for each sub-project will be prepared by the Sum project office. These documents will be furnished
to the World Bank for its concurrence and clearance in the first year and then to the Central project office
for subsequent years.
Each Partial Resettlement Plan will include: (a) a baseline survey; (b) detailed compensation and other
rehabilitation entitlements for each PAP; (c) description of consultation conducted; (d) institutional
arrangements for implementation; (e) grievance procedures; (f) arrangements for monitoring and
evaluation (g) a timetable and detailed budget and source of funding.
After clearance from WB and later the Central project office, the compensation, resettlement and
rehabilitation activities of the Partial Resettlement Plan will be satisfactorily completed and verified by the
Aimaz project office before funds can be disbursed for civil works under the sub-proiect.
People's Participation
The PAPs will participate throughout the various stages of the planning and implementation of the partial
or full Resettlement Plans. For these purposes and prior to the preparation of the Resettlement Plans, the
4



PAP will be informed of the provisions of this Policy by the Community Mobilizer and at public meetings
held by the representatives from the respective project offices.
Each household PAP will be fully informed of their entitlements/compensation and rehabilitation under
the partial or fall Resettlement Plans. After compensation, each PAP household will sign an acceptance
letter.
Communities and affected persons will also be allowed to propose their own solutions and options for
compensation, especially for the community driven component, Local Initiative Fund, where sub-projects
are proposed, designed and implemented by community members themselves (with some technical
assistance if needed for more complex projects). Such options could include pooling of resources and
voluntary donations of land and or assets.
If this is the case, monitoring procedures would be established by each sum to ensure that the land and
property is donated of the person's own free will, that as a result of this act the person and his household
are not adversely impacted, and that they can have an established recourse to voice their complaints.
Detailed inventory and survey of land acquired should be undertaken. The donation should be duly
registered at the bag and sum levels.
Overall, regular monitoring will be undertaken in order to obtain feedback from PAPs to see if there has
been compliance with Resettlement Policy. The World Bank staff will also monitor these activities in
their regular supervision missions during the period of project implementation; consultation with PAPs
and beneficiaries will be conducted.
Implementation Arrangements
Institutional Arrangements. The institutional arrangements for implementation of the resettlement plans
are as follows:
a)     The Central project office has the overall responsibility for implementing the Resettlement Policy
and ensuring that all compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation activities are satisfactorily completed
before providing approval for disbursement of funds for sub-projects in the case of Partial Resettlement
Plans or for submitting requests for no objection from the World Bank for disbursements in the case of
full Resettlement Plans.
b)     It will facilitate the discussions between the aimags and the sums regarding compensation for
land acquired for the sub-projects.
c)     It will monitor the aimag project office's work to ensure that the activities are carried out in a
satisfactory manner.
d)    It will be responsible for organizing the necessary orientation and training for the aimag and sum
officials so that they can carry out the Resettlement Plans, consultation with PAPs and implement the
payment of compensation and other rehabilitation entitlement to PAPs in a timely manner.
e)     It will ensure that progress reports are submitted to the World Bank Office in lUlaan Baatar on a
regular basis.
f)    The Aimag/Provincial proiect office is responsible for preparing full Resettlement Plans for sub-
projects which require such plans. It will ensure that the compensation in land or in cash is available at the
aimag and it will implement the Resettlement Plans in a timely manner.
5



g)   It will guide the Sum project office and monitor its work in resettlement to ensure that the activities
are carried out in a satisfactory manner.
h)    The Sum/District project office is responsible for preparing partial Resettlement Plans for sub-
projects which require such plans. It will ensure that the compensation in land or in cash is available at the
sum and it will implement the partial Resettlement Plans in a timely manner.
Implementation Schedule. A detailed implementation schedule of the various activities to be undertaken
will be included in each resettlement plan.
Payment of compensation and provision of other rehabilitation entitlements (in cash or in-kind), and
relocation if that be the case, will be completed at least one month prior to the scheduled start-up date of
works in the respective work site.
Complaints and Grievances. Complaints and grievances related to any aspect of the resettlement plans
including the determined area and price of the lost assets, will be patterned after the settlement of land
disputes described in Article 56 of the Mongolian Law on Land. The process will be as follows:
-  PAPs will present their complaints and grievances, first to the sum and then to the aimag project
office; if PAPs are not satisfied with the decision, they can present their case to the central project
office.
*  If the project offices are not able to satisfy the PAPs, they can take their cases to court.
Supervision. Monitoring and Evaluation. Implementation of resettlement plans will be regularly
supervised and monitored by the Central project office. The findings will be recorded in biannual reports
to be fumished to World Bank.
Budget and Source of Funding
Each partial and full resettlement plan will include a detailed budget for compensation and other
rehabilitation entitlements. It will also include information on how the funds will flow as well as the
compensation schedule. It will clearly state where the sources of land and fund will come from. It was
agreed during consultations with sums and aimags that each sum be responsible for providing
compensation ,if required, to people negatively affected by sub-projects within its jurisdiction.
6



