Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11428-CiA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHIA
TIANUAGPING HyDROELECTRIC PROJECT
MARCH 31, 1993
L  7
, T 1-  rr . ''  '  .{.    ;1:
Industry and Energy Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a resicted disibuton and may be ad by repients only in the perfomance of
their official duties Its contens may not oherwse be disdosed witot World Bank authorizatin.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 31, 1992)
Currency   =    Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00   =   lOOfen
$1.00   =   Y 5.8
Y 1.00   =   $0.17
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
km    =      Kilometer (= 0.62 miles)
kWh   =      Kilowatt hour (= 860.42 kcals)
GWh  =       Gigawatt hour (1,000,000 kilowatt hours)
TWh  =       Terawatt hour (1,000,000,000 kilowatt hours)
kW    =      Kilowatt (1,000 watts)
MW    =      Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
OW    =      Gigawatt (1 million kilowatts)
kV    =      Kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVA   =      Kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
MVA  =       Megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-amperes)
mg    =      Milligram
m3    =      Cubic meter
tce    =     tons of standard coal equivalent
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
APPDC      - Anhui Provincial Power Development Company
BERIWREP - Beijing Economic Research Institute for Water Resources and Electric Power
ECEPUC    - East China Electric Power United Corporation
ECIDI      - East China Investigation and Design Institute
ECPG       - East China Power Grid
GNP        - Gross National Product
HIPDC      - Huaneng International Power Development Corporation
JPIC       - Jiangsu Provincial Investnent Company
MOE        - Ministry of Energy
MOF        - Ministry of Finance
NEPA       - National Environmental Protection Agency
SAA        - State Audit Administration
SBC        - Special Board of Consultants
SEDC       - Sunblast Energy Development Company
SEIC       - State Energy Investment Corporation
SPC        - State Planning Commission
SPDC       - Shenneng Power Development Company
TCC        - Technical Cooperation Credit
THP        - Tianhuangping
THPCC      - Tianhuangping Pumped Storage Project Construction Company
ZPPDC      - Zhejiang Provincial Power Develoment Company
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCUIL Use ONLY
CHINA
TIANHUANGPING HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJCT SummARY
Bonvwer:            People's Republic of China
Beneicidry:         East China Electric Power Unitd Corporation (ECEPUC)
A _mn:              $300.0 million equivalen
Terms:              Twenty years, including a five-yergrace period, at the Bank's standard
variable iterest rate.
Onlending Terms:   The proceeds of the loan would be onlent from the borrower to
ECEPUC under a subsidiary loan agreement for a term not to exceed
20 years, Including a five-year grace period, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate. ECEPUC will bear the commitment charges and
fidreign exchange risk.
Project Objectives
and Description:   The main objectives of the project are to: (a) alleviate an acute shortage
of peaig   power and enable more efficient use of power plants in a
predominantly coal-fired thermal power system by transferring off-peak
energy to peak energy with construction of the cost-effective and
environmentaly sound Tinhuangping pumped-storage hydroelectric
plant and associated facilities; O) support economic reform and provide
an enabling enviroment for attracting foreign investments and
promoting private sector development by improving the quality of the
power supply and enhancing socioeconomic conditions in the densely
populated East China region; (c) improve load management and promote
energy consevation by introducing appropriate power pricing;
(d) support institutional development of the beneficiary by strengthening
its organization through an advanced management and staff training
program; (e) contrib  to the development of an improved power utlity
reutory framework; (f) assist in transfefring new power technologies
for what will be the largest pumped-storage hydroelectric plant in
Chma, and in applying modem power system operation optimion
methods; and (g) extend technical assistance in project design and
implementation, and in prmotng prudent financi management. The
project consists of: (a) construction of a pumped-storage hydroelectric
power plant together with upper and lower reservoirs, a water
conveyance system, an underground powerhouse, and a switchyard;
(b) provision and insalation of six 300-MW reversible pump-turbine
This document has a roestrd dribution and may be used by recipients ony in the petfornance
of their offlcial duties Its contents may not othawise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



- ii -
units nd associaed equipment; (c) erection of 500-kV transmission
lines (about 250 km long) and reinforcement of the existing power
tmission  etwork; (d) constucion management and engineering
services; (e) studies of optimal power plant operation and its output
pricing; and (f) strenghening of the beneflciary's orgaizaton through
the provision of technical asstace and training.
Benefits ad Misks:  The proposed pumped-torage hydrlectric plant represents the least-
cost solution for meeting peaking power demand in the East China
power system. Also, through the project, the Bank will be able to
support the Government's power subsector policy and furher pursue its
sectoral objectives in China. The technical and economic feasibility of
the project has been well established. Potential project risks may
include delays in implementation due to multiprovincial financing and
ECEPUC's lack of experience in managing the construction of similar
projects. Necessary precautions and measures will be undertaken to
avoid these risks. The project has been designed to comply with
aplicable Bank and Chinese standards in order to minimze the
environmental impact. An environmental management program will be
icluded under the project to prevent and reduce the possibility of
deveoping any adverse environmental problems. The project risks,
thereore, are considered to be minimal.



- ilii-
Estimated Costs:                              Forei          TM
-          ($ million)
Preparatoxy works                          19.6          0.0          19.6
7.8         0.0           7.8
Civil works                                96.1         10.1         106.2
Metal works                                 2.9          0.0           2.9
Plant equpment and matrials                27.2        219.9        247.1
Transmission system                        14.9         17.4         32.3
Engineering services                       18.8          9.4         28.2
Consructon management                      16.4          0.0          16.4
Environmental progam                        0.6          0.2           0.8
Studies                                     0.3          0.5          0.8
Thining                                     0.8          2.1          2.9
IamoSst                                 7A           2592    45
Contingencies
Physical                                  18.4         13.8         32.2
Price                                     19.2        29.5          48.7
Tax & dutes                                 1.4          0.0           1.4
Interet during construction A             103.7         69.3         173.0
Plnmdng Plan:                               lmd        Porei
($ million)
StateEergy Investment Copoadon (SEIC)     116.0         23.1        139.1
Shenneng PPower Dervlopment Company MSPDC)  87.0        17.3        104.3
Jiangsu Prvincia Invesantmn Company (JPC)    58.0       11.6         69.6
Zhejiang Provincia Power Dvedopmet
Company (ZFPDC)                           38.8         7.7          46.5
A"  Prvnca Power Deivopment
Company (APPDC)                           19.3         3.8          23.1
ECEPUC                                     29.0          5.8         34.8
DB                                          -          300.0        300.0
IDA (trCC)I                                              2.9          2.9
InItest during constuCion (MDC I based on onlendiag rats for projected disbursements
of loan procs.  heforeign currecy porion of MDC is based on the Bank's vaiable loan
rate.
h  Second Technic  Cooperatin Credk (Cr. 16644CMA).



-iv -
FE_at  d Dbursements:
Bank FY   12924  lI    Im   1997   122   1229   2M    2QQ1  2Q)
(S million)
Annual    33.1  44.1   84.5  76.2   36.0   12.6    6.3   4.5    2.7
Cuulative 33.1  77.2  161.7 237.9  273.9  286.5  292.8  297.3  300.0
Economic Rate of Retun: 23 percent
Map:        IBRD 24363



.-V.
CONTENTS
1     hneElatgSector ..................................                                          1
A. Overview                .....................................                          1
B. Energy Sector Issues               ..............................                      3
C. Energy Sector Strategy                 .............................                   5
D. Bank Role in theEnergy Secor                   .......................                 6
2      ntePower Subsectw  ................................                                       7
A. Backgrund                 ....................................                         7
B. Instiutions, Reform, Planning and Technology Transfer    ....... .                     8
C. Power Pricing   ..................................                                    10
D. Subsector Lssues and Stregy  .........................                                1o
E. Role of the Bank In the Power Subsector .              .................              11
3        he BenefidaT  ....................................                                     13
A. LegalStatusand OrgaizationofECEPUC ................                                   13
B. Magement...............................   14
C. Sflig and rnig...........................    14
D. Pbnnng,BudgetgdCotol .......................    15
B.  Accouning  ....................................                                      16
F. Audit ........................................                                        17
G. Eectricity Tariffs  ................................                                  17
B. BiMingandCollections  .............................                                   18
Ihis eport is based on the findings of an appraisal mLison which vsited Cbia In October 1992.
The report was prepared by V. Mastilovic (rask Manager), S. Kataoka (Senior Power Engineer),
H.E. Sun (Financial Analyst), R. Taylor (Economist), T. Hassan (Senior Counsel) and
KC. Ling (consultant). Peer reviewers comprsed: W. Cao (Senior Power Engineer),
K. Jechoutek (Prncipal Economist), and S. Shum  (Senior Financial Analyst).  The Division
Chief is R. Newfrmer, and the Department Director is SJ. Burki.



- VI -
4    The Power Market and Program  ......... . .  .................. .  20
A. The East China Power Grid           ......................... .  20
B. Load Forecast              ..................................   21
C. Power Development Ptogram (t m-2000) .........    ........      22
S    Tbe Project ........................... * ..........               23
A. Project Objectives       ................................       23
B. Project Description ........  .......................           23
C. CostF.tinlate                .    ..................................  27
D. Finanu;ng Plan       ..................................         27
E. Procurement .      ...................................          29
F. ProjectImlmnain....                                             30
G. Dis bu rs em enat ...30
H. Environment ati ons .            .      .......................  33
6    FGisbcAspects                    ..................................  35
EI. Intirodu ntlCnidroin .... .......................................  35
AL. Inrdcion..o                                          n35
B. ECEPUC's Past and Present FinancW Perforbace   .    .36
C. Financial Performance Targets    ..36
D. Future Finances    ..37
e. Financing Plan              .38
7 Economic JustIficaIon    ..40
A. Role of the Project    ..40
B. Least-Cost Studies         ..41
C. Economic Rate of Return    ..41
D. Senstivity Anaysis    ..42
8    Agreements and Re.ommendatIon       .. . ..43
1.1  Prmary Energy Output in China (1949-91) .46
1.2  Total Producdon and Consumption of Energy vs. GNP Growth           47
2.1 Installed Capacity, Electricity Generation, and Sales in the Power
Subsector..                                                        48
2.2  Growth Index of Electricity Generatio and Primary Energy Demand ...  49
2.3 Electricity Consumption by SectorsO.5
2.4  Major Ongoing Hydro and Ihermal Power Projects by Extnal Financing  51



v ii-
3.1  ECPGPerformance ndicators  ....................... ....               53
3.2  StaffingofECPG            S.......                                    54
3.3  Schoolsand T tngCeersUnderECPUC.......                                56
3.4- Pbnnilng,BudgetandControlofChinesePower Bureaus         .             57
3.5 Curran ElectricityTaft InEast Chna  S..58
3.6  SummaryofECEPUC's1992-95Power TaiffReformPn.               ..         60
3.7  ConsumptionandRevenuebyCategoryofConsumers (1991).         .61
4.1  MajorPower OentingStationsInECPG.                                     62
4.2  Generating Capacity and Trsmission Faciities in ECPG   .  .63
4.3 S00-kV Transmission Lnes in ECPG    ..66
4.4  Energy Generation and Consumption in ECPG ....... . .                 67
4.5 ECPG Power Devlopment Program    ..68
4.6 Power and Energy Balancesn ECPG    ..71
5.1 Project Description.                                                   72
5.2  Consulting Services (rerms of Refernce)   ..76
5.3  Staff-Months Estimate for the Consulting Services   .     .83
5.4  Peaking Power Pricing Study rerms of Reference).                      84
5.5  Study of Optial Plat Operation Cems of Reference)  .     .87
5.6 Management Development and Tai   ......89
5.7 Project Cost Estimae          ..92
5.8 Procurement Schedule.                                                  96
5.9 Key Dates of Projectl             . .lemeation ..                      97
5.10 Disbursemet Schedule          ..99
5.11 EnviromneaManagementProgram. ...                                     100
5.12 Bank Supervision nput into Key Activities  ..106
5.13 Framework for Project Monitoring and Report.ng .      .107
6.1  Actual inancia Statements of ECEPUC (1989-91) .109
6.2  Forecast Financial Sttements of ECEPUC (1992-2000) .112
6.3  AssumptionstoECEPUC'sFimmncal Projections .116
7.1  Economic Justificatonof the Project .118
8.1  SelectedDocumentsandData AvailableinthePojectFile .125
CARTS
1.  OrgzationChartoftheMinistryofEnery(MOE) .              .            128
2.  Organization Chart of the East China Eectric Power Uid  Coporaion
(ECEPUC).                                                           129
3. Organization Chart of the Tianhuangping Pumped Storage Project Construction
Company (IWCC:) .......         ...........................         130
4. ImplemenaionSchedule .131



- viii-
F!GURZS
1.  Gener Layout (CrT-Sedon)  ..........................                               133
2.  Gena    Layout (Plan) ......... ...............................                     134
3.  Typical Daly Load Curve for the ECPG with Tianhuangping (Augu  2000)    135
MAP
IBRD  24363           ..........................................                         137
TAXS EN TEff
3.1   DistributionofECEPUC Comumption ......................                              18
4.1   Load Growth of East China PowerGdd  ......                  ...............         21
4.2   LoadForecastforEastChinaPower Grid ....................                             21
5.1   Summary of Projectcosts ..............................                              28
5.2   Financing Plan for the Project  ...........................                         29
5.3   Summary of Proposed Procurement Arangemen ...............                           31
5.4   Imlementation Schedule: Estimated Annual Contractu  and Other
Paynents ........................................                                   32
6.1   ECEPUC'sKeyFinanciIndicators, 1989-91  .................                            37
6.2   KeyFinancial  dicators,1992-2000 ........................                           38
6.3 ECEPUC'sPimncing Plan,CYI-2000. .39



-1-
THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Ovuvmw
1.1         ChIna has been remarkably successful in developing its energy resoues and has
become the third lagest producer of energy in the world. In 1991, tha country's primary
commercial enerW  supply and cosumption amoumed to 1,048 and 1,023 million tons of
standard coal equivalent (tce), respectively. Coal is the most important source of energy,
accounting for about 74 percent, and oil for 19 percent of the total production. Hydroelectric
power (4.6 percent), natural gas (2 percent), and small quantities of shale oil and geothermal
power make up the balance. The largest consumer of energy is the industrial sector
(62 percent), followed by households (24 percent), services (9 percent), and agriculture
(5 percent). Coal meets 70 percent of the fuel requirements for indusry and power generation,
and satisfies 80 percent of the commercial energy needs of households. About 20 percent of oil
and 2 percent of coal production are exported, accounting for about 7 percen and 1 percent,
respectively, of China's merchandise exports. Details of the primary energy outputs are given
in Annexl.l.
Energy Resources
1.2         Coal. China has large coal depoits, with recoverable reserves of about 900
biRlion tons, of which 30 percent are proven. In 1991, the country produced 1.1 billion tons of
raw coal. By the year 2000, China aims to produce 1.4 billion tons of coal a year. The best
quality coals are found in North China, where Shaumi and Inner Mongolia each have reserves
of 200 billion tons. However, insufficient transport capacity makes it extremely difficult to
move coal to the large consuming centes in Centra and East China.
1.3         Hydroelectic Potential. China is rich in water resources and has a long
tradition of harnessing them for energy and other uses. The country's hydroelectric potential
is estmated at 1,900 TWh a year, but only about 9 percent of it has been developed. Most of
the poteial is located in the Southwest (70 percent), about 1,500 km away from the main
demand centers. The long gestation period for hydroelectric projects has also inhibited the rapid
development and utilization of hydroelectric resources.
1.4         Crude Oil. China's ultimately recoverable reserves of crude oil are estimated
at some 80 billion tons, of which 16 percent are proven. The country produced 140 million tons
of crude oil in 1991, and the target output for the year 2000 is 200 million tons. China's
refining capacity is the sith largest in the world.



-2 -
1.5         Natural Gas. Cbina's natual gas resources are estimated at 33 trillion cubic
meters (mi, of which 3 percent are proven. In 1991, China produced IS billion m3 of natud
gas, the bulk of which is located in Sichuan. About 50 pent of the gas produced is
nonassocied gas. Most of th gas is used as feedstock for fetiizers and petrochemicals.
1.6         Blowass. Noncommercial biomass energy use currently amounts to about one-
quarter of total energy consumption in China. Fuelwood and agicultural straw and stalks are
the chief blomass fuels, and they are consumed almost entirely by rural households. China is
promotig a variety of measures to achieve e  tall  sustainable biomass supply and
consumption levels, including more efficient use of biomass, tree planting, and substitution of
other fuels for traditional biomass fuels.
1.7         Nucear Energy. Known uranium reserves in China ar sufficient to sustain
15,000 MW of nuclear power capacity for 30 years. China commissioned its first commercial
nuclear power plant (300 MW) in 1992. In 1993/94, Daya Bay nuclear power plant
(2x900 MW) should be commissioned; 70 percent of its output is intended for nearby
Hong Kong. The construction of a few additional plants is planned to start before the year 2000,
primarily in regions which lack coal and hydroelectric resources.
1.8         Other Energy Resources. Other energy resources play a small role In energy
supply and are used mostly in remote areas. Geothermal energy has been found in many
locations covering nearly all the country. 'he Yangbajing geothermal power plant, located in
Tibet, supplies about 50 GWh a year. Although wind and solar energy have promising prospects
(e.g., wind in Inner Mongolia), they are not expected to affect the overall supply of energy
significandy during the next two decades. Unofficial esdmates of oil shale suggest that deposits
are large, but little is exploited because of lack of viable tecology.
Instittons of the Energy Sector
1.9         The Ministry of Energy (MOE), established in 1988, has primary responsibility
for policy, planning and regulations to promote the rational development and use of energy
resources. It also oversees various enites responsible for energy operaions i China. Chr 1
shows the organization of MOE. The State Energy Investment Corporation (SEIC), also
established in 1988, handles project finncing in the coal and electricity subsectors. SEIC is
responsible for onlending funds for projects of national importance and representing the
Govemment in the joint financing of projects with other parties; it is expected to operae as a
revenue earning entity. Both MOE and SEIC operate with the guidance of the State Planning
Commission (SPC), which has ultimate authority for project approval, budget allocations, and
financing arrangements.
Energy Investments
1.10        Energy investments in the 1980s were planned based on an expected economic
growth rate of 7.5 percent a year. Actual economic growth rates exceeded this target by a
significant margin, which has exacerbat  eergy shortages already existng at the outset. Under
the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1985-90), the Government gave high priority to energy and also to
the transport sector, a bottleneck in economic development. In 1991, China dedicated
3.4 percent and 1.7 percent of its Gross National Product (GNP), respectively, to develop
infastructure for energy production and transportation. It invested a total of Y 64.6 billion ($12



-3-
billion) in the energy sector, represendng 30.5 percent of state capital construction, as against
21 percent in the early 1980s. 7lhe power subsector accounted for 62 percent of the total.
About 20 percent of the Investment requirements of the Chinese energy sector are met by foreign
loans and direct investments (para 2.7).
B. ENERGY SECrOR lSUVES
1.11        In addition to the already noted shortages, the main energy sector issues in China
are: (a) the efficiency of energy supply and use; (b) the dominance of coal and associated
environmental problems; (c) improvement in scale and technology in energy industries;
(d) rationalization of energy pricing policies; and (e) institutional, regulatory and enterprise
reform.
Efficiency of Energy Use
1.12         China's energy conumption per capita is low, but consumption per unit of GNP
is high compared with other counties. The high share in GNP of industrial output, the structure
of industry, the use of inefficient tedhnology, and inadequate energy management practices are
major factors that contribute to this. Efforts to improve the efficiency of energy use have been
a cornerstone of China's energy policy. Particular progress has been made in building a strong
institutional framework for energy conservation. During 1981-90, China's energy intensity per
unit of GNP fell by about 30 percent in real terms, and the elasticity of growth in energy use
relative to GNP growth was about 0.5 (Annex 1.. Nevertheless, further improvements in
energy efficiency are crucial. Economic growth and energy supply targets for the 1990s imply
hat only about one-half of the increased energy services reqired will come from new energy
supplies, while the other half must come from energy efficiency improvements. This will
require major progress in addressing structural and systemic issues, as well as still stronger
programs to upgrade inefficient technology and strengthen energy management.
Dominance of Coal and Associated Environmental Problems
1.13         Many of China's air pollution problems are related to the heavy use of coal and
its dispersed, small-scale application in industry and households. Unlike the situation in most
other countries, the electric power subsector is not the largest consumer of coal in China (about
25 percent of the total). Environmental problems occur at every stage of the coal chain; mining
and disposal of mine waste, coal washing, transport and handling, processing and combustion,
and ultimately ash disposal. The ambient concentration of particulates is the most serious
problem; it is largely related to the dominant small-scale use of coal, its high-ash content
(20-30 percent), and the often incomplete combustion. The average sulfur content of the coal
is relatively low (about 1.5 percent), but because coal is used so extensively sulfur emissions are
increasing.
1.14         The environmental implications of continued increases in coal use highlight the
need for the strict enforcement of environmental regulations and more investment to conserve
coal and mitigate its envronmental effects. The scope for substitting cleaner fuels remains
limited. The country has insufficient proven natural gas resources; its production of oil is
increasingly absorbed by transport and petrochemicals; and large hydropower resources are
located far away from major consuming centers.



-4-
Scale and Technology in Energy Industries
1. 1S        Coal Subsector. Over half of the coal produced in China comes from small-
scale mining operations. Exploitation of large coal reserves through uncoordinated small-scale
mining has often led to inefficiencies in production and a waste of coal resources. In the larger
mines, productivity and safety could be increased by making greater use of mechanized systems
and applying more efficient designs.
1.16         Power Subsector. Large-scale power development in China is beneficial from
the standpoint of both energy conservation and environmental protection. Modern thermal power
plants, with unit capacities of 600 MW, are about 20 percent more efficient than smaller units.
The boilers of the modern utilities also support better pollution control, thus raising the
efficiency of particulate removal.
1.17         Petroleum Subsector. In the petroleum subsector, there is a need to employ
more modern equipment and technology at aU stages of exploration and development; seismic
survey and related data processing, exploratory drilling, and enhanced oil recovery in order to
increase production from aging fields. Improvements in operating and maintenance practices are
also needed to increase the efficiency of the subsector.
Energ Pricing
1.18         Energy price reform has proceeded steadily during recent years, resulting in
substantial increases in real energy prices. Ibis has resulted in continuous increases in
administered prices for the portion of energy still allocated under mandatory planning. More
importantly, the share of energy provided at market prices has grown dramatically, resulting in
a much reduced role for centrally administered prices. In general, average consumer energy
prices are now close to the economic costs of supply in the principal demand centers. However,
the prevailing pricing system has become inordinately complex, consisting of a wide variety of
both producer and consumer prices for the same commodities, based more on historical or
administrative criteria than on any economic rationale. In addition, while most consumer prices
may be high, this is often due to charges for out-of-plan supply or other local government levies.
Producer prices currently charged by many of the large energy industry enterprises are well
below incremental production costs.
1.19         Coal supplied at market-determined prices now accouns for over one half of coal
consumption. In early 1993, the Government announced its intention to decontrol prices over
the next three years, through further step-by-step increases in the share of coal supplied at
market prices. Market prices are generally in line with the economic costs of domestic
production and distribution and, in East China, local market coal prices are close to or even
above international price levels. Although their role is declining, administered producer prices
remain substantially below incremental cost levels, and the coal industry still remains a major
loss-making sector.
1.20         While the average price levels of light perolewn products are close to
international prices, average prices of crude oil and heavy fuel oil have been kept substantialy
lower. In 1992, however, the Government indicated that crude oil prices would be increased
to inernational levels by the end of 1995, and actual implementation is expected even sooner.



- 5 -
Producer prices for natural gas remain distorted and should be adjusted to provide better
Incentives to find and develop more resources.
1.21         Substanta progress has been made in increasing elecricity prices; in East China,
for example, average consumer prices are now close to the long-run marginal costs (LRMC) of
supply. The 'new plant, new price" policy guarantees that power prices will be sufficient to
allow power producers to fully service the debt on newly commissioned projects. However,
average ptoducer price levels still need to be adjusted upwards to improve the contribution of
internal cash generation to the large investments of the subsector. The structure of current tariffs
also remains overly complex and distorted (see paras. 2.15-2.18).
1.22         The Government remains committed to overall energy price reform. Key
directions for the reform include: (a) firther adjustments to close the gap between administered,
in-plan prices and market-determined prices, particularly through further contraction in the scope
of application of the administered price system; (b) unification and simplification of multitiered
price systems, to yield more transparent, equitable and economically rational pricing structures;
(c) further adjustments in producer prices; and (d) adjustments in pricing structures to better
reflect quality differences, including expanded differentiation in tariffs between peak and off-peak
power supply.
Instuional and Enterprie Reform
1.23         As China makes the transition to a market economy, reforms to increase the
autonomy of energy sector enterprises, diversify sources of funding, and improve the regulatory
enonment need to be futier deepened. In the power subsector, initial steps have been taken
to separate utlity companies from government bureaus; this effort needs to be further
strengthened in the coming years as part of the overall enterprise reforms. In contrast to the
past, a variety of funding sources are now being tapped for large projects and, in the power
subsector, joint fiancing arrangements Involving different central and local government entities
are becoming the norm. This reform needs to be deepened through use of additional funding
sources and introduction of equity financing. EspeciaUy in the power, oil and gas subsectors,
development of more transparent reguatory regimes is needed to allow more autonomous and
varied enterprises to develop and operate efficientiy.
C. ENERGY SECTOR STRATEGY
1.24         China is endeavoring to eliminate energy shortages in an environment of rapid
economic growth, and its principal objectives are to: (a) accelerate the expansion of electric
power and oil/gas production; (b) expand and improve the scale of coal production; (c) increase
the efficiency and change the forms of coal utilization; (d) minimize the environmental impact
of energy use; (e) further rationalize energy prices and investment funding; (f) deepen
instutional and enterprise reforms in the sector; and (g) encourage the transfer of modern know-
how and technology in energy industries.
1.25         Allowing the power subsector a larger share in fina energy consumption will
help to modernize the Chinese economy, increase end-use efficiencies, and curtail pollution
through the harnmessing of hydropower, more efficient technologies, and larger-scale plants. The
same holds tmue for the oil and naural gas subsectors, both of which yield cleaner, more efficient
fuels than coal. The continued developmen of coal mining is an inescapable necessity in China,



-6 -
but it must occur under conditions of higher efficiency, adequate safety, and environmental
acceptability.
D. BANK ROLE IN TIIE ENERGY SECIOR
1.26         The Bank has supported 12 projects in electric power development, 5 in
petroleum (including one natural gas project), and one in coal. In all three subsectors, objectives
have included support for technology transfer, modem management practices, and the
development of efficient, large-scale energy production. Through sector work and project-
related technical assistance, the Bank has also assisted the Government in the areas of energy
price reform, improving ener  efficiency, mitigation of the environmental impacts of coal use,
and enterprise management reforms. Specific aspects of the Govements strategy and the role
of the Bank in the power subsector are covered in paras. 2.19-2.21.
1.27         With the Bank's assistance, the Chinese have developed capabilities to properly
assess the economic costs of electric power and coal, and utilize these techniques in developing
their price reform strategies. In the case of electric power, a joint effort to establish LRMC and
pricing principles for East China has been followed up through the development of provincial
tariff reform action plans under new power loans. These action plans are now at various stages
of implementation (see para. 2.26).
1.28         Ihe Bank is pursuing a multidimensional, sustained program of assistance to
improve coal utilization practices, increase energy efficiency, and reduce air pollution stemming
from coal use. A condnuing dialogue with the Government has been established through the
completion of two joint studies, Efficiency and Environmental Impact of Coal Use (Report No.
8915-CIA, 1991) and the China Energy Conservation Study (Report No. 10813-CHA, 1992).
Further follow-up technical assistance and pre-investment work is currently under way with
support from the Global Environment Facflity. Because the issues involved concern the use of
energy across the economy, assistance through the lending program involves operations in a
variety of sectors. Investment and policy support has been, and wfll contine to be, provided
through industry and urban/environment operations, in addition to current and future lending
operations in the energy sector.
1.29         Ihe Bank is also launching a program of sector work and technical assistance
activities on institutional development and enterprise reform in the power subsector (para. 2.27).
The recently-initiated, joint effort is iniilly focusing on identification and analysis of principal
reform options, especially on issues relating to the role of the central versus local governments,
how to delineate the role of government and utilities/enteprises, and how to establish an
improved regulatory framework. This will be followed by an effort to develop concrete
measures for implementation.



-7-
2
THE POWER SUBSECTOR
A. BACKGROUND
2.1          China is the ft   largest producer of electicity in the world. In 1991, the
country had a total insalled capacity of 151.5 GW (75 percent based on therma power and
25 percent based on hydropower) and generated 677.5 TWh of electricity (552.6 TWh from
thermal). Plant use and bigh-voltage network losses accounted for 6.9 and 8.1 percent of
generation, respvely. Fuel consumption in thermal plants has been reduced to about
424 grams of standard coal per kWh. At the end of 1991, there were 12 power networks with
capacity over 2,000 MW each, of which the capacities of 4 regional power networks exceeded
20,000 MW. Ihe tot length of the extra high voltage transmission lines reached 7,957 km and
the capacity of substations amounted to 21.5 GVA.
2.2          The Chinese rural electrification policy emphasizes the developmen of local
energy resowces. Iherefore, as much as possible, mini hydropower development is encouraged
in Isolated areas. In 1991, mini-hydro, small themd, and diesel generan sets had a total
instled capacity of 21.3 GW. Mini-hydro plants alone had a capacity of 10.1 GW and an
annual generation of 31.1 TWh. Approxmaely 96 percent of villages are electrified.
2.3          The growth of imstalled capacity, electricity generation and sales is depicted in
Anmex 2 1. Annex 2.2 shows the historical trend of electricity generation, primary energy
demand, and the GNP. The target of quadrupling the GNP between 1980 and the year 2000
should result in average power demand growth of 7 percent a year. On this basis, the Ten-Year
Program for National Economic and Social Developmet (1991-2000) calls for an increase in
geneating capacity to 285 GW from 138 GW, and electricity geeration to 1,300 TWh from
621 TWh. Ahough this program has not been officially revised, growth in both GNP and
power demand is now expected to exceed these targets, based on the robust economic
performance experienced in recent years. Large thermal power stations are being constructed
mainly near ports and major coal mines. Major hydroelectric stations are planned at the middle
and upper reaches of the Yangtze and Hougshul rivers. A 500 kV transmission network is being
built to Integrate regional grids.
2.4          In 1991, China consumed 576 TWh of electricity; 73.0 percent was consumed
by industry, 16.0 percent by agriture including rral househols, 9.3 percent by municipal
and reddential users, and 1.7 percent by transportation/communications. Details of electricity
consumtion by sectos are given in Annx 2.3  Electricity consumption per capita in 1991
reached 585 kWh; average houehold us was about 85 kWh in cities and 20 kWh in rural areas.



-8-
2.5          In the late 1980s, electricity demand increased faster than generating capacity,
and power shortages reached about 20 percent of electricity requirements, which translated into
the idling of industi capacity for one or two days a week. Electricity is still allocated through
quotas based on priorities set by authorities, and demands for new connections are closely
screened. The rapid growth of demand can be attriu   both to the very high economic growth
and to the increasing share of electricity in commercial ener  consumptdon: 13 prcet in 1970,
18 percent in 1980, 24 percent in 1990, and possibly 30 percent by the year 2000.
NotwihstandW  concerted efforts at energy conservation, the growth of power supply should
not be allowed to fall behind GNP growth. A faster pace of power system development would
be justified in order to accelerate the retirement of the less efficient and more polluting small
coal-fired plants.
B. INSTnurONs, REFOzM, PLANNNG Am TECHNOLOGY TRANsER
2.6          Instittions. MOE oversees all strategic aspects of power development (para.
1.9), including seven regional power administrtons which coordinate the operations of the
power systems and prepare long-tm development programs for the approval of MOE. Under
the regional administrtons, there are 19 provincial and 1 municpal power bureaus, and 6 other
provincial and autonomous regional bureaus which operate in isolation. A mnmber of
investigation and design institutes are affiliated with MOE, as are the 16 construction companies
involved primarily in building power projects. Several universities, colleges, and research and
taining centers also fall under the auspices of MOE.
2.7          The Huaneng Inernational Power Development Corporation (HIPDC) was
created in 1985 with the aim of atracting forein  capital and technology for power generating
plants located mainy in the open coasta areas. HIPDC has a mandate to raise funds directly
from the iational financial market, and it has been active in tapping bilateral and suppliers'
redits, and commercial bank loans. The recenly established Sunblast Energy Development
Corporation (SEDC) is another window for the Government's investment in cofinancing with the
local goverments and foreign sources in energy projects. The three thermal power stations now
being implemented by SEDC are Ligang in Jiangsu (2x350 MW), Zhenzhou in Hunan (2x200
MW), and Baotou in lnner Mongolia (lxlO0 MW). Pardy as a result, the power subsector in
China has claimed a significant share of the coutry's external financing (Ann  2.4.
2.8          Separate corporations have also been created for developing major hydroelecric
schemes. These new Instional aangemen  are beneficial because such corporations are
alowed to maximize their efficiency through specialization and economies of scale, and to
reinvest their eanings into fuure power development
2.9          The power industry in China employs about 1.8 million people. However, there
is a shortage of trained manpower, particularly technical and administrative staff. MOE has
initiated a long-tem program to upgrade the skills of the staff at all levels. The program is
caried out primarily by the provincia power bureaus and regional power administrations. The
trainng component of the proposed project is designed to support the MOE program, and assist
in developing manpower to meet the project's human resource needs (para. 3.7).
2.10         Entwprise Refom. China's efforts to grduay eform stateowned enterprises,
including those in the power subsector, aceWerated during 1992. Key aspects in the current
enteprise reform movement throughout the country include: (a) reform of the legal framework,



-9-
including both the development of new laws and regulations and a strengthening of faith in legal
institutions; (b) governance reform, especially relations between Goverment and enterprises;
(c) ownership reform, and the related issues of corporatization and shareholding, and private/
nonstate sector development; and (d) subsector restructuring, enterprise development, and
improvements in enterprise management.
2.11         Simflar to other state-owned enterprises, the accountability of China's power
enterprises for their own profits and losses has been strengthened through adoption of new
provisions under the contract responsibility system (see para. 6.2). A framework for separation
of Government and enterprise roles in the subsector recently has been established through the
formation of power corporations at regional and provincial levels. Efforts to diversify fimding
sources for new investment projects have proceeded aggressively, focusing primarily on joint-
venture financing arrangements involving different public entities, but also through increased
participation of foreign investors. One example of the latter is a recently announced joint
Chinese/foreign financing scheme for a major thermal power plant at Jiaxin in Zhejiang
Province. The Bank is actively supporting these efforts (para. 2.27).
2.12         Power Systan Paning. The coordination of power system planning in China
is the responsibility of MOE, which reviews the plans proposed by the regional power
ainistrations and bureaus. For the expansion of thermal power plants and transmission
networls, the research, planning and designs are carried out by the regional electric power
design institutes, and for hydroelectric projects by the hydroelectric investigation and design
institutes and MOE's Water Resources and Hydropower Planning Institute.
2.13         As planning for China's power development becomes increasingly complex, there
is a compelling need to apply state-of-the-art system planming techniques. Ihis is particularly
importat for evaluaing large-sce projects which have long lead times and for making decisions
about generation mix, power plant location, and grid configuration. Least-cost generation
plaing techniques were first introduced for thermal generaion in East China through technical
assistance from the International Atomic Energy Agency.l/ Under the Planning Support and
Special Studies Project (Credit 1835-CHA), least-cost plaming methodologies were also applied
for hydroelectric and transmission expansion plans for the Sichuan and East China power
systems. Training in the use of these techniques has been provided to staff of the concerned
power bureaus and MOE's research institutes.
2.14         Moden Technology Transfer. For China to achieve its ambitious goals for the
power subsector, the transfer of appropriate modern technologies will be crucial. This is
particularly important for thermal power plants, where incrses in the steam parameters and unit
sizes can reduce fuel consumption. Since thermal generation from coal-fired units is expected
to provide about three quarters of total generation until the end of the century, reducing the
amount of fuel consumed for power generation would reduce pressures on both the supply and
transport of coal, as well as on the environment. Technology transfer is also needed for large
hydroelectric projects, particularly in connection with the project general layout, the design of
sophisticated structures and large underground works, the selection of equipment, efficient
constrcion management, environmental assessments and operational matters. Assistance in
tednology transfer for pumped-storage hydroelectric projects will be provided under the
proposed project (para. 5.8).
1/  Under th Baks Second Power Project an 2493-CHA).



- 10-
C. POWE  PrICJ
2.15         Chia's curr-ent electricity pricing system is a complex combination of "old
ratew," "new rates," and various surcharges, which has been put together, through various
incremental adjusments, to improve cost recovery. Ihe base prices which form the basis for
the revenue of provincial power companies now consist of (a) basic fees, steming from the
1976 national power tariff; (b) some additional charges arising from an averaging in of higher
pnces dharged for power frui some new plants recentiy constructed by these companies; and
(c) fuel surcharges, which are adjusted each year to reflect increases in fuel costs. Although the
gap is natrowig, the average revenue derived fiom these prices is still lower than the LRMC
of supply and, by itself, the revenue collected still provides insufficient contribution towards new
investment.
2.16         Average consumer prices, however, are substantally higher than the base prices
charged by provincia power companies. The tariff applied to consumers also includes
(a) surcharges to raise funds for energy investments by local governments, (b) some additional
charges for power from some new plants (especialy those fianced primarily with local funds),
(c) charges for certain sources of supply outside of the state allocation system, and (d) a variety
of local taxes. With these additional charges, the average electricity prices now paid by
c-onsumers are close to the LRMC of supply in many areas, such as East China (see para. 3.22).
However, the system of base fees and numerous surcharges is too complex and lacks
transparency. In most areas, unfair "old and "new" rates continue to be applied to different
consumers, whereby some consumers are protected from most of the surcharges because they
still hold "in-plan" quota allocations, but other new or small consumers must pay high prices
well above actual supply costs.
2.17         In 1991, the Government announced its intention to unify old and new system
rates imto sigle, more transparent tarlfft, and some concrete measures have now been taken.
A mbaer of provincial power companies-the necessary focal points of this effort-have
implemented reforms in this direction, and a further deening of the program is under way.
The Bank has provided actve support for this effort, through the provincial power tariff reform
action plans sponsored in each of the last three power lending opeations.
2.18         Peak-load pricing is another area where reform is now required. In the current
rates applied to medium- and large-scale industries, the ratio of basic demand charges to energy
charges is far too low, as demand charges have not been significandy increased in decades. The
application of seasonal rates in regions dominated by hydropower needs to be strengthened.
Time-of-day rates for large consumers have been introduced on a tial basis in a few areas.
Given the shortage and high cost of peak-oad power, this effort now needs to be expanded into
new areas. TSme-of-day rates also need to be introduced for bulk sales. A specific study dealing
with these issues is included in the proposed project (para. 5.10).
D. SuSeas Or  ISSt ES AND SRATzY
2.19         The major issues in the power subsector include: (a) acute power shortages;
(b) protracted implementadon periods for large projects; (c) environmental impacts of power
supply; (d) weak interconnecton within the regional power system; (e) scarcity of skilled
manpower; (f) need of modern methods for planning, operation, and financial management;
(g) fiurer rationalization of the tariff structure; () power enterprise autonomy, through further



- 11 
separation of power companies and government supervisory agencies; (i) the need to expand and
diversif investment funding; and () regulatory enironment improvements.
2.20         The Govenment's policy for the power subsector Is to modernize and expand
it, as well as to increase its efficiency at a rate sufficient to meet the requirements of economic
development and improve the living conditions of the population. This policy translates into the
following objectives: (a) expand coal-fired thermal capacity at mine-mouths or near ports and
load centers in order to reduce the rail transportation requirements and use of lower grade coal
In urban centers; (b) replace small- and medium-size thermal units with larger, less poUuting,
and more efficient units; (c) accelerate the pace of hydroelectric development; (d) construct
tranmission networks; and (e) adopt modern methods in system planning, project design and
environmena impact mitigation. Supported tbrough a well-eveloped institutional network at
aU levels of government, China's programs to improve the efficiency of electricity use include
efforts to reduce power system losses, replace outmoded inefficient equipment, improve
industial process technology, and produce new models of high-efficiency electrical equipment.
In terms of policy reform, the Government remains committed to a further deepening of power
tariff reform, further separation of utilities and govermnent agencies, and additional measures
to "corporate" the subsector in keeping with overall enterprise reform.
E. RoLE OF TE BANK iN TnE POWER Su9 CTR
2.21         The Bank's participation in the power subsector in China has particularly focused
on institution building, price reform and the transfer of appropriate modern technologies. The
Bank has supported the Government's stae  through sector work, policy dialogue, and a series
Of lendint operations. The Bank also has helped to introduce state-of-the-art system planning
methodologies, which identify cost-effective, sustainable development policies for the power
subsector.
2.22         The Bank has helped to finance 11 large power generation projects (5 thermal,
6 hydro) and one transmission project. Through these operations, the Bank has successfuly
(a) introduced international competitve bidding (ICB) for works and goods; (b) supported the
transfer of modern tcnologies in project constuction and management; (c) helped to improve
the efficiency of pollution abatement; (d) promoted the integration of regional power systems;
(e) supported the development of mast plans for modern distribution networks; and
(f) promoted operational efficiency and prudent financial management.
2.23         Most of the power projects financed by the Bank are being implemented in a
satisfactomamer, on schedule, and within budget. The first operation, Lubuge Hydroelectric
Project (Lo  2382-OA) has been succully completed. The 500-kV Xuzhou-Shanghai
Trasmission Project (Loan 2493-CHA) has been put into service as scheduled. The Yantan
Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2707-CHA) is progressing satisfactority; the first unit was put into
operation in 1992. Several problems which were encountered early in ths implementation of the
Shuikou Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2775-CHA) have been resolved and the second loan for
ShuikDu Project R (LAn 3515-CHA) was approved recentiy. The constrcton of the Ertan
Hydroelectric Project (Loan 3387-CHA) and the Daguangba Multipurpose Project (Loan 3412-
CHA and Credit 2305-CHA) is now progressing well. Furthermore, the Bank is involved in
financing five thermal power projects-Beiuang (Loan 2706-CHA), Wujing (Loan 2852-
CHA), BeiWungMg Extesio (Lnm 2955-CHA), Yanshi (Loan 3433-CA) and Zouxian (Loan
3462-CHA). Wujing was completed on schedule. Beitungang encountered delays due to



- 12 -
procurement problems and poor coordination of goods supplies. Unit No. 1 was commissioned
in 1991 and Unit No. 2 is expected for commissioning in 1993, about one year behind schedule.
Tne implementation of Yanshi and Zouxian projects has started successfilly.
2.24         The lessons learned from lending operations for the power projects in China have
been taken into account in preparing the proposed project. These lessons basically include:
(a) improving procurement and contractual arrangements; and (b) enhancing the role of project
management and the use of engineering consultants. Particular attention has been given to the
environmental aspects of the projects.
2.25         The Bank's support for the proposed project wiUl ensure the timely
implementtion of a pumped-rage hydroelectric project urgently needed to meet peaking power
system requirements. Through this project, the Bank will be able to cooperate for the first time
with several provincial power bureaus in East China and help to strengthen their capabilities for
tariff reform, investment programming and financial planning as well as the applicable regulatory
framework development.
2.26         Power Pridng Reform. The Bank's active effort to support power tariff reform
began with a major tariff study completed in 1988 under the Beilungang Thermal Power
Extension Project (Loan 2955-CHA). The marginal cost pricing principles introduced in this
study have now gained wide acceptance in China. Subsequent loans for power development at
provincial levels have included agreements on implementation of provincial power tariff refbrm
action programs. Further support for price reform will continue under this proposed project.
ECEPUC has prepared a regional reform program which incorporates programs in the three
provinces and one municipality in the East China region to complete tariff unification reforms
and greatly expand use of time-of-day rates by 1995 (para. 3.24). This project also includes a
detailed study of peak power pricing (para. 5.10).
2.27         Institional and Reguatory Reform. The Bank has laumched a program of
technical assistance and sector work on institutional development and enterprise reform in the
power subsector. Initial efforts focus on review and analysis of the issues and options regarding
(a) more complete separation of the Government and power utility corporations, and clearer
definition of the role of the Government and enterprises in the subsector; (b) improved
organization of the subsector; (c) further diversification of financing sources, including options
involving direct foreign investment; and (d) strengthening the legal and regulatory framework
to enable improvements m the above areas to proceed effectively. These initial efforts wil be
followed by development of concrete measures for implementation. The proposed project wiU
enable an active dialogue on these issues with regional authorities in the East China region,
within which future provincial-level power lending operations also are planned to further deepen
reform efforts.
2.28         Demand-Ide Management. Regarding load management, one of the most
fnAmtal objectives of the proposed project is to improve load management in the East China
power system by transferring off-peak energy to pe  energy. Regarding end-use efficiency, the
Bank's broad program of support for energy conservation (pa   1.28) includes a focus on
improving the efficiency of elecricity use, especiaUy in the industrial sector.



- 13 -
3
ThE BENEFICIARY
3.1          China is in the process of reforming its state enterprise system through
progressive development of a suitable corporate legal system. It has thus come a long way from
carrying out its economic agenda through state enterprises wholly owned, controlled and
operated by line departments and agencies of the Government. In 1983, the State Council
promugated the Provisional Rules for State Industrial Enterprises, which allowed state
enterprises a limited range of operational autonomy. These Rules were superseded by the Law
of the People's Republic of China on Industrial Enterprises Owned by the Whole People enacted
by the Chinese National People's Congress in 1988. The Law introduced the concept of semi-
independent management and allowed some more operational autonomy. Presently, the
Government is promoting, on an experimental basis, the restructuring of state enterprises as
shareholding companies pursuant to its Regulations on Enterprises' Sbareholding System
Experiment issued in 1992. For this purpose, it has also issued its Views on Standards for
Limited Share Companies and Views on Standards for Limited Liabitity Companies (both dated
May 15, 1992). A mber of other related regulations have also been issued on a provisiona
basis. All these efforts are indicative of the Government's resolve to eventually transform the
state enterprise system into a full-fledged independent corporate structure.
A. IzGAL STATES AND ORGANEZTAON OF ECEPUC
3.2          The beneficiary of the proposed loan is the East China Electric Power United
Corporation (ECEPUC). This would be the first Bank loan to be onlent to ECEPUC. ECEPUC
is a corporate entity with limited liability having a registered capital of Y 14.1 billion. It was
established in 1989 under the Law of the People's Republic of China on Industrial Enterprises
with Ownership by the Whole People. Prior to its establishment, ECEPUC was the East China
Electric Power Adminison (ECEPA), a government agency under the jurisdiction of MOE
with the authority to oversee the Power Bureaus of Shanghai Municipality, Jiangsu, Zhejiang,
and Anhui Provinces. As part of the reform efforts to separate government administration and
eneprise management, power companies at provincial and municipal levels are being formed
to gradually replace power bureaus. The principal responsibility of ECEPUC is the coordinated
development and operation of the East China power system, which covers Shanghai municipality
and Jiangsu, Zhejiang and Anhui provinces. It is a kind of "amalgamation" of the Shanghai
Municipal Power Company, Jiangsu Provincial Power Company, Zhejiang Provincial Power
Company and Anhw Provincial Power Company-which retain their independent corporate
status. ECEPUC is empowered to provide services in accordance with the scope of authorization
given by MOE. A Charter (Standing Rules) of ECEPUC acceptable to the Bank has been
issued. It would thus appear to have the power to undertake the proposed project as authorized
by MOE. In terms of financial management, ECEPUC is required to implement the price policy
and the relevant directives of the State. ECEPUC finctions under the supervisory control of
MOE and the East China Power Network Leading Group (constituted by representatives of



- 14-
MOE, ECEPUC and the provincial governments of Jiangsu, Zhejiang and Anbui Provinces and
Shanghai Municipality). Headed by a General Manger, ECEPUC is managed by a Board of
Directors appointed by MOE.  The General Manage of ECEPUC and present of the
provincial and municipal companies are ex-oflcio diector of ECEPUC. While the Board of
Directors of ECEPUC exercises policy-making powers in respect of matters dealing with the
interests of the provincial and municipal companies, the major responsibility of the General
Manager of ECEPUC includes the implementation of general and specific policies of the State
and the relevant directives given by MOE. ECEPUC has adequately carried out its mandate and
effectively coordinated development and operations in the four provinces/municipality.
Arrangements for interprovincial/municipal coordination under the project are set forth in the
agreements signed by all project participants. Ihese agreements are saisfctory to the Bank.
3.3          ECEPUC has been authorized by MOE, inter alia, to: (a) make economic
contracts with domestic and foreign enterprises (X the latter case with the approval of the
responsible department of the State), (b) obtain various loans from domestic units according to
the credit system of the State and from foreign banks or corporations under approval of the
responsible department of the State for purposes of power construction, (c) calculate product cost
and profit according to the financial account  system of the State, (d) purchase equipment and
materias from the domestic market and from abroad (in the latter case with the approval of the
responsible department of the State), and (e) market generated energy to all districts and
enterprises within the power supply area of ECEPUC in accordance with the sales program of
the State. The General Manager of ECEPUC has the power to sign contracts on behalf of the
corporation. The provinc  and municipal companies are authorized to make power delivery/
reception contracts and other economic contracts with each other.
B. MANAGEMENT
3.4          Recent performance indicators for the East China Power Grid (EGPG), which
includes the power systems of three provinces and Shanghai Municipality, reveal high plant
capacity factors and rather low transmission and distribution losses (Ann  3.1. ECEPUC
prepares accounting information in a timely fashion and operates an effective billing and
collection system (paras. 3.26 and 3.27). However, the successful upgrading of management
systems and procedures, and the strengthening of fiancial planning deserve special attention
(paras. 3.8-3.12). The Goverment used to maintain strict control over the power subsector.
As the institutional framework becomes less centralized and the power bureaus receive greater
financial autonomy and responsibility for decision-making, ECEPUC is preparing itself to
manage this transition. The proposed project includes specific training in udlity mnmagement
and financial planning for this purpose (para. 5. 11).
3.5          ECEPUC is capable of formulatng its own expansion program and implementing
power projects by itself. However, for a large project such as the one proposed, outside
assistance will be required for the preparation of bid documents, bid evaluation, contract
negotiations, and construction management (para. 5.8).
C. STAFFNG AND TRANIG
3.6          ECEPUC is understaffed in engien and tedhnical work, financial control and
planning and management, especially in dispatching opeations of large power gids. As of
December 31, 1991, the corporation had a total staff of 5,627, of which about 18 percent were



- 15 -
engineers and technIilans, 15 percnt administrve staff, 49 percent workers, and the rest
service staff and others. Except for the core group of key tecbnical and managerial personnel
who are assigned by the State, almost al of ECEPUC's employees are recmited locally. Most
of th employees are hired on a peaet basis, except for laborers contras4.ad for conuction.
E CEPUC has 15 diisions and offices (Cknrt2). The total number of staff and workers in
ECPG was 208,655 as of December 31, 1991. Dels of staffing of the ECPG are shown In
Annex 3.2.
3.7          ECEPUC runs 31 schools and trainng centers, including a polytecc college,
and 14 technical and vocational schools (details in AnX,.3!. This training capacity is
basically sufficient to meet ECEPUC's long-term needs. However, the skills of teaching staff
and quality of teaching facilities need to be upgraded and modernized. Training should be
designed to help senior managerial, financial and technical staff adapt to the new situafions
brought about by a larger and more complex power grid. The taining component included In
the proposed project is designed to meet these needs. It also covers upgrading and equipping
of ECEPUC's training insttutions and project-related traing for technical staff (Pas. 5.11-
5.14).
D. PLANNIG, BuDGU1G AND CONTROL
3.8          The evolution of systems for planning, budgeting, and controlling China's power
entities is discussed in detail in Annex 3.4 Power bureaus and corporations are responsible for
developing annual and five-yea- production and investment plans which are integrated into the
national plans and are approved, through MOE's and SEIC's auspices, by SPC. In the past,
financial planning was confined to attaching monetary values, predetermined by MOE, to the
quantities being planned. Although a power bureau's plan might be revised to reflect changes,
It would ordinariy not be revised to reflect differences between estaed prices and act
prices.
3.9          However, with the economic changes in the 1980s, prices have begun to move
toward market levels and the Government has begun to finance more investments through loans
rather than grnts. Centralized control is being relaxed and replaced by greater financW
autonomy and responsibilities for the power entities. To address these changes, ECEPUC will
need to adjust its plaraning system to include moderm financial planning.
3.10         MOE and SEIC recognize the importance of fnacial management in the power
subsector in China and are organizing a comprehensive training program for all the power
instiutions under their control. MOE has already started providing many of the power bureaus
with computers and software for automated planning, budgeting, and accounting fimntions.
Information from the bureaus can be transferred to MOE and consolidated into regional and
national data.
3.11         The new systems represent a good first generation of automated management
information; however, they still are not sufficiently flexible to take into account price changes
at the local level or those associated with large-scale debt senrice obligations. Currently MOE
and SEIC, with assistance from the Bank, manage a number of seminars in China and overseas.
These seminars cover computer-based management information sysems as well as tarffs, cost
control, project finncing, comparative accounting systems (Chinese vs. Western), and the
organization and structure of financial management.



- 16 -
3.12         MOE has agree to inoduce a financial plannig system in power entitles
Implementing Bank-financed projects. Assurances were obtaned from ECEPUC that, by
April 30 of each year commening In 1994, It would furnish to the Bank a rolling eght-year
fibaiplan containngiprojected Income statemns, satemens  of sources and uses offwids,
and balance sheets.
E. ACCouNTING
3.13         Different accounting systems are used by enteprises (autonomous units),
construction units (which execute investment projects) and local government departments, in
accordance with regulations prescribed by the Ministry of Finance (MOF).
Entwprise Accounting
3.14         All the state-owned enterprises in China follow a unified enterprise accounting
system on an accrual basis. The current accounting framework was developed in the context of
a highly centralized planned economy. With a view to complementing the ongoing efforts to
deepen reforms in the finmcial sector and enterprise management, the acountig system in
China needs modernization to permit satisfactory financial management in an increasingly
decentralized and market-oriented environment. As a first step, the general principles of
enterprise accounting have recendy been revised by MOF. Tlese revised principles are
generally consistent with those of international accounting standards. Within this broad
framework, specific accounig standards would be developed with the assistance of the Bank
under the Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project (Credit 2423-CHA).
ixed Asset Accounting
3.15         Up to now, the power entities have maintained two sets of accounts, one set for
capital construction and the other for operation. Since these two sets of accounts are not
consolidated, the balance sheet for operations does not include construction work-in-progress and
the relating financing. However, under the newly revised general principles set forth by MOF,
enterprises will have to consolidate the capital construction accounts with the operation accounts.
Revauation of Fbied Assets
3.16         The current Chinese accounting system does not employ the concept of revaluing
fixed assets. However, with recent inflation and depreciation in the value of the renminbi, the
need to revalue assets has become more compelling. Under the revised accounting principles,
enterprises in special categories, such as joint ventures with foreign partners, merger, enterprise
on auction, etc., will have to revalue their assets. Currently, North China Electric Power
Corporation has been selected to conduct an experiment on assets revaluation. A pro forma
revaluation of ECEPUC's assets was performed during appraisal of the proposed project which
indicated a reduction in the average rate of return on assets of about 11 percent for the period
1991 through 2000.



- 17-
F. AUDn
Extmal Audit
3.17         The State Audit Adminiation (SAA) was established In 1983 and given the
status of a ministry rqeot  direcy to the State CouncL. In addition, provinci audit bureaus
are being established in each province and municipafit (arge cities). Ihe audit regaons and
standards prepared by MOF are based on inteatonal auditing practdes and were promulgated
by the State Council on October 21, 1988.
3.18         Audits of Bank-finaced projects have been conducted by SAA's Foreig
Inavestment Audit Bureau or one of the Provici Audit Bureaus (PAB) under its guia. The
audits have focused on enterprises with foeign participation in the form of equity or loan
finmcing. SAA and PAB have been receiving tining ttrough the TCC  nanced by the Bank
Group.
3.19         Under the proposed project, E PUCs annual accounts wi be auditedby SAA.
This a ement is sfactory. Assances were obtaied from ECEPUC  ha It would
maitain separte accounts for the project and tw  e audted prject accounts, tatme   of
eeditres, and fanal amet oECEPUC would be jfiw hed to he Bank wihin sx
months  fe the end of each fiscal year commecg In 1994.
Intenal Audit
3.20         ECEPUC has developed an intern  auditing section (staffed with chartered
accountants) which periodically will examine the accounts of each operating unit. The objective
of these examinations is primarily to test for accuracy and compliance with MOP regulations.
The inte  auditing section is not expected to review the app   d   of accoundng
.egutions or procedures; such reviews are considered to be the responsibility of MOF and
MOE. However, the section wil serve as liaison between external auditors and the project
entity. The Bank wll review the inrnal audiig function during project implementation with
a view toward increasng its efficiency and usefness to ECEPUC. The frst SAA audit of
ECEPUC for FY94 is expected to includo a review and commentary on ECEPUC's controls and
interna audi
G. EucccY TARMS
3.21         The average revenue per kWh collected by ECEPUC increased by about
24 percent in curren terms between 1989 and 1991, when it reached 14.6 fw&lWh.Jl/ Ihis
change reflects the application of the surcarge for incres in coal prces, and the increasing
weight of new plant tariffs. Yet, the tariff level is still too low to provide an adequae level of
self-financing to ECEPUC. Financial projections (pa  6.9) indicate the need for an increase
of about 48 percent in current terms betwee 1991 and 1994 to reach a covenanted self-financing
ratio of 30 percent.
1/  Mm averag rven  of ECEPUC icudes buk odes, and ecudes swhage  uch as the
2 fenlkWh for the Povincial Powe Constuction fid intoduced in 19rS.



- 18-
3.22     l    he  al elecicity prices paid by consume rs, however, are far hihr tn the
avage uni revenue levds collected by the provinci power copanies and ECEPUC. In the
case of Sanhai, for emple, the base price collected by the Sha i Municipal Power
Company and ECEPUC was about 18 fen/kWh in July 1992 (the higest in the reglon), but the
weighted average price paid by coUsumers was 26 fenlkWh, duo to the addifion of a varety of
local surcharges which do not accrue as revenue to the Municipal Power Company or ECEPUC
(Ae 3. .The consmer price in Sh      i amounts to 90-95 percent of the estimated LRMC
of supply, including distribution costs, to consumers in East Chin. In the three provinces of
the East China Region (Jlangsu, Zhejlang and Anhui), actual average conumer prices are
reported to be higher than in Shanghai, due to the addition of yet higher surcharges.
3.23         Shanghi Municipality has a unified retail power tariff which is relaively simple
to understand (An 3. , as opposed to the more complex, multitiered retai tariffs which still
prevail in the three provinces of the region. As of July 1992, resident  consumers In Shanghai
pay 25 fen/kWh, or slightly under the average, while industri and commercial motive power
tariffs range between 26 to 33 fenkWh, or slightly higher than the average. Consumers with
agricultural supply quotas (about 5 percent of total) remain susdie, paying rates of 10-
12 fen/kWh.
3.24         In 1992, ECEPUC prepared a powe tariff refom action plan, which It is
encouraging the three provinces and one nWnicipality of the East China region to implement by
the end of 1995. MOE also endorses this plan. This plan reflects the findings of the Bani's
previous East China pricing study (para 2.26). Key elements include the unification of
multitiered tariffs throughout the region by the end of 1995, and a major expansion in the
application of time-of-day rates (AI" 3..
H. BlujG A.ND COLLIECIONS
3.25         As of Dember 31, 1991, ECEPUC sales were distributed according to the
consumer categories shown in Table 3.1. Detais of the consumption and revenues by provinces/
municipality are given in Annex 3.7
Table 3.1: DwrumoN OF ECEPUC CONSUmIJON
(As of December 31, 1991)
Customer category              Consumptio  (GWh)      2
Large industry                    47,288           54.2
Small lduetry                     13,272           15.2
Agrlculture                        4,665            5.4
Lighting                           8,555            9.8
Bulk uply                         13,398           15.4
total                         87.178          100.0
3.26         ECEPUC conducts its billing and collection activities through twelve power
supply units. AU major industial consumers receiving supply over 320 kVA are charged in
advance three times per month at approximate ten-day intewis. The last two bill, rendered
on about the siteenth and twenty-fift days of the month, are based on estimated usage derived



- 19 -
from the consumeres contractual power consumption. The first bill, rendered on about the sith
day of the month, s also based on esimated usge but includes an adjusent to rfled the
previous mont's acual usago as computed hom a meter readg. AU other customers an billed
once a month based on actua usage.
3.27         Industrial, commeril and bulk consumers pay thek bils thouh direct debit
ffom their bank accounts. Urban reidential and low voltage agricutural consumers receiving
power directly from ECEPUC render payments to local branches of the Nation Bank. Payment
is due within five days of recipt of the bill. Regulations sta tht consumers who do not
pay withinth isperiod are to b charged a fe of .O3 pacet per day of delay, andthat after
several notices those who stil refus to pay their bills are to be disconnected from the power
supply. These billing and collection arrangemens have established a reliable cash flow from
sales and have brought ECEPUC's accounts receivable from urrent power sales down to fairly
low levels. At the end of 1991, they wre less than Y 528 million on sales of Y 12.76 billion,
which has Improved from Y 510 million on sales of Y 10.78 billion in 1990.



- 20 -
4
TE POWER MARKET AND PROGRAM
A. TMg EAST CHNA PowER GRID
4.1          The proposed project would be located in East China, including the provinces
of Jiangsu, Zhejiang and Anhul and Shanghai Municipality. This area is experiencing
remarkable economic growth and its industrW output increased in 1992 about 30 percent in spite
of acute power shortages. Many problems with power supply in the area have so far been
averted by improved power subsector perfrmance, especially energy conservation and load
management measures. However, increased capacity will be needed in' view of the
Governme's open-door policy in East China area and the consequent foreign investments and
private sector developments, such as the huge Pudong zone near Shanghai, which require an
adeute supply of power. The East China area is expected to match, and in some respects
surpass, the degree of market orientation that Guangdong Province already displays.
4.2          In 1991, ECPG (para. 3.4) had a total installed capacity of 23,719 MW, of
which 21,250 MW (89.6 percent) was thermad and only 2,468 MW (10.4 percent) was hydro.
The generating facilities include 536 thermal power plants, of which 15 are more than 600 MW
in capacity, as described in Annex 4.1. Details of generating and transmission facilities in the
three provinces atd Shanghi Municipality in 1991 are given in Annex 4.2 There are another
521 local and captive plants totalling 8,207 MW in capacity, ranging in size from 0.5 MW to
50 MW. Electricity generated in the sane year amounted to 118,804 GWh. ECEPUC plants
generated 87,784 GWh (74 percent of the total), of which thermal power generation accounted
for 82,892 GWh.
4.3          The transmission system in East China in 1991 consisted of 2,336 km of 500 kV
lines (MA 4.), 12,005 km of 220 kV lines, and 16,692 km of 110 kV lines. ECEPUC
owned and operated all of the 500 kV lines and most of the 220 kV and 110 kV lines. The
system also includes about 119 step-down subsations (220 kV and above), with a total capacity
of 28,149 MVA.
4.4          The growth of peak demand and energy requirements on the ECPG between
1985 and 1991 is shown in Table 4.1. ECPG's peak demand has increased more rapidly than
energy requirements. The system has a maximum daily load factr of about 89 percent and an
annul load factr of 76 percent. The peak load usually occurs in August.
4.5          In 1991, electricity consumption of the ECPG amounted to 102,886 GWh; of
which industry, 74.3 percent; agriculture, 9.0 percent; residential, commercial and other
municipal customers in the cities, 15.7 percent; and the transport/telecommunication sector,
1.0 percent. Energy genration and consumpton for ECPG in 1991 are shown in Ann  4.4



- 21 -
Tabb 4.1: LOAD GROWTH OF EAST CHI   PowR GRm
Year          Etera  reqareuent (CWb) I&      Peak 4dmad (NW)
1985                  75,640                     10,400
1986                  83,080                     11,400
1987                  91,771                     12,800
1988                  99,163                     13,600
1989                 102 090                     14 900
1990                 109,740                     16,650
1991                 120,970                     18,200
AveTage annual groth   8.142                      9.922
La Including generttlon nd purcbased energy.
B. LOAD FORECAST
4.6           Load forecasts for the years 1992trough 2000 have been developed as part of
the economic planning process carried out by ECEPUC. The forecasts were obtained by
applying a combination of statistical methods and planning targets to every major consumer
caegory. In particlar, industria loads were estimated on the basis of a market survey and the
projected idustril output gowth and electricty intensities for different categories of ndustry.
Rural loads were estmated based on past trends for drinage and irrigation, nual industies
loads, and litng.  Municipal loads were estimated based on market surveys of hotels,
buildings, and government projects. Specific demand management and energy conservation
measures have been fully incorporated in the load forecs. Ih  resuts of the forecasts are
summarized in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: LOAD FORECAST FOR EASr C I PowR GRI DL
Year            Energy requirement (GWh)     Pesk desand (NW)
1992                    134,000                 20,100
1993                    146,500                 22,220
1994                    159,500                 24,560
1995                    172,000                 27,000
1996                    185,700                 29,400
1997                    200,700                 31,950
1998                    217,000                 34,840
1999                    234,000                 37,900
2000                    252,000                 41,100
Average annual growth      8.22                   9.32
L On a regional bea l.
4.7           The load gowth forecasts appear to be reasonable and realistic, for two reasons.
Frst, power shortages have been occuring  for a long time, so there is liely to be a lot of
suppressed demand for electricity. Second, East China has been one of the fastest growth areas
in China: its GNP ncreased by about 7 percent a year in real tem between 1985 and 1991 and
is epected to continue to grow by about 89 percent a year over the next decade. To sustain
ths growth, electcity supply should expand at about the nme rate (an elasticity coefficient of
about 1.0).



- 22 -
C. PIOWE DEV=LOPMENT PROGRAM (199202000)
4.8          East China Is short of hydroelectric potndal. 'Me expansion of generating
capacity, therefore, will be vtually endrely based on themal power stations. A study of the
least-co investmet program was made by the Beijing Ecowmic Research Institute for Water
Resources ad Electric Power (BERIERP) in 1989 and revised In 1992. The study is based
on an optimization of the East China power system nd includes least-cost epsion alternatives
for the period 1991-2000. The analysis confirms that the development program for ECPG
should be based primarfly on the construction of large coal-fired baseload thermal plants. Ihe
study also confirms that ther are no other altemnatives better than the proposed project
(pa. 7.5) to meet the system peaking capacity requiremeq.
4.9          A summary of the power development program for the ECPG system, including
generation and ansmison requirements, is given in Annex 4.5 Ihe balance between power
demand and supply is given in Atmex6. It indicates that, while the system can adequately
meet the ener  requirement, It is short of peaking cacity. The system reserve margin drops
to about 10 percent in 1996 ad 1997. Only after the completion of the proposed project can
the reserve margin increase to above 20 percet. This clearly demonstrates t4e need for the
project. The situation would also improve for 1995-97, if some of the new generating units
could be put into opeation by the middle of the year, instead of the year-end.



- 23 -
5
TE PROJECT
A. PRoJEc=  OJWEIVES
5.1          The proposed project is consistent with the Government strategy of modernizing
the power subsector and Improving its efficiency. The main objectives of the project are to:
(a) alleviate an acute shortage of peaking power and enable more efficient use of power plants
n a predominantly coal-fired thermal power system by  manfering off-peak energy to peak
energy with the construction of the cost-effective and environmentally sound Tianhuangping
pumped-storage hydroelectnc plant and associated facilities; (b) support economy reforms and
enablin  environment for attractng foreign investments and promoting private sector
development by improving the quality of the power supply and enhancing socioeconomic
conditions in densely populated East China regions; (c) improve load management and promote
energy conservation by introducing appropriate peaking power pricing; (d) support instutional
development of the beneiciary by strengthening its organization through an advanced
management and staff training program; (e) contribute to the development of an improved power
uility regulatory framework; (t) assist in transferring new power technologies for what will be
the largest pumped-storage hydroelectric plant in China, and in applying modem power system
operation optimization methods; and (g) extend technical assistance in project design and
implementation, and in promoting prudent financial management.
B. PRoJECr DESCRPON
5.2          Ihe proposed project is located about 57 km from Hangzhou, the capital city of
Zhejiang Province, and close to the major load centers in East China. Its site has favorable
topographical and geological conditions and easy access. Ihe TianhuWing pumped-storage
hydroelectric plant will have an Installed capacity of 1,800 MW (6 x 300 MW). As the daily
load demand in the East China power system varies gready, there is surplus power late at night
and insufficient power generation in the daytime, particularly during the peak load hours. The
power plant is designed to udlize the surplus power in off-peak hours for pumping water from
the lower reservoir to the upper reservoir and releasing water from the upper reservoir in the
peak load hours to generate the most valuable peaking power. In addition to its large-scale
power storing function, the power plant will play an important role in reguang load variations
of the East Chiina power system, furnishing emergency reserve during outage of generatg units
and improving power system stability and pefrmamce by reguating its frequency and voltage.



- 24-
5.3          The project consists of:
(a)   constrUction of a pumped-storage hydroelectric power plant together with upper
and lower reservoirs, a water conveyance system, an underground powerhouse,
and a switchyard;
(b)   provision and insalation of six single-stage 300-MW reversible pump-turbine
units and associated equipment;
(c)   erection of 500-kV transmission lines (about 250 km long) and reinforcement of
the existing power transmission network;
(d)   provision of selected equipment for civil works and dam safety;
(e)   construction management and engineering services;
(f)   environmental management program;
(g)   studies of optimal power plant operation and its output pricing; and
(h)   strengthening of the beneficiary's organization and provision of technical
assistance and training.
The physical components and the operational mode of the power plant and its role in the power
system are illusaed in Fieures 1. 2 and 3. A detailed description of the project components
is given in Annex S.1.
Poject Origin and Design
5.4          The proposed project was first brought to the attendon of the Bank in October
1990 by the Government. An identification mission visited the project in September 1991. 'Te
project feasibility study and design report were prepared by the East China Investigation and
Design nsitute (ECIDI) in 1990. ECEPUC has selected intanational e wgineering consultants
to assist in finalizing designs, procurement of goods and works, and construction management
(para. 5.7). Furthermore, a Special Board of Consultants (SBC), consisting of eminent foreign
and local experts, has been established to review the project's concept and designs, and advise
on egieeing, project implenation and on dam safety. An Evironmental ssm ent (EA)
report has been prepared by ECIDI in accordance with the GOC and Bank environmenta review
procedurs and guidelines for hydro projects. The design of the project is at an advanced stage,
and appears to be satisatory in its overall concept
Engineering, Tedhnical Asistance, and Construion Mt
5.5          ECIDI has been retained by ECEPUC to assist in detailed design and project
implementation. EC1DI is one of the most experienced design institutes in China, and in recent
years it has completed the design. of several large hydroelectric projects. ECIDI has over 2,000
professional staff and is equp   with modern facilities and laboratories.  Interational
egineerng consultants have also been actively involved in reviewing project design and
resolving specific technical matters related to dams, reservoirs, the powerhouse,



-25-
electromechanical equipment, and other facilities. A mnmber of techimcal delegations and
prominent hydropower experts have vited the project site, offered valuable suggestions, and
shared their experience with the Chinese In building large and complex pumped-storage
hydroelectric projects.
5.6          ECEPUC has set up SBC (para. 5.4) to assist In resolving particular project
problems and in advising on major design and construcdon issues. SBC has been very active
and effecdve In supprti  project preparation and the procurement of works and goods. In the
future, SBC meeings would be regular, not less than once a year. Assurances were obtained
from ECEPUC that It would continue to enyqoy SBC, with membership, functions and powers
accptable to the Bank, forrevwng proect layout, designs and technkcal specifcations, and
advising on se* and other problems that may arise during project implementadon.
5.7          The consulting services for the project comprise two phases as detailed in
Annex .2. For Phase I, the Government has approved $2.9 million out of the TCC (Credit
1664-CHA) funds for engineering and other services for project preparation, updatng cost
estimates, implementaton scheduling, and procurement of works and goods. One group of
expatriate consuls will be responsible for the main civil works, and the other group for
electromechanical equipment.
5.8          Due to the magnitude and complexity of the project and the expected use of
foreign construction contractors and equipment suppliers, as well as foreign financing sources,
ECEPUC will continue to employ experienced and qualified iraional consultants for Phase II
consulti services, who would assist ECEPUC in managng project constuction. The scope
of work for the cosutants wil include contract administration, cost control, scheduling,
construction inspection and quaity assurance, design engineering services, and construction site
adminisration during the entire imple tion period. Terms of reference for these services
and details of the constants' expected collaboration with ECEPUC and ECIDI are given in
Anex 5.2. Ihe total cost of engineeing services is estmated to be about $30 million, of which
$8 milion is in foreign exchange. These costs include about 325 staff-months 1/ of foreign
consultants' services. Detais of the areas of exertise, and the staff-months required in each
year are presented in Annex5.3. Assrances were obtainedfm ECEPUC that it would employ
consrucon management consulants wse qualcatkn, xperence, and tems and conditions
of  plyme sll be satifctoy to he Bank by December 31, 1993.
5.9          The procedures for inspecfting, maintaiig, and monitoring the safety of hydro
works and high dams in China generally follow international practices and are considered to be
appropriate for the proposed project Neverteless, in order to ensure the safety of the dam and
other hydraulic structures, assurances were obtainedfrom ECEPUC that It wouid prepare, by
December 31, 1996, a saWsfactoryprogramfor the maibce for the project works, and dt
It would  detak regular  specdon of the daom  and assocaed words and structures In
accordnce with sound engieerIng practes.
1/  Not including 70 staff-m not  financed  TCC for project prqestion.



-26-
Studies
5.10         ECEPUC will carry out studies of power pricing and operation of the
Tianhuangping pumped-storage hydroelectric plant. The basic objectives of these studies are as
follows:
(a)   Power Pridng Study. The purpose of this study is to: (i) dermine the cost
of peaking power in the East China power system; and (ii) help design a contract
for the sale of power and energy from the Tianhuangping power plant to ECPG.
The terms of reference for the study are given In Annex 5.4.
(b)   Optimization of Operations. The object of this study is to determine how the
plant can be best operated in the ECPG (which contains many thermal plants).
The terms of reference for the study are presented in Annex 5.5.
The above studies are expected to be completed prior to the commissioning of the project.
Assurances wer obtained fam ECEPUC that twould cany ow the studies ofpowerprking and
otma operaton of the 7lnlangpng hydroelcticp    by not later than December31, 1995,
In accordance with the terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and worud take appropriate
steps to implement their recommendatons as agreed with the Bank.
Management Development and Training
5.11         To meet the long-term needs of ECEPUC's staffing requirements and to further
develop ECEPUC's management capability, a comprehensive training program is included under
the proposed project. It consists of the following:
(a)    Training in utility management and financial planning;
(b)   Project-related training for echnical staff; and
(c)    Upgrading and equipping of ECEPUC's training facilities.
5.12         High level management, pmanning and financial staff will receive training in
modern management and decision-maldng techniques, particularly in: planning of investments,
engineering economics, power pricing, financial management and management infation
systems. Engineering personnel wil also receive training in their specific fields, especialy
related to pumped-storage projects, such as construction management, plant operation, control
and load dispatching of the power grid, etc. Part of the training will be carried out in China in
the form of seminars, conducted by Chinese and foreign experts. This will hn be followed by
study tours and overseas training through visits to a few selected udlities and pumped-storage
hydroelectric projects.
5.13         Project-related training will include: (a) on-the-job training for the engineering,
design and construction management staff to be implemented by working together wih the
foreign consultants; (b) training of electic  and mechanical staff under the contract for major
electromechanical equipment; and (c) training of operadon and maintean  staff at other similar
pumped-storage power stations in China and abroad. The cost of such training wil be included
in the equipment couracts.



-27 -
5.14         It is estimated that about 290 staff in various fields, totalling 610 staff-months,
will be trained in China by local and foreign lecturers. About 115 staff, with total staff-months
of 172, will be trained abroad, of which 60 staff-months are for senior management, 32 staff-
months for tecnical staff, 52 saff-months for financial and professional staff and 28 staff-
months for traing of operaors (see A    S.6 for details). Assurances were obtainedfrom
ECEPUC that i would carry out the training program in accordance with the tinetable agreed
with the Bank.
C. COSr ESIITE
5.15         The total cost of the project is estimated at $547.3 million equivalent [excluding
interest during construction (IDC)], of which $302.9 million (55 percent) represents the foreign
exchange component. Annex 5.7 contains, In detail, the estimated cost of the project, which is
summarized in Table 5.1. The cost estimates reflect late 1992 and early 1993 prices and are
based on the most recent tendering information available for similar power plants, including
prices of bids for major generating equipment opened on March 5, 1993. Physical contingencies
are calcuated at 15 percent for underground work, 10 percent for preparatory works, land
acquisition, other works, studies and services, and 5 percent for the foreign costs of plant
equipment and transmission facilities. Price contingencies for costs expressed in tms of foreign
exchange (US dollars) are calculated according to anicipated international price movements of
3.1 percent a year on average for the period 1993-2000. The price escalation for costs expressed
in local currency is calculated according to projected local inflation rates of 8 percent for 1993,
7 percent for 1994, 6 percent for 1995-96, 5 percent for 1997-98, and 4 percent thereafter.
D. FINANCING PLAN
5.16         The total financing requirements (icluding IDCof $173 million equivalent), are
estimated at $720.3 million equivalent SEIC, Shenneng Power Development Company (SPDC)
from Shanghai Municipality, Jiangsu ProvincW Investment Company (JPIC), Zhejiang Provincial
Power Development Company (ZPPDC), Anhui Provincial Power DeW opment Company
(APPDC), and ECEPUC would share the financing of the local costs, IDC, and principal
repayments of the Bank loan during the project implementation period. Their contribution to
the project financing has been confirmed to be as follows: SEIC-1/3 of the total; SPDC-114;
JPIC-1/6; ZPPDC-1/9; APPDC-1/18; and ECEPUC-1/12. The contribution to project
financing reflects the anticipated allocation of the project's peaking power output. It has also
been agreed that part of the total domestic financing (Y 24 million) would be in the form of
equity, and the balance in the form of loans. The loans will have a variable interest rate
(currently 8.28 percent a year) and 20 years maturity, ircluding 7 years' grace. The equity
conribution by all parties will enhance the capital structure of the project entity and represents
an importan step for enterprise reform in the power subsector. The interest of the equity
contributors to the project will continue to be represented on the ECEPUC's Board of Directors
(para. 3.2). Ihe local financial arrangements are acceptable to the Bank. SEIC and ECEPUC
contributions to project financing will come from their own revenue earnings. Also, the
Gvoenment wtiU ensure adequate project financing from locd sources at all tines during
Lnkmentaon.
5.17         The proposed Bank loan of $300.0 million will be used to meet 55 percent of
the total project cost. It will cover almost all foreign exchange costs, excluding IDC. The loan
will be used to finance the following project components:



-28 -
Table S1: SUMMARY OF PROJWr Cosra
Foreign
Description                      Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign Total  an 2 of
---- (Y million) ----   (- million) ----   Total
Preparatory vorks                113.8       0.0    113.6    19.6      0.0    19.6     0.0
Land acquisition & compensation  45.3        0.0     45.3     7.8      0.0     7.8      0.0
Lower reservoir & powerhouse    207.6       4.1    211.6    35.8       0.7    36.5      1.9
Upper reservoir dams             188.1       1.5    189.5    32.4      0.3    32.7     0.8
Water conveyance system          117.9       7.9    125.8    20.3      1.4    21.7      6.3
Upper reservoir lining            21.2     58.4      79.6     3.7    10.1    13.7    73.4
Other civil vorks                 22.9       0.0     22.9     4.0      0.0     4.0      0.0
Electromechanical equipment       55.0    930.1    985.1      9.5   160.4   169.9    94.4
Power Transformers                 8.9    113.0    121.9      1.5    19.5    21.0    92.7
High-voltage switchgear (GIS)      6.2      97.2    103.4     1.1    16.8    17.8    94.0
Miscellneous equipment            88.1    120.9    209.0    15.2    20.9    36.0    57.9
Transmission network              86.6    100.7    187.4    14.9    17.4    33.3    53.8
Gates & hoists                    16.9       0.0     16.9     2.9      0.0     2.9     0.0
Construction managament           94.9       0.0     94.9    16.4      0.0    16.4     0.0
Engineering services             105.6     37.7    143.3    18.2       6.5    24.7    26.3
Environmental program              3.6       1.2      4.7     0.6      0.2     0.8    24.6
Studies                            1.5       2.9      4.4     0.3      0.5     0.8    65.6
Training                           4.5      12.2     16.7     0.8      2.1     2.9    73.1
Total Base Cost             1.188.5  1.487.8  2,676.3   204.9   256.5   461.4    55.6
Contingencies
Physical                       106.8     81.2    188.0    18.4    14.0    32.4    43.2
Price                          255.4    389.0    644.4    19.2    29.5    48.7    60.6
Taxes and Duties                 9.0      0.0       9.0     1.4      0.0     1.4     0.0
Total Prolect Cost          1.559.8  1,957.9  3,517.7   243.9   300.0   543.9    55.2
Engineering (IDA/TCC)              3.2      16.8     20.0     0.6      2.9     3.5    84.1
G3rand Total                1,563.0  1,974.7  3,537.7   244.4   302.9   547.3    55.3
Interest During Construction    601.5    401.8  1,003.3   103.7    69.3   173.0
Total Financina Recuired   2.164.5  2,376.5  4,541.0   348.1   372.2   720.3
Notes:
1. Base cost is at late 1992 and ealy 1993 prices
2.  1ntre  duing construction (IMC) is based an onleding uates for projected   ou e    of loan
proceeds. The foreign cunency portien of IDC is based on the Bank's variable loan rate.
(a)    construction of the bitum us concrete lining of the upper reservoir;
(b)    pump-turbinelgenerator-motor unis and their auxiliaries, ion  and
control, and electical equipment for the switchyard and power plant;
(c)    miscellaneous equipment, including constuction machinery for civil works;
(d)    associated materias and equipment for the 500-kV transmission network;
(e)    consulting services for engineering and construction management;



-29-
(1)    environmental maMgement program;
0)   8studies; and
(hi)   training.
5.18         Details of the fiacing plan are summarized in Table 5.2. The proposed Bank
loan will be made to the People's Republic of China at the Bank's standard variable interest rate
for a 20-year term, including five years grace. Proceeds of the loan would be onlent from the
Governuent to ECEPUC with the tems and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Assurances
were obtainedjfrom the Goernment ta it would onlend the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan
to ECEPUC under a subskdlary loan agreement with a tern not to exceed 20 years, Including
afwve-year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. ECEPUC will bear the
commitment charges and the foreign exchange risk. A Project Agreement will be concluded
between the Bank and ECEPUC. Etecutbon of the subsiday loan agreement between the
Goranent and ECEPUC will be a condidon of effectiveness for the loan.
Table 5.2: FINUNCING PLAN FoR ltIt TECaoEr
($ million equivalent)
Local cost    Foreign cost   Total cost
State Energy Investment Corporation (SEIC)   116.0           23.1         139.1
Shenneng Power Development Company (SPDC)     87.0           17.3         104.3
Jiangau Provincial Investment company (JPIC)  58.0           11.6         69.6
ZhejianS Provincial Power Deo. Company tZPPDC)    38.8        7.7         46.5
Anhuil. Provincial Pwer Dev. Company (APPDC)  19.3            3.8          23.1
ECEPUC                                        29.0            5.8         34.8
I3RD                                           -            300.0        300.0
MDA (TCC)                                      -              2.9          2.9
total                               348.1          372.2        720.3
E. PROOCUREM
5.19         In the past, the main issues in connection with procurement of works and goods
in the power sibsector in China included reluctance to use consulting services, delays in the
procurement process and in domestic contract approval, lack of coordination and clarity of
responsibility among agencies involved in the procurement process, and very often inappropriate
contract packaging. However, significant improvements have been made more recendy in the
sphere of procurement and these are exected to be continued under the proposed project
Expatriate engineeiDg consultants will assist the Chinese in the procurement process, and the
Model Bidding Document, prepared in cooperation with the Bank, would contribute to efficient
procurement. Necessary efforts are also being made to improve coordination and avoid undue
delays in the procurement process. In order to enable effective implementation of the project,
taking into account, iner alia, its physical features and topographic conditions, procurement of
the main civil works will be divided into the following lots: upper reservoir bituminous concrete
lining, lower reservoir and an underground powerhouse, upper reservoir embankment dams, and
water conveyance system. Ihe works for the lining of the upper reservoir will be financed by
the Bank and procured through ICB in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. A



-30 -
margin of preference to domestic contractors (7.5 percent) may be granted for civil works
procured through ICB. Other civil works (not financed by the Bank) will be procured through
local competitive bidding (LCB). Project circu ces justify the use of LCB for these works,
since foreign bidders are not expected to be interested in civil works that are labor-intensive,
contract values are not large enough, and local prices are well below the international market.
Furthermore, Chinese contractors are well-experienced and competent in carrying out such civil
works. If foreign firms wish to participate in LCB for these works, they would be allowed to
do so in accordance with local procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank and considered
appropriate for the efficient execution of the project.
5.20         Electromechanical equipment, including six 300-MW  pump/turbine-motor/
generator units, will be procured through ICB. Goods manufactured in China will be eligible
for a preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent of the c.i.f. price or the actual import duty,
whichever is lower. Some specialized equipment estimated to cost less than $200,000 per
contract up to an aggregate amount of $5.0 million will be procured through limited international
bidding (LIB) in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Inruments and apparatus
needed for civil works and dam safety estimated to cost less than $200,000 per contract up to
an aggregate amount of $2 million will be procured by local shopping. Consulting services will
be obtained following the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. The provisions of the
Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review shall not apply to contracts for consulting
services estmated to cost loss than $100,000. The Model Bidding Documens for Procurement
under ICB and LCB in Ihe People's Republic of China would be used to the maximum extent
possible. All procurement documents pertaining to bidding packages for goods and works
fimanced by the Bank and estimated to cost more than $2 million equivalent will be subject to
the Bank's prior review procedures. The procurement arrangements for the project are
summarized in Table 5.3, and the related procurement schedules are presented in Annex S.8.
F. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.21         ECEPUC, as the beneficiary of the project, wiUl be responsible for project
implementation. A specialized construction entity, the Tianhuangping Pumped Storage Project
Construction Company (fHPCC) has been established, within ECEPUC, to manage site
construction activities. THPCC's organizational structure is shown in Chart 3. Preparatory
works including access roads and construction power have been started in 1991 and are
progressing satisfactorily. Bids for the constuction of the lower reservoir dam and underground
powerhouse have been opened and construction is scheduled to start in July 1993. The bidding
documents for the procurement of the main electromechanical equipment and control system
were issued on November 5, 1992 and opened on March 5, 1993, and contracts would be signed
by September 1993. The commercial operation of the first generating unit is expected in late
1997. The remaining units would be completed in sequence, with the last unit commissioned
by the end of 1999. Thus, the project completion date would be December 31, 2000 and the
closing date of this loan would be December 31, 2001. Chart4 presents the implementation
schedule for the various components of the project. Key dates of project implementation are
given in Annx 5. and estmated annual contractual and other payments in Table 5.4.
G. D
5.22         The Bank loan will be disbursed against:  (a) 100 percent of the foreign
expenditures for civil works and for directly imported equipment and materials quoted on a c.i.f.



- 31 -
Table 53: SUMMAY oF PROPOED ftocIRRMT
($ millionl)
Project
Project item                            iCB        Other      SlIu         cost
Works
Preparatory works                        -           -          21.1        21.1
Land ecquisition & coampensation         -           -          8.6          8.6
Upper reservoir lining                  18.4         -           ,          18.4
(12.5)                             (12.5)
Other clvil works                        -           -         112.4       112.4
Metal works                              -           -           3.5         3.5
Goods
Plant equipment X instrumetation       281.8         7.0        -          288.8
(249.2)      (7.0)lb               (256.2)
Transmission network                    37.1         -           -          37.1
(20.0)                             (20.0)
Services
Construction management                  -           -          19.0        19.0
Engineserig services                     -          29.5        -           29.5
(7.8)                   (7.8)Lq
Envirommental program                    -           1.0         -           1.0
(0.3)                   (0.3)
Studies                                  -           1.0         -           1.0
(0.6)                   (0.6)
Training                                 -           3.5        -            3.5
(2.6)                   (2.6)
Totl37                                             42.0 1M64.6            54391c
(281,J)  (18.3)       0)        (300
/a NBF = Not Bank Finaced.
/b L1B and shopping for minr equip t and intument.
Lg Excludes the TC-related financing.
Note: Fiures in parethes  ar the reptive amounts finaned by the Bank loan.
basis; (b) 100 percent of local expe res ex-factory for localy manufactred items, and
75 percent of local expendiures for other items procured locally; and (c) 100 percent of the
expenditure for conslting seices and taing. For expeditures peaning to (a) training;
(b) contracts for goods and works valued at less than $200,000 equivalent; and (c) contracts for
consulting services cost  less than $100,000 equivalent, reimbursement will be made on the
basis of Staements of Expendiures. Documentation supportng such expenditures would be
retained in the ECEPUC office and made avaiable for review by the Bank's supervision mission.
To facilitate disbursements under this project, a Special Account will be established with an
authorzed allocation of $12 million, representing approximately four monts of average project
disburments. Applications for replenishment wil be submitted montly or when the amounts
withdrawn equal 50 percent of the iniial deposit, whichever comes sooner.
5.23          Annex 5,10 presents the disbursement schedule for the proposed Bank loan as
well as a standard profile of disbursements for al sectors in China. The disbursements are



Table 5.4: IMPLflEvM     AAioN ScjE3uun   FSTJML1TzD ANNuAL CoNntAcrUAL AND OTEnR PAwoms
$  illion  quivalent)
Proiect Year /a                                          Total
Project elemnt               1992    1993       1994      1995     1996      1997      1998      1999    2000    2001   payments  Remarks
& before
Works
WoLkejaratory works           7.9    11.0        2.3                      -         -             -   -            -       21.1
Land acqudsition and        1.6      5.2       1.8       -         ,         -         -       -        -        .       8.6       VW1
compensation
Civil works                  -       9.9     27.4      36.0      31.1      14.9      6.1      3.5      1.5       -     130.8       LCB
(0.6)    (1.2)    (4.7)    (4.4)    (1.3)   (0.3)         _ -            (12.5)      ICB
metal work.                  -        -         -       0.1       1.5       1.5       0.4      -        -        -       3.5       LCB
Goods
71t e         nt &           -      25.5      11.5     66.0      88.2      56.1      20.5    12.1      3.5      5.5    288.8       IC8
atero                            (24.7)   (11.2)   (60.9)   (80.9)   (47.9)   (13.8)   (7.9)   (3.5)   (5.5)  (256.2)
Transmission system          -        -       5.2      14.6      13.4       3.9        -       -        -        -      37.1       ICe
(1.9)    (7.9)    (8.1)    (2.1)                                         (20.0)
Services
construction management   3.3        3.7      2.8       1.9       2.0       2.1       1.5     1.1      0.7       .      19.0       N
Egineartng services         2.7      2.8       4.0      5.4       5.6       3.1       2.8     2.4      0.       .      29.5       Other
(0.7)    (1.5)    (1.9)    (2.0)    (0.8)    (0.4)   (0.4)                          (7.8)
Knviroinsetal progrm        0.1      0.2       0.1      0.2       0.1       0.1       0.1     0.1       -        -1.0              Other
(0. 1)    (0. 1)                                                (0.2)
Studies                      .        -         -       0.2       0.2       0.2      0.2      0.2       -        .       1.0       Other
(0. 1)    (0.1)    (0.1)    (0.1)   (0.1)                       (0.6)
Training                         -   ,        0.3       0.7       0.7       0.7      0.7      0.4       -        ,       3.6       Other
(0.2)    (0.5)    (0.5)    (0.5)    (0.5)   (0.3)                         (2.6)
Total                   15-.    S8.3      SS.4    12S.1    142.8       82.6      32.3    19.6      6.5      5.5    5U3.9b
C-)  (2.)    (T. )   7ME7)   (-5)    (YS 79)   (16 z )   (9".0)          (   )          (3WQ.O)
lBa=se on calendar year.
1k Excludes the TCC-retd fincing.
Nowe: Figuros in paren_        are the respective amonuts finaned by the Bank loan



-33 -
expected to be completed In nine years, very close to the standard disbursement profil for
China. Major disburs are expected to be completed before December 1999, within a
period of seven years. Ihe last two years are for payment of retention money.
H. ENVIRONMENTAL CONSDnATIONS
5.24         An Environmn Vtal bmpact Asessment for the project was prepared in November
1991 and updated in April 1992, taking into account the Bank's comments and suggestions. It
has been approved by the Evironmenta Protection Bureau of Zhejiang Province, as authorized
by the National Environmental Proection Agency. The key issues investigated in the
envromental impact aessment include enviromntal health, impact on vegetation, reservoir
water quality and polludon, downstream effects, landslides and induced earthquakes, impact of
project construction on suTounding areas, and impacts on fish and wildlife. Any adverse
impacts identified in these areas will either be mitigated through the application of existing
technologies or monitored closely during project implementation. Chances of envkomeal
damages are considered minimal. The full environmental assessment report has been reviewed
by the Bank and found satisfactory.
5.25         There is no population to be resettled or houses to be relocated in the reservoir
areas and around the fu=re power plant facilities. The normal life of nearby local inhabitants
will virtually remain unchanged, but their living standards will be improved by the provision of
better roads, conications, water and power supply, and employment opportunities. Total
lnd acquisition of this project is about 184 hectares (ha), of which 10.5 ha will be used for
transmission line foundations. None of this land is inhabited. Of the remaining 173.5 ha,
19.3 ha are arable land, 112.4 ha are forest (primarily bamboo) and 41.9 ha are bushes and
wasteland. Total cost of land acquisition and compensation is esimated at about Y 50 million
($8.6 million). Compensation is paid to the farmers who use the land at a rate of up to 20 times
(overaU average, 15) the gross output of the land in accordamce with the Chinese rules and
procedures, which are satsfactory to the Bank. As of the end of 1992, 56.2 percent of the land
for the power plant and lower reservoir area has already been successfully acquired. The
balance is scheduled to be acquired in 1993.
5.26         The transmission system will be designed and carried out in accordance with
current tedcnological practices and is expected to cause mninimm disturbance to the environment.
The area through which the 500 kV transmission lines are going to pass is primarily rural,
consisdng of about 35 percent of momunnous areas, 12 percent of hilly lands and 53 percent
of paddy fields. The practice in China for transmission lines is that only land for tansmission
towers would have to be acquired, not the right-of-way, as the land under high 500 kV
transmission lines can be normally utilized for traditional cultivation. It is the principle of route
selection that no villages will be overpassed and houses relocated. Land acquisition would be
carried out in close cooperation with local authorities and active participation of the affected
owners. Details of trsmission line routes and related maps are available in the Project File.
5.27         The key provision of the environmental impact and management program (Annex
&JJ) is the establishment of an environmental monitoring station. This station will be charged
with monitoring the reservoir and catcbment areas including meteorological, hydrological, water
quality, sedimentation, biotic, saniary and human health conditions. Assurances were obiaed
from ECEPUC ta it would carry out the envronmental management program, including
establishment and stung of a monitoring station, in a manner satifactory to the Bank.



-34 -
Projet Risks
5.28         Project construction risks are within reasonable limits and would be manageable
given the continuous supervision arrangements, involving foreig and Chinese consultants, that
have been put in place for the construction process. SBC (para. 5.6) is already involved in
reviewing possible physical risks, and proposing means and procedures to mitgate or avoid
them. The economic risks, if any, would be minimal (para. 7.10). The financial risks may
result from multiprovincial financing. However, proper financial arrangements have been made
to avoid these risks. The project's nonquantitative risks (including institutional) are considered
to be minimal. The borrower and beneficiary will ensure the proper coordination of all project
participants and delineation of authorities. Other potental risks could include the condnuity of
goods supply, finding shortages, contract management difficulties, and effective implementation
of the environmental program. No major environmental problems are expected under this
project, and the implementation of the proposed environmental management program (including
a monitoring process) would enhance the quality of the environment in the nearby areas.
Monitoring and Reporting
5.29         Satisfactory procedures for monitoring, evaluating, and reporting on the project
have been agreed by ECEPUC. Ihe Bank would be furnised with semianna and annual
project progress reports. The timely implementan of the project is critical and depends on
adequate financial resources being made available when needed. For this reason, the annuial
project progress reports would include, inter alia, ECEPUC's proposals regarding project costs
and financing plan for the following year as well as the approved allocation for the project. The
scope and content of the project progress reports have also been agreed. In view of the
eperience with similar power projects in China, reguar project supervision would be required.
Bank supervision input into key activities is presented in Annex5.12 A framework for project
monitoring and reporting is presented in Annxl 5.13



- 35 -
6
FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. INODUCIION
6.1          ECEPUC follows MOP financial regulations applying to state enterprises
generally and specific MOE procedures for the power subsector based on MOF regulations.
Under the currt system, ECEPUC's operational and investment budgets require approval by
the Goverment, its tarffs are controlled and a significant share of its surpluses is remitted to
the Government. The Government, for Its part, provides investment funds for approved
projects. HistoricaUy, such funds were provided by the Government on a grant basis, but in the
erly 1980s this changed to 100 percent debt financing, first at subsidized rates, and more
recently at commercia rates for new investments. Within this framework, ECEPUC has
managed its finances satisfactorily.
6.2          In the past, power bureaus had very little financial incentive to increase tariffs
or improve their efflciency, because onca a power entity had sufficient revenues to meet the costs
caged directly to the operations and all special fund allocations and debt service, any additional
revenues were remitted to the Government through income or adjustment taxes. However, this
system has been evoling as part of the ongoing economic reforms. Since the late 1980s, amnual
tariff adjustment has become a major issue for all power entities as fuel costs and debt service
requiremens have escalated rapidly, while tariffs are still controlled by the Govermment
Begining from 1987, power bureaus have been operating under the contract responsibility
system. ECEPUC has entered into a second contract with the Govenment. Under the contract,
which covers the period 1991-93, ECEPUC agreed to submit a fixed amount of income tax and
adjusment tax to the Governmet each year and carry out all technology renovation projects at
given costs in accordance with specific parameters, in particular, the unit coal consumption
target. In addition, the  on  of ECEPUC's employees is linked to electricity sales and
production costs. To increase their self-financing capability, starting from 1992, power
companies are allowed to accelerate depreciation of fixed assets and, by 1993, they will be
exempted from subtg  25 percent of their deeciation funds to the Government. In recent
years, Independent corporations bave been established for developing power projects, especially
hydro schemes. Unlike provncial power companies, these endties are allowed to retain profits
and reinvest them in new developments, and thus have more incentive to increase their
efficiency.
6.3          Economic reforms over the past five years have already led to improved
electricity pricing, noticeable looenig of central control, and some financial autonomy of power
entities. Reform of medium- and large-sized state-owned enterprises is now central to the
Government's program to deepen the ongoing economic reforms. Ihe guiding principles of the
recendy promulgated reulations on transforming the opeating mehanisms of state-owned
industrial enterpris' are to separate government administration from enterprise management,



- 36 -
increase the autonomy and accountability of statowned enterprises, and enhance competition
and market-orientation. In line with this trend, the Government is reassessing the contract
responsibility system and other fiscal options, with particular focus on how to strengthen
enterprises' vitality through reduction and simplification of the current tax and profit remittance
system. ltis is consistent with the Government's curtailing its provision of financing for new
projects and gradualy playing a more limited role in the management of power entities.
6.4         With increasing financial autonomy, power eatites are expected to take on much
greater responsibility in raising funds for new investments. Some power entities have already
started, on a small scale, diversifying their funding sources. For example, Shanghai Municipal
Power Company raised Y 30 milion through a bond issuing in 1990. Fujian, Zhejiang, and
Shanghai power companies are actively seleing foreign investments, in the form of either loan
or equity investment, to finance three large thermal power projects. Moreover, ECEPUC is
considering establishing a financial arm under the corporation to raise funds for future
investments. In the proposed project, part of the counterpart funds will come from equity
contributions by all local financiers.
6.5          One of the Government's sectoral objectives is to strengthen the enterprises'
fincial management, so hat the power entities could perform their increased financial role
efficiently and effectively. Toward this end, the proposed project would continue the process
of bibnional building already initiated under previous Bank-financed projects, including (a) the
extension of ECEPUC's financial planning horizon (para. 3.12); (b) training in financial
management for ECEPUC (paras. 5.11-5.12); and (c) agreements with ECEPUC on financial
performance targets which would provide a framework for financia discipline (para. 6.8).
B. ECEPUC's PAsT Am PENT FINANCLAL PERFoRMANCE
6.6          ECEPUC's income statements, fund flow st    and balance sheets for the
period 1989-1991 are set out in Annex6.. Salient points and feaus highlighting its past and
present finances are smmaized in Table 6.1.
6.7          During the period 1989-91, ECEPUC reported modest profits. Its operating
revenue in 1991 increased significantly from the level of 1989 due to the higher average tariff
and vigorous growth in energy sales. Specifically, ECEPUC's sales volume grew by about
18 percent over the two years, but operating revenues increased by about 46 percent, as a result
of an increase of about 25 percent in average revenues, fom 11.78 fen/kWh in 1989 to
14.64 fenlkWh in 1991. Despite these increases, the opatin ratio deteriorated from about
72 percent to about 77 percent, indicating that the increase in ECEPUC's operating cost,
50 percent in two years, outpaced the increase in average revenues. As a result, the rate of
return based on historicaly valued assets also declined from 10 percent to 7.8 percent. In order
to meet the projected cost increases in the future and comply with the financial performance
targets set forth below, ECEPUC will have to increase its tariff by 11.2 percent a year in current
terms for the period 1991-2000.
C. FNNCaAL PFOMANCE TA;GITS
6.8          Traditional performance indicators (such as rate of return and self-financing ratio)
have thus far had limited significance in measuring the performance of power entities operatig
in a cenrized financal system. In particular, since surplus funds have been largely remitted



-37-
Table 6.1: ECEPUC's KEY FANCIAL ImIcAToS, 1989-91
(Million Yuan)
Year ended December 31           1989         1990         1991         Growth Rate
S p.s.
(1989-91)
Zlectziclty 8ales(GWh)          74,100       79,500       87,200             8.5
Averap Revenue  (feralkf)         11.8         13.6         14.6            11.5
OperattuS Revenues               8,727       10,776       12,760            20.9
0perating Income la              1,167        1,346        1,418            10.2
net Income                         789          941          912             7.5
met lixed Assets il Operatioa    12,710      16,237       20,304            26.4
Capital lipenditure              2,512        4,209        5,709            50.8
Opersting Ratio (S)                 72           76           77
Rate of Returu (2) lb             10.0          9.3          7.8
Debt Service Covera.g (timss)      2.4          2.1          2.2
Current Ratio                      1.2          1.2          1.3
Debt as 2 of Debt & Equity        43.9         44.6         54.0
/A   Operig revnus le  th aggregate of fue, power purcses,            opti and
mantmano, ad deprefiatoL
li   Baned on hitcally valued average ne fixed asods Ln opea
to the Government in the form of the Adjustment Tax; the sef-financing ratio has been largely
*nodonal* fr most of te power enites in China. However, it can stll serve as an effecdve
tool to ensure adequae tarff level. Moreower, as the Government is taking steps to i:ncrea
the financal autonomy of eapries, the self-financing rato wiUl become a more meaningu
Indicator. Wi a view to promot  prudent financial managemen, an asswnce was obtaied
from ECEPUC tha It vuwold:
(a)   tak al necsay meases, indudig but not l ed to tarff4umes, to
esure t   Is inUr al cah generaton Is s*ffide  to maint a selfiaing
rado of no less than 30 percentfrom 1994 onws; and
(b)   not ir  addiiol debt uness a reasnable fecast shw  Its   rnal cash
generatn wmud provide a debt servc coverage ratto of no less than 1.5 times
at all ties.
D. Fur=  FANCES
6.9          The projecti    of ECEPUC's finances for 1992-2000 are presented in
AnMz 6.2 and the salient features of these finaces are highlightd below in Table 6.2. The
projections are based on t'he asumpto   coned in Amex 6.3  which indlude tarff
adjustmens needed to allow ECEPUC to ahieve the above financial performace tagets and
conordm to the stuctr  cnges andcipated in the taiff acdon plan
6.10         Duraig the period 1992-2000, ECEPUC is projected to maintain high rates of
growt necessitated by the prsectve robust economic growth in China, parculaly, in the East
China region. Based on reaively conservative assumtons, energy sales are expected to
increase by about 104 perent over 1991 levels, representing a compound annual growth rate of
about 8.2 perenL ECEPUC's annual investent program is expected to epand by 230 percent



- 38 -
Table 6.2: KEY FINACUL INDICATS, 1992-2000
(Million Yuan)
Ye"r ended December 31        199    1939   19S4    1995    1994    1997    lo98    19199    2000
erg  W ()                      042 9   049   1189    122W    1317    1422   1,534   1453   I 778
Average 1av.ua (femaldib)     16.89   14.67   21.67    l...9  2a.a   al.S    32.a   S5.79   38.10
0pOrai3vt MXauue             16,234  19,789  24,674  29,2)1   5,51  41.754  49,424  59.141 47.759
Operating Inchm.              2,476   3*114   4,4S7   5,695   6,902  11.200  13,618  17,244  19,994
WItteucee to Owameit           549      271     699   1,054   2,404   $,174   2.611   3.616   3,672
AUAI Capital  pdttu           6,04   6,074   7825   9.90   113   15,110  17,132  16,677 18,S81
R*te Rae0                    22.817  26,84?  29,501  81.670  84,521  45.217  53.552  46,977  40.562
L-a-t:r Debt                 1733   16,676  21,645  27,22   35,248  45,411  33.010  41,58   72 901
Dbt  rvce                     1,466   1,7    2, 47   2.91    4,522   5,411   4,020   8,17   9.246
C   Saib in 5.                5,301   S,052   1,670   3,035   2.42    1,79    2,671   5,01    3S,455
Rat. of Return
Nieterically Valued Laseta (2)   11.7    11.6    15.2    17.9    24.4    25.9    25.4    25.8    24.8
Revalued Aseete (5)           4.8     5.0     4.5     7.6    10.3    11.6    11.9    13.1    13.3
6.1f 7inaact4 Ratio S()        27.7    26.3    30.3    32.4    30.7    35.2    30.2    30.5    30.2
Operating Ratio (5)            74.3    76.6    75.6    75.2    70.5    69.3    69.2    48.0    68.0
DebtIotetl Capital (5)         51.4    48.9    47.9    49.5    52.3   53.6    54.0    38.6    58.9
Debt Service Coverage           1.9     1.5     1.4    1.7    2.0       1.8     1.6     1.7     1.5
over the period, an anual ine           of 14.2 percent. Net fixed assets in operation are projected
to grow by about 341 percent, an arnsalized growth rate of about 18 percent during the period.
Moreover, to meet forecast acute power shortages, sharr increases in both the quantity and costs
of purchased power are expected. It Is now projecte  that the cost for purchased power wl
grow by more than 28 percent per annum and constit' o over 28 percent of ECEPUC's operating
mst in 2000 compared with 13 percent in 1991.
6.11            From  1992 on, ECEPUC's performance is antdcipated to improve steadily as
sales continue to grow, major distortions in the tariff structure are gradually corrected through
the tariff action plan, and debt service requirments emerge as a dominant factor in pricing
formulation.  Based on the projected tariff level, 10 percent increase per ann   and a total
mcrease of 160 percent from 1991 to 2000, both revenues and net income are expected to grow
considerably over the period. Operational ratios are projected to revert from over 77 percent
in 1991 to below 70 percent during the second half of the 1990s. Moreover, the rate of return
on historically valued assets will also improve from single digit in 1990-91, to double digits,
averaging 20.3 percent over the period of 1992-2000.
E. FINANCING PLAN
6.12            ECEPUC's financing plan for the project implementation period (1992-2000) is
displayed in Table 6.3.
6.13            Ihe prest Chinese financial system prevents a power entity from  financing
more than nominal amoutis of its ivsmnt program from internl cash generation. In the case
of ECEPUC, about 70 percent of the cash available for investment is earmarked for renovations
and distribution mprove n  through a special fund allocatio  system. The proposed project
cost (excluding Intermt durng construction) accounts for about 3 percent of ECEPUC's total
fund req ement. The proposed Bank loan will meet about 1.6 percent of ECEPUC's financing
needs over the period 1992-2000.
6.14             The estimated foreign exchange requrement of the proposed project exceeds the
proposed Bank loan by $69.3 mfllion, which represents interest during construction. The
People's Construction Bank of China has committed to lend to ECEPUC the yuan equivalent of
the additional foreign rqrement at 8.28 percent per amum interest, with repayment over a



-39 -
Table 6.3: ECEPUC'S F ACNG PLAN, CYI92-2000
Y million            $ Million
Sources of Fund.
Internal cash generation                           103,556             17,855
(loss) Increment In working capital                  3,649                629
(less) increment in special fund assets              8,871              1,529
(less) repayment of loans                           25,060              4,321
(less) remittances to government                    17,738              3,058
(less) special fund expenditures                    11,557              1,992
(less) interest charged to operation                16,477              2,841
Cash Available for Investment                    20,204              3-484
Government Euitv Contribution                     1.9                  258
Proposed IBRD loan                                   1,740                300
Other loans for proposed project                     2,156                371
All other loans                                     83,760             14,378
Total Borrwovnas                                 87.419             15.049
Total Sources of Funds                          109.356             18.791
AnDlicatio of Funds
Proposed project                                     3,518                544
Other construction                                  79,153             13,647
Interest during construction                        12,698              2,189
Renovatlons                                          9,234              1,S592
Distribution Improvements                            4,753                819
Total Apnlication of Funds                      109.356             18.791
13-year period commencing after commission of the first unit of the project which is expected
to take place in 1997. Arrangements have been made to allow ECEPUC to purhe the needed
foreign exchange from the Bank of China.



-40-
7
ECONOMIC JUSTfIFCAITON
A. ROLE OF THE PROj
7.1          As the least-cost alternative to provide peak-load power, the Tiqnhuangping
Pumped Storage Hydroelectric Project is a critical element of the expansion program for the East
China power grid into the next century. The economic justificaion of the project is strong, and
remains so under a wide variety of sensitivity tests.
7.2          This chapter focuses on the role of the project in the East China power system,
is superiority to other alternatives for supplying peak-load power under a variety of
assumptions, and the project's estimated rate of return. Benefits and costs are expressed in terms
of economic shadow prices in constant 1992 terms. Further details are provided in Annex 7.1
and the Project Files.
The Role of TInhuangplng in the East Chhia Power System
7.3          The main role of the project is to provide peaking capacity to the system by
convrtng electriciy genaed from other plants during off-peak periods when capacity is
undertilized to electricity for peak periods, when the system's capacity is most stretched to meet
demand (see Flo=  3). Current shortages of peak-load power in the system are severe. Most
industies have had to alter work shifts to increase operations during off-peak periods; in 1989,
for eample, about 1.4 milion workers in the region were required to work on night shifts due
to shortages of daytime pealdng power. Even so, peak demand stll remains heavily suppressed.
Ihe daily load curve for the system is relatively flat, with a minimum load factor of about
72 percent in 1990. The peak capacity shortage is estimated to have been about 400-500 MW
in 199. Some industries continue to be forced to suspend operations for one to two days per
week, resulting in underutlization of manpower and plant facilities. In the coming years, the
expected contned rapid economic growth in the region will make demands for peak power yet
more pressing (para 4.8).
7.4          Given the region's lack of natural gas resources and relatively scarce hydropower
resources, coal-fired power plants, which dominate the East China system, are now called upon
for peak load teguation. More efficienty operated at base load, it is difficult for these plants
to follow changes in load flexibly, and maintain standard voltage and frequency levels in the
system. In addition to its role to assist in peak load regulation, therefore, the more flexible
Tianhuangping project also will substantially improve frequency and voltage regulation in the
system.



- 41 -
B. LEASr-Cosr STumDEs
7.5          The Tianhuangping Project clearly is part of the least-cost expansion program
for the East China power grid. A variety of expansion sequences from 1992-2010 have been
prepared and analyzed in detail by ECEPUC, with the assistance of BERIWREP. The
Tianhuangping project remains part of the least-cost sequence under a wide variety of
assumptions (paras. 7.10-7.11). The fundamental reason is that the unit capital costs of
Tianhuangping, amounting to about $270 per kilowatt installed in economic sbadow prices, are
far lower than any other alternatives. A base case sequence is presented in Annex 4.5 and
discussed in Chapter 4. For comparative purposes, an alternative, "business-as-usual" expansion
program was prepared by ECEPUC, in which Tianhuangping is excluded and coal-fired capacity
continues to provide much of the peak-load regulation, as it does today. Discounted at 12
percent into 1997 terms, the date of the project's first commercial operation, the present value
cost of this alternative without the project exceeds that of the base case by about Y 6.5 billion.
The cost savings of the project correspond to a net return of about $2.00 per dollar invested (see
Annex 7.1D.
7.6          In addition to comparing predominantly coal-based expansion sequences with and
without the Tianhuangping project, alternative expansion sequences were also prepared including
diesel-fired combustion turbines for peakdng power generation. The 1997 present value cost of
the best 'without project" combination of combustion turbine and other plants still exceeds a
comparable "with-project' combination of Tianhuangping, combustion turbines and other plants
by about Y 5.6 billion. The project's comparative advantage remains high, corresponding to a
net return of about $1.68 per dollar invested (see Anex 7.1 .
7.7          Project Size and Tlming. Previous studies conducted by ECEPUC and the
Tokyo Electric Power Co. indicated that construction of up to 3,000-3,500 MW of pumped
storage capacity would be economically attractive during the 1990s in the East China grid.
However, 1,800 MW is the largest capacity appropriate for the site conditions. The timing of
the project also is optimal given the pressing current need for peaking power and the project's
comparative cost advantage. A one-year postponement of the project in the overall expansion
plan entails an additional present value cost of about Y 1.0 billion, compared with the base case.
C. ECONOMIC RATE OF RETLRN
7.8          The main benefits of the Tianhuangping power plant include:  (a) power
generation during normally 1-2 hours per day to meet the maximum peak load demand of the
East China system; (b) provision of critical backup peak-load reserve capacity for the system;
(c) improved voltage regulation; and (d) improved frequency control. As a pumped-storage load
lmanagement facility, the Tianhuangping project is fuentally different from electric power
supply projects that are designed to produce additional electricity. In its conversion of off-peak
energy to peak energy, the Tirnhuangping plant will consume 4,286 GWh of inexpensive off-
peak energy per year in order to generate 3,160 GWh of highly valued peak energy per year.
Because the plant's load management and system efficiency benefits are intertwined with the
overall operation of the East China power system, the truest measure of the project's economic
viability is a comparison of the system expansion costs with and without the project, as described
in the sections above. To confirm the system least-cost analysis in an isolated project context,
an avoided cost/cost analysis was conducted, comparing the avoided cost of the next best
comparable alternative-installation of diesel-fueled combustion turbines-with the cost of the



-42 -
project. As detailed in Annex 7.1, the resulting equalizing discount rate is 23 percent, and this
is used as an equivalent to a project internal economic rate of return (IERR).
7.9           The actual value to consumers of providing the peak-load service of the project
is likely to be higher than the avoided cost of combustion turbine generation used for this
calculation. One illustration is the fact that many enterprises in the region have been willing to
pay for recent installation of small, more expensive and less efficient diesel-fueled autogenerators
in order to ensure stable, continuous factory operation throughout the day.
D. SENsITvITy ANALYSIS
7.10         The main economic risk of the project is the risk of a major delay in plant
commissioning, resulting in a prolonged delay in obtaining the project benefits. As with any
capital-intensive project, prolongation of the period between investment and realization of
benefits impacts the cost-effectiveness of the project; if benefits were postponed by one year,
but the project cost stream remains unchanged, then the equalizing discount rate in the avoided
cost/cost analysis of the project would fall to about 20 percent. More important, however,
unforeseen postponements in benefits would exacerbate shortages in peak-load power, bringing
high economic costs associated with unmet demand. Moreover, if delays were serious enough
to compel ECEPUC to make nonoptimal investments in short-gestation combustion turbine
capacity to meet some of the shortfall, this would reduce much of the inherent cost savings of
the project (see Annex 7.1 .
7.11         The viability of the project is not particularly sensitive to increases in investment
costs. A twenty percent increase in investment costs would result in a 9 percent decrease in the
cost savings of the project, relative to the alternative, "business-as-usual" case, and a reduction
in the equalizing discount rate in the avoided costlcost analysis to about 20 percent. The
viability of the project is not sensitive to modest changes in the growth of energy or peak-load
demand. A shortfall in the projected annual rate of demand growth (see para. 4.5) of one
percentage point (e.g., from 8.2 to 7.2 percent per year) causes a decline in the cost savings of
the project of only 2 percent. Although coal costs are a substantial component of the costs of
the required off-peak electricity, the viability of the project as a whole is not sensitive to
increases in coal prices (Annex 7.1).



-43-
8
AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDAITON
8.1          The fbolowing assurances were obtained at negotiations:
(a)   fiom the Govenmet, that it would onlend the proeeds of the proposed Bank
loan to ECEPUC, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5. 18).
(b)   from ECEPUC that it would:
()  funishi to the Bank, by Aprfl 30 of each year a rolling eit-year
financial plan containing projected income statements, staemet of
sources and uses of funds, and balance sheets (para. 3.12);
(1i)  furnish the Bank with the audited project accounts, statements of
ependitures, and financial stament within six months of the end of
each fiscal year (para. 3.19);
(iii)  coninue to employ the Speci Board of Consultants (para. 5.6);
(lv) employ construction management consultants (para. 5.8);
(v) prepare program of maintenance and undertake regular inspection of the
dams and associated works and structures (para. 5.9);
(vi)  carry out studies of the project output pricing and plant's operations, and
take appwpriate  ps required to implement their recommendations as
agreed with the Bank (para. 5.10);
(vii) carry out the management development and training program in
accordance with the tmetable agreed with the Bank (pam. 5.14);
(viii) curry out the environmental management program, including
establishmet and staffing of a monitoring station, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.27);
(ax)  take all necessary measures to ensure that its iternal cash generation is
sufficient to maintain a self-financing ratio of no less th  30 percent
from 1994 onward [para. 6.8(a)1; and



-44 -
(x)  not incur additional debt unless a reasonable forecast shows its inte
cash generation would provide a debt service coverage ratio of no less
than 1.5 [para. 6.8b)].
8.2          Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between the Goveament and
ECEPUC would be a condition of effecdveness of the loan (para. S.18).
8.3          Subject to the above agreements and assurances, the proposed project is suitable
for a Bank loan of $300 million to the People's Republic of China. The loan would be for a
term of 20 years, including a 5-year grace period, at the Bank's stmndard variable interest rate.



- 45 -
ANNEXES



-46-                          ANNEX1.1
PARY ENERGY OUrPUT IN CHINA (1949-91)
Year            Raw        Crude       Natural             Electricity
coal        oil          gas        Total        of which:
(10't)     (10"t)       (10ims)     output      Hydropower
(Twh)          (TWh)
1949            32.0         0.12        0.07          4.3          0.7
1955            98.0         0.97        0.17         12.3          2.4
1960           397.0         5.20       10.40         59.4          7.4
1965           232.0        11.31       11.00         67.6         10.4
1970           354.0        30.65       28.70        115.9         20.5
1975           482.0        77.06       88.50        195.8         47.6
1980           620.0       105.95      142.70        300.6         58.2
1981           622.0       101.22      127.40        309.3         65.5
1982           666.3       102.12      119.30        327.7         74.4
1983           714.5       106.07      122.10        351.4         86.4
1984           789.2       114.61      124.20        377.0         86.8
1985           872.3       124.89      129.30        410.7         92.4
1986           894.0       130.69      137.60        449.5         94.5
1987           928.1       134.14      138.70        497.3        100.2
1988           979.9       137.05      139.10        545.2        109.1
1989         1,054.2       137.65      144.93        584.7        118.4
1990         1,079.9       138.31      152.98        621.3        126.4
1991         1,087.4       140.99      160.73        677.5        124.7
Source: MOE.



TMFAL PRODUCrION AND CONSUMPTION OF ENERGY vs. GNP GrowTu
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988              1989     1990
Production
(milLion tons of standard
coal equLivalent)             628    646    637    632    668    713    779    85S    881    913    958    1,016    1.039
Prooortion (1)
Coal                            70.3   70.2   69.4   70.2   71.3   71.6   72.4   72.8   72.4   72.6   73.1    74.1               74.2
Crude oil                       23.7   23.5   23.8   22.9   21.8   21.3   21.0   20.9   21.2   21.0   20.4              19.3     19.0
Natural gas                      2.9    3.0    3.0    2.7    2.4    2.3    2.1    2.0    2.1    2.0    2.0               2.0      2.0
Hydropower                       3.1    3.3    3.8    4.2    4.5    4.8    4.5    4.3    4.3    4.4    4.5               4.6      4.8
lol ion
(million tons of standard
coal equivalent)               571    586    603    594    621    660    709    767    809    866    930               969      980
Proportion (1)
Coal                            70.7   71.3   72.2   72.7   73.7   74.2   75.3   75.8   75.8   76.2   76.2    76.0               75.6
Crude oil                       22.7   21.8   20.7   20.0   18.9   18.1   17.4   17.1   17.2   17.0   17.0              17.1     17.0
Natural gas                      3.2    3.3    3.1    2.8    2.5    2.4    2.4    2.2    2.3    2.1    2.1               2.0      2.1
Hydropower                       3.4    3.6    4.0    4.5    4.9    5.3    4.9    4.9    4.7    4.7    4.7               4.9      5.3
GNP Indes
(constant prices)             100.0  107.6  116.0  121.2  131.8  145.4  166.6  187.8  203.4  225.8  250.6   260.5    274.1
Energy Intensity Index
(consumption/GNP)             100.0   95.4   91.0   85.8   82.5   75.9   74.5   71.5   69.7   67.2   65.0    65.1               62.6
Notes: (1) Exluding bo-enr, solar, geormal and nuckar aer.
(2) AU fuels are converted ito standard coal with thermal equivalent of 7,000 klociabrie per kilogram. The convesion factors are:
Icg of coal (5,000 cal) =0.714 kg of sandard coal
1 kg of crudeol (10,030 kcal  =1.43 kg of standard coal
I cubio meter of natrual gas (9,310 koal = 1.33 kg of sandd coal
(3) The cooversion of hydrepower is based on the specific consumption of standd oal for thennal power genetion of the year.
Souce: China Statistical Yearbook 1991.1                                                                                                         I



-48 -                                ANNEX 2.1
INSrALLED CAPACT, ELEw alC               GENERATION AND SALEs
IN TE POWER SUMCOR
Installed                              Ener8Y                   Energy
Capacity nfN) la                   Generation  GWhI) la           Sales,
Year          8ydro      Thermal       Total      Hydro      Tbermal        Total        (GWh)
1949            163        1,686       1,849        710        3,600        4,310        3,460
1952            188        1,776       1,964      1,260        6,001        7,261       6,277
1957          1,019        3,616       4,635      4,820       14,515       19,335       16,407
1962          2,379       10,686      13,065      9,042       36,753       45,795         n.a.
1965          3,020       12,056      15,076     10,414       57,190       67,604      56,802
1970          6,235       17,535      23,770     20,450       95,420      115,870         n.a.
1971          7,804       18,478      26,282     25,060      113,300      138,360      101,274
1972          8,700       20,801      29,501     28,820      123,630      152,450      123,600
1973         10,299       23,626      33,925     38,900      127,860      166,760      135,106
1974         11,817       26,291      38,108     41,440      127,410      168,850      135,708
1975         13,428       29,978      43,406     47,630      148,210      195,840     156,969
1976         14,655       32,492      47,147     45,640      157,490      203,130     164,698
1977         15,765       35,686      51,451     47,670      175,740      223,410      181,691
1978         17,277       39,845      57,122     44,630      211,920      256,550     210,239
1979         19,110       43,906     63,016      50,120      231,827      281,947     233,577
1980         20,318       45,551      65,869     58,211      242,416      300,627     251,639
1981         21,933       47,069      69,002     65,546      243,723      309,269     258,976
1982         22,959       49,401      72,360     74,399      253,279      327,678     275,299
1983         24,160       52,280      76,440     86,450      264,990      351,440     297,126
1984         25,547       54,373      79,920     86,780      290,207      376,987     319,600
1985         26,120       60.373     86,493      92,374      318,315      410,689     348,353
1986         27,542       66,276      93,818     94,480      355,091      449,571     357,057
1987         30,193       72,704    102,897    100,229       397,092      497,321     420,019
1988         32,698       82,799    115,497    109,177       435,888      545,065     464,013
1989         34,570       92,060    126,637    118,475       466,200      584,675     495,135
1990         36,050      101,844    137,894    126,350       494,986      621,318     527,154
1991         37,884      113,589    151,473    124,845       552,649      677,494     532,901
la On a countrywide basis.
ib Energy sales not Including uses by stations and captive plants.
Sources Ms.



-49-                                 ANNEX 2.2
GRowTH INDEx OF ElwCmcnry GENERATiON miD PRIMARY ENERGY DEMAND
Installed . aDacj        ElecricitG                  Growth Intex
Total     Share of  Total          Shore of              PrE=ary    Electricity
Yssr          (NW)      hydro(2)  (NWh)          hydro(t)    cuP       EnerSy     Generatlon
1980        65,869.1      30.8    300.6            19.4      100.0      100*0        100.0
1981        69,132.6      31.7    309.3            21.2      105.0      99.0         103.0
1982        72,359.6      31.7    327.7            22*7      114.0      103.0        109.0
1983        76,444.9      31.6    351.4            24.6      125.0      110.0        117.0
1984        80,116.9      31.9    377.0            23.0      1SO.0      118.0        125.0
1985        87,053.2      30.3    410.7            22.5      162.0      127.0        137.0
1986        93,818.5      29.4    449.6            21.0      176.0      134.0        150.0
1987       102,897.0      29.3    497.3            20.2      194.0      144.0        165.0
1988       115,497.1      28.3    545.1            20.0      218.0      154.0        181.0
1989       126,638.6      27.0    584.7            20.2      224.0      161.0        195.0
1990       135,000.0      26.2    621.3            20.4      236.0      164.0        207.0
1991       151,473.1      25.0    677.5            18.4      253.0      170.0        225.0
Source: VaN.



- so -                         AO-     2.3
3~nci Cn a o.sumnmqm bvcSrom8
ftanof
YttoU06     mm  of lntu tr   qI t .r et- Sune of reu=l    Shre of
Year        toega  whleavm   Lt   atimo    (SaoIndlm              munIcipal &
M)                             ()      houlhot () r Stl ()
1949         3.5    69.1  34.4    34.7      0.6          0.6          29.8
19532        .2    80.0  4.0    37.0        0.9          0.7          18.4
1957        16.4    82.9  58.6    24.3    0.4            0.7          16.0
1962        37.8    84.6  70.0    14.6    0.6            4.1          10.7
1966        70.0    84.1  69.1    15.0    0.6            7.8           7.5
1972       123.6    82.3  69.7    12.6    0.6           10.5           6.6
1976       164.7    76.3  64.6    13.7      1.1         14.1           6.5
1977       186.3    78.5  65.0    13.5      1.2         13.7           6.6
1978       214.9    79.0  65.9    13.1      1.1         13.7           6.3
1979       233.6    79.0  65.9    13.1      0.6         13.9           6.5
1980       251.6    77.9  64.5    13.4    0.6           14.9           6.6
i981       259.0    76.2  62.6    13.6    0.8           16.0           7.0
1982       275.3    76.0  62.0    14.0      0.7         16.0           7.6
1983       297.1    75.7  60.9    14.6      0.7         16.0           7.6
1984       319.6    75.2  60.5    14.7    0.8           15.9           8.1
1985       348.5    73.8  58.8    15.0      0.9         16.5           8.8
1986       379.7    72.9  57.7   15.2       1.2         16.4           9.5
1987       423.5    72.5  57.9    14.6      1.2         14.4           9.9
1968       461.3    71.3  57.3    14.5      1.9         16.4           9.9
1989       495.2    71.0  53.9    17.1      1.9         16.7          10.4
1990       524.7    69.4  52.1    17.3    2.0           17.3          11.3
1991       576.OL&   73.0  58.7    14.3     1.7         16.0           9.3
Ia Comumpton afer doduag alon ufor pfor    indpwr gy. An eadumed fiu for 1991.
Sourc: MOEL



-S1-                                       ANNEX 2,4
MAJR OING HYDRO AND TIhERMAL POWER ftOnS
aY EXI1RNAL FINANG LA
ilstalled             Construc-                              Loan
capacity               tion                                amount
(Uznt x 1W)  Location  period    Source of finance         (S mln)
A. HYDRO 
East chia
Shaqikon hydro               3 x 100      Fujil    1981-90    Kmwait Fund for Arab Ece-   30.0
nomic Develoqmat
North gum
Kfig Tombs pumped storage   4 x 200       Hebei     1990-95    Om01                        100.0
Panjiakon pumped storage     3 x 90       Hebei     1987-91    Italy                        59.5
Ceat alChia
Gehgyan hydro                 4 x 300      Hvbei     1988-95    Caaada Supplier's Credit   108.0
Wuqiangqi hydro               5 x 240      Ihnn      1988-96   0am1                         200.0
Southwest Chia
Tienahengqiaa (1I) hydro      4 x 220      Guishou   1984-93    OCC                         478.5
Tienshongqiao (I) hydro       4 x 300     Guishou   1991-98/b ozcr                          160.0
Eonjidu hydro                 3 x 180      Guilbou  1994-20011k ADD                         200.0
South China
Guagsghou Pumped Storage (I) 4 x 300       Guangdong 1988-94   Trance                       200.0
Gunsgzhou Pumped Storage (II) 4 x 300      Guangdong 1993-97/k ADD                          200.0
Subtotal                        10 1.636.0
B.   U. M
Wanton (HIPWC)               2 x 350      Jisags,  1986-92    USA-GB, Supplier's Credit  217.5
Shidongkou                   2 x 600      Shanghai 1988-92    USA, Trance, Japan, Sup-   380.0
piler's Credit
Nanjng                       I x 300      Jiangsu   1989-92    USSR Barter Credit          241.0
L18En8 (SEDC)                2 x 350      Jiangou   1988-92    Spaln, Italy                246,0
Fuzhou (SIPDC)               2 z 350      Fujian    1986-90    Japan, Supplier's Credit   232.7
North Chin
Beidagang                    2 x 320      TlanjIn   1988-90    Italy, Government conces-  180.0
sional loan and Supplier's
Credit
Shangan (WIPDC)              2 x 350      Hebei    1986-91    Caosdg, USA-GE, Suppliers 228.9
Credit
sanhe                        2 x 300      Beljing   1993-96jk  C?                          250.0
IejLn                        2 z 300      Sbai      1994-97,1  OCF                        250.0



-52 -                                      ANNEX 2.4
Installed                Construe-                              Loan
capacity                  tion                                amount
(Unit x MWn   Location   period    Source of finance          (S man)
THERMAL POWER (cont'd)
Northeast China
Dalian (HIPDC)             2 x 350       Liaoning   1986-89    Japan-Mitsubishi, Suppli-  209.8
er's Credit
Changshan oil-coal
converting               243           Jilin       1988-91    ADB                          26.8
Central China
Yueyang (HIPDC)            2 x 350       Hunan       1987-91    UK, 112 Government conces- 326.5
sional loan and 112 Sup-
plier's Credit
Ezhou                      2 x 300       Rubei       1992-95Lb  CECI                        250.0
Jiujiang                   2 x 300       Jiangxi    1993-96b  OECC                          250.0
South China
Shajiao                    2 x 350       Guangdong  1987I88c_ Japan-Mitsui, Supplier's   230.0
Credit
Shantou gas turbines       3 x 10.5      Guangdong  1987-88    France, Supplier's Credit   33.8
Shenshen gsa turbines      178           Guangdoug  1990-92    USA, France                  101.0
Southwest China
Lohuang (HIPDC)            2 x 350       Sichuan    1988-92    UK, France/Japan, 112 Gov- 290.5
erament concessional loan
and 112 Supplier's Credit
Chongqing gas turbines     108           Siebuan    1988-90    EEC Credit and UB Govern-   33.1
ment Loan
Jiangyou (EIPUC)           2 x 350       Sichuan    1987-91    Prance                       200.0
Subtotal                    11,700.5                                                       4.177.6
C. NUCLEAR POWER
South China
Daya Bay                   2 s 900       Guangdong  1986-94    UK, France                 2,500.0
Subtotal                    1.800                                                          2,500.0
D. TRANSMISSION L SUBSTATION
Tienshengqiao (II)           1,050 km      -           1988-93    OCPC                        115.5
- Guangzhou                1,750 MVA
Tienshengqiao (II)-Gutyang  285 in         -           1988-92    OECP                         24.1
Tienshengqiao (I)-Guangdong  1,000 km      -           1994-9811  OECF                        140.0
(DC)
Subtotal                                                                                     279.6
Total                       22,290.5 MW in generating capacity
2.335.0 km for 500-kV transmission line                      8.593.2
1,750.0 NVA in substation capacity
/a World Bank-financed projets are notinluded.
& Commissioning year.
L Project financing is still in the pocess of negoiations.
Source: MOB.



-53-                                 ANEX t
ECPG PEORMANCE INDICArORS La
Untt        1985    1986    1987    1988       1989      1990      1991
Generated energy                     GWh       75,764  83,219  91,924  99,424  101,789  109,145  120,385
Of wblch:  Hydroelectric           G1h        5,S28   4,918   6,039   6,743    7,568    6,987    7,450
Generated energy (power
plants) affiliated to
the ministry)                     GWh        56,564  62,790  69,300  73,850   74,751   79,833   87,785
Of which:  Hydroelectric           GWh        3,518   3,105   3,614   4,414    4,909    4,089    4,893
Beat supply                          Ti        55,050  61,169  68,270  72,630   76,430   82,030   86,520
Dispatch-controlled
maximum load                      NW          9,189  10,111  11,208  11,471   12,337   14,603   16,342
Average daily load factor            S           90.8    91.0    89.9    90.6       89.3      86.1        87
Frequency acceptability              S          99.43   98.67   92.97   91.93    64.12    99.70    99.86
Gross coal consumption rate         gOkMh         377      379     379      381      381       375       364
Bet coal consumption rate            g/kWh         404     406     406      410       410      405       393
Plant use overall average            S           6.17    6.37    6.48    6.56       6072      6.87       6.9
Of which:  Fossil-fired            S           6.53    6.66    6.80    6.93       7.12      7.20     7.29
System loss                          S           8.03    7.95    8.11    7.77       7.57      7.63      7.06
Equipment utilization time           hr         6,043   5,865   5,840   5,663    5,286    5,018    5,243
Of which:  Hydroelectric           hr         2,639   2,318   2,651   2,866    2,980    2,620    2,769
Annual raw coal consumption          l0't         31.5    35.3    39.5    43.9       47.5     52.7      54.1
Annual fuel oil consumption          le0t         3.8      3.9     4.1      4.2       3.8      2.9       2.2
La Inudes Jiangsu, Zhing, Anhui Proviac and Shanghd Municiplty.
Souree: ECEPUC.



-54-                              ANNEX 3.2
STAFFING OF ECPG
1.            There are altogether 208,655 staff and workers in the East China Power Grid
(ECPG), of which the East China Electric Power United Corporation (ECEPUC) has 5,627 and
its affiliated unit has 15,101; the Shanghai Municipal Power Company, 30,236; the Jiangsu
Provincial Power Company, 63,943; the Zhejiang Provincial Power Company, 42,591; and the
Anhui Provincial Power Company, 51,157. The ECPG has various technical personnel of
42,105, of which 2,386 persons are of senior specialists; 11,111 of middle rank; 22,469 of
junior; and 6,139 of cadre.
2.            Growing rapidly in recent years, the ECPG doubled its generating capacity in
the last 10 years with a lot of large power units put into service and advanced' technology
adopted. Consequently, the technical and operational levels of the staff become inadaptable to
the development of power grid construction, particularly in the field of technological and
economic management and the modernized aministraton of a large power grid.
3.            The analysis of existing status of staff and workers is as follows:
1. DSRIBUTON OF ST     AND WORES IN THE WHOLE NErwoRK
Whole    Directly                                   Shanghai Power
NUmber of staff    network    under                                       constrUCtion
& workers        (ECPG)    ECEPUC  Shanghai Jiangsu  Zhejiang Anhui    Bureau
Generation          64,961               13,424  20,531    10,876 15,731
Power supply        60,295                7,983  22,157   13,754 16,401
Capital construc-
tion              59,034       -        1,506  13,489   14,749 15,891         15,101
Scientific re8earch  1,514       -            -      352      355   363
School              3,733        -          508   1,116    1,070   865
Clinical             752         -          488      264        -      -
Design               1,603       -          193      393       418   599
Others              14,319       -        5,631   5,279        890   817
Headquarters of ECEPUC,
Shanghai Co.,
JiangmU Co.,
Zbejiag Co.,
Anhui Co.          2,444                  503      362       479   490
TOt81          208,655    S         3S236  63.943   42.591 51.157          15.101
SOUM ECEPUC.



- SS -                                ANNEX 3.2
2. STRueruRE CLASSFICAON OF STAF IN WHOLE NErwoRK
Total                       Enaineers  Adainis-
of staff            Appren-   & tech-    trative  Service
& workers Workers   tices    niciane         staff    staff    Others
Directly under ECEPUC      5,627      2,753       18        987         829       802       238
Shanghai                  30,236    18,185       451      3,435      4,262      3,060       843
Jlangau                   63,943    40,649   2,322       5,620       6,219      5,462    3,671
Zhejiang                  42,591    25,328       930      4,376      4,794      4,691    3,472
Anhai                     51,157    34,079       511      5,463      4,995      4,305    1,804
Shanghai Power Con-
struction Bureau        15,101    11,672        44       867       1,364        981       173
Whole Network       208,655   131.666   4.276    20.748        22.463    19.301   10.201
3. CLASICATION OF TECHNICAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF WITH GRADES
Item                           Total                   TechLical staff                   Otbers
Subtotal   Senior  Middle   Junior   Cadre
Directly under ECEPUC          2,319      1,910      220        624       748     318       409
Shanghai                       8,972     6,540       402      1,408    4,193      537    2,432
Jiangau                       15,849    12,506       667      3,378    6,342   2,119    3,343
Zhejiang                       9,531     8,190       468      2,001    4,372   1,349    1,341
Anhui                         12,814    11,255       522      3,245    5,772   1,716    1,559
Shanghai Power Constr.
Bureau                       2,231     1,704       107        455    1,042      100       527
Whole Network           51.716    42.105    2.386    11.111   22.469   6.139    9.611
Source: ECEPUC.



-5s6                                ANN 
SCuOOLS AND TRANWG CENTES UNDER ECEPUC
Specialized
Name of school                                                Enrollment     fields
(number)
A.    College
Nanijtn  Electric Power Polyteebnic College                      1.000         7
B.    Secondar  Vocational Schools
1.   Shanghai Electric Power Technological Academy                      960         6
2.   Hangahou Electric Power Technological Academy                    1,280         5
3.   Hangzhou Power Economic Management School                          480         4
4.   Hefei Electric Power Technological Academy                       1,120         4
5. The Technological Academy under NanJing Power
Polytechnic College                                              960         6
C.    Vocational Schools
1.   East China Power Construction Vocational School                    900         5
2.   Shanghai Electric Power Vocational School                          600         3
3.   Suzhou Electric Power Vocational School                          1,080         4
4.   Jisangsu Power Construction Vocational School                      600         4
5.  Zushou Electric Power Vocational School                           1,200         6
6.    uxshou Electric Power Vocational School                           720         4
7.   Zhexi Electric Power Vocational School                             720         4
S.   Anqing Power Construction Vocational School                        900         6
9.  Huaibei Electric Power Vocational School                            840         5
D.    Trainina Center
1. East China Electric Power Training Center
2. Shanghai Power Construction Training Center
3. Zbejisag Electric Power Training Center
4. Consumption Management Training Center of Jiangsu
Electric Power Bureau
E.    Staff and Workers Collegee
1.  Shanghai Electric Power Staff and Workers College                   200         2
2.   Jiangsu Electric Power Staff and Workers College                   250         2
3.   Zhejiang Electric Power Staff and Workera College                  250         2
4.   Fuchunjiang Hydropower Staff and Workers College                   400         5
5.   Anhui Electric Power Staff and Workers College                     500         6
F.    Secondary Vocational Schools for Staff and Workers
1.  Secondary Vocational School for Staff of ECEPUC                     600         6
2.   Hefei Sec. Vocational School for Power Staff and Workers             -         3
3.  Yancheng Sec. Vocational School for Staff and Workers               150         1
4. Shanghai Sec. Vocational School for Power Supply Staff and
Workers                                                          100         1
5.   Hangahon Sec. Vocational School for Staff and Workers                -         7
6. Hangzhou Sec. Vocational Hydropower EConOmic Mbangement School
for Staff and Workers                                                -         4
7. The Technological Academy for Staff and Workers under Nanjing Power
Polytechnic College                                                  -         3
So=: ECEPUC.



.57                            ANNEX IA
PLANNING, BUDGET AND CONTROL OF CHINESE
POWER BUREAUS
1.           All power bureaus are responsible for developing annual and five-year production
and investment plans. These plans are integrated with the national plans and are approved by
SPC through MOE and SEIC auspices. MOE and SEIC play a major role in shaping the
bureaus' individual plans. MOE and regional administrations use past operating results from the
bureaus to compile the quantities and related prices to be used by the bureaus in developing their
operating plans. The investment plans are developed on a project-by-project basis using
estimates of quantites and prices of inputs included in feasibility studies prepared by the regional
design insdtutes. However, the investment plans do not take into account movements in prices
after the final design is completed. Thus, in the planning process, the bureaus themselves do
not make a direct linkage between their projected and realized costs. The bureaus' operating
plans do include monitoring indicators, and variance analyses are conducted to compare
quantities actually produced or consumed with plan targets. Because the bureaus themselves do
not link their plan targets directly to realized financial performance, the variance analyses are
not very useful as tools to indicate either operational efficiency or the efficiency of their
operations and cost effectiveness of investment programs. Nevertheless, this approach to
planning served reasonably well under China's centrally planned economy, when grants were
used to finance large portions of investment and prices were maintained at stable levels.
2.           Until 1980, all funds required to implement the annual construction plans were
provided through grants allocated from the State budget. The State also provided minor amounts
of financing to cover liquidity requirements through an account entitled Working Capital Funds.
Under China's economic reform program which began around 1978, major changes have been
introduced to encourage economic use of the Government's limited resources. Funds for major
new investments are now being provided in the form of loans from the People's Construction
Bank of China. These loans are made only after projects have been reviewed extensively and
cost estimates have been approved. Construction loans, have been carrying an annual interest
rate of about 3.6 percent; however, beginning with Ertan and Zouxian projects, interest rates are
being increased to 9.51 percent. The purpose is to gradually move from investment financing
by Government grants to debt financing at commercial interest rates. Construction loans are
scheduled for repayment over 10-15 years after work is completed.
3.           Until 1984, the power bureaus' operating and investment costs were kept fairly
constant as the whole pricing system was under tight control by the state. However, since then
the Government started to relax its control over the pricing system and gradually allowed some
flexibility in the price movements. In the future, as the power bureaus continue to expand their
operations and as costs become more subject to change due to price escalations, planning and
budgeting will be based increasingly on actual cost data and projections of productivity, price
movements, and interest rates. Furthermore, as the cost of inefficiency increases over time,



- 58 -ANE3.
management vwill need bettew tools to evaluate and control the opeaionso of individual cost
centers.
4.           The Chinese system of planning and budgeting does not make provision for long
tetm fnancial planmig. In connection with the Lubuge Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2382-
CHA), the Bank fwnished MWREP with a financial forecasting model so dtat the power bureaus
could study the impact of both their expansion plans and variations in prices on their future
financial positions. Under all subsequent Bank-financed power projects, assurances have been
obtained that, by December 31 of each year commencing in the year following loan signing, the
beneficiary power bureau will funLish the Bank with a financial plan containing projected income
statements, flow of funds statements, and balance sheets for the next five to eight years. So far,
Yunnan, Jliangsu, Guangxi, Fujian, Zhejiang, Shanghai, Henan, Hainan and Sichuan power
bureaus have been required to furnish such rolling plans.
5.           MOE and SEIC recognize that they need to modernize the financial and
management procedures followed by the power bureaus. lhey have authorized many bureaus
to acquire microprocessors for financl, planning, and administrative purposes. In addition,
they have developed some software to allow the bueaus to produce standard computerized
reports on a regular basis. For their part, most of the power bureaus dealing with the Bank have
computerized some of their personnel, payroll, and administrative records and are adapting
software to computerize materials management, system planning, and production management.
Once the bureaus finish computerizing these records, they will be expected to furnish monthly
reports to MOE and SEIC on diskettes rather than on paper. Some of the Bank-fitanced projects
have included a provision allowing the beneficiary power bureaus to obtain additional
microprocessors and the software support needed to facilitae implementation of this first
generation of computeized reporting.
6.           The first generation of computeized reporting should allow MOE, SEIC, and
the power bureaus themselves to process, compile, consolidate and retan far more information
than in the past. However, the computer approaches used to date have been designed almost
exclusively to satisfy the reporting requirements of MOE and SEIC. The software does not
allow for a more active role for the power bureaus or for a broader use of data by bureau
management. Moreover, the systems being developed still do not include rudimentay financial
planning or allow the necessary direct linkages between realized performance and plannig
forecast. Thus, while the systems represent impressive progress over current reporting systems,
a second generation of repordng systems will be needed to accommodate changes already in
progress in the managerial ervironment.
7.           During appraisal of the Yantan Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2707-CHA), the
Bank retained a consultant to assess the management and use of data in MWREP and several
power bureaus. His findings confirm that the systems currently being developed are adequate
for the exisdng environment but are not flexible enough to adapt to expected future trends.
However, MOE and SEIC have doubts about the substance and etent of these anticipated
changes and prefer to be cautious about making further adjustments to their reporting procedures
in the near term.
8.          In considaring ways to modenize financial and management practices, the
Government is taking the initive in adapting a modern methodology for use in the Chinese
environment. However, given the additional adjustments that are likely to become necessary



-59-                           ANEX 34
within a few years, the Government would benefit from greater exposure to state-of-the-art
technology In management sysm. Under the Belungang Thermal Power Project (Loan 2706-
CHA), the Yantan Hydolectric Project (Loan 2707-CHA), the Shuikou Hydroelectric Project
(Loan 2775-CHA), the Wujing Thermal Power Project (Loan 2852-CHA), the Ertan Project
(Loan 3387-CHA), the Daguangba Multipurpose Project (Loan 3412-CAICredit 2305-CHA),
the Yani Thermal Project (Loan 3433-CHA) and the Zouxian Therm  Project (Loan 3462-
CHA), the Govermnent is obtant gtainig in up-to-date financial management and utility
accounting practices. Recently, with the help of Price Waterhouse of Hong Kong and the United
States, a trainiDg seminar in financial management was successfully arranged in Chengdu.
Electricite de France also provided overseas training for Chinese officials. Overseas training and
study tours are included in these projects so that senior officials of relevant governmental units
can observe the management techniques used by utilities and service organizations in other
counies. The first overseas training was held in May 1988, and the outcome was successful.
MOE and SEIC plan to have other training sessions in coming yeas.



-60                               E  3.5
CURRENT ELECTRICITY TARIFTS IN EAST CHINA
Table 1: AVERAGE PRovCAL POWER COMANY SAE REVENU, 1991
(Average revenue accruing to ECEPUC or provincial power companies)
(fe/Wb)
Average               Average                 Average
basic charge         fuel surcharge          sales revenue
Shanghai             9.8                    7.2                    17.0
Jiangsu              9.7                    4.4                    14.1
Zhejiang            11.6                    2.7                    14.3
Anhui                 8.3                   4.7                    13.0
Source: ECEPUC.
Table 2: COMPSTION OF AVERAGE REtrAL EIZcrRlCrI  PIUCES,
SHNGHAI MUNCmcAurv, JULY iM
(fen/kWh)
Estimated average weighted
charge to consumers
Basic fee and fuel surcharge                                18.0
Local government energy investment surcharge                 2.0
Average charges for electricity produced with
out-of-plan fuel supplies                                  1.5
Average charges for new prices for new plants                2.5
Local taPXs and other surcharge.                             3.0
Total                                                  LOA
Source: Shanghai Municipal Power Company.



Table 3: IEWAL ELuCTmXCrY PCES IN SHANGUHA MUNKCrAJJW9
JULY 1992
fenlkWh La
Residential                                                     25.0
Comercial
Hotel.s  Lighting                                          44.4-45.0
Motive power                                      32.4-33.0
0therss  Lighting                                          41.1-41.7
Motive power                                      29.1-29.7
Regular industry
Lighting                                                   41.1-41.7
Motive power                                               29.3-29.8
Large industry
Demand chargess  based on transformer capacity         Y 4.84/mnth/kVA
based on maximum load                Y 7.26hmonth/kVA
Energy charge                                              26.2-27.2
Agricultural irrigation                                     10.4-10.9 /b
Agricultural processing                                     11.7-11.9
/a Ranges refleted pris at diffen" volage leves.
& An additonal fee of 6 fen/kWh is charged for above-quota consmp
Soce: Shanh Municipa Powe Company.



-62 -                          ANNEX 3.6
SUMMARY OF ECEPUC's 1992-95
POWER TARIFF REFORM PLAN
A.   1992/93 AdJustnents
1.   Fully collapse fuel surcharges into the state base electricity prices.
2.   Implement modest adjustments in rates between different consumer classes and increase
the differential rates applied for different voltage levels.
3.   Increase the electricity price rates for urban and town residential consumers.
D.   Unification of Multitiered Tariffs Into a Unified Tariff During 1993-95
1.   In 1993, complete efforts to unify tariffs within local (municipal/county) power supply
organizations below the provincial power bureau level throughout the grid.
2.   In 1994, complete efforts to unify tariffs at the provincial power bureau level throughout
the grid.
3.   In 1995, unify tariffs throughout the area of coverage of the East China Grid.
C.   Peak-Lead Pricing lssues
1.   Demand charge reform:
(a) At the same time that fuel charges are collapsed into state base electricity prices
(see Al above), demand charges should be increased in the East China Grid area
to Y 15/kW or Y 101kVA.
(b)   Before the end of 1995, demand charge and energy charge ratios should be
reformed to be more in line with principles of long-run marginal cost based
pricing, as outlined in the 1988 East China Electricity Pricing Study supported by
the World Bank.
2.   Based on the favorable experience of the last two years, ECEPUC has decided to expand
the scope of demonstrative applicaion of time-of-day (rOD) rates as follows:
(a)   Buflding on the basis of the existing demonstrative application of TOD rates in
Nantong Prefecture, the Jiangsu Provincial Power Company will expand the
application of TOD rates to Wuxi Prefecture.
(b)   Anhui Provincial Power Company will select Xuancheng and Liu'an Prefectres
for demonstrative application of TOD rates.
(c) Zhejiang Provincial Power Company will extend peak/off-peak pricing throughout
Zhejiang Province.
(d)   Shanghai Municipal Power Company will begin extension of peak/off- peak
pricing in 1993, with application to about 16,500 customers with loads of over
100 kW.



COMNON AD REVEm BnY CATAOY OF C                        eNsURS (1991)
(Unis: ConsumpUo: GWh; Revenue: Y millio)
item                        _iennon 8helisn                                                                      Anhui
Consumptio    Revenue    consumptio    Revnue   Consumption   Reeue    Consumptio    Reveae
Lare Industry                   14,886.5   2,392.5       13,408.S   1,914.5         9,437.9   1,541.0         9,55.3   1,201.3
Small industry avd commerce     2,341.3      406.1        6,434.9      946.3        2,931.1      481.8        1,565.0     216*8
Ag8iculture                       530.3       63.6        2,976.7      317.6          290.1       31.0          B67.5      99.0
Lighting                        2,783.5      629.2        3,171.4      679.6        1,231.1      222.7        1,368.6     282.5
Bulk sales                            -          -        4,164.7      381.8        6,678.3      666.8        2,555.2     268.0
Load                      20.S541.7   3.491.4       30.156.1   4.257.7        20.568.S   2,943.2        14.911.6   2.067.7
Sourc: ECEPUC.
U



-64-                                ANNEX4.1
MA&zo  Pown   GINE=ATING STATiON Fl4 ECWP
(100 MW above-at the end of 1991)
Total capaclty            Unit No. x unlt capacity
(II)                           (W)
Hlvdrowoer ,8tatlons
Xinanjisan                          662.5               4x75+5x72.5
Fuchuujiaag                         297.2               4x6001x57.2
Buaannzben                           170                4x42.5
Jinshuitan                          300                 6xS0
Chencun                              150                3x50
Subtotal                     1.579.7
Possil-Pired Power Stations
Wangtiag                           1,100                3x300+4x25+4x22+2x6
Yangshupua                           264.5              4x25+3x20+3xz1+1z22.5+lx16+2x3+1z6
Zhabei                              470.6               2x125+2x50+2x25+lx22+2xlO
ujaing                               650                lx125+1xlOO+lxS0+3x25+lx300
inubang                              618.0              4x125+2xu10+2x25+3x1242x6
Nanshi                               139                2x50+3x12+1W3
Shidongkou                         1,200                4300
Xiaguan                              105                lx25+5x12+2x10
anjing                              385.0               lx125+1x110+2x50+2x25
Jisubi                             1,625               4x300+3x100+2x5+10x25
Yangahou                             436.0              2x200+3s12
XUzhou                             1,300                4x200O+4125
Zhenhai                            1,050                4z200+2x125
Taizhou                             750                 6x125
Bansban                             237.0               lx125+2x50+1x12
Wenzhou                              250.0              2x12S
Husiaaa                             601.0               2x125+2x120+3x25+lx12+4x6
Beilungang                          600                 lx600
Maansaha                             199                lx125+WxS0*1x24
Luohe                                600                2x300
PIUgvei                             600                 1x600
Hefei                               200                 lz125+lx50+1x25
Toangling                           287.0               2x125+x25+lx12
Buaibel                             750                 2z200+2u125+2x50
C Monslng                            140                150+2x25+4x10
Tianaheuggang                       470.5               2xl25+2:25+2x12+1200
Jiangyln                             100                2s50
Taucheng                             131.0              1x125+1x6
Hmueng lantong                       700                2s350
laosban Steel NMii                   700                2x350
Subtotal                    17.057.6
Other industry owned               1,054.5
Total                       19.691.8
("600 Me)                  (13,706.5)
Souce: ECUPUC.



GENERATING CAPACITY AND TRANSMISION FAcTES IN ECPG
(at the end of 1991)
Shanghai      Jiangsu    Zhejiang       Anhui        ECPG
Item                                  Municipality    Province    Province    Province       Total
Generating Capacity (MW) la
Hydro                                      -            23.9      2,071.0       373.3       2,468.2
Thermal                                6,081         7,781.9      3,692.9     3,694.8     21,250.6
Total                               6.081.0       7,805.8      5,763.9     4.068.1     23.718.8
Transmission Lines (km)
500 kV                                   248           539          542       1,007        2,336.0
(of which:  DC)                       (41)             -        (142)       (383)         (566.0)
220 kV                                 1,064         4,409        3,714       2,818       12,005.0
110 kV                                   796         6,898       3,749        5,249       16,692.0
Under 110 kV                           3,870         14,705       8,916      11,729       39,220.0
Total                               5.978        26.551       16.921      20.803       70.253.0
Stea-Down Substations (MVA) Lb
500 kV                                 3,594         1,000          500         500        5,594.0
220 kV                                 5,495         9,030        4,220       3,810       22,555.0
110 kV                                 2,255         9,538.6     5,006        4,292.1     21,091.7
Under 100 kV                           4,408.4       5,238.7      3,370.8     2,314.8     15,332.7
Total                              15.752.4      24.807.3    13.096.8    10.916.9      64.573.4
/ For units above 500 kW in installed capacity only, but including capdve plants.
& For utility's subsions only.
Source: ECEPUC.



500-KV TRAN!6MIO LaN IN BCPG
(at tX aid of 1991)
(Unit:km)
Nam atnd code                            Conductor type       Length            Rmark
A.C.
1. Luohe - FaPchang                    4zhCSR-400150         237.350
2. lanchang - P?ngyao                   4xACOR-400150        202.221
3. Pingyao - tanqiao                    4xACSR-4001S0        159.S14
4.  exnshuang - Jtangdu                 4xhCSI-400150        336.168
S. Jiangdu - Doushan                    4xACSR-400150        123.140
6. Doushan -   nsungdu                  4zhCSR-4001S0         88.900
7. Nuangdu - Uanqiao                    4xACSR-400150         48.631
8. Pingv.i - FarAchang                 4zAC$R-400150         254.000
9. Luohe - Pingwei                      4xACSR-400150         19.748
10. Shidongkou - Iuaugdu                4xACSR-400150          34.810
11. Zeilungang - Lantiug - Pingyao      4xACSR-400150         231.990
12. Shidongkou - Huangdu                4xACSR-400150          33.060
D.-C.
1. Geshouba - Nanqiao                  4z&CSR-300            566.366    (East China Section)
Total                                                  2 335.898
Sourc: ECEPUC.



ENErY G O=AToN AND CoNSummoN N ECPG
(M)
Shanghai       Jiangsu    Zhej Lang      Anhul      ECPG
Item                                     Municipality    Province    Province    Province   Total
Enerrv Generation (GWh) la
Rydro                                           -            43        S,418       1,345      6,806
Thermal                                   30,481         43,326       18,172      20,011   111,990
Nuclear                                         -             -            8           -          a
Total                                  30.481         43.369      23.598       21.356   118.804
Eneray Conumption (Gwh)
Industry                                  20,256         27,738       16,206      12,240    76,440
Agriculture                                   795         5,116        1,439       1,770      9,120
Residential                                 1,610         3,062        3,018       1,707      9,397
TransportIcomnunication                       245           396          187         165        993
Commercial                                  2,522         2,227        1,397         790     6,936
Total                                  25.428         38.539      22.247       16.672   102.886
iA For units above 500 kW in instaled capacity only, but including captive plants.
Source: ECEPUC.



ECPG POWER DEVELOPMNT PROGRAM
A. Gmm*w FAmEu
(un: M")
It..                                        t-At s W             1001     1002     1093      1004     1995     1906      LOOT     1996     1999      2000           Total
t"  Total                                                      41,575    3,225    3,123    1,575    1,325    3,157    4,060    4,625    4,973    3,300              31,642
r.  !etlt uadcr NM PUC0                                                0        0        0         0      30    1,200        600    1,200         0           3,300
W'Ll aerestietr                                                        0        0        0         0               600       600      600        0            1800
1.aw  et_>      6 x 300                 .        -        f        -         -               600       600      600         -           1,8I0
2.IudS _       t ert.t10
fer Iwt Cl1.000                              -                                                                            
(2) fe ired                                                  0        0         0        0         0      so;      600        0       600        0            1,500
Mua6tagreovattAa)                 1 2 300                                                                                                                   MO ---  0
2.  sftu(h                        2"6 00                                                             so.600                                              1,200
IX.                   MM                                        inFlttF  X0  t03   600      400       300      700      825       400    1,125    1,000            6,850
2.  Ia bo~m   ea.2                   : 600               -       00       600                                                                             1,200
(t auNX g     Yp    )   2    0 J30     0               00        -         -        -        -         .        -                  -             600
4. WaSsfo5l*o_ZStMS 2)            4 : 3                            -        -300   so       30        600        -         -        -        -            1,200
5. 23    S    _   {St., Ul        2:600                  .         -        .        0         -        .      604      600         .        -            1,200
'6:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                      1,000 1,000   2,000
a.Ibot                            2 1S X I                                . WM                        -        -         -        -        -o              5
9 Chei  ()                        2:1#5                       -        -             -         t        -      123         -      123        -              250
10.     b  (renovatio)           1 0         .                   -  530                                         -        - .                -               SO
11. ! SbUpt (awowttM)            2:100                  -        -         .        I        -       100      100        -         .        -              200
Ul.      J31ac                                                   X00    1,000    1,350        923      423      425    1,375    1,300       650       90Q           8,650
ITT  =  ssrZ300   1000    1,3I0                                                  025       423      423    1,373    1,100       650      g00            6,630
. Jaur   .ti  e. & cacdcal      2 : 50                50        30        -        .         -        -                  -        .         -             100
2.CbN.                            2:50                  50       SO         -        .         -        -        -         -        .        -              100
3.l36Im2Sng                       1:0                    -fi     30        _         .        -        _         .        .        _         .              so4
4. 2 s                            2I2200          0       00       -        -        -                                                                      200
7 (8tftp t)           42330                 330       330        -                S          -         *        -        -         -             700
3.LgMgIt.aU :20                                          -       200      lo;                                    -         -                                400
,.          (Stage 3             4 x 300                *      300       30       300      300         -        -                  -                     1,200
8.3~tanag tmnjag                  2:300                  .         -*     300      300        -         -        .         -        .        ,              600
9.ha: magMsa                       2: 200                                          200         -        -        -         -        -        -              400
10- Sb..Ug                       2  125                 - U S                     125      123                  -        -         .        _              250
11.it         (Stp               2 x 300                -        -                  -                 00      300        -            _                    600
12.IMSag   1)                    2:0 x                                              I        --330                 3    30 is;                             700
13                               I a S)  226 x                   -I                                           600     600Soo                            1,200
14.11  (St  t                                           -        -         -                             -      -       530      350        -              700
15. SajnguwtStg  2)              2: 600                 -        -         .        .        -                                            600              600
16. laach.ug  (8.3p III          2 : 300                -        -         .        .        -         -        t        -      300       300              600
17 CbU3Sir.(St 223               2s 600                 *        -                  -        -                  ,        t -                *                -
iS'.    Y    11_  st8  11)       2 x 600                _        .         _        _        -                  , -
19- LgauS(6tg.U                  2:x 600                -        -         -        -        -         -                                    3So
2) 1 31  gu      a               2:125                                     t                         125      12S                  -                       250
(2) 
17_15iyuaasag                     2 x 1,000              -         '        '        '         '        '        -
*1 Z



A. GmeiIU FAhaUU (emtd)
Itt    utt am                                  1991                1992      1993      1994     193s    1996        1997     1998      199       2000    Total
.  f           PRis                                                73        530      72        I2        so310 72 660    1523    11OO    1.100                           7.6U1
(') Bydr.pou                                                   0         0         0         0        0       132        60       25       200       200              6n7
1. flaagt.nks (ex0.lw3.a)          2 . 26                  -         -         1        -         -        52        -         -         -        -                32
2.ftuhe  (.t.ts)                     1 a 100              -         -                                                                                            t -  -  100  -  -  -  -  10o
As         t*                      83 s                    *            *         *               - *       *        0        25         a         a               8s
4.  S _as                          3 x 200                 -         -         .        .         I         *         -        -       200      no0               400
(1) vess firgd                                               773       2s0      n7        125       30        400      400    1,500        900       9o0            6,625
111Wi                              I x So                 50         .         .        .         .         .        .         .         .O
2. W...(Stv  I)                   2a  12                 125         -         -                               . . -  -        -         -         -              125
S. Chugi* (Sta    ftt)             2 * 123                 -       250                  -         -         -         -        -         -         -              2W
4. I1bngaI  (Stag  t1)              2 s 600              600         -       600        -         -         -         -        -         -         -            1.200
S. lAo AS                          2 1    125                                U -  123  125        -         -         -        -         -         -              250
4. Jimf (Stp  t)                   2 * 10                  - S                 .         -      300       So0         *        *         *         -              600
7. 3hmgag (stop U)                 a x600                  -         -         -        I         -         -      400       400         -         .            1.200
S. V bm( Otap fS)                  4:0 no*                                                                  -                3         So0      300               900
9. J1*l (Sta"* I)                  2:600                   -         .         -         .                                   600       600                      1200
10. Jla   (Stag  I2)              2  4 600                -         -        .         -         -         -        -         -                  --
11. o. I Coo"l                    4:*00                   -         -        -         -         -         U        *         -         -      600              600
12*. t dlsbam (?e.wttam)          1                                                                      n0                                                      no 3
(3)                                                            0       Soo         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0              i0n
1.q1nhbs  (stop  t)                 I .x3                  -       300         .        -         -         -         -        .         -         .              300
a. Q    lnsa  (stop  tt)           2 * 600                 -                   -        -         9         -         -        -         -         -                -
S. S       _amope                  2  1.000                -         -         -        -         -         -         *        -         -         -
710      723       450       125      300       980       900      600       900       300            5,430
0)0           0              0        0        so         0        0         0         a               so
aa d    *terf*  2 X 40                   -         -        *         -         -       11         -         -        '         '               SO
(2) tonsil.fire                                              150       725       430      125       300       900      900       600       9o0       so3             53350
1 X 25                23                                                                                                       a s    -  -  -  -  -  #
2. HGDAM                           2* 123                1#3       123                  -         .         -         -        .         -         -              230
3. ltm    (Sta. t)                 2 z600                  -       600                                                                                            S _  -  -  -  -  -  -  600
4. Isb"  (Stag  2?)                 1 a 200                                             -         -         -         -        -         -         *              200
3. hbL                             2 x                     -                 125      223         -         -                 1 1        -         -              250
6. 3.                               1 a 123                1         -       125        -         -         -         -        -         -         -              125
7. 2.d  _ab. (Stag*  )             2 a 300                 .                   .        .       30        s30        .         .         .         .              600
S. Ladbe  Stap It)                 2 a 300                 -         .300                                          3 .  .                                         600
9. 2n4 M0091                       4 x:3                   -         -         - 0                -       300      300         -         -         -              460
10. 2a. 1.1t                      2 x 300                 -         *        *         -         I         -                s00  00     -        -              400
1t.Cbo*t                          2 x 300                 -                  -         -                            -         -      300       30               600
12. Pima    (Stae tl)             2*600                   -         .        .         -         .         U        -         -      600         .              600
1S2.Id  _asu        (Stgp St)     2 a 300                 -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -                  --
14. ?1m0)tea Stg.p IL, rsa.-
v.11m                         I x3300                 .         .        9         .                300         .         .         .                       300
Smrs BCBPC.



B. 50.KVTRArnI(?  la   AND SowSAvo
(Jh: bm, MVA)
Z"mummisign&Am.                                     Tear Of brim la :to coeratlom           su'bautaoo,trauaforer                Tsar of briuzi  Into ogeratlar
1991    1992    1993    1994    1993                                         1991    1992    19      1994    1995
1. ctrelt I Of Uanq1"a.auo                         45       .        -       .       .     1. Yauga SS                       20          .       -        -       -
2. C ut it of          5      s5 .            .                                      -     2. Dosban No. 2 Trauformr           300
3. CiScut S of   1A-Sa          -PL o             232        .       .       .       -     3. Shaxlg No. I  '                    -     750        -       -       -
4. Ci1cit it of IeIn 4         g                    -      134       .       .       -     4. ?in   o go. 2                      -     750        -       -       -
S. CireuIt ti of SIaPlgftvao                        -        -      98                      . -   5.lou   o. 1                   -       -      750 .
6. Ctit II of  UR Yo4Awo                            -        -      45                     S -  6. Jias& go. 2    '              .       -        -     300       -
7. VaF -D-omba-                                              - 182   -                     7.  abg go. I   '                     -       .        -     750       -
S. CircIt S of Sha       -Jau                       -        -             140       -     8. Jlvgbua No. I   '                  -       .        -       -     730
&obotal                                       311     116      143     140       -          Subtotal                       O      .0C 0 IS  750   1.250     750
Total of '8th 5-.eer                                      1.011 I*                          Total of 'Bth S-Year"                       6.250       MA
Tran Ucl.m Lim                                      Lear of brinaln  into oeration          Sabetatioultrenforar                 Ter of brinaiu  Into operation
1996    19      1997    1999    100                                         1996    1997    199S    1999    2000
1. Double oSrcto  of Ti Bmn ial -Ptyeo           2:35                                -     SObheing No. 2 Tranfomer              -     750
1. Cirdut St ot ShaoUag-JIXgl                     140                -                     J- gtna No. 2 Tranfonmr             no        .                .       *
3. Doule circuits of langzhomaJgdo               2x40       -        -
4. Pinayaoosba                                      -     178               e-       -     tu No. 2 Transformer                750               -        -       -                         0
. Cicuit S1 of JIang4       oe                              -      136           -         Cagibou  o. I Transformr              -       -     7
6. Circuit It of mUzho-9iyiu-Jiagu$                                340       -       -       aayi No. 1, No. 2 Tranformr         -       -     750        -     750
7. Dotbloe circuit of Jisu8n Substti                    -        2x40        -Jiozig No. I Tranformer                                  750
8. P     ya-ftgb-4     o                            -       -        -     200       -     T   4th S00-  $9 Si anghai                        -          75_
9. Shid 1gouVageoqia-tago                           -      5S                  
10. D                                                        -        -       -     140     Ibaug   No. 2 Tranforer               -     750
11. hejia    coa      aree-Jianbu  (fbi. dar.)       -       -               40     280
12. QLe%-Dea-PIza                                                        -          so     Rengos Dogjiao  SIS                           -       -        -     750
Subtotal                                      290     236     SS6      240     500          Subtotal                     1.500   2.250   1 500     750   1.500
total of '9th S-year^                                        1.,22                          Total of '9th 5-yvar'                    7.500 MV
Source: ECEPUC.



POrO ANP BEv IAAN( iN KPG La
1991       1992       199s       1994       1995       1996       1997        1998       1999       2000
L. Kfadmum peak lad la (1                 18,200.0   20,100.0   22,220.0   24,360.0   27,000.0   29,400.0   31,950.0   34.840.0   37,900.0   41,100.0
2. Svytew installed Capacitv tm
(a) At the Seginnig of the ,er         22,143.8   23,718.8   26,943.8   30,068.8   51.643.8   32,968.8   34,125.8   41,085.e   45,710.8   50,685.8
Of whichb  Mydro                   2,468.2    2,46S.2    2,468.2    2,46S.2    2,468.2    2,468.2    2,700.2    3,360.2    3,985.2    4,785.2
Thrmal                   19,675.6   21,250.6   24,175.6   27,300.0   28,875.6   30,200.6   33,125.6   37,425.6   41,42S.6   45,600.6
Nulea r                        _           -      300.0      300.0      300.0      3000    4300.0         3000       300.      300.0
(b) Nw addition                          1,575.0    3,225.0    3,125.0    1,575.0    1,325.0    3,157.0    4,960.0    4,625.0    4,975.0    3,300.0
O which.  ydro                          _          -          _          -          -       232.0      660.0      625.0      800.0      200.0
Thermal                  1,575.0    2,923.0    1,125.0    1,575.0    1,325.0    2,925.0    4,300.0    4,000.0    4,175.0    3,100.0
Nuc                           .       300.0                          -           -          -          -                     -
(c} At the ed of the year              23,718.8   26,943.8   30,068.8   31,643.8   32,968.8   36,125.8   41,085.8   45,710.8   50,685.8   55,985.8
Of which  Nydro                    2,46S.2    2,468.2    2,468.2    2,468.2    2,469.2    2,700.2    3,360.2    3,985.2    4,785.2    4,985.2
Tbhrmal                 21,250.6   24,175.6   27,300.6   28,875.6   30,200.6   33,125.6   37,425.6   41,425.6   45,600.6   48,700.6
Nuclar                        -       300.0      300.0      30.0       300.0      300.0       300.0      300.0      300.0      300.0
3. erste4 capaoity ptm                       977.5    1,007.3    1,037.5    1,062.0    1,067.0    1,067.0    1,067.0    1,067.0    1.067.0    1,067.0
Of whichn  Rydro                     555.5      555.5      555.5      555.0      353.0       555.0      555.0      555.0      555.0      555.0
Tberml                     422.0       452.0      482.0      507.0      512.0      512.0      512.0       512.0      512.0      512.0
4. Purcbhasd pwer (CMV                       300.0       300.0      300.0      300.0      300.0      300.0      300.0      300.0      300.0       300.0
AvAilable depepdable peakig
capacity (MO je                       21,466.3   23,011.3   26,206.3   29,306.8   30,876.8   32,201.8   35,358.8   40,318.8   44,943.8   49,918.8
6. loek load  lance (n                     3,266.3    2,911.3    3,986.3    4,746.8    3,876.8    2,801.8    3,408.8    5,478.8    7,043.8    8,818.8
7, Baser, margin (2)                          17.9        14.5       17.8       19.3       14.3        9.5       10.7       15.7       18.6       21.4
S. nergy dend (CW  Is                     120,970.0  134,000.0  146,500.0  159,500.0  172,000.0  185,700.0  200,700.0  217,000.0  234,000.0  252,000.0           -
9. Available system ergy  upply (GlI)     120,942.0  134,000.0  146,500.0  159,500.0  172,000.0  1S5,700.0  200,700.0  217,000.0  234,000.0  252,000.0
(a) Bydro generatio                     6,806.0    6,640.0    6,640.0    6,640.0    6,640.0    6,640.0    6,640.0    6,640.0    6,640.0    6,940.0
(b) Theal ganerstiom                   111,990.0  123,660.0  135,660.0  148,660.0  161,160.0  174,560.0  189,560.0  205,860.0  222,860.0  240,560.0
(L) Rub prece    urnits l           94,565.0  107,238.0  119,238.0  132,238.0  144,738.0  158,138.0  173,138.0  189,43S.0  206,438.0  224,138.0
Newly metald  (tlt year)         6,600.0    6,200.0   11,700.0   12,500.0    6,300.0    5,300.0   11,700.0   17,200.0   16,000.0   16,700.0
Nely istalld (2d year)           9,750.0    8,250.0    7,875.0   14,625.0   15,625.0    7,875.0    6,625.0   14,625.0   21,500.0   20.000.0
ieting untis                    78,215.0   92,788.0   99,663.0  105,113.0  122,813.0  144,963.0  154,813.0  157,613.0  168.938.0  187.438.0
(iW) Mdim and l  preesure unte       17,425.0   16,422.0   16,422.0   16,422.0   16,422.0   16,422.0   16,422.0   16,422.0   16,422.0   16,422.0
(c) Nuclear genrati                           -    1,000.0    1,500.0    1,500.0    1,500.0    1,500.0    1,500.0    1,500.0    1,500.0    1,500.0
td) Lese tla 500 MV unite               1,200.0   12,000.0    1,200.0    1,200.0    1,200.0    1,500.0    1,500.0    1,.00.0    ,50.0    1,500.0
(e) urcsd  energ                          946.0    1,500.0    1,500.0    1,500.0    1,500.0    1,500.0    1,500.0    1,500.0    1,500.0    1,500.0
10. nrgy balnce (GMb)                         -28.0          0          0          0          0          0           0          0          0          0
11. Averape operating bous for tbhrml unite
(a) Rigo preesure                       6,500.0    6,666.0    6,401.0    6,131.0    6,119.0    6,250.0    6,250.0    6,040.0    5,821.0    5,825.0
(bl)  ediu  and lo  preesure              4,200      4,000       4,000      4,000      4,000      4,000      4,000      4,000      4,000       4,000
La Mmbealoen ais mad    regload bds.
ro Al &t am udt we asnnd to be oosndaioned by O. A at &th yean.
to Thdepada peaektngcspecwy of a new nA    ksis reepecilty.
jd lne Menegy sV t of Omtl mau is caclt at 4,000 b_n for. fidst year of opala. 5,000 Inou for tho swod yr ad 6,5000 bou for tbe Oid yea ed tlclertc.
Soure BCEPC      mion



-72 -                          ANNEX 5.1
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
General
1.           The Tianhuangping hydroelectric plant is located in the county of Anji in the
northwestern part of Zhejiang Province, about 175 km from Shanghai, 180 km from Nanjiang,
57 km from Hangzhou, and 240 kn from Anqing, the capital cities of Jiangsu, Zhejiang and
Anhui provinces. It will be a pumped-storage hydroelectric plant, consisting of an upper
reservoir, a water conveyance system, an underground powerhouse, a lower reservoir, and a
switchyard.
2.           The daily electricity consumption in a power system varies greatly. The
electricity consumption at night is only about 60 percent of that in day time. There is surplus
power at night and insufficient power in day time. A pumped storage power station can utilize
the surplus power in off-peak hours to pump water from the lower reservoir to the upper
reservoir and release it for power generation in peak load hours. It would therefore be able to:
(a) regulate load variations of a power system; (b) supply emergency reserve to make up
insufficient power due to outage of large generating units; (c) improve system stability and
operation performance by regulating its frequency and voltage; and (d) increase the efficiency
of base load units by operating them at a high capacity factor.
3.           The electromechanical equipment will be of the reversible type: operating as
turbine and generator in the generation mode, and as pump and motor in the pumping mode.
Topographical Conditions
4.           The project site is located in a fairly mountainous region. The upper reservoir
will be formed by a rockfill dam at a natural depression area between Tianhuangping Hill and
Getianling Hill. The lower reservoir is located in the valley of Daxi Creek. The average head
(H) between two reservoirs is about 570 m. The length of the water conveyance system (L) is
only 1,428 m. The ratio of L/H is therefore 2.5, more favorable than similar projects in the
world of about 3.5-8.
Geology
5.           The geology of the project area consists mainly of Jarassic volcanic rock and
dikes, which are hard and massive. Due to weathering, the main dam and four subsidiary saddle
dams of the upper reservoir are covered by weathered rock and overburden of various depths.
Earth and rockflll type embankment dam with bituminous concrete facing is therefore
recommended to be used. The bedrock at the lower reservoir is hard and simple in structure.
The earth and rockfrll dam with reinforced concrete facing is to be used. The rock for the water
conveyance system and underground powerhouse is mainly rhyolite tufts, which is fresh, hard
and massive, favorable for underground construction. The basic earthquake intensity in the



-73 -NNEX 51
project area is less than Degree Six by the Modified Mercalli (MM) Scale. The design intensity
of earthquake of the project is therefore targeted at Degree Six.
Upper Reservoir
6.           The main dam will be 72 m in height with a crest length of 503 m. Four saddle
dams, also of earth rockfill type, will have a maximum height of 34 m, 32.5 m, 17 m and
9.3 m, respectively. To prevent leakage, bituminous concrete facing is to be provided for the
upstream slopes of the main and subsidiary dams, bottom and side slope of the reservoir.
7.           The upper reservoir will have a gross storage capacity of 8.85 million me and
an effective capacity of 8.05 million m3. The equivalent energy storage capacity available for
daily operation is 8.66 GWh (4.8 hours for full load generation), equivalent to 3,160 GWh per
year.
Lower Reservoir
8.          ITe lower reservoir dam will be 95 m in height with a crest length of 230 m.
It includes a surface side spillway and a diversion and water supply tunnel for releasing water
for downstream use. It has a gross storage capacity of 8.77 million mn and an effective capacity
Of 8.05 million mi.
Water Conveyance Systen
9.           The major components of the water conveyance system include 2 intake/outlet
and gate shaft structures at the upper reservoir, 2 main headrace tunnels including inclined
shafs, 2 reinforced concrete manifolds, 6 branch headrace tunnels, 6 tailrace tunnels and
6 intake/outlet structures at the lower reservoir. Ihe main headrace tunnels will be 7.0 m in
inside diameter and about 884/886 m long. Each tunnel will branch out to three steel penstocks
of 3.2 m in diameter and 258/308 m long from the manifolds to the spherical valves. Six
tilrace tunnels will be 4.4 m in inside diameter and 245/249 m long.
Underground Powerhouse
10.         The underground powerhouse consists of the machine hall, transformer hall,
busbar galleries and tailgate gallery. The machine hall is about 193 m long, 21 m wide and
46 m high. The transformer hall is about 166 m long, 17 m wide and 21 m high, connecting
with the machine hall by six busbar galleries and a transformer transportation tunnel. Due to
favorable geological conditions, powerhouse caverns are designed to be unlined and supported
only with shotcrete and rock bolts, with steel mesh locally.
ElectromedanIcal Equipment
11.          Six vertical shaft, single stage reversible Francis pump/turbines will be used.
The rated head is 526 m at a rated output of 306 MW in turbine mode and maximum input of
310 MW in pumping mode. The synchronous speed of the unit is 500 rpm.



- 74-                          ANNEX S. 
12.          Six semi-imbrella, air-cooled, vertical shaft generator-motors will be used,
directly coupled to the pump-turbines. The rated capacity in generating mode and pumping
mode Is 335 MVA and 320 MW, respecdvely.
Pertinent Data
13.          -he pertnent particulars of the Tinhuangping hydroelectric plant are given
below:
HydroBgy
Catchment area above dam sites
Upper reservoir                    0.327 kIm2
Lower reservoir                    24.2 km2
Flow records at lower dam sVI
Average long-erm ruioff            24.5 106m3
Mean annual flow                  0.778 m3/sec
Probable maximum flood             1,280 m3/sec
Upper Reservoir
Normal pool level                        905.2 m
Drawdown level                           863.0 m
Total storage capacity                   8.85 106m3
Effective storage capacity               8.05 low3
Lower Reservoir
Nornma pool levet                        344.5 m
Drawdown level                           295.0 m
Total storage capacity                   8.77 106ms
Effectve storage capacity                8.05 10"m
Main Dam of the Upper Reservor 
Bitwiznous concrete-faced earth
2rpe                                   rocl#ll dam
Crest elevation                                  907 m
Maximum height of dam                             72 m
Crest leng                                       503 m
Lower Reservoir Dam
lType                           Concrete faced eanh rocUI dam
Crest elevation                                 350.2 m
Maximum height of dam                            95.0 m
Crest length                                    230.0 m
Crest elv.length of the
side spillway                               344.5/60 m



- 75-~                         AN=  5.
1owu, Conduits
Number of main unnels                                2
Lengh/inside diameter
from intake to manifold                  884-8867.0 m
from manifold to spherical valve     258-308/3.2-2.2 m
Maximum discharge                        6 x 64.9 m31sec
Underground Caverns
Maximum dimensions of powerhouse
(LxWxH)                        193 m x 21 m x 46 m
Elevation of pump/turbine level                225.0 m
Transformer hall dimensions         166 m x 17 m x 21 m
Talhrace Tunnels
Number                                               6
Length/inside diameter                      245-249/4.4
Main Electromechanical Equipment
Pump/turbine:
Type                      Vertical shqft, single stage,
reversible Francis pmp/turbine
Number                                        6
Net turbine head (maxmu/
rated/minimum)                  607.5/526/512 m
Net pump head (maximum/mini)    614.0/523.5 m
Rated output/maximum input          306/310 MW
Synchronous speed                       500 rpm
Generator/motor:
Type                      7hree-phase,  vertical shaft,
semi-umbrella, air-cooled
Rated capacity
As generator                          335 MVA
As pump                                320 MW



-76- 
CONSULTNG SERVICES
(Terms of Reference)
Gener
1.           The consulting services wiUl be divided into two phases: Phase I services for the
preparation of the project and Phase II services for the asistance in managing the project
construction. The services may be again divided into two groups: one group for the civil works
and the other group for the electromechanical equipment.
Soope d Works
2.           Phase I Services for Civil Works
(a)    Consulting services for reviewing the cost estimate of the project and
implementation schedule.
(b)    Consulting services for the design of upper reservoires biuminous concrete
lining.
(c)    Consulting services for international competitive bidding (ICB) for the
construction of upper reservoir's bituminous concrete lining, including provision
of sample bidding docu, review and finalization of bidding documents,
assistance in tendering, bid evaluation, preparation of a bid evaluation report and
contact negotatons.
(d)    Consulting services for the design of reinforced concrete manifolds.
(e)    Consulting services for the method of constuction of the high pressure water
conveyance inclined shaft.
(t)    Any other services as requested by the owner.
3.           Phase 1I Services for Civil Works. Assist the project entity in construction
supervision and management for the following works:
(a)    Upper reservoir bituminous concrete lining including the upstream facing of the
earth rockfil main dam and four subsidiary dams; and
(b)    Upsm  water conveyance system including tunels, inclined shafts, manifolds
and pentoclks.



-77-                           ANNEX I.Z
Ihe services will include contact administaion, construction inspection and quality assurace,
cost control, and schedule control.
4.           Pse  I Serices for E&M  Worb.  Consulting services for ICB of the
following E&M-equpment: (a) pump-turbine generator-motor units and amuxliary equipment;
and (b) plant supevisory control system.
(a)    The services will include provision of sanmle biding documents, review and
optiization of design and selection of parameters, preparation of specifications
and finalization of bidding documents, assistant in tenderig, bid evaluaion,
preparation of a bid evaluation report and contract negotiations.
(b)    Review and technical consultation for the bidding documents of 500 kV GIS and
500 kV cables.
(c)    Review and technical consultation for the principle of design of fire-protection,
ventilon and air conditioning of the undergrun powehouse.
5.           Pbase 1 Services for E&M Works. Consulting services awe as follows:
(a)     iance i the review of manufacturer's shop drawings and technical
documents;
p)    Assistance iD model test, liaison meedn with the manfactrs, start-up test,
commissioning and performance acqtance test; and
(c)    Any other services as required by the owner.
anagement  1euir         during Construcion
6.           The foreign consulting groups (one for eivil works and one for el m l
equipment) in associaon with their respecve counteparts of the local suevisory body of
ECIDVISIDI 1/ and various dement of THPCC wil form a constuction management team
(CM) for managing and coordinatng day-today works for the design and construction of the
project The CM team wIll be headed by the foreign consultin groups and report directy to
the general manager of THPCC. The goal of the CM is to build a safe and reliable project, on
schedule and within the planned budget.
7.           The principal responsibility of this CM team are as follows:
(a)    Conta  administrton, including control of cosu, schedule monitoring and
coordinton, change cool, communication and document contrl, and the
establiment of corrsponding procedures.
(b)    Construcion eonandqualityassuace, includigsitesurvey, constuction
inspection, and inspection in ma' facilites to confirm the compliance
with the drawings and specifications.
11  Mm Shngha Invetgato ad Dspi Itue



- 78 -                          ANNEX 5
(c)    Design engineering services, including preparation of material and equipment
specifications, construction drawings, incorporation of design changes, review
of contractor and manufacturer submittals, record drawings and review board
support.
(d)    Site administration services, including safety, camp management, inventory
control, office services, project services, etc.
Contract Administration
8.           Timely completion of construction of the Tianhuangping Hydroelectric Project
will require the satisfactory performance and completion of each part of the works by a number
of contractors and suppliers. It will be the responsibility of the CM to coordinate and administer
the work of each of these parties to bring about successful completion of the works. Checks and
safeguards will be set up to monitor the technical adequacy, quality, costs and progress of each
contractor, and to provide management with information for early corrective action if required.
9.           The main responsibilities of CM in the area of Contract Administration include
the following:
(a)    Control of Costs. Under the various contracts, the CM is responsible for
measuring and certifying the works for the purpose of making interim and fnal
payments to the contractors and suppliers. Inspection, testing, and approval of
the contractor's materials and workmanship will be required prior to releasing
the certification.
At the construction site, the physical dimensions of the various parts ol the
structures will be measured or verified by the CM inspection staff as part of
their routine checks for compliance with th - designs and specifications. Reports
of concrete placement, reinforcement s'  and formwork check-outs for each
placement, and other construction items must be compiled daily by the
inspectors in the field. This daily information must be made accessible to the
contract administrators in order for them to check the interim accounts submitted
by the construction contractors, to agree with contractt,s on interim
measurements, and to issue interim payment certificates.
Computation for the final measurement of excavation, structure or section will
be undertaken by staff on site as soon as all the necessary information is
available. Each contractor will almost certainly undertake his own independent
measurements, and the CM contract administrators must investigate and
reconcile any discrepancies and arrive at an agreed final measurement. Progress
payments for the various supply contracts will be certified after the CM confirns
the percentage of each unit completed by the manufacturer, or on the basis of
defined milestones in the manufacturing or testing program.
Completion, maintenance and final payment certificates will be required for the
various contracts. Rigorous tests will be undertaken before final acceptance
certificates are issued for mechanical and electrical plants, and each final
payment will not be certified until the CM is satisfied that the contractor has met



-79 -                           AM=  5-2
his obligations. These obligations include completion of all tasks such as
certification, record drawings, reports and data submittals.
(b)    Schedule Monitoring and Coordination. Once a contract has been awarded
for any of the construction or supply contracts, the contractor will prepare a
detailed construction schedule. Each contract will have defined dates by which
the various critical stages of the project must be completed, and each contractor
will have the freedom to prepare his own schedule for approval within these
defined dates. This schedule may or may not be the construction schedule that
has been used for pre-tender planning purposes, or the construction schedule
submitted with the contractor's tender. However, once this schedule is reviewed
and approved by the CM, it will form the basis on which the contractor's
performance will be monitored.
The CM also will be responsible for ensuring that the schedule for each part of
the work performed by each contractor meshes with the schedule for other parts
of the work performed by other contractors. Each contractor's incentive to keep
on schedule may be affected by interference and delays which the conator
may consider attributable to others. The management role of the CM therefore
will include checking of all interfaces between the various contractors and
monitoring the progress of each of the contcs very closely.
The key to managing the schedule of a fast moving construction project is to
have accurate and up-to-ate information in a form that will enable any factors
that could delay progress to be identified early, so that measures can be taken
to avoid or overcome the delays.
(c)    Change Control. The CM must be equipped to facilitate settlement of disputes
and claims within the terms of the contract, since the contractors will inevitably
argue that in a number of instances extra payment or an extension of time for
completion is justified. A detailed analysis must be made for every such claim
that is formally submitted.
(d)    Communication and Document Control.  Crucial to effective contract
administration will be the flow and control of correspondence to and from the
contractors. This correspondence will include certifications, schedules, material
deliveries, submittals and contractual correspondence. Computers will be used
to record and process all the data rapidly so that it can be used for daily
planning and for rapid evaluation of disputes with the contractors.
(e)    Corresponding Establishment of Procedures. The performance of these duties
will require a set of procedures to be established to effectively exercise control
of the project without introducing avoidable costs or delays. These procedures
will encompass aWl aspects of contract administration including measurement and
payment, schedule control, cost control, certifications, management of
correspondence, preparation and issuance of change orders, inspection, testing,
information for decision making, site administration services, compliance with
drawings and specifications, and handling of claims formally submitted by the
contractors.



-80-                             AX 
Constructlon Inspection and Quality Assurance
10.          The CM will be responsible for developing and executing the inspection and
testing program to ensure that each item which forms a part of the permanent works has been
constructed in accordance with the design and construction specifications. This program should
include inspection of materials and equipment produced off-site in various suppliers' shops as
well as inspection of on-site work.
(a) Site Surveys. IThe CM will provide survey teams to check the contractors'
basic layouts and to establish and maintain a permanent network of monuments
and markers for precise measurement of deformations. The survey teams will
also spot check local survey controls established by the contractors for setting
formwork, etc.
(b)    Construction Inspection. At the construction site, inspection services must be
maintained whenever work is in progress. For much of the constuction period,
full coverage will be required for 24 hours per day and six days per week.
Backfills will be controlled by moisture content and density tests, and concrete
by aggregate gradation, slump, air content, temperature and compression tests.
These laboratory procedures will be supplemented by field procedures such as
nuclear density gauges and Swiss Hammer tests as well as inspections of the
placement of reinforcing steel, embedments, and form location and accuracy.
In addition, welds will be inspected and tested with the latest radiographic
equipment and techniques. This program should be based upon routine quality
control measurements which, after processing, will provide a record of trends
and enable early adjustments and corrections to be made if necessary. The
progm must measure and record what is done and process this data so that the
design parameters can be checked and usable records developed for future safety
appraisals.
(c)   Inspection In Manufacturers' Facilities. The quality assurance program wfll
also incorporate audits of manufacturers' facilities to confirm compliance with
national and international standards with respect to design, manfcture and
testing. The inspection engineers will visit manufacturers' facilities not only to
audit the facilities but also to check the various stages of the manufatring
progress, to examine materials and test certificates, to witness tests and, if
appropriate, to arrange for independent tests. Manuin may be undertaken
in a number of widely separated locations within and outside China and the CM
will arrange for routine inspection visits to be made by a local resident staff of
an approved inspection agency. In other cases, the CM will arrange for
inspecting engineers to temporarily reside at the manufacturers' shops when this
is justified by the inspection work load.
An additional important function of inspection visits to the various
manufakcturers' facilities will be to check on progress in manufacture, testing and
preparation for shipment. With the tight construction schedule planned for this
project, it is imperative that aU the employer-furnished equipment and materias
are delivered on time and in good condition. Thus, the inspection staff must



- 81 -                          ANNEX 5.2
monitor all stages of the manufacture of the equipment and materials from award
of contract to delivery, and recommend to management any measures needed to
expedite matters.
(d)    Start-up and Conunissioning of the Works. The start-up and testing of large
hydroelectric units requires a team approach. This team will be composed of
personnel from the CM, the construction and installation contractors, and the
equipment manufwcurers, each entity being responsible for fulfilling its
contractual obligations during the equipment check-outs, start-ups and testing.
A team leader, experienced in start-up procedures, will be assigned by the CM
to direct the day-to-day activities of the start-up team.
Start-up and test procedures are complex and exacting, and inevitably, the results
of the tests form the basis for recommendations which may modify the future
operating procedures and which the CM must incorporate in the project
operation and maintenance procedures manual.
The objectives of the CM in the area of start-up and commissioning are as
follows:
*     To coordinate the performance of tests with the various manufacturers'
engineers and other entities involved in the commissioning and start-up.
*     To assist with the development of accurate and safe start-up and test
procedures.
D     To assist in performing tests and evaluating test results.
3     To coordinate the preparation of final start-up and test reports and
formulate recommendations for future operating procedures and
manuals.
Design Engineering Services
II.          The THPCC will utilize the services of the ECIDI as the nominated project
designer for the preparation of specifications, final designs and construction drawings. During
the construction period the CM will be responsible for the following activities:
*     Preparing specifications and control documents for Employer-supplied permanent
materials and equipment.
*     Preparing detailed construction drawings which incorporate fmnal design
computations, results of tests and studies which continue into the construction
period, and details of mechanical and electrical equipment.
*     Incorporating design changes to meet unanticipated conditions encountered
during construction.



-82 -                             NEX 5.2
*     Ensuring the designs and drawing prepd by the construction contactors are
completed in accordance with the requirements of the comract documents.
*        Ensuring thathe des  ad drawings prepared by the equipment suppliers are
completed in accordance with the requirements of the contract documents and
are omple with the other designs.
*     Producing pemanent record drawings showing actual dimensions and details of
the finished work.



gFAFF-MONT1S ESFMATE FPOR THE CONSULTING SERVICES
Staff-mntnh
Item                                             1992     1993      1994     1995      199       1997    1998     1999     estlmate
Civil Works. Phase 1
1. Cost estiDate and tim  schedule                1.5      -         -         -         -                 -         -            1.5
2. Upper Reservoir bituminous facing,
design & ICB tendering                      6.0       5.5      3.0        -        -         -        -         -          14.5
3. R.C.  anoifold, design                         9.0      -         -         -         -        -         -        -            9.0
4. VP Water Conveyance inclined shaft             2.5      -         -         -         -        -         -        -            2.5
Civil Works. Phase II
1. Upper reservoir bituano_s facing,
construction                                _-                 -         20.0     24.0      20.0      -         -          64.0
2. Upstresm water conveyance system
construction                                -         6.0     33.0       30.0     24.0      24.0     12.0       6.0       135.0
KIM Works. Phase IL
1. Pump-tubine and motor-generator,
design & ICB tenderiUg                     11.75      5.75     -          -        -         -        -         -          17.5
2. Plant supervisory control system,
desid8  & ICB tendering                    14.0       5.0      _          _        _         _        _         _          19.0
3. 500-kYV GI, cable                              1.25     2.25      -         -         -        -         -        -            3.5
4. Fire-protection, ventilation & air
conditioning of underground power-
house, design                               2.5       -        -          -                                                 2.5
FW Lorks. Phase II
1. Review manufactures' technical
documents                                   -         4.0     28.0        9.0      -         -        -         -          41.0
2. Operation design                               -        -         -        10.0       -        -         -        -           10.0
3. Model test & liaison meeting                   -        -         6.0      10.0      12.0      4.0       -        .           32.0
4. Start-up, commissioning &
perfoimnee test                             -         -        -          -        -        1S.0     16.0      12.0        43.0
Total                                      48.5      28.5     70.0       79.0     60.0      63.0     28.0      18.0       395.0
Nowe: Consuing SeMmes for Phase I Wosk (70 daf-month) ac financed by TCC.



-84-                           ASX 5,4
PEAKING POWER PRICING STUDY
(Terms of Reference)
Objectives
1.           This study will be used as the basis for (i) reform of peak load electricity prices,
as part of the overall power tariff reform action plan developed by the East China Electric Power
United Corporation (ECEPUC) for the East China region, and (i) the design of prices for
contracts for energy purchasing and power and energy sales for the Mianhuangping CMP)
project. TIhe study objectives include:
(a)    Establishment of the marginal costs of serving different consumer categories, at
different voltage levels, during peak, shoulder and off-peak periods.
(b)    Development of a target rate schedule for implementation under the
government's tariff reform action plan for the East China grid. In particular,
the study will provide the basis for implementation of a more rational structure
between demand and energy charges and wider application of time-of-day rates,
particularly for bulk purchases and large consumers. Recommended rates should
both reflect costs of service and ensure adequate revenue within the East China
grid to meet the financial targets established under the THP project.
(c)    Development of a methodology for determining the benefits of THP in providing
power generation reserve, load-frequency control, and voltage control.
(d)    Establishment of the energy purchase prices and demand and energy sales prices
to be used in the contracts for THP's purchases and sales of electricity. These
prices should also adequately reflect system costs of service and ensure that the
financial targets for the project are fully met.
Study Scope
2.           In the background analysis and analysis of costs of service, the study may largely
represent an updating of analysis conducted in 1986 and 1987 for the East China Power Pricing
Study, under the Beilungang Power Project. In this area, the study will include the following
tasks:
(a)    Review of euisting tariffs and pricing practces;
(b)    Load analysis and forecasting, including power flow and losses at different
voltage levels;



-85 -                           ANNEX 5.4
(c)    Analysis of the financial and economic costs of the expansion program for the
East China grid, including investment and operating costs;
(d)    Calculation of the marginal capacity and energy costs of serving different
voltage levels during peak, shoulder and off-peak periods.
(e)    Determination of the benefits, and allocation of the costs, of THP's role in the
East China grid in regard to reserve generat-on capacity, load-frequency
regulation and voltage control.
3.           Based on the results of the above analysis and financial targets, a new tariff
schedule should be designed, incorporating reforms in both level and structure.  The
recommended schedule will be a key input for ECEPUC's plan to adopt new unified tariffs,
incorporating adjustments in both levels and structure, throughout the East China region by
1994-95. Similarly, the ECEPUC tariff reform action plan will be the principal mechanism for
implementation of the study's findings. Special emphasis should be given to:
(a)    Reform of the power transfer prices used for power purchases or sales between
ECEPUC and other major entities (eg., other grids or large power producers),
in order to better reflect costs of service.
(b)    Appropriate adjustments in the relative roles of demand charges and energy
charges in the rate schedule for large consumers.
(c)    Recommendations on the scope for wider adoption of time-of-day rates,
especially for key consumers, taking into account the results of ongoing
demonstration projects in Nantong, Shaoxing and other areas.
4.           Finally, the study should provide detailed and concrete recommendations on
energy purchase prices and power and energy sales prices for application in the purchase and
sale contracts for the rianhuangping plant. These price recommendations should be based on
the system cost of service calculations, the financial requirements for the Tianhuangping plant,
the overall tariff reform plan (especially reforms outlined in 3a above), the findings of the Plant
Operation Study under this project, and the practical experience of utilities abroad operating
large pumped storage projects. To the extent feasible, the pricing recommendations should take
into account plant benefits in load frequency and voltage regulation, in addition to supply of
peak-load power and back-up peak-load capacity.
Study Organintion and Implementation
5.           The study will be carried out by a study team led by ECEPUC and the Beijing
Water Resources and Electric Power Economic Research Institute, under the guidance of MOE.
In addition to experts from the above agencies, the study team should include (J) key personnel
from the power companies of the three provinces and one municipality in the East China region,
and (ii) 4-5 international consultants. The chief role of the international consultants will be to
provide advice concerning methodology and practical international experience at the outset of
the study and through periodic critical review. The intrnational consultants should be selected
to provide suitable expertise and advice on (i) cost of service calculations and tariff rate design,
especially in regard to peak-load pricing and intergrid power transfer pricing issues, and



- 86 -                        AN=  5A
(i) practical experience in the pricing of inputs and outputs of pumped storage facilities in other
countries.
6.           The study program should include a visit abroad by key study team personnel
to review peak-load pricing practices and pumped storage plant operations.



-87-                           ANNEX S.
STUDY OF OPTIMAL POWER PLANT OPERATION
(Terms of Reference)
Objectives
1.     The objectives of the study are to investigate the technical and economic aspects of the
pumped-storage THP hydroelectric plant, and to establish rules and procedures for its optimal
operation in the East China Power Grid (ECPG), including emergency system reserve operation
and load-frequency and voltage control. The study will also help in developing computer
software packages and specifying hardware for their application.
Scope of the Study
2.     The study should cover, inter alia, the following matters:
(a)  Review current methods and procedures for load dispatching, generation reserve, and
frequency and voltage control in the ECPG;
(b) Investigate relevant facts and features needed to achieve optimal operation of the THP
power plant and its reservoirs in the integrated power supply system, taking into
account the changes in the system configuration and constellation in the period 2000-
2100;
(c)  Establish rules and procedures for the optimal utilization of the THP power plant, and
scheduling of its pumped-generating units;
(d)  Develop essential principles and methodologies for practical and efficient deination
of economic load dispatching rules for the power plant management based on peaking
power requirements and capabilities, system operating reserve, and standards for load-
frequency and voltage control; and
(e) Specify computational facilities and application software required for the optimal
operation of the power plant.
Method and Program of Study Work
3.     ECEPUC will employ expatiate enginering consultants following the World Bank
Guidelines to assist in the execution of the study. Furthermore, ECEPUC will designate its own
specialists to participate in the study work. ECEPUC's operational and management staff will
visit similar projects in other counties and stdy the pumped-srage hydroelectric power plants
operation in large power systems. If required, application software would be purchased in
connection with this study.



-88-                            Ax 5.5
4.     ECEPUC will prepare a detailed program of the study work and related visits to similar
projects not later than December 31, 1994. The study is expected to take one year to complete.
The recommendaions of the study should be implemented in the accordance with the sound
engineering and power utilities practices.



-89.                          ANE  5 .6
MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMET AND TRAENNG
A. OBJECnvE
1.           The management development and staff trainig program is designed to enhance
ECEPUC's managerial, techiical and financial capabilities. The main objectives of the program
are:
(a)   to enable ECEPUC to function as an autonomous entity for the efficient and
accelerated development of its long-range investment program; and
(b)   to staff ECEPUC with professionally skilled personnel capable of handling
power development and financial planning, modern construction, management
and business operations.
B. ScoPE
2.           The raining program will consist of the following three main categories:
(a)    Training in utility management and fiancial planing;
(b)   Project-related training for technical staff by working together with consultants
and those financed under vendors' contracts; and
(C)    Upgrading and equipping of ECEPUC's training facilities.
C. ORGANATON OF TRAlkIG
3.           ECEPUC will be responsible for planning and organizing the training program
with the approval and support of MOE. The training program will be conducted both abroad
and in China. Initia training activities would aim at providing a general overview of the
selected topics by a series of training seminars in China. Both local and foreign experts will be
invited to give lectures on these specific topics. Study tours and overseas training will then be
followed for senior management and financial and technical staff. Particular attention will be
paid to the selection of candidates to be trained and their adequate preparation before sending
them abroad for training.



90-                               ANNEXS.
D. IMPLEMEATION
4.             Implementation plan for the management development anJ staff training program
is presented below:
(a)    Domestic Training.  About 290 staff of various fields, totalling 610 staff-
months will be trained in China (Table 1); 5 staff-months of Chinese experts and
12 staff-months of foreign experts will be required.
(b)    Overseas Training. Study tours and overseas training will be conducted in
1993-96 for 115 staff, totalling 172 staff-months. The number of trainees,
duration of training, staff-months and timing of different specialties of personnel
are shown in Table 2.
(c)    Project-related Training for Technical Staff. A total of 66 trainees with a
total staff-months of 110 will be trained in manufacturers offices and factories.
Details are shown in Table 3.
(d)    Esmated Training Cost. The total training cost will be Y 820,000 in local
currency and $2,655,500 in foreign currency, of which $555,000 will be
included under contracts of major equipment (Table 5).
Table 1: DoMEc TRANG
No. of  Duration of  Staff-             Estimated
Specialty                              trainees  training   month    Timing       cost
(months)                       ($'000)
A. Trainina in China by Chinese Eroerts
Operatiou engineers                   20          6        120    1994-95
Naintenance engineers                 20          4         80    1994-95
Management staff                      20          2         40    1993-94
Planninlg staff                       20          2         40    1993-94
Financial staff                       20          2         40    1993-94
Subtotal                            100         14        320       (in Yuan) 820
B.  Training in China by Foreign Experts
Financial and investment planning    30           2         60    1993-94       50
Financial accounting and management   20          2         40    1993-94       50
Power plant production management    30           1         30    1993-94       25
Operation maaagement of high-head
pumped-storage power station        20          1         20    1994-95       25
Hydroelectric supervision and
control system                      20          1         20    1994-95       25
Personnel management and training
in power enterprise                 20          1         20    1993-94       25
Construction supervision management  30           2         60    1993-94       50
Dispatching administration of power
grid                                20          2         40    1993-94       50
Subtotal                            190         12        290                 300



-91-                                 ANNEX 5.6
Table 2: SUDY TovRts AD OVUERAS  1 AWNIG
go. of  Duration of  Staff_              Estimated
Contents                                trainees   tranling    month    Tlming       cost
(months)                        ($'000)
Trainina abroad
Senior maaagement staff                  30           2         60    1993194       300
Technical staff                          32           1         32    1993194       160
Financial and professional staff         26           2         52    1993194       260
Operator training                        14           2         28    1995/96       140
Subtotal                             115           9        172                  860
Table 3: ftoJEcT-REAmm TRAUNNG FOR TECncAL STAFF
No. of  Duration of  Staff-              Estimated
Contents                                trainees   training    month    Tlmtng       cost
(months)                        ($0000)
Traininm abroad
Plant supervision & control system       13           3         39    1995/96       200
Governing system                          5           1          5    1995/96        25
Excitation system                         5           1          5    1995/96        25
Protection system                        10           1         10    1995/96        50
Static frequency converter                5           1          5    1995/96        25
Upper reservoir asphalt seepage
fcing                                   10           2         20    1993/94       100
ciS                                       5           1          5    1995196        25
Fiber-optic ground wire                   5           1          5    1995/96        25
Operation and maintenance of units        8           2          16    1995/96       80
Subtotal                              66                    110                  555
Table 4: SummARY OF TRANIG CosT
No. of      Duration of training    Estimated foreign
trainees    (93-95) (staff-months)       cost (S'000)
Training in China                     190                290                      300
(YUan)                              100                320                     (820)ja
Training abroad                       115                172                      860
Project-related training               66                110                     (555)/b
Training facilitles and
equipment Ic                          _                                         940
Total                            471                892                    2.100
La Paymg wih localcrc y.
& Iluded under the conurats for major equipetu.
L  icludig languge laboraoy faltis, audioviu  equpmnt and a simulatr for hydroWeltr power staton
op-aion.



-92-                        ANNEX  7
PROJCT COST ElMATE
Description                             Local      Foreign        Total
---------($ million) ---------
1 I 8e,aratorv works
Base cost                          19.6          0.0         19.6
Physical contingencies              1.2          0.0          1.2
Price contingencies                 0.3          0.0          0.3
Taxes and duties                    0.0          0.0         0.0
Subtotal                            21 1                     21.1
2. Land Accuisition & Compensation
Base cost                           7.8          0.0          7.8
Physical contingencies              0.6          0.0         0.6
Price contingencies                 0.2          0.0         0.2
Taxes and duties                    0.0          0.0          0.0
Subtotal                             80 0                     8 6
3. Lower Reservoir & Powerhouse
Base cost                          35.8          0.7        36.5
Physical contingencies              4.3          0.1          4.4
Price contingencies                 3.3          0.1         3.4
Taxes and duties                    0.0          0.0          0.0
Subtotal                            43.4          0 9         44.3
4. uyer Reservoir Dams
Base cost                          32.4          0.3         32.7
Physical contingencies              3.2          0.0          3.3
Price contingencies                 2.8          0.0          2.8
Taxes and duties                    0.0           0.0         0.0
Subtotal                            AAA           0.3        38.8
5. UJS Water Conveyance System
Base cost                          20.3           1.4        21.7
Physical contingencies              3.0          0.2          3.3
Price contingencies                 2.3          0.2          2.4
Taxes and duties                    0.0          0.0          0.0
Subtotal                            25.6           1.7       27.4



-93                          A 5.7
Description                              Local       Foreign        Total
---       ($ Ilion) -----
6. UDDer Reservoir Linina
Base coat                            3.7          10.1         13.7
Physical contingencies               0.4           1.0          1.4
Price contingencies                  0.5           1.4          1.9
Taxes and duties                     1.4           0.0          1.4
Subtotal                              5i9 1.9
7. Other Works
Base cost                            4.0           0.0          4.0
Physical contingencies               0.4           0.0          0.4
Price contingencies                  0.6           0.0         0.6
Taxes and duties                     0.0           0.0          0.0
Subtotal                              AA            0.0         4.
8. Rlectromechanical Iaui=ment
Bsse cost                            9.5         160.4       169.9
Physical contingencies               0.5           8.0         8.5
Price contingencies                  1.1          18.2        19.2
Taxes and duties                     0.0           0.0         0.0
Subtotal                             11.0         186.5        197.6
9. Power Transformers
Base cost                            1.5          19.5        21.0
Physical contingencies               0.1           1.0          1.1
Price contingencies                  0.2           2.8         3.0
Taxes and duties                     0.0           0.0          0.0
Subtotal
10. HNih-Volta"e Switchrmar
Base cost                            1.1          16.8         17.8
Physical contingencies               0.1           0.8         0.9
Price contingencies                  0.2           2.4          2.5
Taxes and duties                     0.0           0.0          0.0
Subtotal                              1.3          20.0        21
11. mlicellaneous Eaulment
Base cost                           15.2          20.9        36.0
Physical contingencies               0.8           1.0          1.8
Price contingencies                  2.5           1.6          4.2
Taxes and duties                     0.0           0.0         0.0
Subtotal                             I.            23.52



-94-                         ANNDE S.7
Description                              Local        Foreign       Total
-~~~~~~-- ($ million) ---___
12. Transmission Network
Base cost                           14.9           17.4        32.3
Physical contingencies               0.7            0.9         1.6
Price contingencies                  1.4            1.8         3.2
Taxes and duties                     0.0            0.0         0.0
Subtotal                             17.1           20.0        37.1
13. Gates and Hoists
Base cost                            2.9            0.0         2.9
Physical contingencies               0.1            0.0         0.1
Price contingencies                  0.4            0.0         0.4
Taxes and duties                     0.0            0.0         0.0
Subtotal                              3.5            0.0         3.5
14. Construction Manaxement
Base cost                           16.4            0.0        16.4
Physical contingencies               1.3            0.0         1.3
Price contingencies                  1.4            0.0         1.4
Taxes and duties                     0.0            0.0         0.0
Subtotal                             19.0            0.0        19.0
15. EnRineerina Services
Base cost                           18.2            6.5        24.7
Physical contingencies               1.5            0.7         2.2
Price contingencies                  1.9            0.7         2.6
Taxes and duties                     0.0            0.0         0.0
Subtotal                             21.7            7.8        29.5
16. Environmental Proaram
Base cost                            0.6            0.2         0.8
Physical contingencies               0.1            0.0         0.1
Price contingencies                  0.0            0.0         0.1
Taxes and duties                     0.0            0.0         0.0
Subtotal                              0.7            0.2         1.0
17. Studies
Base cost                            0.3            0.5         0.8
Physical contingencies               0.0            0.1         0.1
Price contingencies                  0.0            0.1         0.1
Taxes and duties                     0.0            0.0         0.0
Subtotal                              0.3            0.6         1.0



-95-                         AN=AlK 5.7
Description                              Local        Foreign        Total
- - ( million) ---------
18. Tr-aininjt
Base coat                            0.8            2.1         2.9
Physical contingencies               0.1            0.2         0.3
Price contingencies                  0.1            0.3         0.4
Taxes and duties                     0.0            0.0         0.0
Subtotal                               1.0            Ai        I3.
19. Total Project Cost
Base cost                          204.9          256.5       461.4
Physical contingencies              18.4           14.0        32.4
Price contingencies                 19.2           29.5        48.7
Taxes and duties                     1.4            0.0         1.4
total                               243.9          300.0       543.9
20. t aineeriln for, Proioct
Prevarstion (IDAITCC)                0.6            2.9         3.5
GRAND TOTAL                         244.4          302.9       54Z.3



PROCURWrM Sciwin
(ICB)
Bituminous
GeneratingIpumping    Substation        Construction        concrete
Item                                units & control system  equipment            equipment           lining
Begin preparation of bid
document                                  11101191           01103/93          01/15/92           01/15193
Approval by Chinese government           09108-l011092       02101-28194        1211-30192       08101-31193
Reviewed by World Bank                      10/31/92          03101-31/94       02/01-25193       09101-30193
Bid document issue                          11/05/92            04/01/94          03/01/93          10/15/93
Addends end clarification                11110-02128/93    04/05-06130194  03105-04110/93   10120-12/20193
Bid open                                    03/05/93           07/02/94           04115/93          01/15194
Bid evaluation                           03/06-05131/93    07105-08/31/94  04/16-05116/93  01/16-02/28/94
Approval by Chinese government            06101-30/93       09101-10131/94  05117-05131/93    03J01-15194
Confirmation by World Bank                07/01-31/93         11/01-30/94       06/01-15/93       03/16-30194
Award of contract                         08/01-31/93         12/01-31/94    06/20-07/15193    04/01-30/94
Signing of contract                         09/01193            12/31194          08105193          04/30/94
_   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-97 -                        AN  S.
KEY DA1ES OF PROJECT MPLEMENTATION
Completiou Date
1. Proiect Implementation of Civil Works
(a)  Underaround Powerhouse and Lower Reservoir
Bid opening                             November 20, 1992
Contract signing                        March 10, 1993
Contractor to site                      April 1, 1993
Commencement of civil works             July 1, 1993
River closure                           December 31, 1993
Impounding                              April 1, 1997
(b) Upper Reservoir Embankment Dams
Bid opening                             February 5, 1993
Contract signing                        May 10, 1993
Contractor to site                      June 1, 1993
Commencement of civil works             November 1, 1993
Completion of work                      December 31, 1996
(c) Water Conveyance System
Bid opening                             June 10, 1993
Contract signing                        September 15, 1993
Contractor to site                      October 5, 1993
Commencement of civil works             January 1, 1994
Completion date:
No. 1 inclined shaft                  May 31, 1997
No. 2 inclined shaft                  September 30, 1998
(d) Upper Reservoir Lining
Bid opening                             January 15, 1994
Contract signing                        June 5, 1994
Contractor to site                      July 1, 1994
Works start                             April 1, 1995
Completion of facing                    May 31, 1997
Impounding of upper reservoir           June 1, 1997
2.  Procurement and Erection of Maior Eguipment for the Plant
(a) Main Units and Control System
Bid opening                             March 5, 1992
Contract signing                        September 1, 1993
First shipment                          September 1995
Commencement of unit installation       November 1995



-98-                         AN=  5.9
Completion Date
Commisioning dates
No. 1 Unit                           September 30, 1997
No. 2 Unit                           March 31, 1998
No. 3 Unit                           September 30, 1998
No. 4 Unit                           Feb;uary 28, 1999
No. 5 Unit                           July 31, 1999
No. 6 Unit                           December 31, 1999
Completion of the project              December 31, 2000
(b) Steg-uu Substation ZquUpment
Blid openitg                           July 2, 1994
Contract signing                       December 31, 1994
first shipment                         June 1996
Installation of equipment              August 1996
Commissioning                          June 1997



.9 gg A.                             3 1]
DISBURSEMENT PROF[LE
Bank FY and          Semester    Cumulative    Project    Bank profile ]a
semester             ---(S million) ----    ---------- M  ----------
1994
December 31, 1993   25.4           25.4          8.5            3.0
June 30, 1994         7.7          33.1         11.0           10.0
1995
December 31, 1994    7.7           40.8         13.6           18.0
June 30, 1995        36.4          77.2         25.7           30.0
December 31, 1995   36.3          113.5         37.8           42.0
June 30, 1996        48.2         161.7         53.9           54.0
1997
December 31, 1996   48.2          209.9         70.0           66.0
June 30, 1997        28.0         237.9         79.3           74.0
1998
December 31, 1997   28.0          265.9         88.6           78.0
June 30, 1998         8.0         273.9         91.3           86.0
1999
December 31, 1998    8.0          281.9         94.0           90.0
June 30, 1999         4.6         286.5         95.5           94.0
2000
December 31, 1999    4.5          291.0         97.0           98.0
June 30, 2000         1.8         292.8         97.6          100.0
Dec&mber 31, 2000    1.7          294.5         98.2            -
June 30, 2001         2.8         297.3         99.1
December 31, 2001    2.7          300.0        100.0
La Standard disbursemet profie for all sectors in China issued on June 4, 1992.



- 100 -                       ANNEX.11
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Objectives
1.           The objectives of this environmental management program are:
(a)   to identify the adverse impacts of the project;
(b)   to formuate a set of measures to be taken during project impletion and
operation, so as to mitigate or reduce the adverse impacts to acceptable levels;
and
(c)   to set up an institution responsible for carrying out the mitigatory measures and
the monitoring program.
hnpat Asssm t
2.           Environmen  impact assessment studies of the TIanhuangping pumped-storage
project have been carried out by ECIDI since 1986. These environmental studies have covered
meteorology and hydrology, sedimention, water temperure/quality, geology and seismology,
sosls, terresti  ecology, aquatic ecology, human health and social enviroments. The first
Environ   al Assessment Report was prepared by ECIDI in 1987 and reviewed and approved
by the Zhejiang Environmental Protction Bureau in October 1988 as authorized by the Nationai
Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA). The final Enviromental Assessment (EA) Report
was prepared in November 1991 and updated in April 1992, taldng into account the Bank's
comments and suggestions.                                           ;
3.           Since this isa pumped storage project with most of its structures located
underground including the water conveyance system and powerhouse, structures aboveground
comprise only the upper reservoir and the lower reservoir, which are relatively small in area.
Possible adverse environmental impacts requiring mitigation and monitoring are: (a) reservoir
inmdation; (b) land acquisition and resetdement; (c) downstream effects; (e) induced earthquake;
(t) landslide; and (g) impact of construction on the surrounding environment.
Reservoir Inundation
4.           The inundated area of the upper reservoir is 38.2 ha, of which 1.0 ha is paddy
field, 1.2 ha tea garden and 0.9 ha reclaimed land. Ihe rest is covered with bamboo forest,
shrubs and sctered trees. Ihe inundated area of the lower reservoir is 22.9 ha, of which
20.7 ha is bamboo forest Ihe rest is covered with shrubs. 'Mere is no hrmland in this area.
Due to the small area of inuMdion, the impact to inhabitants, terrestrial plans and wildlife is
teefore minimal.



- 101 -                        ANNEX 5.11
Land Acquisition and Resettlenent
5.           The total area to be acquired for the project Is 184.1 ha, consisting of the
following:
(a)    area to be inundated by the upper and lower reservoirs (61.1 ha);
(b)   relocation and widening of the access road and the future permanent road within
the job site (51.4 ha);
(c)    area for permanent administration and living quarters (8.1 ha);
(d)    area required for the transmission line foundations (10.5 ha); and
(e)   temporary construction area needed during construction (104.4 ha), a major
portion of which will be returned to the local government as an improved land
after completion of project construction.
6.           The land acquisition program  is being carried out smoothly under the
mnanagement of the local government agencies in active cooperation with the affected people.
As of the end of 1992, 41.2 ha of land for the access road and 56.4 ha of land in the lower
reservoir area totaling 97.6 ha (56.2 percent of the total) have already been successfully
acquired. The balance is scheduled to be completed in 1993. Tle total cost of land acquisition
and compensation is estimated at about Y 50 million ($9.1 million). Compensation is paid to
the farmers who use the land at a rate of about 10-20 times the gross output of the land. Overall
average is about 15.
7.           There are no inhabitants in the reservoir areas and around the future power plant
facilities. Ihe normal life of nearby local inhabitants will not be adversely affected. Ibstead,
the standard of living of these people will be improved due to better roads, availability of
com nication, water and power supply facilities, more economic activities and job
opportunities.
8.           The area through which the 500 kV transmission lines will pass is primarily
rural, consisting of about 35 percent of mountainous areas, 12 percent of hilly lands ar-d
53 percent of paddy fields. The practice in China for transmission lines is that only land for
transmission tower foundations would be acquired, not the entire right-of-way. The land under
the high 500 kV transmission lines can be udlized for traditional cultivation. In the bamboo
forest area, the tower would be even higher to clear above the maximum height of bamboo trees.
Land acquisition and compensation will be carried out in the same manner as for the power
station in accordance with current Chinese rules and procedures, which are satisfactory to the
Bank
9.           The principle of route selection is ta no village would be overpassed and no
houses relocated. It was agreed that additional information regarding the transmission line route,
current land use and affected population along the route would be provided to the Bank at the
dme of negotiations.



-102-                          ANEX5.
Downstream Effects
10.          There are no navigational facilities and fishery industry in Daxi creek (with an
average flow of less than 0.8 m3/sec), so that the construction of the small power reservoir
would have no impact on navigation and fishing. On the other hand, with the creation of the
lower reservoir and close-down of the Shanhe paper mill downstream, the water quality of Daxi
creek would be improved, thus providing opportunites for fishing and tourism industries.
11.          The Pancun existing reservoir is located about 4 km downstream of the lower
reservoir. It is used to supply water to the county and nearby village-owned factories and to
irrigate about 200 ha of farmland. During the initial impounding of the Tianhuangping
reservoirs, only surplus water of the Pancun reservoir will be stored, so that it would not affect
its normal operation. The Pancun reservoir can act as a regulating pond of the Tianhuangping
power station to smooth out the river flow due to the peaking operation.
12.          The Pancun reservoir was reinforced in 1982 to accommodate a spillway
discharge capacity of 1,413 m3/sec. The probable maximum flood of the lower reservoir is
1,280 m3/sec, less than the design capacity of Pancun reservoir. Therefore, there is no negative
impact to the safety of the Pancun reservoir. In fact, the Tianhuangping lower reservoir can
contribute to more efficient utilization of the Pancun reservoir.
Water Quality
13.          Water quality measurements and analyses indicate that the Daxi creek is good
in dilution, self-purification and oxygen retrocession. After creation of the reservoir, there is
no eutrophication phenomenon due to reduction of inflow of nutritional matters ito the
reservoir. The operation of the Tianhuangping power station would not create any negative
impact to water quality, except during the period of construction (para. 15). Water quality
monitoring should be condnued.
Induced Earthquake
14.          The geological stucture of the area is stable with basic seismic intensity within
Degree Six on the Modified Mercaill (MM) Scale. The design seismic intensity fdr the project
is Degree Six. After reservoir impounding, it might induce a fissure-stress-adjust type
earthquake. However, such an induced earthquake would be of lower seismic magnitude and
with shallow focus. It is predicted that such an earthquake would have less than Degree Five
of intensity on the MM scale at the focus. The induced earthquake therefore cannot cause any
significant impact to the peripheral areas. Monitoring of earthquake before and after reservoir
impounding wiUl be continued.
lAndslides
15.          To prevent leakage and landslide of the upper reservoir (which has no inflows),
bituminous concrete lining will be used for the entire basin. The lower reservoir is surrounded
by massive volcanic rock. Its banks are stable as a whole. Only small-scale landslides might
be possible in four localized talus deposit areas with a total volume of about 55,000-75,000 m3,
compared with a dead storage capacity of 780,000 in. But it will not threaten the safety of the



- 103 -NNEX511
dam and the operation of the reservoir. A debris dam will be built at the upper end of the lower
reservoir to trap the bed load from entering into the reservoir.
iupact of Construction on the Surrounding Environment
16.          There might be certain adverse impacts to the surrounding envoment during
construction, which would require mitigation by adopting the following measures:
(a)    Mechanization will be used as much as possible, thus limiting the requirement
of labor force and land acquisition.
(b)    Waste materials will be minimized by modifying the design and layout. The
majority of excavated earth and rock can be used for dam embankment and as
aggregates for concrete. The small amount of waste materials will be stored in
a gently sloped gully. Retained wall and drainage facilities will be provided to
prevent erosion.
(c)    The wastewater of construction contains mainly sediment; there are no poisonous
matters. The wastewater will be treated through the silt tanks at the upper and
lower reservoirs. After treatment, the water might be reused. The living
wastewater is only permitted to be released after treatment.
(d)    The aggregate system, concrete and bituminus concrete system will be arranged
far away from the living area in order to avoid effect of noise and dust.
(e)    Adequate measures will be adopted to decrease the impact to the vegetation
cover. AU the construction area and debris deposits will be leveled and planted
after the completion of the project to recover the landscape and the debris
deposit area might be reclaimed.
17.          All these requirements will be specified in the contracts for civil works. They
will be reviewed regularly by the project office and during the Bank's supervision missions, in
order to ensure that they are carried out effectively and in a timely manner.
Environmental Monitoring Program
18.          To monitor the environmental impact of the project, an environmental monitoring
station will be established in the project area so as to provide a sound basis for the formulation
of an environmental management program, satisfactory to the Bank.
19.          The monitoring program will include the following components:
(a)    Water quality monitoring;
(b)    Meteorological observation;
(c)    Hydrological observation including sedimentation;
(d)    Seismic monitoring;



- 104 -                       ANNEX 5.11
(e) : Biotic, sanitary and human health monitoring; and
(t)    Vegetation, fish and wildlife monitoring.
20.          Water Quality. The work of water quality monitoring has been undertaken by
ECIDI since 1986. Twenty-one monitoring items will be executed according to the national
environmental quality standards. Five monitoring sections will be included: No. 1 section at
the source of river, No. 2 section at the downstream side of Daxi Village, No. 3 section at the
lower reservoir dam site, No. 4 section at the existing Pancun Reservoir (4 km downstream of
the lower reservoir) and No. 5 section at the water storage tank at the foot of the upper
reservoir. Monitoring frequency will be once every month before and during construction.
21.          Meteorological Observation. ECIDIhas establishedtwo meteorological stations
in the project area: one at the lower reservoir since 1986 and the other at the upper reservoir
since 1987 to observe the air temperature, precipitation, evaporation, wind direction, wind speed
and relative humidity at 0200, 0800, 1400 and 2000 hours every day. These observations will
be continued.
22.          Hydrological Obsetion. ECIDI has set up a hydrometric station at the lower
reservoir site since 1984 to observe the water level and measure river flow and sedimentation.
These observations will be continued. The station may have to be relocated to a proper place
to avoid disturbance due to construction and effect of reservoir impounding.
23.          Seismic Monitoring. A seismic station is planned to be installed and managed
by ECIDI to record any earthquake that may occur in order to study the effect of impounding
due to stress adjustment of the rock formation.
24.          Quarantine Examination. A quarantine laboratory will be set up for biotic,
sanitary and human health monitoring. Clinical examination will be conducted before
constuction and during construction (once a year) for the construction staff and workers.
25.          Vegetation, I;sh and Wildlife Monitoring. Vegetation, fish and wildlife in the
upper and lower reservoirs will be monitored to ensure that there will be no adverse effects due
to ecological changes.
Institutional Arrangement
26.          An Environmental Management Group will be set up under THPCC in close
coordination with the environmental protection offices of the local government, ECEPUC and
the contractors. Its basic fumctions involve organizing, implementing and supervising the
environmental protection work to be carried out during the construction and operation periods.
Its main duties comprise preparing, organizing, supervising and executing the environmental
protection program and monitoring plans, counting up and analyzing measurement results as well
as submitting written reports periodicatly to the various related environmental protection offices
and organizing professional training for its staff, etc. The monitoring station and the
environmental program will be funded under the project as shown in Table 1. The type of
monitoring equipment has already been determined and reviewed by the Bank.



- 105 -                                 ANNE 5.11
27.              The Environmental Monitoring  Station  will report to  the Environmental
Management Group and will have one general office and four professional offices as follows:
(a)     general office, staffed by seven professionals including engineers and natura
scientists;
(b)     water quality examination and analysis office, staffed by four technicians;
(c)     meteorological and hydrological analysis office, staffed by six technicians;
(d)     seismic station, staffed by three technicians; and
(e)     quarantine office, staffed by five medical staff.
Cost Estimate
28.              The cost of environmental protection for the project will be composed of three
parts: (a) cost of carrying out the mitigation measures; (b) subsidization to the local authorides
for public health; and (c) cost of an environmental monitoring program. It amounts to a total
of Y 3.55 million in local currency and Y 1. 10 million equivalent in foreign currency, which
would be used for the procurement of monitoring equipment and instruments. Detailed cost
estimates and annual disbursements are prepared as shown in Table 1.
Table 1: ENvRONMENTAL PRoTwFON COSr FsTIMATE FOR THE
TIANHUANGPING PUMPED-SRAGE STATION
(Y'OO0)
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   199S   1997   1998   1999   2000   Total
ON-tiI                        -      5      5      10    10      5       5      .      -      -      40
Dust                          -    200      S      5      10            5      -       -      -     230
dicesllanou, (afforestation
& waete t.r trat_unt)           -        100    100    100    100      _             -      -     400
Subidv for EP
QuiIi&ss tor foriga sta ff    -      10    10    10    10    10    10           -      -      -      60
Pl1iul heath in reservoir
Srta                         -     50     50     50     50     50    50       -      -      -     300
Tra  -  10    10    10    10    10    10         -      -      -      60
Soultoting station *stablish-
-t                -      -   ~~~~      ~~~~300  So0o -       -      -      -            0
Water qulity                  30    30    30    30    30   3s    30   3s    30    3o    360o0
liteoroloq                    60    60    60    t0    60    60    60    60    60    60    600
Hydrology                    55    55    55    55    55    55    55    55    55    55    550
Setemin de    itoring         -      -      -    140    10    10    10    10    10    10    200
Saple *xaination of work-
*rs' health                  -     10    10    10    10    10    10           -      -      -      60
Scientific research and
consultg service             -      -     20      -     20      -     20      -      -      -      60
Overhead chrg                 -      1      10    10    10    10    10    10    10    10            90
Total                     145   440    665     490    685   395    275    165    165    165   3.550
L_  0   275              L_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 106 -                            ANNX S.12
BANK SumERVISION IN INTO KEY AclwTiIIEs
Approximate                                         Expected skill          Staff inputs
dates        Activity                            requirements            (staff-veeks)
09193        SUPERVISION MISSION                Engineering                  5.0
Project lmplementation             Financial analysis
start-up                           Procurement
Environment
Compensationasocial
experts
06194        SUPERVTSION  ISSION                Engineering                  4.0
Status of the Project              Financial analysis
06/95        SUPERVISION MISSION                Engineering                  5.0
Status of the Project              economielfinancial
analysis
Environment
06/96        SUPERVISIOR MSSION                 Engineering                  4.0
status of the Project              Financial analysis
Execution of the Studies
06/97        SUPERVISION MISSION                Enginaeerig                  4.0
Financial analysis
Environment
Compensation/social
experts
06/98        SUPERVISION MISSION                Engineering                  4.0
Status of the Project              Financial analysis
06/99        SUPERVISION MISSION                Engiaeering                  4.0
Coamissioning of generating        Financial aualysis
units
06/2000        SUPERVISION MISSION                Engineering                  3.0
Construction progress
06/2001        SUPERVISION MISSION                Engineering                  4.0
Status of Project Completion       Financial analysis
and compliance with covenants
02/2002        SUPERVISION MISSION                Engineering                  5.0
Preparation of PCR                 EconoMic/fianacial
analysis
Note: Supeison missions wil be coordinated with other Bank-financed power projects in China



- 107                          ANNEXS.13
FRAMEWORK FOR PROJECT MONTORING
AND REPORTNG
1.           Framework for project monitoring would be discussed and agreed with
ECEPUC. Monitoring will take a series of target dates for major events In the project
implementation program (Annex 5.9).
2.           Records of selected performance indicators would be maintained by comparing
the forecast against actual results for:
(a)    activities of eneering constans;
(b)    procurement, i.e., prequalification, preparation of bid documents, bid opening,
contract awards;
(c) environmental management program implementation;
(d)    construction progress;
(e)    progress in staff training;
(t)    progress of studies;
(g)   energy production and purchases;
h)    maximum demand;
(i)    electricity consumption;
d)    power losses;
(k)    quality of power supply;
O)    number of outages and their duration;
(m) number of customers by category;
(n)    staff statistics;
(o)   tariff levels and movements;
(p) rates of return on revalued net fied assets;



- log -                          ANNEX 5.13
(q)    sef-fnncing rao;
(r)    opeag ratios;
(s)    changes in project cost estimates and related finacing;
(t)    det/equity ratios;
(u)    debt sevice coverage; and
(v)    curret ratio.



-109-                         AS=  6.1
ACTUAL FINANCIAL STATEAME OF ECEPUC (198991)
Table 1: INCOM STATEmENT
(Y Million)
Year Ended December 31                   1989           1990           1991
Sales Increase (Z)                       10.2            7.4            9.7
Energy Sales (100 GWh)                    741            795            872
Average Price (fenlkWh)                 11.78          13.55          14.64
Ooeratina Revenue                       8.727         10,776         12.760
ODeratint Costs
Fuel                                  3,705          4,733          5,509
Purchased Power                         945          1,252          1,467
Operation & Maintenance                 669            907          1,150
Administration                          343            452            576
Sales Tax                             1,245          1,252          1,468
Depreciation                            653            834          1,172
Total Operatina Costs              7.560         9.430         11,342
Ooeratina Income                        1.167          1.346          1.418
Nonoperating Income                    -60.00           -135           -219
Interest Charged to Operations
Net Income Before Income Tax            1.107          1.211          1.199
Inacome Tax                               318            270            230
Net Income                                7              941            969
Distribution of Net Income
Remittances to Goverment                137            130            169
Transferred to Govt. Funds              493            682            167
Exempt & Reduction of Sales Tax                                       587
Employee Benefits Spec. Funds           159            129             46
Total                                7              941            969
Rate Base                              11,670         14,473         18,271
Rate of Return (X)                       10.0            9.3            7.8



-110-                         ANNEX 6.1
ACTUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ECEPUC (1989-91)
Table 2: BLANCE SuIEmr
(Y Million)
Year Ended December 31                   1989          1990          1991
Assets
Current Assets
Cash                             2,091.5        2,799.3       3,734.3
Inventories                      1,033.0        1,144.2       2,461.3
Receivables                      1,638.1        2,256.8       2,532.4
Total Current Assets            4.762.6        6.200.3       8,728.0
Fixed Assets
Plant in Service                18,320.1       22,654.8      27,879.2
(less) Accum. Depreciation       5,610.0        6,417.9       7,575.1
Not Plant in Service            12,710.1       16,236.9      20,304.1
Construction WIP                 48,23.3        5,281.5       6,157.4
total Fixed Assets             17.533.4       21,518.4      26,461.5
Special Fund Assets                1,462.1        1,637.8       1,823.4
Total Assets                  23.758.1       29,356.5      37,012.9
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
L-T loans due in 12 months         827.0          952.0       1,755.9
Accounts Payable                 2,942.9        4,017.1       4,814.2
Due to Goverrment                  597.6          872.9         910.6
Total Current Liabilities        4.367.5        5,842.0       7,480.7
Consumers Deposits
Working Capital Funds                310.9          362.9         458.4
Long-term Debt                     8,383.6       10,330.8      15,691.94
Goverrment Funds                   7,809.4        9,361.3       9,464.5
Special Funds                      2,886.7        3,459.5       3,917.3
Revaluation Reserve                                   0.0           0.0
Total Liabilities
and Eauitv                   23,758.1       29,356.5      37,012.8
Debt as Z of Debt & Equity               43.9          44.6          54.0
Current Ratio                             1.2            1.2          1.3



-111-                         Ab=   6.1
ACTUAL FINANCIAL STATEENTS OF ECEPUC (1989-91)
Table 3: FbNDS EOW SATEMrENT
(Y Million)
Year Ended December 31                   1989           1990           1991
Internal Sources of Funds
Net Income                          788.9           941.0          969.1
Depreciation                        662.4           822.0        1,138.1
Maintenance Special Funds           214.3           375.0          534.8
Distribution Imprv. Spec. Fda.      394.0           412.0          499.5
Other Special Funds                 716.7         1,044.0          925.0
Total Internal Sources          2,776.2         3.594.0        406,6.5
Borrowi_ass
IBRD Loans for Other Projects       267.8          1079.0          763.9
Proposed IBRD Loan for THP Proj       0.0             0.0            0.0
PCBC Loan for TEP Project             0.0             0.0           21.0
Other Loans                       1,319.6          1924.0         3852.9
IDC Borrowed                          0.0             0.0            0.0
Total Borrowinas               1,587.4         3.003.0        4.637.0
Government Funds                       161.9          577.0          606.4
Total Sources of Funds         4,525.6         7.174.0        9.310.7
Canital Excenditures
Proposed Tianhuanping Project         0.0             0.0           21.0
Other Construction                1,749.3         3,580.0        4,820.3
Interest During Construction          0.0             0.0            0.0
Completed Renovations               437.6           357.0          503.8
Distribution Improvements           210.9           146.0          173.0
Other Special Funds                 114.2           126.0          212.3
Ttral CaDital Exoenditure      2,512.0         4.209.0        5.730.4
Overational Reauirements
Inc/dec in Working Capital         -126.8          -311.0         -251.4
Inc/dec in Special Fund Assets       82.2           176.0          185.6
Loan Repayment                      608.6           827.0          952.0
Remittances to Government           136.7           209.0          168.6
Special Fund Expenditures         1,065.3         1,356.0        1,590.5
Total Operational
Reauirements                 1L766.0         2.257.0        2.64S.3
Total ADDlirations of Funds  4j278.0           6.466.0       8I27jA0
Increase/Decrease in Cash             247.6          -708.0          935.0
Annual Debt Service Coverage             2.4             2.1           2.2



FORECAST FINANCIAL STATEMENS OF ECEPUC (1992-2000)
Table 1: PRojwCE  INCOME STATIME
(Y Mlion)
Year Ended December 31                 1992        1993        1994       1995        1996        1997       1998        1999       2000
Sales Icrease (2)                      10.3         9.1         8.5        7.5         7.6        8.0         7.9         7.7        7.6
Energy Sales (100 GWh)                  962       1,049       1,139      1,224       1,317      1,422       1,534       1,653      1,778
Average Price (fenlkVh)               16.89       18.87       21.67      23.89       26.98      29.36       32.22       35.79      38.10
ngeratlne Revenue                    16.236      19.789      24.674     29.231      35.531     41.754      49.424     59.141      67.759
ODr tanR Costs
ueiL                                6,483       7,617      8,780      10,219      11,758     13,134      14,508     16,077      18,145
Purchased Power                     2,071       3,419      4,998       6,117      6,746       7,805      10,140     12,234      13,580
Operation & Maintenance             1,419       1,598       1,968      2,391       2,893      3,696       4,534      5,782       7,096
Administration                        641         741        860         990       1,133      1,291       1,464      1,652       1,855
Sales Tax                           1,493       1,508      1,523       1,545       1,576      1,607       1,629      1,659       1,699
Depreciation                        1,451       1,792      2,046       21,274      2,524      3,021       3,532      4,473       5,390
Total Operatnam Costs           13.560     16.675      20.177      23.536     26.629      30.553     35.807      41.877     47.765
ODeratisR Income                      2.676       3.114       4.497      S.69S       8.902     11.200      13.618      MM.264     19.994
lonoperating Income                    -155        -175        -195       -215        -235       -255        -275        -295       -315
Interest Charged to Operations          279         788       1,038      1,123       1,312      1,778       2,495      3,346       4,317
get IAcome Before Income Tax          2.242       2.150      3.264       4.357       7.355      9.167      10.848     13.623      15.361
Income Tax                               50           0         162        546      2,122       2,486       2,246      3,649       3,620
let Iacome                            2.192       2.150      3.102       3.811       5.233      6.681       8.602      9.974      11.741
Distribution of Net Income
Remittances to Government             549         271        699       1,054      2,404       2,764       2,611      3,816       3,872
Transferred to Govt. Funds            875       1,080      1,570       1,878       1,886      2,909       4,935      5,039       6,667
Exempt & Reduction of Sales Tax       638         668        700         743        806         869         915        975       1,056
Employee Benefits Spec. Funds         130       -.132         133        135         138        140         142        144         146
Total                            2.192      2.150       3.102      3.811       5.233       6.681      8.602       9.974      11.741
late Base                            22,817      26,847     29,501      31,870     36,521      43,1217     53,552     66,977      80,582
Rate of Return (2)                     11.7        11.6        15.2       17.9       24.4        25.9        25.4       25.8        24.8



FORECAST FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ECEPUC (1992-2000)
Table 2: PIoJEerED BALANC SHEEW
(Y Million)
Year Ended December 31                  1992        1993         1994        1995       1996        1997        1998        1999        2000
Assets
cer-r-ent Assets
Cash                            3,307.4    3,052.3    2,870.0    3,035.2    2,624.5    2,792.7    2,871.3    3,010.6    3,455.4
Inventories                     2,655.6    2,800.4    2,930.0    3,072.2    3,353.0    3,640.3    4,169.7    4,685.9    5,281.9
Receivables                      2,931.4    3,298.1    3,769.6    4,059.9    4.441.4    5,219.2    6,178.1    7,392.7    8,469.9
Total Current Assets           8,894.4    9.150.8    9,569.6   10,167.3   10,418.8   11.652.2   13,219.1   15,089.1   17,207.2
Fixed Assets
FixedAsservt ce                34,263.0   39,030.8   43,300.2   47,968.6   57,288.4   66,840.9   84,474.9  101,641.7  121,494.9
(less) Accum. Depreciation    8,932.5   10,666.8   12,662.6   14,866.5   17,348.7   20,346.5   23,864.5   28,299.1   33,673.4
Net Plant in Service          25,330.6   28.364.0   30,637.5   33.102.1   39.939.8   46.494.4   60,610.5   73.342.7   87,821.6
Construction WIP                5,683.8    7,123.0   11,260.9   17,748.4   23,153.7   31,341.2   33,775.8   36,999.7   40,412.2
Total Fixed Assets            31,014.3   35,487.0   41,898.4   50,850.5   63.093.5   77.835.6   94,386.3  110.342.4  128,233.8
Special Fund Assets                2,447.1    3,035.0    3,780.4    4,333.1    5,442.6    6,186.5    6,944.1    8,678.4   10,694.7
Total Assets                  42.355.9   47.672.8   55.248.5   65o350.9   78.954.9   95.674.3  114.S49.4  134.109.9  156.135.7
Liabilities
L. 'L L0au     ei n 12 months    2,463.6    2,743.1    3,104.1    3,193.6    4,495.3    6,780.0    7,427.3    9,566.4    9,586.4
Accounts Payable                 4,878.5    5,299.4    5,524.4    5,648.8    5,453.3    6,140.9    7,155.9    8,175.0    9,144.3
Due to Government                  928.8       947.4       966.3    1,063.0    1,169.3    1,286.2    1,414.8    1,556.3    1,711.9
Total Current Liabilities    8,270.9    8,989.9    9,594.9    9,905.3   11,117.9   14,207.1   15,998.0   19,297.7   20,442.6
Consuaners Deosits
borkg Caplrtal Funds                 458.4       458.4       458.4       458.4       458.4       458.4       458.4       458.4      458.4
Long-term Debt                    17,353.5   18,676.2   21,645.2   27,221.8   35,248.5   43,410.9   53,010.3   61,538.0   72,900.5
Government Funds                  11,648.1   14,217.6   17,299.0   20,584.9   23,499.4   27,794.5   34,0S8.5   39,387.8   45,896.7
Special Funds                      4,625.0    5,330.7    6,251.0    7,180.4    8,630.6    9,803.3   10,984.2   13,427.9   16,437.5
Revaluation Reserve                    0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Total Liabilities
anl Labiit                  42,355.9   47.672.8   55.248.5   65,350.9   78.954.9   95.674.3  114,549.4  134.109.9  156,135.7
Debt as S of Debt & Equity              51.6        48.9        47.9        49.5        52.3        53.6        54.0        53.8        53.9
Corrent Ratio                            1.3         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.1         1.1         1.0         1.1



FORECASf FINANCIAL STATEMENTh OF ECEPUJC (1992-2000)
Table 3: foww1  FUNDS FwW SrAT1Mf
(Y Mio)
Iear Inded  December 31               1992        1993       1994        1995       1996       1997       1998        1999       2000
Intrnal Soutrea of bUtd8
-net vnanmes  --      42,192.3    2,1S0.3    3,101.9    3,811.2    5,233.4    6,680.8    8,602.1    9,973.7   11,741.1
Depreciation                     1,451.0    1,791.9    2,046.5    2,274.5    2,523.8    3,021.4    3,531.5    4,473.2    5,389.9
Ealtenane SpecilB funds            680.6      669.8       789.0      895.7    1,012.4    1,245.4    1,484.3    1,925.1    2,354.3
Distribution Japrv. Spec. fds.    505.S       511.6       517.7      523.9      530.2       536.6      543.0      549.5       556.1
Other Special funds                739.6      757.5       779.3      805.2      835.1       876.3      921.6      978.5   1,039.6
Total Internal Sources        5.569.0    5.881.0    7,234.4    8,310.5   10,134.9   12,362.5   15.082,5  17.900.1   21.081.2
Borrowings
I" o^aMM  for Othet Ptolect.       450.0      411.4      185.0        75.4        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
Propo8ed IBMD Loan for THP Proj      0.0      147.2        89.9      421.3      558.4       324.1       94.0       52.3        52.6
PCBC Loan for TSP Project           83.6      191.0       272.9      378.3      381.6       284.7      190.0      115.9        21.3
Other Loans                      2,979.5    2,604.8    4,339.5    5,752.4    6,822.0    9,880.9   11,672.5   12,095.8   14,194.7
IDC Borrowed                       620.0      520.3       553.1      818.1    1,307.9    1,798.8    2,119.4    2,278.3    2,280.3
Total Borrouiuns              4.133.2    3.874.8   5S440.4    7,445.5    9,069.9   12,288.4   14,076.0   14.542.3   16.5S.8
Government funds                     126.7       159.6      145.7      155.2       164.5      173.5      182.2       190.4      198.0
Total Sources of funds        9,828.9    9.915.4   12,820.5   15,911.2   19.369.3   24,824.5   29.340.7   32.632.7   37,828.0
Ca i-tsal   adtu
e rL            iA&u Ing Project  70.6      344.3       336.9      756.6      864.3      503.6       204.6      126.9       73.5
Other Construction               3,556.2    3,151.9    4,670.3    5,983.0    6,986.5   10,054.4   11,854.7   12,286.1   14,392.7
Itetrest Duritg Construction       633.1      538.3       579.0      861.0    1,383.6    1,903.9    2,198.8    2,319.7    2,280.6
Campleted Renovations              773.2      871.3    1,012.2    1,112.0       927.8    1,386.1    1,388.0       843.6       919.2
Distribution IProVoDents           498.1      509.9       516.8      523.0      529.3       531.0      541.2      56U.5       55S.1
Other Special funds                472.6      658.0       710.0      666.1      623.2       730.4      944.1      752.7       660.2
Total Canital &l2enditure    6,003.8    6,073.6    7.825.2    9.901.7   11.314.t   15,109.6   17,131.5   16,877.5   18,881.3
IOJtiIl7W6illWjVIcal BQ"oOurl nc   510.9       71.9       357.2      211.4      751.5       260.5      344.7      S70.1      548.4
Inc/dec in Specia  Fund Assets    623.7       587.9       745.4      552.7    1,109.5       743.9      757.6    1,734.3    2,016.3
Loan Repayment                   1,763.9    2,463.6    2,743.1    3,104.1    3,193.6    4,495.3    6,780.0    7,427.3    9,566.4
Remittances to Gover,ant           549.1      270.7       698.8    1,054.2    2,404.2    2,763.5    2,610.5    3,816.3    3,872.2
Special Pund Expenditures          804.4      702.7       633.2      921.8    1,006.7    1,283.4    1,637.8    2,067.9    2,498.7
Total o2erational
meauix^o"emenrs             4,252.0    4.0i6.9    5.177.7    5,844.2    8,465.4    9.546.6   12,130.6   15,615.9  18,501.9
Arun"                      10.255.8   10.170.4   13.002.9   15,745.9   19.780.1  24.6S6.2   29.262.2  32,493.4   37.383.2
IncroaeejDecrease in Cash           -426.9     -255.0      -182.3      165.2    -410.8        168.3       78.5      139.3      444.8
Anmnal Debt Service Coverage           1.9         1.5        1.6        1.7        2.0         1.8        1.6        1.7         1.5



FORECAST FINANCIAL STATEMENIS OF ECEPUC (1992-2000)
Table 4: Key Fiandal Indicators 1992-2000
(Y MilLion)
Projected
average
Year Snded December 31             1992      1993       1994       1995       1996      1997       1998       1999      2000    1992-2000
hrergy 8ales (ob)                  962      1,049      1,139      19224     1,317      1,422      1,534      1,653     1,778
Average Revenue (fenItfb)         16.89     18.87      21.67      23.89     26.98      29.36      32.22     35.79      38.10
Operating Revenue               16,236    19,789    24,674    29,231    35,531    41,154    49,424    59,141    67,759
operating Income                 2,676      3,114      4,497      5,695     8,902    11,200    13,618    17,264    19,994
Remittances to Government          S49        271        699      1,0O4     2,404      2,764      2,611     3,816      3,872
AnuLal Capital Expenditure       6,004      6,074      7,825      9,902    11,11S    15,110    17,132    16,877    18,881
Rate Base                       22,817    26,847    29,501    31,870    36,521    43,217    53,552    66,977    80,582
lang-term Debt                  17,353    18,676    21,645    27,222    35,248    43,411    53,010    61,538    72,901
Debt service                     1,464      1,727      2,437      2,921     4,522      5,411      6,020     8,137      9,246                              _
Cask In Ranks                    3,307      3,052      2,870      3,035     2,624      2,793      2,871     3,011      3,455
Rate of Return
HistoricaUly Valued
Asets (2)                     11.7       11.6       15.2      17.9       24.4       25.9      25.4       25.8       24.8          20.3
Revalued Assets (S)              4.8        5.0        6.5       7.6       10.3       11.6       11.9      13.1       13.3           9.3
Self Financing Ratio (I)          27.7       26.3       30.3       32.6      30.7       35.2       30.2      30.5       30.2          30.4
Operating Ratlo (2)               74.3       76.6       75.6       75.2      70.5       69.3       69.2      68.0       68.0          71.9
Debt/Total Capital (2)            51.6       48.9       47.9       49.5      52.3       53.6       54.0      53.8       53.9          51.7
Debt ?,%vice Coverage               1.9       1.5        1.6        1.7       2.0        1.8        1.6        1.7       1.5           1.7



-116 -                          ANNEX .3
ASSUMIlONS TO ECEPUC'S FINANCL PROJECTIONS
income Statement
1.           Energy sales reflect ECEPUC's projected expansion program.
2.           Tares are assumed to be adjusted so that the average revemnes would be
adequate for achieving the mininmm financial performance targets.
3.           Fuel costs are based on 1991 actu  price paid for coal and are assumed to
Increase by 3.4 percent per annum in real terms till 1995 and also to escalate with the projected
local inflation rates.
4.           Purchased powr are based on 1991 actual purchased price and are assumed to
increase by 5 percent per annum for small and medium hydropower and 10 percent per annum
for electricity supplied by Central China Power Grid. Purhase price for electricity from
Qlngsbang nuclear power plant and two large independent thermal power stations are based on
*new plant, new price policy" and derived by fuIl recovery of operatng cost and debt service
requirement.
5.           Operation and Maineance costs include payroll and mateias escalated with
projected local inflation rates, 8 percent for 1993, 7 percent for 1994, 6 percent for 1995-96,
5 percent for 1997-98, and 4 percent for 1999-2000; and an allocation to the Mainnnce
Special Fund at 2.5 percent of gross fixed assets.
6.           AdmIdstradon cost is based on ECEPUC's 1991 actual expenditure and is
asumed to increase with projected growth of energy sales and local inflation rates.
7.           Sales tar is assumed at the foWlowing percentage of each year's operating
revenues:
1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 .1999 2000
11.5   9.2   7.6   6.4   5.5   4.8   4.0   3.5   3.0   2.6
8.           Depredaion is assumed to be 5.34 percent of gross fixed assets in operation at
the beginning of the year.
9.           Income tax is expected to be asessed at 55 percent of txable income.



- 117-                 11iXANEX6.3
Balance Sheet
10.         InventorIes, accounts receivable and accowutspayable are projected by ECEPUC
in accordance with its own expansion program.
11.          Constrcton work-in-progress reflects the aggregate construction work-in-
progress of ECEPUC's own construction units and other construction units work as contractors
for ECEPUC.
12.          Specdal fiwd assets represents renovations and distribution expansion under
construction. The renovations are fmanced by expenditures from Special Fund for Renovations.
The distribution expansions are financed from the Distribution Expansion Special Funds.
13.         Due to Government is expected to increase by 2 percent each year.
Funds Flow Statement
14.         Distribution Expansion Speci  Fund represents the receipts of consumer
connections and is assumed to increase by 12 percent per annum based on 1991 actual allocation.
15.         Renovations and minor expansion represents 85 percent of previous year's and
15 percent of the year prior to the previous year's expenditures from the Special Fund for
Renovations.
16.         Dstribution expansion  represent 85 percent of the previous year's and
15 percent of the year prior to the previous year's expenditures from the Distribution Expansion
Special Fund.
17.          Spedal find expendtures represents aggregate amounts acaiy spent from the
various special funds in a particular year. In general, expenditures from the special fumd are
assumed at 80 percent of the previous year's and 20 percent of the year before the previous
year's allocations.



- 118-                          ANiNJX7.1
ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION OF TH PROJECT
1.           Four different expansion schemes for 1996-2010 were prepared for the East
China Grid, to compare the cost of system expansion with the Tianhuangping (THP) project as
a candidate for providing peak-load power capacity to the cost of system expansion with
alternative means of providing equivalent service. The four schemes are summarized in Table 1.
Further details on the different schemes and the analysis described below are provided in
BERIWREP's reports in the Project File.l/ The expansion schemes include: (a) Scheme
1-the Base Scheme, described in Chapter 4, which includes THP, 300 and 600 MW coal-fired
thermal units, in addition to the two hydro plants and nuclear expansion, which are included in
all scenarios; (b) Scheme 2-the Business-as-Usual Scheme, which is the same as the Base
Scheme, except that additional coal-based units replace THP; (c) Scheme 3, which includes both
THP and diesel-fueled combustion turbines as key sources of peaking power; and (d) Scheme
4, which excludes THP and includes combustion turbines as the key source of peaking power.
2.           The cash flows of investment and operating costs in economic prices were
prepared for each sequence for the period, and discounted to 1992 present value terms at a
12 percent discount rate. The shadow prices used to convert the financial costs of THP, coal-
fired power plants and the two hydro plants in the expansion schemes are portrayed in Tables 2
and 3. For combustion turbines, which would need to be imported, an equipment cost of $420
and an installation cost equal to 10 percent of the equipment cost were used.
3.           Table 4 presents the results of the analysis, including sensitivity analysis. Both
of the schemes including THP (Schemes I and  o) are substantially more cost effective than the
schemes without THP (Schemes II and IV). In 1992 yuan, the cost savings of Scheme I over
Scheme I are Y 5.78 billion, while the cost savings of Scheme 3 over Scheme 4 are Y 4.97
billion. In 1997 yuan, the savings of Scheme 1 over Scheme 2 amount to Y 6.47 billion, and
she savings of Scheme 3 over Scheme 4 amount to Y 5.56 billion. By comparison, the cost of
the project in economic prices is Y 3.30 billion in 1997 yuan.
4.           In addition to demonstrating the economic viability of the THP project, the
analysis shows that it would be cost effective to install some diesel-fueled combustion turbines
in the East China system to provide additional peaking power, over-and-above that provided by
THP. Installation of such turbines in now being seriously considered by ECEPUC. However,
determination of the optimal role of combustion turbines will require further analysis focusing
specifically on this issue, resulting in a more fine-tuned analysis than that presented here.
tI  Relevant reports include BERIWREP's Economic Evaaion of the 71 huangping Pumped Storage
Power Station Based on the Expansion Optiization of the East-China Elekric Generating System
(anuar 1992), and a subsequt Suppmentary Report (Seember 1992) and Update Report
(November 1992).



- 119 -                         ANNEX 7.t
5.           The avoided cost/cost analysis for the project is shown in Table S. Avoided
costs are valued based on the cost of installing and operaing a diesel-fuel combustion
turbine-the least-ost alternative to provide similar service to that of THP. Quantified benefits
include generation of 454 hours per year, to meet the highest points of the daily load curve (see
Figure 3), which are the most costly to service, and the addition of spinning peak-load reserve.
In the calculation of the costs of the combustion turbine alternative, assumptions included a
capital investment of Y 2,5411kW, a fixed operating cost equivalent to 3 percent of the
investment cost, a capacity availability factor of 91 percent, a lifetime of 15 years, and a
construction period of one year. Diesel fuel was costed at Y 1,128 per ton in economic terms,
based on international prices.



- 120 -                       ANEX7.
Table 1: INSTALLATION SCHEDULE OF ALTERNATmE EAST CINA GRID
EXPANSON SCHEMES Li
2001-
Scheme/type of plant       1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2010
Scheme 1 (Base Scheme)
Coal                    1,200   3,521   2,981   2,705   3,868   36,044
TaP                         -     300     600      900       -         -
Combustion turbine                  -       -        -       -         -
Total               1.200   3.821   3.581   3.605   3.868   36.044
Scheme 2 (Business as Usual)
Coal                    1,200   3,861   3,659   3,724   3,886   35,993
THP                         -       -       -        -       -         -
Combustion turbine          -       -       -                -         -
Total               1.200   3.861   3.659   3.724   3.886   35.993
Scheme 3 (With Combustion Turbine/With THP)
Coal                   1,200   1,295   2,930   2,529   3,596   34,080
TEP                         -     300     600      900       -         -
Combustion turbine       834   1,061       45      149     191    1,740
Total               2,034   2.656   3.575   3.57    3.787   35.820
Scheme 4 (With Combustion Turbine/Without THP)
Coal                   1,200   1,540   3,454   3,319   3,555   33,542
TiP                         -       -       -        -       -         -
Combustion turbine       834   1,140      178      348     228    2,180
Total               2.034   2.680   3.632   3.667   3.783   35.722
LA As Tanken and Shanxi Hydro Stations and Qingshan Nuclear Station expansions are
included in all schemes, they are not listed here. See Annex 4.5 for the Base Scheme
installation schedule.
Source: BERIWREP, ECEPUC.



- 121 -                      ANNE 7.1
Table 2: ECONOMIC SHAwDW PRICES FoR THE COSTS OF THE
TIANHUANGPNG PROJWECf
Financial     Conversion       Shadow         Shadow
cost          factor          cost        investment
(Y million)                   (Y million)     (Y/kWe)
Total Cost          2.864            0.97         2.791          1.550
Foreign           1,569            1.00         1,569            872
Local             1,295            0.94         1,222            679
Of which:
Materials            74            1.13            83             46
Steel              43            1.12            49             27
Cement             24            1.15            28             15
Timber              7            1.08             8              4
Labor                54            1.20            65             36
Construction
and other       1,167            0.92La       1,074            596
LA The standard conversion factor assumed is 0.92.
Source: BERIWREP and mission estimates.



- 122 -                      ANNEX17.
Table 3: EcONOmC SHADOW PIaCES wR THE Cosrs OF
NEW COALFIRED AND HYDRO PROJECTS IN EACH CHINA
(Y/kW)
Financial     Conversion        Economic
price         factor        shadow price
600-MW Coal-Fired Plants
Equipment                      1,410          1.56             2,200
Materials                        974          0.95               928
Labor                             93          1.20               111
Construction/other              533           0.92               491
Total                      3.010           1.24             3.730
300-MW Coal-Fired Plants
Equipment                      1,587          1.56             2,475
Materials                        970          0.96               935
Labor                             92          1.20               110
Construction/other              618           0.92               569
Total                      3.267           1.25             4.089
Tan Ren Hydro (600 MW)                                           2,821
San Xi Hydro (240 MW)                                            5,595
Source: BERIWREP and mission estimes.



Table 4: ANALYsiS OF ALERNATIVE EAsr CHN GRID ExPANsioN ScHEMNs
(Present value cost in 1992 Y billion)
smensitivi analysis
(1)                  (2)                  (3)                   (4)                  (5)                  (6)
Delay in Sap      Shortfall in pr
lucres. In tUP       One-por deJAY        b"fits by one         doed l
Altegnative                                Coal priac              iveotmett coet      in cee1sio.ing        yearl boo.-c..     groth rat. by one       Diocoaut rate
scheme for pooh-          Bos csae        twcr...                     by 201                of TRP             coot strom        porntag  p.12t            of 162
lug prer                                         Of 102
WS 1i                      235.35                262.97               235.8                 234.35                 -                  19.12                203.3?
Bo,ech. with
T, coal nd br-
dro
S_u~ 2                     241.13                2 t7.O                  .                    .                    -                  204.n                 MAs.sI
Inainas -so-Usual
echo... withut
TP$ witi coal. Ob
bydro 
sahm  3                    232.3                   -                     .                    _                  2).58                   -                  199.67
nith IP, cool,
hydro and ceQus-
tun turbhine
Sgme 4                     237.31                             -                    -                     -                    -                            203.29
Iltbheut TP; with
coal, bydro and
c*Gbustis tuf-
bine
OIS.                 Coot saving of       Cost eavi    of       Schea I costt        One-year delay to    Uder ths worst-    Coot Savings of         Cost eags of
eceho  I oer         schoe 1 ower         increase by I 0.51    coestructics mg      caso ecenrio,        echo" 1 or             ae.. 1 ovr
sciwa 2 to * 5.70    ch_  2 Is I 5.73   biulln. coot            Comieeoonig  re-    Whre cost Strom        ccbma 2 falls        ohem  2 is ! 5.44
billi<o. Cost        billion, ocopared t    aig. of "hemb    s"lt. In   1.00         roane unchbad,   frcm I 5.7S bil-          bille. Cost
sawngs of schbo      to  as Case "sV-    I oer scbo.a 2 to   bllon additional   delay cao.e cost   lIon to I 5.65               evsio of schem
3 ovr uchme 4 to   1im  of 1 5.78         * 5.27 blloio.        coote over the       sawing of ech        bilin.                3 over sc_me 4 is
1 4.97 billon        bill1io.                                   Be Coo..             3 over echan 4 to                          1 4.42 bllie.
fall fro u 4.97
billn to! 0.75
tbillon.
Sourc: Misio ad BERIWREP .utinwet in *Updat of the Econonuic Aalysis of tke 7wlmnhangping Station,' November 199.I



-124-                                 AEX2A
Tabl 5: TIAMAYGPIM: AVOMED COSTICOST ANALYSIS
Sus AtmmL
Ratio of generatioa to  8pin2ing roacuve                                                  60:20
Annual hour. of full4 opeti454
Cycle efficiency (S)                                                                         72
Coal prico (Yltce)                                                                          220
Cost per kUh Input (2)                                                                    0.067
Avold4d cost benefit.
Gemratlon (Jk'h)                                                                         1.16
Roserve (Y/kW/yr)                                                                         449
lnvoet- Pled Pumping  Total   Gam           Bone-   Reoerve  lone-   Total        not
am      QM     gost    gMa  Sminrated   Lt   a8sltt    =            benefit  penefit
______-___._-.______------ (Units  Y Million) --------------------------------
1992       97                       97        --                                            97
1993      285      -        -      285        -       -          -        -        -      -285
1994      279      -        -      279        -       -          -        -        -      -279
1995      646      -        -      6U         -       -          -        -        -      -646
1996      720      -        -      720        -       -          -        -        -     -720
1997      419      9       13      441      136     158       0.06       26      183     -258
1998      162    28       38       227     409      473       0.18       77     550       322
1999      129    55        76      261     M8       946       0.36      153   1,100       839
2000       13    55        76      144     816      946       0.36      153   1,100        955
2001-
2025      -    55       76       131     818      946       0.36      153   1,100       968
UPV Q 122                                    2,105
IRRR                                       23.12



- 125 -                         AN          8.1
SELECTED DOCUMENS AND DATA AVAIALE
IN THE PROJECT FILE
Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
1.    Tianhuangping Pumped Storage Project, Feasibility Study Report, East China
Hydroelectric Power Investigadon and Desig Institute, Hangzhou, China, September
1990.
2.    Tianhuangping Pumped Storage Project, Environmental Assessment Report, Executive
Summary, East China Hydroelectric Power lavestigation and Design Institute,
Hangzhou, China, November 1991.
3.    Economic Evaluation of rianhuangping Pumped Storage Power Station based on the
Expansion Opftimization of East-China Electric Generating System, Beijing Economic
Research Insdtute of Water Resources and Electric Power, Executive Report, January
4.    Evaluation Report on Consultants' Proposals for Tianhuangping Pumped Storage Project,
Eat China Electric Power United Corporation, March 1992.
5.    Documents for Staff Appraisal of the Tianhuangping Pumped Storage Project, East
China Electric Power United Corporation, April 1992.
6.    Documents for Staff Appraisal of Tianhuangping Pumped Storage Project,
Supplementary Information, East China Electric Power United Corporation, June 1992.
7.    Tianhuangping Pumped Storage Project, Environmental Assessment Report, East China
Investigation and Design Institute, Hangzhou, China, April 1992.
8.    Improvement and Expansion Planning of Distribution Network for Shanghai Urban
District, Shanghai Municipal Electric Power Bureau, March 1991.
9.    Hangzhou Municipal Electic Power Network Planning and Reconstruction Proposal,
Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Bureau, June 1992.
10.   Ningbo Urban Network Renovation Plan (1990-2000), Zhejiang Provincial Electric
Power Bureau, June 1992.
11.   Maps of the 500-kV Transmission Lines (December 1992).



- 126 -                         AN1X&IAi
Selected Workshees
1.    ECEPUC Finacial Forecast
2.    Cost Tables
3.    Implemenaion Schedules and Charts



- 127 -
CHARTS



CHINA
TIANI4UA PING HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Organization Chat of the Minisry of Energy (MOE)
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Eatl Poe Dlptin
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cne
Depeitment of Policy  ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~     ~     CiefEfrgyln flet
&                   ,eilton     r             co              |
_  Oepatlmnt of Plnning           _       Chie Na#W    Ol                           E    P     Pn.
amwsi tegbwon  Naa   cw                      cee      ti
C ooiaon                      I  Cha Nf rM a                                     ReeWAs& *As PON       .
Opadmentyof Ecnoi                          Ce tnatonalPoe
Coordinton                        DeomntCO orpoato n                              OW
D     e Of Eney                          Regina ln p_c  on w
Conaewaton            Idmindlrations                                                dnffc 
Depaitmentof ScienceChina Internatina  at
&Rehnology                 ~~~~Electr Powe Corpor,Wato
cosp emtof Edion                          Chi Huadian (Group)
De!                                        .t-1              Gr HuanniQnuoaP
rZ www d eecft                            OH to Coal Conwersion O Ice.
sta coe Cuncl
DeLaitment of cowl
Depbmednt       aon f                tdministrat                   I
ChlefE4ftwWOllice for
n      &abor7            IISea 
tj     0     mkef 3cb oe       |               Olto  CalCnvtbnOlb 



CHNA
TIANHUANGPING HYDROELECTRI PROJECT
Oranzatotm Chat of East Clia Ebebic Power Uni#ed Corporation (ECEPUC)
Mca"M*W  WOWM*W  MOO"O W*                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pumped Sbrag
EQ ,     I                I' IGeMeI
1 -' I 9   1 9-I   f   I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~omc   ff
_  a         ~ ~       ~~Sam  Peron" 
0    _      _    ~    ~ ~~eprn  Deavo
GenerSvberA
-~~~C
Skioc
varagwmt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*573



CHINA
TIANHUANGPING HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Organization Chart of Tlanbuangping Pumped Stomp Project Construction Company (THPCC)
ECEPUC
E Genrwal Manager
of THPC
Deputy -ey                                                                                DeXpXu*tE                                                     ECIDI & SIDI
Cn,WM,*CNon                Deg8
MDaemet                Goohs & Materials           E=-D-                      Opeatio
Adn*ilatratlon  DePep a                                                        Preartion
AdIWIVSIaoo                Plann                     Matefials                Prepatoiy                    Stanf
feSttUttoa                Plannin                    Wr                       Trainig
Labor                   . Fiacl                  G                                                    Opepati Co
pernnel                                                T                                                 i
costA                                             WE Engnering
8$WUMtl7                                          Maement                 Management 8  Conbd  I
ManagementMa                      wspfm
Forig                           Eqimn
Trnptm!    Manegmy                    I
Design
secmtww                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CoordnatIon
Conibuction
SchudLte
Cont
SO:  S.            aa nd Dt.                                                         Control



CHINA
TIANHUANGPING HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
OUAklTtES           1992                1993                1994                1995               1996                1997                1998               1999                2000
A. Pr.perbyOr&
C. Ezcayalmaona"Wmd tonact.ha1 he15.
D Rtoerd'"Woo wocks orlowedun                  tOrn           4
E. FOktarxbmon e s   and  aattnaet            I'D  m
F. Dam tcm1                                                                                                                        ..          .       ......
o. dfrigl.rwam A.C. ladg                 tOx 
It. Upwe AMewv*i Dii & 4 Sadd  Ole it
A. PrnepaWratoydk
S. Wper mmIVw sicavatn and fAt                                                                                                   .        ...n  '  ..
MI. Wowe cCEW.uto Spate.
A. PRepiWy Wafti
B.Excavaio coA wd titoamI                    to a Mn
C. Excvavion of   edst Id                      toa S     82H---     
0,Concrete, br*  of cned emnd                  toX Tx 22
t aoki  K ower ho"0azo bralnachi I      -    f9
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   to    a    an   Con.t~~~2.58
H. Penstock Instatlation, conremte WMd arnd groLitag  n ti.48
1. Pkug dt constacib ads
IV  IuIataConcrete LU* trig
A. Preaaory Wrt.
C. U"tip et W wvn*ioad
V. Eteckici & kMedwtmncl fquIpmnt &Control Sse
C._ Bid avaluatin
0. Contract negdaton and agno
G.!Urettialeanta                                   M 
.Concreting d  ttadwih                       tlim. M,.                                 -     
r   mesMajo atca)W path



- 132 -
FIGURES



Figure (MAP) WB53078
__               *CHINA
,2 te Upper    lr                            -MTIANHUANGPING
=M         _  >   _    mHYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
General Layout
(Cross Setion)
t#               -             ii-               -    i  .?j?o
n2m IL~~~
2                             - V   S7 > ;
Sw'sE>ss@te gPat)6 6tr
_   . __   .  .              .              .                                                .   _   _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f



)~ (
N'-)X - >
a it o
Q)i,j)   ~~~~>)  ~ ~                     HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
,<I"  I\\\~~~~~~~~\N\ ~General Layout
(Plan)



typical Daily Load Curve for the ECPG with Tlanhuangping
(August 2000)
40.21
3622 
32.19
28.17
M AiO load units
24.14
-  20.12
I           
16.10 -
1207
8.05
Om load unts
4.02 -
0.00      4.00        8.00       12.00        16.00       20.00       24.0
Tined Day
m   Poww peation by Mangping
_2(#S



1IRD24363
SHANDONG                                                           CHINA 
\_Weishan                    &        TIANHUANGPING HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
EAST CHINA POWER GRID
-)\^(l,300\  -   -  ~ -    O5kVlTRAWiSSIONUNE
C)   1300A                                      AA          A    500 kV SUBSTATIONON UNE
quoibeiNo.10THERML POWER PLANT
Otfute No 2                                                              M   l     HYDRO POWER PLANT
NUCLEAR POWERRPANT
ff               F\'\8  J I A N G S UA 
N                            SH U  | > >3> ) YELLOW
poow                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEA
(4304                 f600 ?2*N00. v P<3  /  h e n   fl
Tmnsli,oWno (                                      34AVWj2OAA9
(37Mfl8 ~~-    *~ -*                                      SHANGHAI
A 2.AWMW,>> 253n gb J Q260OMW2
2; G;/ J (6x30OMr4 < / ^ri~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n9o30Mtg(2x600Mm)
SOUTH CHINA
// ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ E J(W                           I     A N           <
2"                                                                                         SEA       2P
JIANGXI062Utr                          /ZH JAN 
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AV fo T''h' onwb
of,@m adid B is forth
F U J I AN 
,. . f - ;=Xfld" 117
JANUARS' 1993



