RP-007
500 KV TRANSMISSION LINE PROJECT
BY USING TIANHUANGPING PROJECT COST SAVING
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN
EAST CHINA ELECTRIC POWER GROUP CO.
Sep. 1998



CONTENTS
Objectives of the RAP and the Definition of
Resettlement Terminology
1.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.1   Project Background
1.2   Project Components and Basic Conditions
1.2.1  Project Components
1.2.2  Basic Conditions
1.3   Service Scope
1.4   Project Schedule
1.5   Measures for Reducing Project Influences
1.6   Project Design and Review
1.7   Preparation of Resettlement and Monitoring Evaluation
1.8   Basis of Preparation of RAP
2.    Summary of Natural Social Economical Conditions in Area Impacted by
Project
2.1   Survey Method
2.2   Natural Social Economic Conditions
3.    Project Impact
3.1   Determination of Relocation and Resettlement Scope
3.2   Project Influences Survey
3.3   Inventory Index Impacted
3.3.1  Land Acquisition
3.3.2  Impacted Population
3.3.3  Impacted infrastructure
3.3.4. Scattered trees to be cut
3.3.5  Other Economical Index Affected
4.    FRAME OF LAWS
4.1   Policy Basis
4.2   Rules of Law
5.     Plan for Resettlement And Production Restoration
5.1    Production Restoration Plan



5.1.1   Sijing Substation
5.1.2. Hangdong Substation
5.2.   Restoration Plan of Infrastructures
5.3    Plan Implementation
5.3.1  Implementation Procedure
5.3.2  Schedule
5.3.3  Fund Transferring Plan
6. Estimation and Budget for Compensation Costs
6.1    Compensation Principles
6.2    Compensation Standards
6.3 General Budget Estimation of Compensation
7.    ORGANIZATION AND INSTITUTION
7.1   Establishing of Organization
7.1.1  Organizations
7.1.2  Organization Composition and Responsibilities
7.1.3  Institutions and Staff
7.2   Linking of Organizations
7.3   Measures for Enhancing Capacity of Organization
8.    PUBLIC PARTICIPATION AND APPEAL
8.1   Public Participation
8.1.1  Public Participation in Preparatory Stage Of Project
8.1.2  Public participation in preparing  Resettlement Action Plan
8.1.3  Public Participation in Implementation Of RAP
8.2   Respondence and Appeal Method
9.    Monitoring and Reporting
9.1   Internal Monitoring and Reporting
9.1.1  Target and Tasks
9.1.2  Institutions and Staff
9.1.3  Monitoring Contents
9.1.4  Implementation Procedure
9.1.5  Reporting



9.2   External Independent Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
9.2.1  Target and Tasks
9.2.2  Monitoring Contents
9.2.3  Monitoring Measures
9.2.4  Procedures
9.2.5  Independent resettlement monitoring and evaluation reporting
10.   Rights and Duties
Attachmentl Laborers To Be Changed into Non-agricultural Resident Status
Attachment2 Staff List for Resettlement Institution



Objectives of the RAP and the Definition of
Resettlement TerminolQgy.
This Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) is prepared according to the Laws and
Regulations of PRC, and local area as well as the Guidelines of the World Bank
(Operational Directive for Involuntary Resettlement OD 4.30). The purpose of this
document is to set out an Action plan for the Resettlement and Rehabilitation of the
Project Affected Persons (PAPs) to ensure that they will benefit from the project and
their standards of living will improve or at least be restored after the project impact.
Acquisition of land and other assets for the project will adversely affect the livelihood of
persons who live, work or earn their living on the land that will be acquired for the
project. PAPs are defined as those persons whose income or livelihoods will be
adversely affected by land acquisition for the project. PAPs include the following
categones:
a) persons who have a title, right, interest, in structures (houses, enterprises, shelters, or
public buildings), land (including residential, agricultural, and grazing land)or any other
asset acquired or possessed, in full or in part, permanently or temporarily;
b) persons who use the structures, land or assets described above; or persons whose
business, occupation, work, place of residence or habitat adversely affected; or
c) persons whose standard of living is adversely affected as a consequence of land
acquisition.
A definition of PAPs is given below:
Definition of the PAPs: "Affected Persons" means persons who on account of the
execution of the project had or would have their: a) standard of living adversely
affected; or b) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural
and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed,
temporarily or perrnanently; or c) business, occupation, work or place of residence or
habitat adversely affected, and "affected Person" means individually all those who
qualify as "Affected persons."
PAPs may be individuals or legal persons such as a company, a public institution.
Definition of PAPs is not limited to their legal registration or permission to live or
conduct business in the affected location, or their title to property. Thus it includes:
a) all those affected by the project regardless of their legal rights or absence thereof to
the assets being taken; and
b) persons without residential permit to live in a certain area.
Therefore all such persons who are affected will need to considered and recorded as
PAPs, regardless of their legal connection to assets land or location.
If there are more than one person, family or household using or holding a title to the
same land or property that is acquired, they will be compensated and rehabilitated
according to the loss they suffer, their rights, and the impact on their living standards.
I



The definition of PAPs is linked directly to the adverse effect of the project, regardless
of legal rights title or interest.
All PAPs are entitled to the improvement or at least restoration of their standards of
living, and compensation for the material losses they suffer. Compensation for assets
will cover replacement cost. No deductions or discounts will be applied to the
compensation amount for depreciation or other reasons. All PAPs deriving an economic
benefit from the affected land and property are entitled to receive rehabilitation benefits
in addition to the compensation for their assets lost. Those PAPs without title,
authorization or legal permission to reside, conduct business, cultivate land or construct
structures are eligible for rehabilitation of their livelihoods and compensation for their
assets on an equal footing with those with formal legal title, authorization or permissions
to the assets.
The term RESETTLEMENT includes:
a)  the relocation of living quarters;
b)  finding acceptable new employment for those whose jobs are affected;
c)  restoration (or compensation) of affected productive resources such as land,
workplaces, trees and infrastructure;
d)  restoration of other adverse effect on PAPs' living standards (quality of life)
through land acquisition (such as the adverse effects of pollution);
e)  restoration of or compensation for affected private and public enterprises;
f)  restoration of adversely affected on cultural or common property.
Rehabilitation means: the restoration of the PAPs' resource capacity to continue with
productive activities or lifestyles at a level higher or at least equal to that before the
project.
The objective of this RAP is to provide a plan for the resettlement and rehabilitation of
the PAPs so that their losses will be compensated and their standards of living will be
improved or at least restored to the pre-project levels. To achieve these objectives the
plan provides for rehabilitation measures so that the income earning potential of
individuals are restored to sustain their livelihoods. Affected productive resources of
businesses (enterprises including shops) and public property. Infrastructure and cultural
property will also be improved or at least restored to their pre-project levels.
2



Project Description
1.1   Project Background
l.1  Background
Since launching of reform and opening up policies, the economy in the East China
Region has been rapidly developed, and the living standards of the people are
continuously improved; meanwhile, the contradictions between power supply and
demand in the region become more acute. The statistical data shows that the annual
growth rate of the electricity consumption was 10.87% in the East China Region
during the "Eighth Five-Year Plan" period, being 9.99% higher than the national
average. Because construction of power networks is always behind the power
resource development, safe operation of the power networks is threatened in a
certain extent, and the existing substations and transmission lines have been
frequently overloaded due to low transmission capacity. It is therefore very
important to construct the East China 500kV Transmission Project.
Shanghai is an economical developed area and one of the largest cities in China, and
has most important position in the national economy. Since launching of reform and
opening up policies, the industrial and agricultural output of Shanghai has been
increased greatly. Especially, since opening up of Pudong, the economical increasing
speed of Shanghai is evidently great. According to goal of economical development
of Shanghai reaching to a new stage and calculation results of increment of domestic
gross output being over 10%, the Shanghai Electrical Power Bureau forecasts that
the power demand in the year of 2000 will be 66 billion kW.h and the max. load will
be 11600MW. By the end of 2000, the installed capacity will be 13499MW. But by
the end of 1993, the installed capacity of the Shanghai Power System was
6346.7MW, with the max. load of 5332MW and the power consumption of 33.208
billion kW.h, the increment of power consumption being 10.31%. At present, the
existing 220kV power system can not take the balance of power demand and output,
and it urgently requires the power supplement from the 500kV system. By the year
of 2000, the 220kV Shanghai Power System will gradually be operated regionally,
the 500kV Power System will be only one passage for power exchange in this area.
Thus, construction of the 500 kV Sijing Substation Project will play a role of
connecting the regional 220kV system with the 550kV system. It will heighten the
reliability of power supply of the regional system and release the contradictions of
lack of power in the area to the north of Huangpujiang River.
Since the launching of reform and opening-up, the economy of Zhejiang Province
has been developed rapidly. The increasing of economy promotes the development
of the power industry in the whole province. The yearly increasing rates of power
demand and power consumption were 13.28% and 13.81% during the period of the
Eighth Five-Year Plan, and 7.52% and 7.88% in the first two years of the Ninth
Five-Year Plan. By the year of 1997, the power demand and power consumption
were up to 8150MW and 5120 MWh. According to the plan of Zhejiang Power Grid,
it is predicted that the power demand and power consumption in Zhejiang Province
will increase at an annual rate of 9.31% and 8.45% during the Ninth Five-Year Plan,
and by the year of 2000, the power demand and the power consumption of the whole
3



province will reach to IIOOOMW and 6600MWh. Since the Zhejiang Provincial
Power Grid is divided by the Qiantangjiang River and construction of large sized
power plants are limited by the peripheral conditions, it is predicted that, during the
period of 2000-2005, the Zhejiang Power Grid will be in the pattem of the north
power sent to the south and the east power sent to the west, with large current in and
out. It is necessary to build several projects of the power grid, so as to meet the
power demand by the industrial and agricultural production and people's life in the
whole province and guarantee the safe and stable operation of the whole power grid.
The 500kV Hangdong Substation is one part of the power grid for the purposes
mentioned above.
500kV Sijing Substation and 500kV Hangdong Substation will be constructed by
partly using Tianhuangping Project cost saving.
1.2   Project Components and Basic Conditions
1.21  Project Components
As mentioned above, the cost savings from Tianhuangping Project will be used for
the following two items:
A.  A new 500kV Sijing Substation
B.  A new 500kV Hangdong Substation
1.2.2  Basic Conditions
(1) Sijing Substation
The 500kV Sijing Substation proposed by the East Electric Power Design Institute is
located at about 1.5km to the east of Sijing Town of Songjiang County in the south
area of Shanghai, through Sijingtang, Beiliujing, Xiaochangbin and Huangnan
(Huangdu-Nanqiao). The land acquisition area for the substation is about 140mu, of
which is of paddy field. The land acquisition will directly affect the Zhaojia Group
and Xiaochang Group of the Xiaochang Village.
(2) Hangdong Substation
500kV Hangdong Substation is located in the northeast of the Second Farm of the
Agricultural Development Company of Zhejiang Xingye Group, about 22.5km to
Hangzhou, 7km away from the Qiaosi Town and 350m near the Honghai Road. The
land acquisition area for the substation is about 146.1mu. The land acquisition will
directly affect the Second Farm of the Agricultural Development Company of
Zhejiang Xingye Group and the Hexin Group of the Hongqi Village in the Xuxiang
Township of Haining City.
4



1.3   Service Scope
Since the 500kV Sijing Substation is near the loading central, after the operation of
the substation, it will be easily take'the power from the system and distribute the
power to the 220kV power grid. It will release the overload of the 220kV line in the
south power grid of Shanghai and play an active role in the managing the 220kV
power grid in the south, meanwhile it will further heighten the reliability of power
supply in the south power grid. It will not only meet the requirement of step-down
capacity of the Shanghai Power Grid, but also meet power demand in the south
power grid of Shanghai. It will play an important role in promoting the social
economical development of Shanghai.
The operation of the Hangdong Substation will improve the conditions of lacking
power and rapid increment of power demand in the northeast area of Hangzhou, and
unsuitable conditions of the existing 200kV power grid. It will be helpful for the
economical development of the Hangzhou area to get a good environmental
condition.
1.4   Project Schedule
According to the power grid plan, the construction of the 500kV Sijing Substation
will be started in Oct., 1998 and put into the operation in Aug., 2000, and the
construction of the 500kV Hangdong Substation will be started in Oct., 1998 and put
into the operation in Oct., 2000.
1.5   Measures for Reducing Project Influences
A.  Scope of decreasing land requisition
Construction of substations shall occupy certainly the arable lands, and the original
life and production conditions will be inevitably impacted. In order to decrease
occupying cultivated land and resettlers as less as possible, the Design Unit has
adopted various measures during design as followings:
During design procedure, the Design Unit insisted on optimizing the substation site
based on the outgoing line layout and the equipment arrangement, possibly
arranging all the substations at the wide topography, and keeping away form
households (Therefore, there is no any residents to be resettled within the area of the
Sijingg Substation and Hangdong substation.). The substation living area will be
arranged at the urban district, thus occupation of cultivated land will be reduced as
low as possible.
B.  Decreasing local influences caused by construction
When land acquisition and resettlement is inevitable, the following measures will be
adopted for decreasing the local influences caused by the construction:
1)  Enhancing the basic data acquisition, analyzing the local social-economic status and
developing the practicable action plan connected with the actual situation to ensure
5



that original living standard of resettlers will not be decreased.
2)  Strengthening the intemal and external independent monitoring, establishing the
high efficiency and smooth channel for information feedback, reducing information
conduct period to ensure that various problems can be dealt out timely.
3)  At the construction duration, the local materials such as bricks, sand-gravel
aggregates etc. shall be give priority to use as well as the local transportation and
labor force, thus resettlers can obtain the benefits from the project.
4)  Optimizing the construction design, reducing the construction period, reasonably
arranging construction stage, getting fully cooperation with construction units and
the local governrment in different levels, reasonably arranged the housing removal
and construction stage as possible as the farming leisure period so as to decrease the
project influence for local production..
1.6   Project Design and Review
The 500 kV Sijing Substation and Hangdong Substation were separately designed by
the East China Electric Power & Design Institute and Zhejiang Provincial Power
Design Institute. During site selection stages, the design units studied both the
technical and economic aspects. Various site alternative have been worked out and a
thorough analysis and comparison with influence for local social economy, land
requisition, geological structure, hydrology and meteorology, topography and
geomorphology, transportation for large equipment, maintenance after completed of
the substations, and economic soundness for project construction have been carried
out. Finally, the scheme for the Sijing Substation was approved in Aug., 1997, and
the scheme for the Hangdong Substation was approved in May, 1998.
1.7   Preparation of Resettlement and Monitoring Evaluation
The Project Owner, the East China Electrical Power Group Company, has entrusted
the East China Investigation and Design Institute in charge of the resettlement
independent evaluation. The preparation works for resettlement plan were organized
by the Preparation Division for Extra-Voltage Project of Shanghai Power Bureau and
Zhejiang Extra-High Voltage Construction Company on the entrust of the Owner,
joined with the design unit, the monitoring evaluation unit, and obtained energetic
support and coordination from relative local government in different levels. The
works was began in May, 1995, and successively completed with the establishment
of the resettlement affairs . offices, definition of the project affects scope,
investigations for social economy and inventory survey for land acquisition, policies
research, drawing up plans for resettlement and compiled the compensation cost
estimation, etc. Thus, the "Program of Resettlement Action Plan for 500 kV
Substations by Using Tianhuangping Project Saving" and the preparation work of
resettlement monitoring evaluation were completed.
6



1.8   Basis of Preparation of RAP
(1) Land Administration Law of the People's Republic of China
(2) Implementation Method of Land Administration Law of the People's Republic of
China
(3) Implementation Method of "Land Administration Law of the People's Republic of
China" by Shanghai City
(4)  Implementation Method of Land Administration Law of Zhejiang Province
(5) Guideline for "Involuntary Resettlement" - OD.4.30, World Bank
7



2.    Summary of Natural Social Economical Conditions in Area Impacted by
Project
2.1   Survey Method
In May to June, 1998, in order to analyze the project influence and draw up the
practicable action plan, the Preparation Division for Extra-Voltage Project of
Shanghai Power Bureau and Zhejiang Extra-High Voltage Construction Company
were entrusted by the Owner to organize the relative design units and monitoring
evaluation unit to carry out a social economical survey in the affected townships,
villages, village groups and State Owned Xinye Group. A detail survey for each
household was carried out in the heavily affected Zhaojia Group and Xiaochang
Group of the Xiaochang Village in Sijing Town. The survey was supported and
cooperated by the local government at all levels and the relative units. The survey
was performed with the existing statistics and combined with the field investigation.
2.2   Natural Social Economic Conditions
Sijing Town is located in the vicinity of Shanghai City, the largest industrial city of
China with economy developed, which brings out the benefits for the development
of the Sijing Town. The living level of people there is higher. There are 13 villager
comnrmittees, 91 village groups and 6 neighborhood committees. By the end of 1997,
there were 24,000 population -in the whole town, with 14,000 for agricultural
population and 10,000 for urban residents. Total land area is 24.4 square kilometer in
this town. By the end of 1997, total arable area was 160 thousand mu, and arable
area of agricultural population was 1.143 mu per capita. In 1997, the gross output
value of industry and agriculture reached to 244.8 thousand Yuan, in which total
agricultural output value was 15 thousand Yuan and industrial and the tertiary
industrial output value was 229.8 thousand Yuan. In 1997, the total income of the
town reached to 1024.78 million Yuan, in which 28.66 million Yuan was for
agriculture, 878.76 million Yuan for industry, and 117.36 for others (including
communication, construction industry and food service). The total grain output was
12.5 million kg in 1997. The output for grain was about 750kg per mu and the grain
was 520kg per capita.
Xinye Group is a state-owned group with whole state's investment under the
jurisdiction of the province. At present, the group has 25 enterprises, 3000 staff,
26800 mu cultivated land, 1000 mu orchard, and 1400 mu fish ponds. The Xinye
Group is mainly in charge of the business of agriculture, industry, processing
industry and trade. In 1997, the income of all items reached to 0.16 billion Yuan, in
which 43 million Yuan is from agriculture, 70 million Yuan is from industry, and
about 47 million Yuan is from the processing industry and trade. Now the Group'
production structure is like is that industry plays a leading role, the agriculture as a
base, the processing industry and trade as a supporting.
Xuxiang Township is located in the west of Haining City, 19km away from the
Hangzhou in the west, near the agricultural comprehensive development area of
provincial level in the north bank of the Qiangtang River in the south. It has the
Shanghai-Hangzhou Road passing through its south area. The Shanghai-Hangzhou
8



express and Jiaxing Dongxi Road will pass through its hinterland. The geographic
position and communication is fine. The total area of the whole township is 41.1
square kilometer, with 14 administrative villages and 3 neighborhood committees,
and total population of 43345. The main industries include business of the
construction materials, textile, mechanism, chemistry, knitting and clothes. The
agriculture is to take the grain grown as the main base, including river crab, shrimp,
sheep culture and newly planting and culture industry. In 1997, the total collective
and individual enterprises reached to 3209, with the gross domestic value of 0.33692
billion Yuan and the industry value of 0.90008 billion Yuan, and the income for the
urban residents of 4885 Yuan per capita.
The economical conditions for the affected townships, villages and village groups
are shown in Table 2.1-2.3.
9



Gross Domestic Value for Affected Townships and Villages(1997)
Table 2.1
Town-    Village        Total     Agricultural   Industrial income   Other income
ship   committees   income         income
(106 Yuan) (106 Yuan)  %    (106Yuan)   %    (lO6 Yuan)   %
Sijing   Whole town     1024.78    28.66    2.8   878.76    85.8   117.36   11.4
Town____
Xiaochang        11.27     1.75    15.5    3.42      30.4    6.1      54.1
Village       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                  _ _ _
Xinye   Whole Group       160       43      26.9     70      43.8     47      29.3
G roup  I_               _ _ _ _  _ _ _ ___         _I__  _  _ _ _
Second farm       5          5     100.0     0        0.0      0       0.0
Xuxiang Wholetownship  1104.47    52.03    4.7   877.31    79.4   175.13   15.9
Town-
ship
IHangqi Village    26.29    3.23    12.3    15.57    59.2    7.49    28.5
10



Status of Township and Village Impacted by 500kV Substation
Table 2.2
Land acquisition Unit     Total     Total      Total labor    Cultivated   Percentage of
Town- Administra-  Village  cultivated population force in town &  land per capita land and labor
ship  tive Village   group  land (mu)  (person)  village (person) (mu/per capita)   (mu/per
_______ ___   ___ _____   _______   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ca p ita)
Sijing  Whole town           116000    24000     9000            0.66          1.77
Xiaochang  Whole   1703        897        585            1.90          2.91
____ _  __ ____ ___ v illage__       _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Zhaojia   136      135        87              1.01          1.56
Xiaochan 165       141        92             1.17           1.79
Xinye              Whole   26800    3000         2800            8.93          9.57
Group              group
Second   3700      80         80             46.25         46.25
___ ___ ___ farm             _ _ _ _ _
Xuxian Whole                 33165    43345       26468          0.77          1.25
g      township
Hongqi     Whole   2281        2444       1323           0.93           1.72
._____      village
l_____ ________Hexing   235.5    295       173            0.80          1.36
Note: The Xinye Group is a state-owned farm, and the population in the table is the total of
cadres and workers.
The percentage means ratio of the land acquisition/total cultivated land, and
percentage of land and labor
means the cultivated land per capita in the countryside.
Labor Ages of Village Group Affected by 500 kV Sijing Substation
Table 2.3                                                                      Unit: person
Village    Quantit         Sex            Age                       Labor Force
group   House- Population Male Female <16 17-50 51-60 >60 Sub-total Farmer Worker Individuals Others
hold
Zhaojia    42      135    65   70   15  87   16  17   87          4    78        3       2
Xiaochang  44      141    70   71   17  75   14  35   92           7    76       3       6
Note: The labor for male is at age of 18-55, and for female is at age of 18-50( not including
students in school).
11



3.    Project Impact
3.1    Determination of Relocation and Resettlement Scope
Land acquisition scope for this substation project means the main substation location
only, excluding the land requisition for outgoing line. The actual location plan was
approved by the Design Unit based on the initial investigation site aligned
measurement, and defining the scope of land acquisition and removal for the project
site.
The land acquisition scope for the substation is within 1.5m outside fence of the
substation, and for access to the substation is just based on the roadbed, 1 Om wide.
3.2   Project Influences Survey
In May to June, 1998, the Preparation Division for Extra-Voltage Project of
Shanghai Power Bureau and Zhejiang Extra-High Voltage Construction Company
were entrusted by the Owner to organize the relative design units and monitoring
evaluation unit to carry out a detail inventory survey affected by Sijing Substation
and Hangdong Substation. The survey was greatly supported and cooperated by
government at all levels and relative units. The survey covers resettlement
population, land requisition, employment of affected labors, infrastructure and others,
etc. The investigation was carried out, on the basis of yearly agricultural report and
land registration, according to each section and item.
3.3   Inventory Index Impacted
By the field survey, there is no any residents and other kinds of houses within the
scope of Hangdong Substation and 500kV Sijing Substation. The inventory index
impacted includes the items such as land acquisition, relocation of the agricultural
population and infrastructure and cut off scattered trees caused by the land
acquisition.
3.3.1 Land Acquisition
The land acquisition for Sijing Substation will cover 140 mu paddy field owned by
agricultural collective, and the land acquisition will impact Xiaochang Group and
Zhaojia Group of Xiaochang Administrative Village. The land acquisition for
Hangdong Substation will cover 146.1 mu paddy field, and the land acquisition will
impact the second farm of Xinye Group and the Hexing Group of Hongqi Village in
Xuxiang Township in Haining City. See Table 3.1 for details of land acquisition for
Sijing Substation and Hangdong Substation.
12



Statistical List of Land Requisition for Substations
Table 3.1                                                              Unit: mu
Subst- Location    _Land ac uisition                                      Remark
ation   County (City) Town-  Adminis-  Villagers Sub-total Paddy field  Others
ship    trative    group
village
Sijing  Songjiang    Sijing   Xiaochang Zhaoj ia   108.0  108.0      0
county                        I                                   I
Xiaojia   32.0      32.0       0
Sub-total                                       140.0     140.0      0
Hang-  State owned Xinye Group        Second    140.8     140.8      0   State land allot
dong                                  farmr
Haining City Xuxiang Hongqi   Hexing    5.3         5.3       O   Land acquisition
township Village    group                              for access
Hto substation
Sub-total                    146.1     146.1      0
Total                      286.1     286.1      0
3.3.2  Impacted Population
Since there is no any residents and other kinds of houses within the site, the-
impacted population only means the population affected by the land acquisition. The
affected population includes those affected directly by land acquisition and agri-
population to be resettled who are calculated according to Land Administration Law
of the People's Republic of China. Based on the site investigation into the land
responsibility contracted households, a total of 189 agri-population and 138 laborers
will be directly affected by project land acquisition. The details are shown in table
3.3.
It is calculated according to Article 28 of "Land Administration Law of the People's
Republic of China", the population affected by the land acquisition is the occupied
cultivated land area divided by the average cultivated land area each person before
land requisition.
Population impacted by the land acquisition
Occupied cultivated land area
Total cultivated land area/ total agricultural population
Occupied cultivated land area
Average cultivated land area per person
The labor forces impacted by the land acquisition is the occupied cultivated land
area divided by actual agricultural labor forces.
Numbers of labor forces impacted by the land acquisition
occupied cultivated land area
total cultivated land area / total agricultural labor forces
13



Note: Cultivated land area, agricultural population and labor forces engaged in agricultural
production is on the basis of the population statistic by the end of 1997.
The computation and statistics on the basis of village groups show the agricultural
population and number of laborers to be resettled for the Sijing and Hangdong
substations as indicated in Table 3.2.
Statistics of Agri-population and Laborers to be Resettled
Table 3.2                                                    Unit: person
Project  Affected Unit                         Affected Agri-     Affected Rural
Population         Laborer
Town-    Village    Village Group
_ _ _ _ _ _   (ship)         _   _  _  _  __                      _  _  _  _  _
Sijing    Sijing   Xiaochang    Xiaochang           27                 18
Substat-   Town      Village      Zhaojia            107                69
ion                  Sub-tot-l                     134                87
Hangdong Xuxiang   IHongqi          Hexin              6                 3
Substation Township   Village
Xingye Group        No.2 farm           3                  3
Sub-total                     9                  6
Grand Total                         143                93
Statistics of PAPs and Laborers Affected directly
by Project Land Requisition
Table 3.3         -                                                Unit: person
Substa-               Affected unit               Affected agri.    Affected rural
tion                                              population          labor
Town-      Village      Village group   Househ   Pop(no.)  Pop(no.)
(ship)                                old(no.)
Sijing    Sijing      Xiaochang    Xiao-chang      13        41           26
Substat-   Town         Village
ion                                  Zhaojia       42       135           103
Sub-total                               55        176          129
Hangdong   Xuxiang   Hongqi           Hexin         4        10            6
Substation  Township  Village
Xingye Group             No.2 farmn                3            3
Sub-total                                4        13            9
Grand total                     59        189          138
14



3.3.3 Impacted infrastructure
In order to reduce the project impact and avoid the affect to infrastructure, a lot of
work has been carried out. The details of the affected infrastructures affected by
Sijing Substation are shown in Table 3.4 and there is no infrastructures affected by
Hangdong Substation.
Statistics of Affected Infrastructures for Sijing Substation
Table 3.4
iNo.       Item                 Owner           Unit Quantity    Planned reconstruction
______________________             ~m easures
I Telecommunication    Shanghai Long Distance  km       I   Rebuilt nearby
_ ptic cable        Telecommunication
____ ___ ____ ___ ___ ureau           _ _ _            _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
2   10kV    Transmission Songjiang Power Supply  km      12   Rebuilt outside the fence o
ine                 Bureau                                ;ubstation
3  380kV   Transmission Xiaochang Village        km      2.5   Rebuilt outside the fence o
line                 _ubstation
4  Broadcast line       Xiaochang Village        km      1.0   Rebuilt outside the fence of
;ubstation
5  Water    conservancy Xiaochang Village        m      3000  Rebuilt outside the fence of
_channel           ___  _                             __    ubstation
[6  [Pump station      |Xiaochang village        set      I    Rebuilt outside the fence o
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ l____________________ ._ _ _ _  ____l__   ubstarion
3.3.4. Scattered trees to be cut
For the construction of 500 kV substation by using Tianhuangping Project cost saving,
330 different trees shall be cut. See Table 3.5 for details.
Statistics of All Kinds of Trees to be Cut
Table 3.5                                                                    Unit: Each
County (city)             Total               Bamboo              Other trees
Sijing Substation                140                   0                    140
Hangdong Substation              19Q                  120                   70
Total                            330                  120                  210
3.3.5  Other Economical Index Affected
According to the calculation, the grain output for the normal year is 750kg/mu.
Affected by the project construction, 214.575 ton grain will be reduced. According
to the calculation of 400Yuan/per mu, the direct economical loss will be 114.44
thousand Yuan. See the details of Table 3.5.
15



Statistics for Grain Loss Caused by Project Construction
Table 3.5
Land acquisition unit     Land          Grain loss        Grain reduced per capita
acquisition Quantity Income reduced Quantity Income reduced
area (mu)   (kg)     (Yuan)      (kg)        (Yuan)
Xiaochang  Xiaochang group    32.0    24000       12800     170.21       90.78
village    Zhaojia group    10.8.    81000      43200     600.00       320.00
Subtotal      140.0   105000      56000       I .
Honggi village  Hexing group    5.3     3975       2120       13.47        7.19
Xinye GroupI Second farm      140.8   105600      56320      1320.00      704.00
Total              286.1   214575      114440        /           /
16



4.  FRAME OF LAWS
4.1     Policy Basis
The main laws and policies for the land acquisition and resettlement are as
following:
A. Land Administration Law of the People's Republic of China (which was
approved in the Sixteenth Meeting of the Standing Committee of the Sixth
National People' Congress in June, 1986 and revised in the Fifth Meeting of the
Standing Committee of the Seventh National People' Congress in Dec., 1988)
B. Implementation Method of Land Administration Law of the People's
Republic of China.
C. Shanghai Municipal Implementation Regulations to Land Administration Law of
The People' Republic of China.
D. Mlethods of Using Compensation of Land Requisitioned for State Construction
Projects by Overall Rationing System in Shanghai.
E. Implementation Regulations on Taxation on Requisition of Cultivated Land in
Shanghai
F. Implementation Method of Land Administration Law of Zhejiang Province
(which was approved in the Twenty-third Seminar of Standing Committee of
the Sixth Provincial People' Congress on Jan. 20, 1987 and revised in the
Eighth Seminar of Standing Committee of the Seventh Provincial People'
Congress on Mar.12, 1989)
4.2    Rules of Law
A.    Main relative specifications of "Land Administration Law of the People's
Republic of China"
Section II Land Ownership and Usage Rights
Article 6: The urban land belongs to the whole people, namely the state. Except
those belonging to the state regulated by the law, the rural land and
suburbs land are in possession of the collective ownership. The housing
plot, and private plots and hills belong to the collective ownership.
Article 8 The collective-owned land, according to the laws, are in possession of the
collective of villagers, and run and managed by the agricultural collective
economical organizations, such as cooperatives of villages, or by Village
Committees.
Article 9: The collective-owned land shall registered by the county level
Government, then the certificate issued and the land proprietary rights
approved.
17



Article 10: When the land ownership and usage rights are changed according to the
laws, the changing registration for the land ownership must be carried out
and the certificate shall be changed.
Article 12: The collective-owned lands and the state lands which are used by the
national and collective units, can be contracted by individuals or
collectives to carry out the production of farming, forestry, animal
husbandry and fishery. The contractors of the collectives or individuals
have the rights to protect and properly use the land according to the
contract terrns. The contracting and managing rights are protected by the
laws.
Section IV Land for State Construction
Article 23: When the land is requisitioned by the state construction, the construction
unit must have the Design Task Paper or other documents approved by
the State Authority and the local Government above the county level
according to the infrastructure construction process of state, and then to
apply to the Land Management Authority of the People's Government
above the county level. After approved by the People's Government
above the county level, the Land Management Authority will allot the
land. When the land is requisitioned by the state construction, the land
owned units shall be object to the requirement of the state without
rejection.
Article 24: Ownership of the collective-owned land, which is requisitioned for state
construction, belongs to the state and the land acquiring units only have
the right to use it.
Article 25: When the land within provinces and autonomous regions is requisitioned,
it shall be approved by the Peoples' Government of provinces and
autonomous regions. When the cultivated land acquisition is less than 3
mu and other type of land less than 10 mu, it shall be approved by
County Level People's Government. The approval right scope of the
people's governments of cities and autonomous regions is decided by the
Standing Committee of the Provincial and Autonomous Region People'
Congress.
Article 27: The land used for the state construction, land compensation fee shall be
paid by the land acquiring units. The compensation for cultivated lands
shall be 3 to 6 times as much as average annual output value for previous
3 yeas before the land acquisition. The compensation standard for other
kinds of land to be requisitioned shall be drawn up by each province,
autonomous region, and municipality referring the compensation
standard for cultivated land acquisition. The compensation standard for
attachments and young crops on the requisitioned land shall be specified
by every province, autonomous region, and municipality. When the
vegetable land in suburbs is requisitioned, the required units shall pay the
18



development fund for new vegetable field according to the relative
regulations of the state.
Article 28: The land used for the state construction, the land acquiring units shall pay
not only compensation fee but also resettlement subsidies. Resettlement
subsidies of requisitioned cultivated land shall be calculated according to
the agricultural population to be resettled. The agricultural population to
be resettled will be calculated in accordance with the average cultivated
land for each person before land acquisition, dividing the quantity of the
land to be requisitioned. The resettlement subsidy standard for each
farmer will be 2 to 3 times of the annual output value per mu for three
years before land acquisition. The Max. resettlement subsidy for the
cultivated land acquisition per mu shall not exceed 10 times of the
average output value per mu for 3 years before the land acquisition. The
resettlement subsidy standard for the other type of land acquisition shall
be specified by each province, autonomous region, and municipality
referring the subsidies standard for the cultivated land acquisition.
Article 29: Land compensation and resettlement subsidies will be paid on the base of
Art. 27 and 28 in the Land Law. With the approval of the peoples'
governments of provinces, autonomous region, and municipality, the
resettlement subsidies can be increased in case that the living standard of
the resettler can not keep the original level. But total amount of the land
compensation and resettlement subsidies shall not exceed 20 times of the
average output value per mu for 3 years before the land acquisition.
Article 30: Various compensations and the resettlement subsidies due to the land
acquisition for the state construction, and the subsidies for the developing
production by the land requisitioned units and arranging surplus labors
and the living subsidy for unemployees caused by land acquisition shall
not be used for other purpose nor owned by any units and individuals,
except that paid for compensation for individual attachment and young
crops.
Article 31: The surplus labors caused by the land acquisition for the state
construction shall be arranged through the way of developing farming
and side-line production and setting up the village and town enterprises
by the Land Management Authority of Local People's Government above
the county level with the land requisitioned units, the land using units and
relative units. The rest who meet the requirements of the land using units
shall be assigned to the land using units, or other collective ownership
units and state ownership units, and then the corresponding subsidies will
be allotted to those units.
If the whole land is requisitioned, the original agricultural residents
registration can be changed into non-agricultural residents registration by
the approval of the People's Governments of province, autonomous
region and municipality. The original collective-owned property,
19



compensation and resettlement subsidies will be treated through the
People's Government above county level consulting with the relative
townships and villages, which is used only for organizing production and
for unemployees living subsidy, and shall not be carved up.
Article 33: The construction of the project requires stockpile, accessway, and other
temporary facilities, which shall be arranged within the acquired land as
possible. Additional temporarily required land will be applied by the
project organization to the unit approving the use of land in terms of the
amount and period. Upon approval, agreement of temporary land use
with agricultural collective economic organizations shall be signed.
Compensation for land use shall be made based on the average output of
the land over the past three years. No permanent structures shall be built
over the temporarily used land. The project organization shall reinstate
the cultivation conditions of the land and return in time upon expiration.
Article 34: Any state-owned uncultivated land required by state construction and
state-owned land used by other organization shall be allocated according
to procedure for land acquisition for state construction and by approving
right. Free allocation will be made to use of state-owned uncultivated
land. For the use of state-owned land belonging to other units, any
resulting lose shall be compensated by the project organization for the
original units. The project organization shall also be responsible for
relocation of original units.
Section V Land Acquisition for Township(Town) and Village Construction
Article 38: The new houses for agricultural residents shall be built on the existing
housing plot and the spare area in villages. If the cultivated land is used
for housing, it shall be examined and verified by Township People's
Government and then approved by the County People's Government. The
land of new houses for the agricultural residents shall be not over the
standards  specified  by  the  provinces, autonomous  region, and
municipality.
B.       Main stipulations of Shanghai Municipal Implementation Regulations to Land
Administration Law of The People' Republic of China.
CHAPTER II   OWNERSHIP AND USE RIGHT OF LAND
Clause 10 Change of the ownership of collective- and state-owned land, change the use
right of the collective-owned land or change of the use of the land shall be
applied to the local city, district or county land administration for approval;
formalities for change of land registration shall be gone through after such
change is approved by the people's government of the same level.
Clause 12 The land with its use right having been legally granted to organizations and
individuals shall be surveyed and set with property line by the local city, county
or county land administrations.
20



CHAPTER V LAND FOR CAPITAL CONSTRUCTION
Clause 38 The land for economic, cultural and military construction and building social and
public infrastructures by the State shall be properly arranged according to the
city planning. After approved by the local city and county government, the
collective-owned land can then be requisitioned or the state-owned land can be
allocated for such purpose.
The land for town(ship) and village construction shall follow the approved
town(ship) and village construction plans. After approved by the local city,
district or county government, the collective-owned land can be legally
requisitioned for this purpose.
All organizations and individuals shall be subject to the legal requisition of the
collective-owned land and legal allocation of the state-owned land, and shall not
obstruct it.
Clause 46 For the approved construction land, the local city or county land administration
shall issue the construction land use permission. The user of the land shall use
the land according to scope, quantity and purpose stipulated in the permission.
The land user shall apply to the local city or county land administration within
thirty (30) days after completion of the construction, and the land administration
shall issue the land use certificate after the land is verified to be in conformity to
those as specified in the permission.
Clause 47 The land user shall bear the compensation to land, standing crops, standing and
underground structures and appendages, resettlement subsidies, tax on
occupation of cultivated land, fund for new vegetable plot, land re-cultivation
fund as well as other expenditures as specified by the state and Shanghai
Municipality.
The overall rationing system may be adopted for requisition of the collective-
owned land.
Clause 48 In the case that requisition or use of the collective-owned land where farmers'
housing shall be relocated, the review and approval of construction land shall at
the same time cover the land for new housing for the resettlers.
The user of allocated state land and requisitioned collective-owned land for
construction land shall properly resettle and compensate the original land users
who need the resettlement and compensation.
Clause 49 In the case of requisitioning and using collective-owned land, the city, district or
county government shall organize relevant departments, together with the unit
whose land is to be requisitioned and the user of the land, to arrange in a
diversified way jobs for the laborers and the retired according to relevant
stipulations.
21



The agricultural residential status of those laborers to be job arranged and those
retired shall be changed into non-agricultural residential status.
The resettlers with agricultural residential status whose collective economic
organization will no longer exist due to land requisition may change residential
status into non-agricultural.
Clause 50 The various compensation and resettlement subsidy for requisition and use of
- collective land, except those for the standing structures, appendages and standing
crops belonging to individuals which shall be paid to the individuals, shall be
paid to the collective for production development and subsistence allowance of
the remaining agricultural population.
Clause 51 For temporary land requisition, application for requisition shall be submitted to
the local district and county land administration. the land shall not be used until
the application is approved and proper compensation shall be paid to the original
land users.
The term of temporary land use shall not exceed two years. Permanent or semi-
permanent buildings or structures shall not be constructed on the temporarily
requisitioned land. At the end of the temporary land requisition tern, the land
shall be restored to its original status upon return of the land.
C.       Main stipulations of Methods of Using Compensation of Land Requisitioned for
State Construction Projects by Overall Rationing System in Shanghai.
Clause 3  Land requisition for state construction projects shall be organized and directed
by Shanghai Municipal Land Administration (referred to as the city land bureau
below), the county governments shall assume the responsibility and the land
compensation shall be used under an overall rationing system.
Clause 4  After the land requisition is approved, the user of the requisitioned land shall
proceed with formalities in the Land Requisition Department of the city land
bureau (referred to as land requisition department below) for signing an
agreement on land compensation.
The land requisition department shall request the county land administration to
provide relevant data such as land area, standing and underground structures, etc.
After the user of the requisitioned land reviews the data, an agreement on land
compensation under overall rationing system will be signed by the county land
bureau and the land user, by which the right and obligation of the two sides shall
be established in terms of amount of land compensation, payment schedule, land
delivery time table and liquidated damages.
The agreement on land compensation under overall rationing system shall be
stamped with the seal of and implemented under supervision of the land
requisition department.
The user of the requisitioned land shall not directly and personally consult the
22



land requisition issue with the original land user.
Clause 5  The land compensation under overall rationing system includes compensation to
land, standing crops, ground and underground structures, resettlement subsidy,
fund for new vegetable plots, overhead for land requisition, and contingency, as
well as other expenditures specified by the state and Shanghai Municipal
government.
Clause 6  The compensation criteria shall be based on the Land Administration Law and
various criteria specified by the Municipal government. The county land
administration shall decide the actual rates -under overall rationing system with
consideration of type of requisitioned land, population, working force situation,
standing and underground structures, and shall not randomly enlarge the scope of
compensation and increasing the criteria.
Clause 7  The county land administrations shall organize consultation between the unit
whose land will be requisitioned, the user of the requisitioned land, labor
department and other relevant departments to properly arrange job, production
and living for the surplus laborers due to state construction land requisition and
the workers and staff of the affected organizations; job vacancy shall be
preferably given to those qualified, and corresponding resettlement subsidy shall
be transferred to the units that employ the surplus laborers.
Clause 8  The specific overhead of land requisition for each piece of land to be
requisitioned shall be checked and finally decided by the city land bureau.
Clause 9  For those issues unexpected at the time of calculating the compensation, the
compensation under oveiall rationing system shall include the contingency. The
contingency shall be based on the total sum of compensation to land, ground and
underground structures and resettlement subsidy and the contingency rate shall
not exceed 2% of the sum. The specific contingency rate for each piece of land
shall be proposed after consultation between county the land administration and
the land user, and reported to the city land bureau for approval. Once the
agreement is signed, it shall be executed no matter who will be benefited from
the result of the agreement.
D.       Implementation Regulations on Taxation on Requisition of Cultivated Land in
Shanghai
Clause 2  The cultivated land herein means the land used for planting crops.
The land which has been used for planting crops in the previous successive years
is also regarded as cultivated land.
Clause 3  The organizations and individuals who occupy cultivated land for building
housing or for other non-agricultural construction are all obligors of paying tax
on cultivated land occupation (hereinafter referred to as tax bearer), and shall
pay the cultivated land occupation tax according to this Implementation
Regulations.
23



Clause 4  The rate of the cultivated land occupation tax shall be calculated on the basis of
the actual land size occupied and levied at one time according the specified tax
rate.
Clause 5  The tax rates for cultivated land occupation are fixed at four (4) Yuan / m2 in the
five counties, they are Nanhui, Songjiang, Jingshan, Qingpu and Fengxian.
Clause 6  The tax bearer shall pay the cultivated land occupation tax at the time when the
land administration approves the case.
Clause 7  The land administration shall timely inform the units or individuals who have
been approved to occupy cultivated land but have not paid the tax due to any
reason, to pay the cultivated land occupation tax in thirty (30) days after
receiving of the notice. Delay in paying the tax shall cause payment of overdue
at the rate of 5 %oof the tax due counted from the date of delay.
E.        Specifications of Implementation Method of Land Administration
Law of Zhejiang Province
Section II Use and Protection of Land
Article 20: The state construction units, township(town) and village collective
enterprise, joint venture, individual enterprise and house construction of
individuals who occupy farmland shall pay the land-built fee according to
the relative rules.
The land-built fee is used mainly for reclamation of cultivated land,
orchards, and transform low-output field. It shall be not used for other
purpose.
Section III Land for State Construction
Article 23: The land requisitioned unit shall pay land compensation fee, attachments
and young crops fees.
(1)       Land compensation fee: The compensation for land(in outskirts of city)
shall be 5-6 times of the average output value for three years before land
acquisition, and 4-5 times for land at other places. For the non-cultivated
land, the compensation shall be not over half of standard for cultivated
land.
(2)       Compensation for young crops: The compensation for young crops
generally shall be calculated according to the one crop output value for
agricultural crops. No compensation will be paid if no young crops in
land or, young crops planted after land acquisition.
(3)       Compensation for attachments: The trees, buildings and structures on
land requisitioned shall be compensated or relocated. The compensation
standard shall be determined by city, county people's government. No
compensation will be paid for those trees and structures planted or built
24



by a rush way during the period of negotiation for land acquisition.
Article 24: Except the land compensation fee, the land requisitioned unit shall pay
resettlement subsidies.
The number of person for resettlement subsidy shall be calculated with
average land area and land to be requisitioned. The standard of
resettlement subsidy per agricultural person shall be 2-3 times of the
average output value per mu for three years before land acquisition. But
the max. shall not exceed 10 times of the average output value per mu for
3 years before the land acquisition.
For the non-cultivated land, the resettlement subsidy shall be not over
half of standard for cultivated land.
Article 25: When the compensation and resettlement subsidies are paid on the basis
of Article 23 and 24, and in case that the living standard of the resettler
can not keep the original level, the resettlement subsidies can be
increased by the approval of the provincial land management department.
But total amount of the land compensation and resettlement subsidies
shall not exceed 20 times of the average output value per mu for 3 years
before the land acquisition.
Article 26: The compensations and the resettlement subsidies due to the land
acquisition shall be used by the land requisitioned units for developing
production, arranging surplus labors and the living subsidy for
unemployees caused by land acquisition, and shall not be used for other
purpose nor owned by any units and individuals.
It shall be paid for individual attachments and young crops.
Article 27: The excessive labors caused by the land acquisition for the state
construction shall be arranged through the way of developing farming
and side-line production and setting up the village and town enterprises,
and service trades by the Land Management Authority of Local People's
Government above the county level with the land requisitioned units. If it
is still difficult to arrange, the Labor Authority of county level shall
consult with the land using units to employ them. The number of person
for employment shall. be calculated with average land area and land to
be requisitioned.
25



5.     Plan for Resettlement And Production Restoration
5.1    Production Restoration Plan
5.1.1   Sijing Substation
A.    Influences
Analyses from the local social and economical status recognized that:
(I)  For Sijing Substation, based on the plan, about 140 mu cultivated land was
requisitioned from the administrative Xiaochang village of Sijing Town (among
which, 108 mu requisitioned from the Zhaojia Group and 32 mu from
XiaochangGroup). The acquisition land is occupied 13.96% in the existing
cultivated land of the whole village (the proportion in each group is: Zhaojia
Group 79.41%  and Xiaochang    Group 19.39%). After requisition, the
cultivated land per capita in Zhaojia Group was reduced from 1.01 mu to 0.21
mu, and cultivated land per capita in Xiaochang Group reduced from 1.17 mu
to 0.94 mu respectively.
(2)  At the present, local economy development has not been depended upon the
agriculture. The proportion of agricultural income in total economic incomes
only occupied 2.8% in Sijing Town and 15.5% in Xiaochang administrative
village. Calculation based on the agricultural income of the average level of the
Xiaochang administrative village in 1997, the annual losses is about 244000 Y
from the total agricultural income in whole village, which occupied 13.96% of
the agricultural income and 2.17% in total economic incomes in 1997.
Calculation based on 750 kg/mu in normal year, the grains yield reduced lOSt
in Xiaochang administrative village influenced by the project construction. The
grains yield per capita reduced from 787 kg/person before acquisition to 707
kg/person in Xiaochang group, and reduced from 755 kg/person before
acquisition to 155 kg/person in Zhaojia group. The grains yield per capita in
whole village reduced from 839 kg/person before acquisition to 721 kg/person.
The status was varied from self-sufficient before land acquisition to insufficient
in grain seeds and provisions, therefore, the influences is rather great on the
Zhaojia Group.
(3) Based on the above calculation, the analysis shows that the influence on
agricultural income is rather great by the land acquisition in Xiaochang
administrative village, but it is small on total economy income of the village.
Though the influence is rather great on grains yield per capita by the land
acquisition in Zhaojia Group, it is small on total grain yield in whole village.
Additionally, the local laborers are usually employed in the rural enterprises
and these enterprises supply a lot of employment opportunities for local
laborers and make a solid guarantees for their income restoration.
B.  Restoration Measures
After land acquisition for Sijing Substation, influence will be directly on the
means of production of 176 agricultural persons and 129 rural laborers.
According to the land law, a total of 87 rural laborers need to be rearranged for
production after land requisition. After making a thorough investigation and
analyses by the Sijing Town Government, Village Committee and Party Branch
26



of Xiaochang village, the following plan for labor force arrangement was
initially submitted:
(1) Changing the resident registration status for the laborers affected by the land
requisition. According to the relevant regulations of the Shanghai Municipal
Government, 87 affected laborers can be granted to change their agricultural
resident status into non-agricultural resident status. Located in the suburban area
of Shanghai city, Sijing Town is well developed in economy, with 100-plus town-
run enterprises having a total employees over 20000, and the local people enjoy a
rather high living standards. Most of the laborers are working all the year round,
working in farm land during busy period of farm work and in the town-run
enterprises in other time of the year. According to this situation, the Sijing Town
Government decides to select 87 rural laborers from the affected Xiaochang
Group and Zhaojia Group who have been working the town-run key enterprises,
and to change their agricultural resident status into non-agricultural status. After
change of their resident status, these laborers will receive the subsidies from the
government and the social endowment insurance same as those town dwellers.
The details are shown in Attachment 1.
According to the statistics, the 87 laborers to be changed into non-agricultural
resident status will be arrange in ten town-run enterprises, 32 laborers in the
chemical factory, 19 in the textile machinery factory, 17 in the Dazhonghua
rubber factory and the remaining 8 in other enterprises. It is informed by the
local cadres that the above mentioned ten enterprises are all the key enterprises
in the town, which were established early and have wide prospect in
development and good market. At present, these enterprises have 4500-odd
employees, accounting to more than 20% of the total laborers of the town; the
average wage of the employees is about 10000 RMB Yuan, which is more than
the average wage of the town. The enterprises which accept the resettled
labourers can get allowance of 40000 Yuan per resettled labourer.
(2) Land adjustment. According to the introduction by the director of Xiaochang
Village, the village has 1703 mu cultivated land, all of which are paddy field.
Beside 1003 mu which have been contracted to the villagers, the remaining 700
mu are the reserved field planted by two collective farms, (500 mu run by the
town-run farm and 200 mu by village-run farm). After land requisition, the
cultivated land holding per capita will be reduced, particularly that of Zhaojia
Group (reduced to 0.21 mu). Therefore, it is decided by the Xiaochang Village
Committee to allocate 60 mu cultivated land from the village-run farm to
Zhaojia Group so as to make the per capita cultivated land of the group reach its
previous standard. The details of the adjustment plan and the land variations
show in the Table 5.1.
27



Land Adjustment Plan after Land Acquisition for Sijing Substation
Table 5.1
Description                       Unit  Xiaochang group    Zhaojia group
1. Total agricultural population
before change of resident status  peso  141             135
after change of resident status    penon  103           84
2. Total cultivated land               I
before land requisition       mu   165                  136
after land requisition        mu   133                  28
after land adjustment         mu   133                  88
3. Per capita cultivated land holding
before land requisition       mu/pe  1.17                1.01
rson    I
after land requisition        mu/pe 0.94                0.21
rso n __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
after land adjustment & change   mu/pe  1.29             1.05
of resident status            rson
As seen from Table 5.1, after land adjustment and change the resident status, the
per capita cultivated land holding of the agricultural population of Xiaochang
Group will be 1.29 mu and that of Zhaojia Group 1.05 mu, both of which are a
little more than that before land requisition.
(3)   After land requisition and adjustment, Xiaochang Group will have a total
cultivated land of 133 mu and Zhaojian Group have 88 mu. Since some of the
rural laborers will change their resident status, the actual number of laborers in
the two village groups will respectively change. Therefore, it is decided by the
Xiaochang Village Committee to adjust the contracted land within the groups, so
as to guarantee the laborers who remain in farm work to obtain sufficient means
of production.
C.   Use of Compensation
According to the Land Administration Law of the state and the relevant
regulations of the Shanghai Municipal Government, after land requisition,
except the development fee for vegetable base, subsidies for price difference of
grain and oil, cultivated land occupation fee, overhead for management of
requisitioned land, and overhead for resettlement management, the other
compensation should be paied to the affected village group and the PAPs. The
use of the compensation is detailed as follows.
(1)   Land compensation. This compensation fee belong to the collective of
Xiaochang Village. After land requisition, the Xiaochang Village will receive
1232000 Yuan as land compensation. The village has decided to save the amount
under the Standing Crop Fund of the town, and will withdraw the yearly interest
of the money and distribute the agricultural persons (after land requisition) of
Xiaochang and Zhaojia groups on the per capita base. In the case that this fund is
to be used by the village group for village infrastructure, the case will be subject
to approval of the village committee and the villager representative conference
and then reported to the town government.
28



(2)   Compensation of standing crops. This compensation will be paid to the
households whose land is requisitioned. After land requisition, 62 households
wvill be directly affected, they will receive the compensation of standing crops,
1600 mu/Yuan.
(3) Compensation of farming facilities. This amount of compensation will belong to the
collective of Xiaochang Village, and will be used for construction of irrigation
facilities after approved by the village committee and villager representative
conference and reported to the town government.
(4) Compensation for endowment. According to the relevant regulations of Shanghai
Municipal Government , each laborer who has been changed from agricultural
resident status into non-agricultural one will receive an amount of compenLation for
endowment, (75939.84 Yuan for male and 100857.60 Yuan for female). After such
laborer reaches the age of retirement (male at age of 60 and female at age of 55; if
requested by himself or herself, the retirement age can be a little early, 55 for male
and 45 for female,) this money will be used to support their living (including
subsistence and medical care. Before such laborer reaches the age of retirement, the
compensation for his/her endowment will be deposited in his/her name in the
Endowment Fund of Sijing Town. When the retirement age is reached or is
advanced as requested, the Sijing Town Government will be responsible to transfer
the amount under his/her name to the relevant endowment management department
and the latter will pay the monthly pension of 311 Yuan to him/her.
(5) The labourers are resettled in enterprises who has been transferr.ed- their rural
residence status to non-rural status. This amount of compensation will be managed
by Sijing Town Government. The government will dispatch 250 Yuan/month (food
and traffic allowance etc) to each of such laborers, and also they have the same
treatment with town resident
(6)Laid-off insurance.  This amount of money will be owned by each laborer who has
changed into non-agricultural resident status, and the Sijing Town Government is
responsible to buy laid-off insurance by using this money in the name of each
laborer, so as to ensure his/her subsistence before retirement. In the case that the
laborer is laid off (within 24 months) due to the reasons of the enterprises, the
laborer will enjoy the laid-off insurance, including laid-off allowance and medical
subsidy, job training and job-finding.
5.1.2. Hangdong Substation
Land occupation for Hangdong Substation is divided two kinds, i.e. land
requisitioned from collective or allocated by the State. The land 140.8 mu was
transferred from No. 2 Farm Branch of Xingye Agricultural Developed Group Corp.
which belongs to the State Ownership. The land transferred only occupied 3.8% in
existing cultivated land of the No. 2 Farm Branch and only occupied 0.53% in the
Entire Group. The influences on entire Group is very small. The road occupation is
5.3 mu only which is occupied 2.3% of the cultivated land in Hexin Group,
therefore, it will not impact on provisions and the farming seeds.
29



Analyses of the Influences on Agricultural Production
by the Land Acquisition for Hangdong Substation
Table 5.2
Land requisitioned Unit Total  Land Occupi efore land acquisition  fter land requisition
Cultivate cquisit  ed
d Land   ion   Ratio
(mu)  (mu)  (%)
Town Admini Village                        cultivated  Ratio of land cultivated Ratio of land &
strative Group                        land per  & labor force  land per  labor force
Vi l lage                              capita   (mudperson)   capita   (mu/person)
(mu/person)        (mu/person)
Qiaosi  State Whole   26800  140.8  0.53      8.93      9.57      8.89       9.52
Farm        Farm                                            .
_ ___ No.2      3700   140.8  3.8    46.25       46.25     44.49      44.49
Xuxia Hongqi Whole   2281    5.3   0.23       0.93      1.72      0.93       1.72
ng          Village
HIexin    235.5   5.3   2.3      0.80       1.36      0.78      1.33
Remark: The proportion in this table means the ratio of the cultivated land requisitioned in the
total cultivated land. The proportion between land and labor force means the
culvitaged land per capita in the village.;
In views of the two cases above mentioned, the following resettlement
measures were adopted in this Plan:
A.   Xingye Group
State Xingye Group is composed of eight (8) productive village group. Each
farm branch has a certain indexes for productive output and productive values,
the staff incomes will be linked by the task completion. Pertinent to the issues
for land acquisition and production restoration, after fully consultation between
Xingye Group Co. and Zhejiang Extra-High Voltage Construction Company,
the following measures will be adopted for resettlement and restoration after
land requisitioned:
1.  Within the entire Group, the staff will be adjusted again. For three surplus
persons of the No. 2 Farm Branch will be rearranged to other productive
department distributed in a unified way by the Group.
2.  Based on the proportion of the land requisition, the productive indexes for No.
2 Farm Branch will be reduced so that the persons impacted by the land
acquisition can still keep their income and living levels.
3.  In order to reduce the influences on production for Xingye Group by the land
transferring, the former 35 kV substation will be reconstructed into 110 kV
substation which will be in charged by the Zhejiang Zhejiang Extra-High
Voltage Construction Company The project will not acquisition the new land.
Total investment for this item will be 4.4 million RMBY which will be listed in
the total cost estimation of the project.
30



B.   Hongqi  Village
As less land requisitioned for entering access of the substation, so influence on
local productive activities by the land acquisition is very small. After fully
consultation with the Hongqi Village of Xuexiang Town, the following
measures were adopted for production restoration:
I  The contracted cultivated land will be adjusted within the whole village, thus,
the persons whose cultivated land was lost can continuously engage in
agricultural production.
2.  The land compensation fees and resettlement subsidies will be distributed in a
unified way by the Village Committee. After discussion by the village
representative conference, the compensation fees will be put into other utilities,
such as collective welfare services, farming water conservancy and
communications, and the farmland modification, etc.. so that the local people
can increase their living and production level.
5.2.   Restoration Plan of Infrastructures
Based on the plan, the "4201"telecommunication cable ith Grade-I, will be
removed for the project of 500 kV Sijing Substation. By the consultation
between Shanghai Long-distance Telecommunications Bureau and Preparation
Division for Extra-voltage Project of Shanghai Power Biureau, it was decided
to rebuild another telecommunication line by the Shanghai Long-distance
Telecommunications Bureau, a sum of compensation fee in 5 million RMB will
be paid by Preparation Division for Extra-voltage Project of Shanghai Power
Biureau to Telecommunication Bureau.
The other infrastructures facilities such as the electricity, broadcasting, farming
water conservancy etc. also will be rebuilt along with the outside of the
substation by the each enterprise concerned. The relative expenditures will be
listed in the total cost estimation of the project and will be directly paid by the
resettlement office.
5.3    Plan Implementation
5.3.1  Implementation Procedure
A   Land Acquisition and its Compensation
The land acquisition and its compensation will be under the coordination with
relative organizations, the typical procedures refer to as followings:
(1) The East China Investigation and Design Institute or the Zhejiang Provincial
Electric Power Design Institute is in charges of the preparation of the applicable
drawings for permission of the land acquisition. On these drawings shall be defined
the scales and areas of the land acquisition and houses removal;
(2) The resettlement office will apply for planning license and red-line map to
planning departments, and apply for approval to land administration bureau;
31



(3) Application for approval;
(4) All matters concemed about land  acquisition, compensation, signing the
compensation agreement for land acquisition and conducted the land utilization
will be charged by project resettlement office consultation with the relative
departments;
(5) The acquisition range and areas shall be defined by the special staff designated to
the site by land administration in each relative county or town and villages;
(6) The project resettlement office will sign the "Land Acquisition Agreement"
with each relative departments;
(7) Allocation of the compensation fees;
(8) Legal formalities
(9) Project land acquisition
B     Production Resettlement and Restoration
The typical matters for production resettlement and restoration shall be
implemented by the village committee, the procedures is as followings:
(1)  holding the villagers' representatives conference, to study and compile the land
adjustment measures and the overall plan for production restoration.
(2)  issue the overall plan for land adjustment and production restoration and collect
the opinions from the whole villagers.
(3)  land adjustment
(4)  disoussed the labor force arrangement plan with the department of the labor
force arrangement and sign the contract for "Labor Force Arrangement
Agreement" or compile the special plan for production restoration and labor
force arrangement plan;
(5)  issued the plan for labor force arrangement and the name list to adopt the
supervision by the villagers.
5.3.2   Schedule
A. Schedule Control
Based on requirements of the operation guideline of the World Bank and the
actual construction circumstances, the schedule for land acquisition and
removal will be controlled as the following principles:
1. Prior to the construction of the transmission project, the land acquisition shall
be completed;
2. The land adjustment shall be completed between the interval of crops changes;
32



3.  Prior to land requisition, the arrangement for labor force shall be completed.
4.  Infrastructures shall be completed before the construction of the transmission
project
B.  Schedule Arrangement
Based on the principles above mentioned, the primary schedule for project land
acquisition and removal shows in the Table 5.3.
Schedule for Land Acquisition and Remoal
Table 5.3
Sijing Substation    Hangdong
No.     Prc,zzt Item    _                  Substation              Remarks
I  Substation site review   1997/8          1998/5
2   Impacted   objective 1997/8-1998/5  1998/5-1998/6  Project survey & analyses
ascertained
3   Consultation   an  1998/1 --1998/7  1998/6-'1998n7  Sign agreement after obtaining th
agreement                                          uniformity
4   compensation    fee 19987- 1998/8  1998/7-1998/8  Transfer to relative departmen
transferring                                       based on state stipulation
5   Labor         forc  1998/7-1998/9  1998/7-1998/9  To be charged by the local
arrangement                                        government
6   Land adjustment         1998/10         1998/10    Perfonned   by  the   villag
___________________  ________________               com m ittee
7   Infrastructures     1998/7- 1998/9                 Restored by the impacted units
restoration plan
8   Land acquisition        1998/9          1998/9     Be in charged by the resettlemen
FT_    _ _ _ _ __ _ _  _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ office
5.3.3   Fund Transferring Plan
All costs relative with the acquisition and removal will be listed in the general
estimate for 500 kV substation project using Tianhuangping saving. The
compensation fees for acquisition and removal and other expenditures shall be
paid by the Owner to relative enterprises and individuals transferring by the
project office.
A.  Funds allocation principle
(1) The other compensation fees for land acquisition and other facilities shall be
paid three months before the acquisition;
(2) In order to guarantee that implementation of the removal and resettlement can be
carried smoothly, the financial and supervision departments shall be established
in different levels by the project office thus to make sure all funds can be timely
allocated.
B. Funds flowing procedures
According to relative policies and standards stipulated in resettlement plan, the
33



project resettlement office shall sign a land compensation agreement with the
relative towTnship (town) and village committee, and a land transferring
agreement with the state Xingye Group Corp.. In accordance with the contents,
quantities and time stipulated in the land compensation agreement, the land
compensation fee and resettlement subsidiaries shall be transferred through the
bank to township (town) government and the Xinye Group Corp., then through
township (town) government transferred to the villager committee or villager
groups. The compensation for green shoots will be first transferred to the
villager committee, then through them transferred to the land contractors.  The
other funds will be paid to the relative departments above county level by the
the project resettlement office.
The funds flowing procedures shows as the followings:
Flowing Chart of the Project Compensation Fund
Table 5.4
Substa-          Items              Payer        Payee              Remarks
tion
Sijing   Land compensation fee    Resettlement Xiaochangcun Paid to village committee by
substa-                         Office       Village       the town government
tion                                .
Development  fund   for Resettlement County  Land
vegetable field         Office       Bureau
Subsidies for young crops  Resettlement Resettlers  Paid to resettlers by the town
Office                    government
Subsidies for grain and oil Resettlement County  Land
price difference        Office       Bureau
Tax for Land Occupation   Resettlement County
Office       Government
Compensation  fees  for Resettlement Xiaochangcun Paid to village committee by
farming facilities      Office       Village       the town government
Overhead charge for land Resettlement County  Land
requisition             Office       Bureau
Old-age pension         Resettlement Sijing   Town
Office       Government
Resettlement Allowance   Resettlement Sijing   Town
Office       Government
Overhead   charge   for Resettlement Sijing   Town
resettlement            Office       Government
Unemployment  Insurance Resettlement Sijing   Town
founs                   Office       Government
Compensation  fees  for Resettlement Units impacted To Xiaochangcun village by
infrastructures removal and Office                 town government
reconstruction          I _I
Subsidy  for fragmentary Resettlement Resettlers   To resettlers by the town or
commercial woods        Office                     village
34



(To be continued)
HanQdo Land compensation fees   Resettlement Hongqi         To village committee by the
ng                               Office       Village       town government
Substa-
tion
Resettlement Allowance   Resettlement Xongqicun    To    Xongqicun    Village
Office       Village    and committee     by     town
Xingye Group government
Subsidies for young crops  Resettlement Resettlers  Paid to resettlers by the town
Office                     and villaoes
Development  fund   for Resettlement County  Land
vegetable field          Office       Bureau
Funds for farmland making Resettlement County  Land
Office       Bureau
Cultivated          land Resettlement County  Land
maintenance fund         Office       Bureau
Tax for Land Occupation   Resettlement County
Office       Government
Grain fund               Resettlement County
Office       Government
Utilization    cost   for Resettlement County  Land
collective land          Office       Bureau
Allowance  for  attached Resettlement County  Land
facilities               Office       Bureau
Land overhead charge & Resettlement County  Land
contingency cost         Office       Bureau
Compensation for scattered Resettlement Resettlers  Paid to resettlers by the town
trees                    Office                     and village
C.   Departments Responsible for Resettlement Finances
(1)   The resettlement office, government of township (town) and villager committees
will be the departments in charges of finances in different for land acquisition
compensations, .
(2)   In order to guarantee compensation fees be timely allocated and be proper used, the
resettlement compensation fees shall be allocated from higher level to lower level;
correspondingly, each department shall implement the strictly stipulations in
finance accounting and audit system. The utilization and payment status of
compensation fees shall be periodically checked and reported, adjustment plan and
remedial measures for unexpected event shall be worked out.
35



6. Estimation and Budget for Compensation Costs
6.1    Compensation Principles
(1) Land compensation fees and resettlement subsidy shall be implemented strictly
according to the local policies and the stipulations in "Law of the Land
Administration" respectively issued by the State, Shanghai Municipality and
Zhejiang Province.
(2)  The compensation fees for restoration will be determined based on the
actual requirements of the infrastructures and other facilities.
6.2    Compensation Standards
A. Basic Costs
(1)  Land compensation fees
Based on State "Law of the Land Administration", the project
construction occupation can be divided two types: i.e. land requisitioned
from rural collective or transferred by the State. Correspondingly, the
compensation method and standards are also different. The demonstration
will be separately carried out from two different respects that is
compensation standards for land requisitioned from rural collective and
for land transferred from the State.
-- Compensatioin Standard for land requisitioned from rural collective
During the procedure for preparation of the Action Plan, the resettlement
office and relative design institute were carried out the series survey and
research for the compensation policies and standards of the land
requisition and removal, also extensive consultations were carried out
with the local governments in different level and relative departments.
The compensation standards for land requisition and removal have a
slight difference as the different regions in the current stage. The details
of the compensation standards for land requisitioned from rural collective
for Sijing and Hangdond Substations refer to the Table 6.1 and Table 6.2.
36



Compensation Standard of Land Requisition
for Project of 500 kV Sijing Substation
Table 6.1
No.  Compensation Items   Unit  Standard                  Remarks
A  Land Acquisition Costs  Y/mu   41672.80
I  Land compensation fees  Y/mu     8800
2  Development funds fo  Y/mu    18000
new vegetable field    _
3  Subsidies  for  young Y/mu        1600
____ crops
4  Subsidies for grain and Y/mu      2500
oi_ price difference
5  Tax for land occupation   Y/mu    6670
6  Compensation  fees for Y/mu       2500
farming facilities
7  Overhead charge for land Y/mu   1602.80  Occupied about 4% in item I to 6
requisition           _
B  Labors Rearrangement
1  Pension      Male      Y/per.  75939.84  Accounting based on 50%  in total
impacted labors
Female    Y/per.  100857.60   ccounting based on 50%  in total
impacted labors
2  Resettlement allowance  Y/per.   40000
3  Resettlement  overhead Y/per.    5514
c-sarges 
4  IJnemployment insuranc Y/per.    1000
If ouns
37



Compensation Standard of Land Requisition
for Project of 500 kV Hangdong Substation
Table 6.2
No.  Compensation Items  Unit  Standard                  Remarks
I  Land    compensation  Y/mu    7200    The yearly productive value usually is
fees                                   between 1000 - 1200 Y/mu for loca
farmland.     Calculating      fo
compensation in this budget is 6 time
based on the max. yearly productiv
._____  __ _ _ __value  1200 Y/mu
2   Resettlement Allowance Y/mu    9600    1200Y/mu X 8 times
3   Subsidies  for  younc Y/mu    600
props
4   Development fund for Y/mu   20000
enw vegetable field                       _
5   Founds  for  farmland Y/mu   10000
making
6   Cultivated       land Y/mu   20000
==___ =maintenance funds               _
7    as for land occupation Y/mu    2667
8   Grain fund            Y/mu    3000
9   Utilization   cost  for Y/mu    133
l____ collective land
10  Allowance for attached Y/mu    2800
facilities                 I
I I   and overhead charge Y/mu    5856    About 8% of the total in items from I
_ & contingency cost                   to 10
Total                Y/mu   79056
--   Compensation standard for State land transferring
According to Article 34 in the "Law of the Land Administration" issued
by the State, the state land only can be allocated for national construction
project after obtained the approval based on the land acquisition
procedures and the approval right scope. If those state land has been used
by other enterprise, the construction unit shall pay certain compensation
fees to original enterprise for their lost. Since site of the Hangdong
Substation belongs to state land which now used by a state-owned
enterprise, Xingye Group, after consultation with Zhejiang Extra-High
Voltage Construction Company, the compensation was determined as
71280yuan per mu.
38



Compensation Standard of State Land Transferring
for Project of 500 kV Hangdong Substation
Table 6.3
No.    Compensation Items    Unit  Standard                    Remarks
I  Resettlement Allowance     Y/mu    9600   1200Y/mu X 8 times
2  Subsidies for young crops   Y/mu     600
3  Development fund for new Y/mu    20000
vesgetable field
4  Funds for farmland making  Y/mu    10000
5  Cultivated            land Y/mu    20000
maintenance fund
6  Tax for land occupation    Y/mu    2667
7  Grain fund                 Y/mu    3000
8  Utilization    cost    fo  Y/mu       133
collective land
9  Allowance  for  attached Y/mu    2800
facilities
10  Land overhead charge &  Y/mu    5280    About 8% of the total in items from
contingency cost                             I to 10
Total                     YImu    71280
-Temporary Land Requisition for Construction
Usually, the temporary land requisition for construction was arranged at the
scope within the substation site, thus no other temporary construction land will
be occurred. If such case happened, the land quantities shall be based on
occupation which occurred in the construction, The compensation will be listed
from the reserved funds according to the actual losses of the crops values.
(2) Infrastructures Compensation of Removing and Rebuilding
After fully consultation with relative departments, the following plan will be
adopted for impacted infrastructures:
Statistics for Infrastructures Impacted by
the Land Acquisition for Sijing Substation
Table 6.4
No.      Items          Unit              Unit                      Payee
1 Telecommunicatio     km          5000000 RMBY             Shanghai Long-distance
n Power cable                                           Telecommunication Bureau
2  lOkV transmission   km        150000 RMBY/km          Songjiang Elertric Power Bureau
lines
3  380kV transmissic    km        25000 RMBY/km             Xiaochangcun village
.    lines
4  Broadcasting lines   km        20000 RMBY/km             Xiaochangcun village
5  Channels             m           120  RMBY/m            Xiaochangcun village
6  Pumping Stations    piece      50000 RMBY/piece          Xiaochangcun village_
39



(3) Compensation Standard for Scattered Trees
After fully consultation with relative departments, the standard for
compensation will be 50yuan per tree.
B, Other Expenditures
(1) Costs for investigation and design, monitoring and assessment
The costs for investigation and design, monitoring and assessment will be 2%
of the sum of total.
(2) Technical training charge
The technical training charge will be 0.5% of the sum of total, which is used
for training productive skills for rural labors and the professional training for
resettlement cadres in different levels.
(3) Administrative expenses
5% of the total cost above mentioned will be used for administrative expenses
in resettlement office, which used for expenditures of facilities, communication,
conference, telecommunication, business trip and office charge, etc. which are
all relative with land requisition and removal and the resettlement activities for
the project.
C, Contingency Funds
10%of the basic cost and the other costs will be listed into the budget as the
basic reserved funds, which will be listed into the budget as the estimation of
the various contingency allocation at the resettlement period. This cost
excludes the inflation and the price variation in the implementation procedures.
The price contingency should be listed into the project cost estimation.
6.3. Budget of Resettlement
Base on the estimation, total cost estimation of the land requisition and
resettlement will be 41.833194 million yuan, among which resettlement
compensation for land requisition of Hangdong Substation access and the state
land allocation cost is 12.388922 million yuan, compensation costs for land
requisition, removal and resettlement for Sijing Substation is 29.444272
million yuan. Detail indexes of the compensation cost for Hangdong Substation
and Sijing Substation was shown in Table 6.5 and Table 6.6.
40



Cost Estimation for Requisitioned and
Transferring Land For Hangdong Substation
Table 6.5                                               Unit: 10000 RMBY
No.            Items             Compensation               Remarks
I     Resettlement compensation    1046.4721
fees
1.1    Cost for land compensation     41.8997   79056Y/mu X 5.3mu
1.2   Transferring costs for state    1003.6224   71280 Y/muX 140.8mu
land
1.3   Subsidy  for  fragmentary        0.9500   50 Y/treeX 190 tree
commercial woods
2     Other expenditures              79.7935
2.1    Cost for investigation and     20.9294   About 2% in item No.1
design,  monitoring   and
assessment
2.2   Technical training charge        5.2324   About 0.5% in item No. 1
2.3    Administrative expenses        53.6317   About 5% in items from No.1-2.2
3     Reserved Funds                 112.6266   About 10% in items from No.1-2
Total                              123 8.8922
41



Estimation of Compensation Cost for Land Acquisition
And Removal For Sijing Substation
Table 6.6                                                  Unit: 10000 RMBY
No.            Items            Compensation               Remarks
I     Resettlement compensation    2487.1099
fees                                _
1.1    Cost for land compensation   583.4192   41672.8Y/muX 140mu
1.2   Allowance    for    labors  1173.7407
rearrangement _
=____ Pension    Male                330.3383   75939.84Y/person X 87 person X 50%
Female             438.7306   100857.60 Y/person X 87 person X
______                                          50%
Resettlement allowance        348.0000   40000 Y/person X 87 person
Resettlement overhead charge .   47.9718   5514 Y/personX87 person
Unemployment    insurance       8.7000   1000 Y/person X 87 person
foundation
1.3   Subsidy   for  fragmentary       0.7000   50Y/tree X 140 tree
commercial woods
1.4   Compensation    fees   for   729.2500
infrastructures                          _
Telecommunication    power   500.0000   5000000 Y
I___ Icable         _
[____ 10kV transmission line         180.0000   150000 Y/kmX 12 km
___ 1380v transmission line            6.2500   25000 YlkmX 2.5 km
Boardcasting lines              2.0000   20000 Y/km X 1km
Channels                       36.0000   120Y/mX3000m
Water pumping station            5.0000   50000 Y/piece X 1 piece
2     Other expenditures             189.6421
2.1    Cost for investigation and     49.7422   About 2% in item No. I
design,  monitoring   and
assessment
2.2    Technical training charge      12.4355   About 0.5% in item No.1
2.3    Administrative expenses       127.4644   About 5% in items from No.1-2.2
3      Reserved Funds                267.6752   About 10% in items from No.1-2
Total                2944.4272  _
42



7.    ORGANIZATION AND INSTITUTION
7.1    Establishing of Organization
7.1.1  Organizations
In order to prepare "Action Plan" and ensure to go smoothly and reach the
estimated effect, it is necessary to establish the resettlement organizations
from higher level to lower level which can plan, coordinate and monitor the
resettlement. The-following institutions are established for land acquisition
for 500kv substation project using Tianhuangping project cost saving;
East China Electric Power Group Corporation (Owner)
Preparation Division for Extra-Voltage Project of Shanghai Power Bureau
Sijing Town People's Government of Shongjiang County, Xiaochang Village
Committee and Two Villager Groups
Zhejiang Extra-High Voltage Construction Company
Xinye Group
Xuxiang Township, Hongqi Village and Hexin Group
East China Investigation and Design Institute
7.1.2  Organization Composition and Responsibilities
A.    East China Electric Power Group Corporation
The Project Office is organized by the specific persons of the East China
Electric Power Group Corporation. Its main responsibility is:
(1) Entrust and assist the investigation design organization to make survey of
affected area, and entrust the Preparation Division for Extra-Voltage Project
of Shanghai Power Bureau and Zhejiang Extra-High Voltage Construction
Company to perform statistics on social economy and keep data;
(2) Be responsible for training for resettlement work member in Preparation
Division for Extra-Voltage Project of Shanghai Power Bureau and Zhejiang
Extra-High Voltage Construction Company;
(3) Assist to prepare "Resettlement Action Plan" and be responsible for the
implementation;
43



(4) Be responsible for management of resettlement funds and supervision of
funds allocation and usage;
(5) Instruct, coordinate and supervise the implementation and progress of
resettlement of Preparation Division for Extra-Voltage Project of Shanghai
Power Bureau and Zhejiang Extra-High Voltage Construction Company;
(6) Hold internal supervision and compile internal monitoring report;
(7) Entrust external monitoring and supervision institution and assist to external
supervision activities;
(8) Prepare progress report and submit to the World bank
B.    Preparation Division for Extra-Voltage Project of Shanghai Power
Bureau and Zhejiang Extra-High Voltage Construction Company
The Resettlement Office is organized by the specific persons of the
Preparation Division for Extra-Voltage Project of Shanghai Power Bureau
and Zhejiang Extra-High Voltage Construction Company. Its main
responsibility is:
(1) Make statistics and social, economical survey by project impact and keep
data;
(2) Assist to prepare "Resettlement Action Plan" and be responsible for the
implementation;
(3) Organize public consultation and give publicity to the resettlement policy;
(4) Go through the formalities of license for land acquisition and construction;
(5) Sign agreement for land acquisition with township(town) people's
government and state-owned farms and supervise the implementation and
progress of resettlement;
(6) Assist to internal supervision and external independent supervision activities;
(7) Prepare progress report to project policy office
C.    Sijing Town People's Government of Shongjiang County,
Xuxiang Township of Haining City
The Resettlement Working Office is composed of specific cadres from power
supply management station, land management station, local police station
44



and main leaders of each village who are in charge of resettlement. Its main
responsibility is:
(1) Participate the project survey and assist to prepare "Resettlement Action
Plan";
(2) Organize public consultation and give publicity to the resettlement policy;
(3) Implement, exam, supervise and record all resettlement activities in the same
township(town);
(4) Be responsible for payment and management of resettlement funds;
(5) Supervise land acquisition progress and relocation of infrastructures;
(6) Report to county(city) land bureau and resettlement office about the
information of land acquisition, removal and inhabitants resettlement;
(7) Coordinate to handle with the questions and problems during
implementation;
D.    Xiaochang Village Committee and Two Villager Groups,
Hongqi Village and Hexin Group
The resettlement work group of village committee and villager group is
composed by the main cadres in the village and villager group. The main
responsibility is:
(1) Participate the investigation on social economy and project impact;
(2) Organize public consultation and give publicity to the resettlement policy;
(3) Execute the land adjustment and organize the production development for
resettlement;
(4) Be responsible for funds management and allocation;
(5) Report to the higher authorities of the comments and proposals from the
resettlers;
(6) Report the execution progress of resettlement;
(7) Help the difficult families for resettlement.
45



E. East China Investigation and Design Institute
The External Independent Monitoring Institution for this project is the East
China Investigation and Design Institute, and the main responsibility is:
(1) Observe  every  aspect  of  inhabitants  resettlement  schedule  and
implementation, and fuumish the resettlement monitoring evaluation report to
the Project Resettlement Office and the World Bank;
(2) Assist the Project Resettlement Office to prepare the resettlement schedule;
(3) Provide the technical consultation to Project Office and Resettlement
Office about data investigation and processing.
7.1.3  Institutions and Staff
A.    Resettlement Institutions
In order to perform the work smoothly, the specific staff is employed in the
resettlement office by the Preparation Division for Extra-Voltage Project of
Shanghai Power Bureau and Zhejiang Extra-High Voltage Construction
Company. The specific staff is consisted by two kinds of person, i.e.
professional and administrational persons, who have involved the
resettlement work for projects financed by the World Bank, with some
experices on professonal, administrational and resettlement aspects.
46



Staffs In Resettlement Institution
Table 7.1
Project          Unit                Staff        Post/Professional   Post in this Project
Title
Sijing    Preparation Division for Wang Rongzhu    Director/econimist    Group leader
substation Extra-Voltage Project of
Shanghai Power Bureau
Cao Huanfang    Director of          Vice group leader
section/assistant
economist
Zhao Guoli       Policy processor    Member
Tong Yongqin    Policy processor     Member
Tang Erqi        Policy processor    Member
Zhu Ximing       Policy processor    Member
Resettlement Leading    He Lianming     Director of town    Group leader
Group Of Sijing Town
People's Government
Lu Deming        Vice-director of town  Vice group leader
Lu Yongming      Director of land  -   Member
management station
Zhou Bohua       Director of power    Member
supply station
Wu Qiuyu         Secretary of        Member
Xiaochang village
party branch
Gu Yiming        Vice-director,      Member
Xiaochang village
Hangdong Preparation    Zhejiang Zhou Jianjian    Vice manager        Group leader
susato  Extra-High   Voltage
substation Construction Company
Zhang Wenwei   Vice director of       Vice group leader
section
Chen Guofang    Chief                 Member
Wu Qinlong       Chief               Member
47



East China Investigation and Design Institute
The project resettlement office has invited the East China Investigation and
Design Institute to undertake the resettlement supervision operation. The
contract was signed in 1992. The East China Investigation and Design
Institute wvill perform all basic supervision through supplying technical
assistance to the owner, resettlement investigation and living level survey of
people affected. At the same time, the East China Investigation and Design
institute shall assist the project office to prepare annual report and semi-
annual report.
The East China Investigation & Design Institute (ECIDI) is a subordinate
directly under the Ministry of Electric Power of PRC(called the State Power
Corporation). In 1993, ECIDI was appraised as one of the hundred best
national comprehensive actual strength institutes through the national
comparison. In Dec. 1996, ECIDI also obtained the certificate of the
GB/T19000 quality system of the International Organization for
Standardization (ISO). Due to his abundant experiences in respecting of the
land acquisition and resettlement for large and medium size of hydropower
projects, up to now, ECIDI has completed more than twenty (20) design
works for large hydropower projects which scattered overall country. From
1990, ECIDI began to bear the resettlement monitoring and evaluation works
for projects using the loan from the World Bank, also ECIDI is the first
institute to bear the resettlement monitoring and evaluation works based on
the requirements of OD4.30 guidelines issued by the World Bank, ECIDI has
shouldered the resettlement monitoring and evaluation works in the past
eight (8) years for the projects financed by the World Bank: Shuikou
Hydroelectric Power Project in Fujian Province,   Electric Power
Development Project in Zhejiang Province, Zhejiang 500kV Transmission &
Distribution Project(savings from Beilun project),   East China/Jiangsu
500kV Transmission & Distribution Project, Tongbai Pumped Storage
Project and its auxiliary projects, etc.
ECIDI has numerous experts and engineering and technical personnel. Most
of them participated the resettlement monitoring and evaluation works for
the projects loaned by the World Bank, among which four (4) people
participated the seminar which held by the World Bank and got the
certificates after completed their whole courses. Two of them was invited to
the World Bank mission for inspection and evaluation research works of
domestic communication projects, and they lectured on the seminar which
held by the World Bank for the special courses of the resettlement
monitoring and evaluation works. In ECIDI, now a particular working group
has been established for the resettlement monitoring and evaluation works of
Tianhuangping Savings-SOOkV Substation Project, and the members has
involved in this project. The details of the standing members concerned this
project show in Table 7-2. The personnel will be increased at the working
peak duration in terms of the project schedule .
48



Mlain NMembers of External Monitoring and Evaluation Working Group
Table 7-2:
Name         Titles                   Experience                  Position
Gong        Senior        Reservoir resettlement expert, Manager of Group
Heping      Engineer      the reservoir department. He is a main  Leader
participate for the independent resettlement
nmonitoring & cvaluation works of Shuikot
Hydropower Project in Fujian Province and
the Electric Power Development Project in
Zhejiang Province. He participated the
seminar xvhich held by the World Bank and
got the certificates after completed whole
courses of the resettlement monitoring and
evaluation wxorks, later, he lectured the
courses on the seminar hield by the W'orld
Bank
Bian        Engineer      Manager of the reservoir department. He  Vice GrotuF
Bingqian                  held or participated the design work for Leader
resettlement for several large and middle
scale hydro projects. He participated the
seminar for resettlement and evaluation
which held by the WVorld Bank and got the
certificates.
Yang Ling   Engineer      He  held or participated the design work for Mermber
resettlement for several large and middle
scale hydro projects. He participated the
seminar for resettlement and evaluation
whicli held by the NWorld Bank and got the
certificates.
Li Chaoyun  Engineer      Participated the independent monitoring and  member
evaluation works for Shuikou Hydropower
project and also has the rich experiences of
the monitoring and evaluation works loaned
by the World Bank
Yu Zhijian   Assistant    He participated the independent monitoring  member
Engineer     and evaluation wvorks for Zhejing power
development  projects  and  has  some
experiences for projects financed by the
World Bank.
7.2 Linking of Organizations
During the land acquisition and resettlement procedure of the project, the
resettlement organizations wvill sign the authorization contract to deternine their
xvork content and responsibilities at different levels. The process of authorized
contract and agreement are as follows:
(1)     The Resettlement Office.shall sign "Contract of Land Acquisition and
49



Resettlement for Tianhuangping Savings- 500kV Substation Project" with
the Preparation Division for Extra-Voltage Project of Shanghai Power
Bureau and Zhejiang Extra-High Voltage Construction Company.
(2)    Project Resettlement Office shall sign the "Contract of Independent
Monitoring Evaluation for Tianhuangping Savings-500kV Substation
Project" with the East China Investigation and Design Institute.
(3)    The Preparation Division for Extra-Voltage Project of Shanghai Power
Bureau and Zhejiang Extra-High Voltage Construction Company shall sign
"Contract of Land Acquisition Compensation for Tianhuangping Savings-
500kV Substation Project" with relative townships(towns) and Xingye
Group.
The organization chart is as below:
East China Electric Power
Group Corporation (Project
. Oflfice)
Preparation Division for    Zhejiang Extra-High Voltage       East China
Extra-Voltage Project of    Construction Company              Investigation
Shanghai Power Bureau       (Resettlement Office)             and Design
(Resettlement Office)                                        Institute(Extemal
Independent
l_________________________  Monitoring Institution
| Sijing Town People's                Xingye                      Xuxiang
Gover ment                      Group                       Township
.                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~People's
. ,                                     ~~~~~~~~~~Gove nment
Xiaochang Village
Committee                                       Hongqi Village Committee
7.3 Measures for Enhancing Capacity of Organization
(1) Enhancing Staff Deployment
The staff in the units at all levels shall be arranged with the principle of overall
consideration, the administrative and each profession personnel shall be
provided reasonably, and all the staff shall be qualified for high profession skill
and quality.
50



(2) Training
To train the staff of the resettlement offices and enhance their profession skill
and capability of resolving problems.
(3) Guarantee fully on funds and facilities.
(4) Establish database, strengthen information feedback and convenient to know
infonration from all aspects, the major problem shall be resolved and decided
by the Leading Group.
(5) Strengthen regulations of reporting, internal monitoring, and resolve issues
timely.
(6) Develop mechanism of external monitoring and evaluation, and set up
predicting alarm system.
51



8.     PUBLIC PARTICIPATION AND APPEAL
In the stage of formulating policy of resettlement and relocation, drawing up plan
and implementing of the project, the relevant authorities have paid special attention
to the participation and consultation of the people, and solicited opinions widely
from them. In the preparatory stage of feasibility study, the project office has
solicited opinions and proposals of resettlement work from county government, the
-People's Congress, the People's Political Consultative Conference, representatives
of mass. In the preparatory stage of RAP, the project resettlement office has widely
solicit the opinions from local People's Governments at all levels and the resettlers'
representatives about the resettlement and compensation. With the cooperation of
local People's Government at all levels, the Resettlement Action Plan is complied.
In the implementation stage, the resettlement offices at all levels shall further
encourage the public participation in the resettlement and rebuilding work.
8.1    Public Participation
8.1.1   Public Participation in Preparatory Stage Of Project
Early in the feasibility study stage, the project office actively encouraged the public
participation in the work.
(1)    The office had consulted extensively with the local People's Government at all
levels, and power supply, planning, communication, post and teleconmmunication,
land administration authorities about the project distribution and site alternatives.
All alternatives are decided with cooperation and approval of local government.
The review meeting for site alternatives was held in Aug. 1997, participated by the
relative departments. Their coments were adopted in the final schime.
(2)    In order to give extensively a publicity for the project and collect comments from
cadres and public on the project construction and resettlement, the project
resettlement office held meetings participated by the residents and cadres from
relative township (town), villages and groups on the land acquisition and
resettlement, and give extensively a publicity for the necessity of the project
construction and resettlement policies.
(3)    The symposium, participated by the resettler's representatives, cadres of the village
and group and representatives of the women (more than 30 percent), shall be hold
under the coordination and support of the local government to introduce the
situation and solicit their opinions and proposals.
8.1.2   Public participation in preparing  Resettlement Action Plan
During the preparing and compiling Resettlement Action Plan, the local
government at all levels and resettlers were involved in the following work.
(1)    The resettlement offices at all levels, villages and villager groups, and resettlers'
representatives all participated in the investigation work on the land acquisition and
affected inventory survey in May - June, 1998.
(2)    The project office and the resettlement offices at all levels held the propaganda
52



meeting participated by the local cadres at all levels and the affected persons to
mak-e an extensive propaganda for thie relative resettlement policies and all kinds of
W'ord Bank' policies, solicited the opinions on howv to reduce the project impaction
and have the resettlement and compensation standard for different areas, and
extensively consulted with them. All those are included in this report.
(3)    Before the rcsettlement and relocation action plan drew up(May-June, 1998), the
resettlement office and investigation and design unit conducted a large scale of
social economic survey to solicit the opinions on land acquisition, compensation,
employment, funds allowcation and management with the relcvant township(town),
village committee, villager team and Xingye Group.
(4)    Later on, the project resettlement office and the resettlement offices at all levels
shall give a publicity for the resettlement policies and encourage the public
participjation by the following ways:
- Information Booklet for Resettlement
In order to ensure the persons in the affected region and local government to know
the details of the resettlement plan and the compensation plan, the resettlement
office shall prepare an information booklet, and the booklet shall be opened
publicly by bulletin or broadcasting.  The information booklet covers main
contents of resettlement plan, compensation and relocation policy, the right of
resettlers, respondent, and the appeal ways.
-Holding Meeting
Public meeting shall be held to explain relative policies, laws and rules and
compensation standard extensively so that people can know it early before the
implementation of the land acquisition and relocation.
To give publicity for the construction items, progress and resettlement policies
by television, broadcast and newspaper.
8.1.3   Public Participation in Implementation Of RAP
The resettlers shall participate in the whole process of the implement of RAP.
(1)    Participation in Production Arrangement
Due to the preferable location of suburbs of Shanghai and Hangzhou, the farmer's
living depends on land less and less. After the land requisitioned, the resettlement
for the surplus labor will directly affect the benefits of the affected persons and
concern on restoring their incoming level. In order to ensure them to get benefits
from the project, all the resettlement alternative of labor shall be drew up through
the extensive consulting with the affected persons and shall be under their
supervision.
(2)    Participation in Using Land Compensation
The land compensation shall belong to the village and not be carved up or used for
other purpose. The compensation shall be unify-used and a fund for special purpose.
The usage of fund shall be approved by the Villager Congress and under the
villager representatives supervision.
53



(3)     Participation in Project Construction
The project construction will cause certain impaction on the local area. In order to
ensure the affected persons getting benefits from the project construction, it is to
encourage public participation and give convenience for the supplying construction
material and labor employment.
8.2     Respondence and Appeal Method
In the process of implementing and compiling of the Resettlement Plan, it is always
to encourage the public participation, but there still will be some problem occurred.
In order to solve problems effectively in time and ensure the project construction
and land acquisition to be carried out successfully, except the existing appeal ways
set in the local govenmment at all levels, a transparent and effective appeal way has
been set up as follows:
A.   Acquisition for Co]lective Land
Stage 1:
If the resettlers are not satisfied for the resettlement plan, they can appeal to the
village committee and the township (town) resettlement office in oral or in written
form. If the appeal in oral form, the village shall make decision and record in
wvritten form. Village committee or township (town) resettlement office shall
resolve it in two weeks.
Stage 2:
If the resettlers are not satisfied for the decision of stage 1, they shall appeal to
the resettlement office of the project and the resettlement office shall make
decision timely.
Stage 3:
If the resettlers are still not satisfied for the decision of the resettlement office of
the project, they shall appeal to the civil division of a people's court according to
the civil procedural law after receiving the decision of the resettlement office of the
proj ect.
B.   Acquisition for State-owned Land
Stage 1:
If the resettlers are not satisfied for the decision of stage 1, they shall appeal to
the resettlement office of the project and the resettlement office shall make
decision timely.
Stage 2:
If the resettlers are still not satisfied for the decision of the resettlement office of
the project, they shall appeal to the civil division of a people's court according to
the civil procedural law after receiving the decision of the resettlement office of the
project.
The resettlers can appeal any respects on the resettlement work, including
compensation standard.
54



The resettlers shall know their right of appeal by means of meeting and other ways.
At same time, publicity and report by means of medium wvill be carried out. The
relative authorities shall put in order the opinions and proposals of the resettlement
work, which will be dealt with by the Resettlement Offices at all levels.
No charge shall be made for appeal by the hearing department, and expenses for
appeal process shall be paid by the project office under the contingence fee.
55



9.    Monitoring and Reporting
In order to guarantee that the resettlement plan can be smoothly performed
and can be suitably realized the relocation target, the follow-on fact finding
and monitoring will be carried out in full procedure. The tracing monitoring
shall be divided into two parts, i.e. internal resettlement monitoring by the
resettlement offices themselves and the external independent monitoring.
9.1   Internal Monitoring and Reporting
9.1.1  Target and Tasks
The target of internal monitoring is to keep the good responsibility of the
resettlement organizations when they perform the "Action Plan" procedure,
and ensure the project can be constructed smoothly and resettlers' legal
benefits will be not impaired. The auditing department of the government
above the county level shall independently exercise the auditing monitoring
function to concerning units under his jurisdiction accordance with the laws
and regulations. All sponsors in higher level has the responsibilities for
monitoring their subordinates so that the RAP principle and schedule can be
obeyed.
9.1.2  Institutions and Staff
The internal monitoring for land acquisition and resettlement for
Tianhuangping-saving 500kv substation project will be held by the Project
Office, and to be performed by the Resettlement Offices of Preparation
Division for Extra-Voltage Project of Shanghai Power Bureau and Zhejiang
Extra-High Voltage Construction Company, relative township(town), village
commission, villagers group and affected enterprises. In order to validate
the internal monitoring, 2-3 staffs of each resettlement unit shall be
employed, whose special duty is prosecuted resettlement works have been
participated the compile and implementation of there settlement action plan,
also they will carried out the internal monitoring control at the full procedure
of the performance.
9.1.3  Monitoring Contents
(1)  Allocation and utilization of the resettlement compensation fee
(2)  Employment arrangement of labor affected
(3)  Restoration of infrastructure
(4)  Time schedule for the works above mentioned
(5)  Compile and implementation of the policies and regulations for the
resettlement plan
(6)  Public participation and consultation during the implementation period
56



(7)  Staff designate, training, working schedule and working efficiency of the
resettlement office in townships(towns).
9.1.4  Implementation Procedure
The resettlement office shall practice mechanism of internal monitoring to
review resettlement and relocation activities, also establish the database for
the land acquisition, resettlement and relocation, and the whole course of
implementation and preparation of the resettlement and relocation shall be
monitored by the relative departments.
The county (city) resettlement office shall establish relevant database, and
make use of the database to draw up their own resettlement and relocation
plan. The work of the resettlement and relocation shall be carried out on the
schedule, and internal monitoring shall be conducted in the whole course of
the resettlement preparation and implementation.
At the implementation duration, the resettlement offices shall record the
resettlement massages submitted by the each resettlement offices of village
and township based on the samples prepared by monitoring institutions, also
they shall timely transfer the present active records to project resettlement
affairs office so that the continuous monitoring implementations can be
reflected. The project resettlement affairs office shall practice periodic
inspections to each village and towns and submit the implementation
schedule.
In the above monitoring operating system, to realize the continuous massage
flows of the resettlement affairs offices from the village to project
resettlement affairs office, a various information lists with the different forms
and contents were drawn up. All project resettlement office and offices of
village (townships) and county (city), as an important components of the
internal monitoring system, will be made the periodic checking and
inspections.
9.1.5   Reporting
A. Internal supervision and report
-    Periodicity
After the implementation of the resettlement, a working process report shall
be submitted at least three (3) months for once from the township(town)
resettlement affairs group to the  resettlement affairs office; then the
resettlement affairs office to the project resettlement affairs office. The
special events shall be continuously reported without any delay. After
periodical work completed. the resettlement affairs office shall make an
summary report.
-    Forms and contents
Reports shall be compiled in terms of the requirements of the World Bank.
and shall be transferred to executing institutions for each level, and then to



be filled and reported by them. Format of the report usually comprises of two
parts: First will be detail descriptions with the characters for resettlement
schedule and compensation allowances, the situations, problems and
difficulties met in the implementation process, and the corresponding
resolution method and measures. Second will be forms listing mainly data
collection of previous three (3) months, which reflected the comparison with
the actual and planned data of land acquisition, removal and compensation
allowance. The formats refer to the Attached Table-1, and Table 2.
Implementation Schedule of Land Acquisition, Removal and Resettlement
Table 1:
Department:
Deadline for Reporting Contents:    -Date   -Month           Year
Filling Date:                          Date   -Month   -Year
Items       |Unit Planned Number   Season      Total    Proportion
Fund allocation      _
Communication lincs recovcring
Road reconstruction  ___
Land acquisition
Land re-allocation 
Labor force employment L    I          I
Reporter:                   Chief Signature:              Seal:
Statistic List for Acquisition, Relocation
and Resettlement Fees for Land Subsidy
Table 2:
County (City)                       Village (Township)
Deadline for Reporting Contents:     -Date   -Month   -Year
Filling Date:                        -Date   -Month   -Year
Department      Contents.-   UniaNumber  Cost(Y) Advcnt of the Compensation Fees
Reporter:                   Chief Signature:              Seal:
Notes: Contents to be filled including construction of the conservancy facilities (canal
(m), pump station (piece) ); develop domestic animals (such as pigs, chickens, ducks
and fishes (mu)), land improvement (dry farmland to paddy field (mu), enterprises
conducting and labor force employment, etc.
B.   Resettlement progress report
Periodicity
The resettlement affairs office shall submit the resettlement progress report
to the World Bank before 3 1. July of each year. The periodical submission is
one year.
58



-    Forms and contents
Reports shall be compiled in terrns of the requirements of the World Bank,
and shall be transferred to executing institutions for each level, and then to
be filled and reported by them. Format of the report usually comprises of two
parts: First will be detail -descriptions with the characters for resettlement
schedule and compensation allowances, the situations, problems and
difficulties met in the implementation process, and the corresponding
resolution method and measures. Second will be fomns listing mainly data
collection of previous six (6) months, which reflected the comparison with
the actual and planned data of land acquisition, removal and compensation
allowance.
9.2    External Independent Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
9.2.1   Target and Tasks
The work of external independent monitoring and evaluation is to monitor
and evaluate whether the target of the land acquisition, resettlement and
relocation activities are realized. Through those works, put forvard
evaluation opinions and proposals of the resettlement, relocation and the
recovering status of the resettler's domestic standards, provide predicting
alarm system for project administrative departments and provide reflecting
channel for the resettlers.
The independent institution for external monitoring and evaluation shall be a
consultant of the project resettlement affairs offices, he shall response the
tracing monitoring and evaluation for the resettlement active plan and submit
decision making or consulting proposals.
9.2.2   Monitoring Contents
A.  Main contents for supervision
1.   Progress:  Including preparation, implementation of land acquisition and
resettlement
2.   Quality:   Including construction quality for relocation, and satisfaction
degree of resettlers
3.   Capital:   Including status for money allocation and usage
B.  Main content for evaluation
(1)  Economical status: Before  and  after relocation, including  production
material of family, living material, assets, income
(2)  Environment status: Before and after relocation. including changes of living
environment, transportation, culture and education. health, commercia!
service and public facilities
(3)  Employment status: Before  and  after relocation, including  changes o
occupation. labor employment rate, assistance to poor and weak househok
59



in particular
9.2.3   Monitoring Measures
The independent monitoring institution will perform the monitoring activities on
the investigation data basis provided by the survey design institution and
resettlement implementation institution.Based on the complete investigation, the
sample survey and quick evaluation shall be combined. Typical samples
(household/unit) shall be selected. The corresponding evaluation index for
different object shall be determined by the qualified resettlement expert with
"Back to Back" method. Referring to the latest living standard at home and
abroad, all survey results shall be analyzed and compared.
The overall base-line survey for this project will be conducted, for this
purpose, a sample(the initial sample will be collected by the random way) of
the base-line standards and random sample reflecting the village/group and
resettlers' living standard was collected. The living standard will be
investigated one or two times in every year to monitoring the variance of the
village/group and resettlers' living standard. The investigation will be
adopted the methods of periodical survey, random interviews and fact-
finding, etc., to obtain the information concerned, and making the statistics,
analysis and evaluation on this basis.
The survey list of the domestic standard -comprises of the various indexes
which is measured domestic standards, using a similar index to reflect the
dynamic variety of domestic standards before and after the land acquisition
and resettlement. The indexes design will be expertized on the base line
survey to check whether practicably reflected the resettlers' living varieties,
and to ensure that the information can reflect resettlers' living quantity and
quality fully and practicably, these indexes will be improved according to the
actual situations
Resettlement sample scale: resettlers affected be land acquisition for
substation: 10%; employment of surplus labor: 100%
As an independent monitoring and evaluation institution, ECIDI shall
perform the following activities:
A    Community Consultation
ECIDI shall participate the community consultation conferences which held
by the village and township. By this method, the independent monitoring
institution can evaluate the affection and cooperation of the resettlers
participating the resettlement action plan. These activities shall be insisted in
during and after the resettlement implementation period.
(3)  Resettlers' Opinions
ECIDI shall often interview the resettlement offices in each town, county
to investigate the opinions collected from the resettlers and meet the
60



resettlers who have the complaints. ECIDI shall timely transfer the
opinions and requests from the individual and collective enterprises impacted
by the project, and submitted the suggestions for improvement, so that the
resettlement can be more smooth and effective in the implementation
process.
(4)  Other Responsibilities
During the preparation of the resettlement action plan period, ECIDI shall
submit the suggestions to project resettlement  office, and monitoring the
following activities in the implementation procedures:
1) Infrastructure restoration and reconstruction
2) Payment and amount of the compensation allowance
3) Employment
4) Training
5) Schedule of the items above mentioned
6) Organizations and institutions for the resettlement area
7) Usage of compensation fee of collective land and income of resettlers
8) Increase of income of surplus labor
9.2.4  Procedures
(1)  Compiling the monitoring and evaluating programs
(2)  Developing the software system  for monitoring and evaluating of the
resettlement
(3)  Compiling the investigation outline, survey list, and the recording cards for
sample villages and sample households
(4)  Design of the sampling survey plan
(5)  Base-line survey
(6)  Established the information system of the monitoring and evaluation
(7)  Monitoring investigation
-- Community social-economic survey
-- Monitoring to executing resettlement institutions
-- Sample villages survey
-- Sample households survey
(8)  Monitoring information arrangement and database establishment
(9) Comparison analysis
(10) Compiling a monitoring and evaluation report in year
61



9.2.5  Independent resettlement monitoring and evaluation reporting
ECIDI shall submit its work report one month after formal start of work. The
project office shall report the resettlement progress to the WB once half a year,
attached with ECIDI's report.
A. Periodicity
In accordance with the World Bank requirements, after commencement of
the resettlement implementation, the monitoring and evaluation survey shall
be carried out in Sept. every year. Prior to Dec. 31, the resettlement
monitoring and evaluation report shall be submitted.
B.  Contents
(1) Base-line survey for resettlement
(2) Acquisition, demolition, relocation and resettlement schedule
(3) Production arrangement and rehabilitation
(4) Resettlers' living standards
(5) Practicable and utilization of the resettlement funds
(6) Conduct and efficiency evaluation of the executing resettlement
institutions
(7) Problems and proposals
62



10.    Rights and Duties
10.1   The land used for project construction, land compensation fee shall be paid by
the land acquiring units.
10.2   The land used for the project construction, the land acquiring units shall pay
not only compensation fee but also resettlement subsidies
10.3   The land used for the project construction, the land acquiring units shall pay
not only compensation fee, resettlement subsidies but also the compensation
subsidies for structure appendages which belongs private property and the
compensation fee for young crops which will be given to land contractor.
10.4   Various compensations and the resettlement subsidies due to the land
acquisition for the state construction, and the subsidies for the developing
production by the land requisitioned units and arranging surplus labors and the
living subsidy for unemployees caused by land acquisition shall not be used
for other purpose nor owned by any units and individuals.
10.5   Three months prior to land acquisition, the various compensations and the
resettlement subsidies shall be paid to unit whose land was acquired
10.6   Before the land acquisition, the relative labor force arrangement shall be
completed.
10.7   All trees felled or transplanted by the project will be got the cash
compensation or the expenditures for transplanting.
63



Attachment 1:
Laborers To Be Changed into Non-agricultural Resident Status
No.   Name                  Sex   Age   Education          Enterprise
I     Zhao Shiming          M      45     primary school   Chemical factory
2     Tang Fengjuan         F      52     primary school   Chemical factory
3     Tang Qiufang          F      48     primary school   Textile machinery factory
4     Zhao Jiming           M      43     High school      Dazhonghua Rubber factory
5     Zhao Nanchun          M      35     Middle school   Construction company
6     Zhac Mingchun         M      31    Middle school   Sewing machine factory
7     Zhao Yang             M      29     Middle school   Dazhonghua Rubber factory
8     Gong Linying          F      29     Middle school   Chemical factory
9     Zhao Shilong          M      36     Primary school   Sewing machine factory
10    Yu Aihua              F      40     Primary scool    Chemical factory
II    Zhao Renchang         M      49     Primary scool    Chemical factory
12    Zhao Aihua            F      26     Middle school   Chemical factory
13    Zhao Yungin           F      48     Primary scool    Textile machinery factory
14    Zhao Renzhong         M      26     Middle school   Dazhonghua Rubber factory
15    Ma Duanhua            F      44     Illiterate       Textile machinery factory
16    Zhao Xiuzhen          F      49     Illiterat       Textile machinery factory
17    Zhao Huizhong         M      26     Middle school   Chemical factory
18    Li Qiujuan            F      45     Primary school   Vegetable planting base
19    Zhao Fengying         F      46     Primary school   Textile machinery factory
20    Zhao Jinyuan          M      43     Primary school   Sewing machine factory
21    Xu Yongzhen           F      46     Primary school   Silk factory
22    Zhao Guilin           M      56     Middle school   Steel-wire factory
23    Zhao Yueping          M      34     Middle school   Dazhonghua Rubber factory
24    Chen Xiuzhu           F      32     Middle school   Chemical factory
25    Zhao Xiyun            M      52     Primary school   Dazhonghua Rubber factory
26    Zhao Renjuan          F      53     Primary school   Vegetable planting base
27    Zhao Huanjuan         F      47     Primary school   Chemical factory
28    Zhao Genrong          M      51     Middle school   Dazhonghua Rubber factory
29    Zhao Hongiun          F      23     Middle school   Chemical factory
30    Yan Chunhua           F      44     Primary school   Chemical factory
31    Zhao Guoxin           M      34     Middle school   Construction company
32    Zhao Haihua           M      39     Middle school   Dazhonghua Rubber factory
33    Yao Yagin             F      35     Middle school   Textile machinery factory
34    Zhao Haofeng          M      26     Middle school   Dazhonghua Rubber factory
35    Yuan Xiuying          F      32     Middle school   Textile machinery factory
36    You Fengfang          F      26     Middle school   Chemical factory
37    Zhao Huiying          F      28     Middle school   Dazhonghua Rubber factory
38    Wu Renying            F      56    Illiterate        Vegetable planting base
39    Xia Renying           F      37     Middle school   Chemical factory
40    Gu Yiming             M      33     High school      Dazhonghua Rubber factory
41    Song Xiuying          F      30     Middle school   Chemical factory
42    Bai Renjuan           F      46     Primary school   Dazhonghua Rubber factory
43    Wan Feng              M      23     Middle school   Chemical factory
44    Wan Jianping          F      34     Middle school   Chemical factory
45    Ye Zhonglin           M      44     Middle school   Dazhonghua Rubber factory
46    Liu Renving           F      45     Primary school   Chemical factory
47    Xia Jinfang           F      44      Middle school   Dazhonghua Rubber factory
48    Wvan Renlong          M      47      Primary school   Dazhonghua Rubber factory
64



(To   continued)
49    Wan Wei               M      23     Middle school   Chemical factory
50    Wan Hong              M      27     High school     Chemical factory
51    Xu Fenving            F      46     Primary school   Textile machinery factory
52    Zhao Lianping         M      40     Middle school   Dazhonghua Rubber factory
53    You Honxin            M      31     Middle school   Chemical factory
54    You Minxin            M      32     Middle school   Dazhonghua Rubber factory
55    Wu Tongzhu            F      34     Middle school   Textile machinery factory
56    Lu Jufang             F      43     Middle school   Textile machinery factory
57    Zhao Hongbao          M      44     Middle school   Dazhonghua Rubber factory
58    Tan Bihua             F      47     Primary school   Textile machinery factory
59    Gu Jinxiu             F      35     Middle school   Textile machinery factory
60    Cai Aihua             F      19     High school     Chemical factory
61    Chen Guolin           M      33     Middle school   Chemical factory
62    Cai Minxiang          M      27     Middle school   Chemical factory
63    Shen Jie              F      34     Middle school   Dazhonghua Rubber factory
64    Chen Yufang           F      30     Middle school   Textile machinery factory
65    Song Lihua            F      35     Middle school   Textile machinery factory
66    Yan Lianmin           M      24     Middle school   Dazhonghua Rubber factory
67    Zhao Zhiming          M      38     High school     Sewing machine factory
68    Zhao Zhenlin          M      40     Middle school   Chemical factory
69    Zhao Meifang          F      19     Middle school   Chemical factory
70    Shen Huiqing          M      43     Primary school   Chemical factory
71    Shen Yuli             F      22     Middle school   Copper bar facotry
72    Shen Hongjuan         F      33     Middle school   Textile machinery factory
73    Zhao Zhihai           M      56     Middle school   Chemical factory
.74    Ma Jinfang           F      41     Middle school   Textile machinery factory
75    Chen Xiaomei          F      45     Primary school   Dazhonghua Rubber factory
76    Zhang Lonying         F      37     Middle school   Textile machinery factory
77    Zhou Jinfang          F      40     Middle school   Textile machinery factory
78    Wan Xiaomei           F      39     Primary school   Dazhonghua Rubber factory
79    Zhao Baolong          M      42     Middle school   Sewing machine factory
80    Sun Yulin             M      42     Middle school   Textile machinery factory
81    Yan Linying           F      38     Primary school   Chemical factory
82    Shen Xinhua           F      26     Middle school   Chemical factory
83    Luo Guojuan           F      36     Middle school   Chemical factory
84    Lu Renfang            M      53     Primary school   Dazhonghua Rubber factory
85    Lu Bolong             M      34    Illiterate       Sewing machine factory
86    Pang Yuxin            F      48     Primary school   Chemical factory
87    Xu Shanfang           F      43     Middle school   Chemical factory
65



Attachment 2:
Staff List for Resettlement Institution
Name                            Unit                         Post/Professional Title
Wang         Preparation  Division  For Extra-Voltage Project Of Director/Econimist
Rongzhu      Shanghai Power Bureau
Cao Huanfang Preparation  Division  For Extra-Voltage  Project Of Director Of Section/Assistant
Shanghai Power Bureau                             Economist
Preparation  Division  For Extra-Voltage Project Of
Zhong        Shanghai Power Bureau                              Policy Processor
TongaYongqin Preparation  Division  For Extra-Voltage  Project O1 Policy Processor
Shanghai Power Bureau                            I
ZhunXiming   Preparation  Division  For Extra-Voltage  Project 0 Policy Processor
Shanghai Power Bureau
He Lianming  Sijing Town People's Govemment                     Director Of Town
Lu Deming    Sijing Town People's Govemment                     Vice-Director Of Town
Lu Yongming  Land Management Station                            Director
Zhou Bohua   Power Supply Station                               Director
Wu Qiuyu     Xiaochang Village, Sijing Town                     Secretary Of Village Party
Branch
Gu Yiming    Xiaochang Village, Sijing Town                     Vice-Director
Zhou Jianjian  Preparation  Zhejiang Extra-High Voltage Construct Vice Manager
Company
Zhang Wenwei Preparation  Zhejiang Extra-High Voltage Construction Vice Director Of Section
Company
Chen Guofang Preparation  Zhejiang Extra-High Voltage Construction Chief
Company
Wu Qinlong   Preparation  Zhejiang Extra-High Voltage Construction Chief
Company
Chen Yuhai   Xinye Group                                        Deputy General Manager
Shen Jinbizo   Xuxiang Township, Haining City                   Deputy Director
Shen Liju    Xuxiang Township, Haining City                     Secretary Of Party
66



(To be continued)
Yang Jinrong  Hongqi Village, Xuxiang Township, Haining City  Director
Zhu Zhilong   Hongqi Village, Xuxiang Township, Haining City  Secretary Of Party
Gong Heping  East China Investigation And Design Institute    Director Of Section/ Senior
ECgiefr
Bian Bingqian East China Investigation And Design Institute   Vice-Chief Of Section/
Yang Li_g East China nvestigation And Design InstiteEngineer
Yang Ling    East China Investigation And Design Institute    Engineer
. East China Investigation And Design Institute   -Egne
Li Chaoyun
Yu Zhijian    East China Investigation And Design Institute   Assistant Engineer
67



