Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3606 CHA
(Tianhuangping Hydroelectric Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 25, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3606 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 25, 1993, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by East China Electric Power United 
Corporation (ECEPUC) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, 
the Borrower will make available to ECEPUC the proceeds of the Loan as provided in 
this Agreement;
(C)
by agreement and supplementary agreements thereto, dated October 8, 1988, 
September 29, 1991, and December 26, 1992 respectively, (collectively referred to as 
the Cofinancing Agreement), the State Energy Investment Corporation (SEIC), Anhui 
Provincial Power Development Company (APPDC), Jiangsu Provincial Investment Company 
(JPIC), Shenneng Power Development Company
(SPDC), and Zhejiang Provincial Power Development Company (ZPPDC) (collectively 
referred to as the Cofinanciers) have agreed to provide financing to ECEPUC in an 
aggregate principal amount equivalent to $382,700,000 (the Cofinancing) to assist in 
Page  2
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the Cofinancing 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
ECEPUC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"ECEPUC" means East China Electric Power United Corporation, a corporate 
entity established and operating under the laws of the People's Republic of China, or 
any successor thereto.
(b)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and ECEPUC of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(d)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and ECEPUC pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and "Subsidiary Loan" means the subsidiary loan made by the 
Borrower to ECEPUC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of three hundred million 
dollars ($300,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
Page  3
the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated at the 
rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  4
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause ECEPUC to 
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations 
of ECEPUC therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable ECEPUC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to ECEPUC, under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ECEPUC, under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank including the following: (i) ECEPUC 
shall repay the Subsidiary Loan over a period not to exceed twenty years, including a 
period of grace of five years, (ii) ECEPUC shall pay to the Borrower a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan not withdrawn from time to time 
at the rate stated in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, (iii) ECEPUC shall pay interest, 
on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, calculated in accordance with Section 2.05 of this Agreement, and (iv) ECEPUC 
shall bear all foreign exchange risks between the currency of the Borrower and the 
Bank's currency pool.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
ECEPUC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
Page  5
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon 
to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
ECEPUC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that ECEPUC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The laws, rules and regulations establishing ECEPUC shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of ECEPUC to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ECEPUC or for the suspension of 
its operations.
(e)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of ECEPUC to withdraw or receive the proceeds of 
any loan or 
investment made to ECEPUC for the financing of the 
Project shall have 
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
or ECEPUC 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of 
ECEPUC to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for the Project 
are available to ECEPUC from other sources on 
terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of ECEPUC under the 
Project 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:  
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
Page  6
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
The Borrower's State Council has approved the Loan Agreement; and
 
(b)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and ECEPUC.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank: 
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
ECEPUC, and is legally binding upon ECEPUC in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and ECEPUC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and ECEPUC in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
Page  7
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category            Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1)   Civil works             10,000,000       100% of foreign
                                               expenditures
(2)   Equipment and          260,000,000       100% of foreign
      materials                                expenditures, 100%
                                               of local expendi-
                                               tures (ex-factory
                                               cost), and 75% of
                                               local expenditures
                                               for other items
                                               procured locally
(3)   Consultants'            10,000,000       100%
      services and
      training
(4)   Unallocated             20,000,000
                             ___________
      TOTAL                  300,000,000
Page  8
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to (a) alleviate an acute shortage of peaking 
power and enable more efficient use of power plants, (b) improve the quality of power 
supply and enhancing socio-economic conditions in densely populated East China 
regions, (c) improve load management and promote energy conservation, (d) support 
institutional development of ECEPUC, (e) contribute to the
development of an improved power supply utility regulatory framework, and (f) assist 
in transferring new power technologies and in applying modern power system operation 
optimization methods.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
A.
Construction of Power Facilities
 
1.
Construction of a pumped-storage hydroelectric power plant together with lower 
and upper reservoirs (including bituminous concrete lining), a water conveyance 
system, an underground
powerhouse, and a switchyard.
2.
Provision and installation of six 300-Megawatt reversible pump-turbine units and 
associated equipment.
3.
Erection of 500-Kilovolt transmission lines, about 250 kilometers long, and 
reinforcement of the existing power transmission network.
4.
Provision of selected equipment for civil works and dam safety.
 
5.
Provision of construction management and engineering services.
 
B.
Technical Assistance and Training
 
1.
Carrying out of studies regarding peaking power pricing and optimal power plant 
operation.
2.
Carrying out of a management development and staff training program comprising: 
(a) training in utility management and financial planning, (b) Project related 
training for ECEPUC's technical staff, and (c) upgrading and equipping of ECEPUC's 
training facilities.
3.
Carrying out of an environmental management program to administer and monitor 
the environmental impact of the Project and provision of equipment related thereto.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Page  9
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
February 1, 1999                             
 5,610,000
August 1, 1999                               
 5,815,000
February 1, 2000                             
 6,035,000
August 1, 2000                               
 6,255,000
February 1, 2001                             
 6,490,000
August 1, 2001                               
 6,730,000
February 1, 2002                             
 6,980,000
August 1, 2002                               
 7,240,000
February 1, 2003                             
 7,510,000
August 1, 2003                               
 7,790,000
February 1, 2004                             
 8,080,000
August 1, 2004                               
 8,380,000
February 1, 2005                             
 8,690,000
August 1, 2005                               
 9,010,000
February 1, 2006                             
 9,345,000
August 1, 2006                               
 9,695,000
February 1, 2007                            
10,055,000
August 1, 2007                              
10,425,000
February 1, 2008                            
10,815,000
August 1, 2008                              
11,215,000
February 1, 2009                            
11,635,000
August 1, 2009                              
12,065,000
February 1, 2010                            
12,515,000
August 1, 2010                              
12,980,000
February 1, 2011                            
13,460,000
August 1, 2011                              
13,960,000
February 1, 2012                            
14,480,000
August 1, 2012                              
15,015,000
February 1, 2013                            
15,575,000
August 1, 2013                              
16,150,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable 
to the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  
0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                  
0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                    
0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                 
0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
Page  10
More than 16 years but not                 
0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                  
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2 and 3 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$12,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as 
shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
Page  11
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section  5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
