Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3606 CHA
(Tianhuangping Hydroelectric Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
EAST CHINA ELECTRIC POWER UNITED CORPORATION
Dated August 25, 1993
 LOAN NUMBER 3606 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 25, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and EAST CHINA ELECTRIC POWER UNITED CORPORATION (ECEPUC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to three hundred million dollars ($300,000,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that 
ECEPUC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement entered into between the Borrower and 
ECEPUC, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be relent 
to ECEPUC on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS ECEPUC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set
forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ECEPUC declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and ECEPUC shall otherwise agree, ECEPUC shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. ECEPUC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. ECEPUC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ECEPUC shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) ECEPUC shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
ECEPUC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the
performance by ECEPUC of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ECEPUC
Section 3.01. ECEPUC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ECEPUC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial and engineering practices.
Section 3.03. ECEPUC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
Page  3
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ECEPUC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
ECEPUC shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited and (B) 
the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ECEPUC shall not 
incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of ECEPUC 
shows that the projected
internal cash generation of ECEPUC for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to 
be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt service requirements of 
ECEPUC in such year on all
its debt including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of ECEPUC maturing by its 
terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "internal cash generation of ECEPUC" means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net non-
operating income, excluding receipts for consumer connection 
charges; and
 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration,
provision of maintenance special fund, and sales and income 
taxes and 
payments in lieu of such taxes, but excluding 
provision for 
depreciation, and interest and 
other charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
Page  4
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt, excluding capitalized interest during 
construction.
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by ECEPUC 
not earlier 
than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt in 
question, which both 
the Bank and ECEPUC accept as reasonable and 
as to which the Bank has notified 
ECEPUC of its acceptability, 
provided that no event has occurred since such 
notification which 
has, or may reasonably be expected in the future to have, a 
material adverse effect on the financial condition or future operating results 
of ECEPUC.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ECEPUC shall from 
time to time take, or cause to be taken, all such measures (including, without 
limitation, adjustments of the levels and structure of its electricity tariffs as 
determined by the Borrower) as shall be required to produce, for each of its fiscal 
years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1994, net cash surplus equivalent 
to not less than 30 percent of its average annual investment program.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "net cash surplus" means total operating income minus the 
sum of: (A) 
cash operating expenses; and (B) financial obligations;
 
(ii)
The term "total operating income" means the sum of revenues from 
all sources 
related to operations and net non-operating income;
 
(iii)
The term "cash operating expenses" means the sum of expenses 
related to 
operations, including maintenance and administration 
but excluding 
depreciation; and
 
(iv)
The term "financial obligations" means interest and other charges 
on debt 
(excluding interest during construction), repayment 
of loans (including 
sinking fund payments, if any), all 
taxes or payments in lieu of taxes; 
allocations to special 
funds and other cash distributions of surplus funds 
(including 
mandatory transfers to the Borrower), and any other cash outflows 
(other 
than capital expenditures) related to operations.
Section 4.04.  ECEPUC shall continue to prepare and furnish to the Bank for its 
review, by April 30 of each year, a rolling long-term financial plan containing, inter 
alia, projected income
statements, sources and uses of funds, and balance sheets for each of the next eight 
years.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
Page  5
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of ECEPUC 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify ECEPUC thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For ECEPUC:
East China Electric Power United Corporation
201 Nanjing Road (E)
Shanghai, China 200002
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
2032
33308 ECEPA CN
Shanghai
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ECEPUC may be 
taken or executed by its
General Manager or such other person or persons as the said General Manager shall 
designate in writing, and ECEPUC shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  6
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
EAST CHINA ELECTRIC POWER
   UNITED CORPORATION
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part D hereof, works for upper reservoir bituminous 
concrete lining under Part A.1 of the Project and goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the 
invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, 
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful 
bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed 
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency 
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an 
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Except as provided in sub-paragraph 2 hereof, items or groups of items for 
goods, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of 
evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from at least three
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures 
set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 
2.56 thereof).
2.
Goods, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from 
Page  7
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Except as provided in Part A hereof, civil works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part E:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding sub-paragraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist ECEPUC in carrying out the Project, ECEPUC shall employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance 
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of 
reference for such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single source 
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by 
the Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 
equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
ECEPUC shall, by December 31, 1993, appoint construction management consultants 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
ECEPUC shall: (a) undertake and, by December 31, 1995, complete a study on power 
pricing in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, (b) 
immediately upon completion of the said study, submit the results and recommendations 
thereof to the Bank for its comments, and (c) thereafter take appropriate steps to 
implement said recommendations taking into account comments,  of any, made by the 
Bank.
Page  8
3.
ECEPUC shall: (a) undertake and, by December 31, 1995, complete a study on 
optimal power plant operation in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank, (b) immediately upon completion of the said study, submit the results and 
recommendations thereof to the Bank for its comments, and (c) thereafter take 
appropriate steps to implement said recommendations taking into account comments, if 
any, made by the Bank.
4.
ECEPUC shall carry out an environmental management program, agreed by the Bank, 
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
5.
ECEPUC shall carry out a management development and training program, agreed by 
the Bank, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
6.
ECEPUC shall maintain the Special Board of Consultants, established pursuant to 
its letter dated December 14, 1991, with such membership, functions and powers as 
agreed with the Bank.
7.
ECEPUC shall: (a) by December 31, 1996, prepare a program, satisfactory to the 
Bank, for the maintenance of the pumped-storage hydroelectric power plant and other 
facilities constructed,
provided, installed, and erected under Part A of the Project (collectively referred to 
as the Power Facilities), (b) make adequate arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, 
for the inspection and safety of the Power Facilities including the appointment of 
independent engineering experts, satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out periodic 
inspection of the Power Facilities with a view to
determining their safety in accordance with appropriate engineering practices, (c) 
undertake, promptly after each such inspection, all the repairs of the Power 
Facilities recommended by the said engineering experts, and (d) furnish, or cause to 
be furnished, regularly to the Bank a report regarding the said inspection and 
repairs.
