Document f
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9256
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
TEA REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1240-CE)
DECEMBER 28, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients on'v in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(Rs per US$)
Year                                                Rupees
1981 (Appraisal)                                    19.16  1/
1986 (Completion)                                   28.81  1/
1/  Based on average loan disbursement conversion rates.
FISCAL YEAR
Ja"uary 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOC              Bank of Ceylon
ERR              Economic Rate of Return
GOSL             Government of Sri Lanka
IRR              Internal Rate of Return
JEDB             Janatha Estates Development Board
MIS              Management Information System
MJED             Ministry of Janatha Estates Development
MPI              Ministry of Plantation Industries
MTIP             Medium-Term Investment Programme
NIPM             National Institute of Plantation Management
PCC              Project Coordinating Committee
PCR              Project Completion Report
PY               Project Year
SAR              Staff Appraisal Report
SDR              Special Drawing Rights
SPC              State Plantation Corporation
TA               Technical Assistance
TSDHA            Tea Smallholder Development Authority



OR OFFICL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offce of Dioctgr-Ceneral
OpevatEman Eakiatin
December 28, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Sri Lanka
Tea Rehabilitation and Diversification Prolect (Credit 1240-CE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Sri Lanka:  Tea Rehabilitation and Diversification
Project (Credit 1240-CE)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part II
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT            FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
TEA REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
(Cr.1240-CE)
CONTENTS
PREFACE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .     iii
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . . . . .         1
A.   Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          1
B.   Background .1...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
C.   Project Objectives and Description ... .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    2
D.   Project Design and Organization .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
E.   Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
F.   Project Results .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
G.   Project Sustainability .................... .    -. 10
H. Bank Performance.                                                              11
I. Borrower Performance .11
J.   Project Relationship . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
K.  Consulting Services and Contractors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
L. Project Documentation .12
PART II  - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .*.. .        .  .  .  .  .    .  . 15
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ... .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   17
1.  Related Bank Credits  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .. .....  .  .  .  .   .   17
2.  Project Timetable ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .   .   17
3.  Credit Disbursements  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .   .   17
4.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
5. Project Cost and Financing               ..20
A. Project Cost .20
B. Project Financing .21
6. Project Results                   ..21
A.  Direct Benefits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
B. Economic Impact .21
C. Financial Impact .21
D. Studies .21
7. Status of Covenants                 ..22
8.  Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
A.  Staff Inputs    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
B. Missions .23
TABLES
1.  Tea Rehabilitation Component  ... .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   24
2.  Diversification Component ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   26
MAPS
IBRD 15659R, IBRD 15660R, IBRD 15661R, IBRD 15910
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance   |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
TEA REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
(Credit 1240-CE)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Tea
Rehabilitation and Diversification Project for which a credit of US$20 million
(SDR17.8 million) was approved on May 4, 1982. The Credit closed on September
30, 1986 with the final disbursement made on April 22, 1987. The undisbursed
balance of US$6.5 million (SDR5.4 million) was cancelled.
This report was prepared by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
mission / which visited Sri Lanka in April/May I990.21 It is based, inter
alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit Agreement,
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, the
draft Project Completion Report prepared on behalf of GOSL by a local
consultant and discussions with staff of the various implementing agencies.
1/   Messrs. H. Trupke (Economist, Mission Leader) and K.K. Aw Yong (Agronomist).
2/   FAO/CP's  report was  reviewed  by ASlAG  and,  apart  from  some minor
corrections, remains as submitted.



iii
SRI LANKA
TEA REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
(Credit 1240-CE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMHARY
Obiectives
1.        The main objective of the project was to reduce tea production
costs while improving tea quality. This was to be achieved through the
rehabilitation and diversification of public estates and the rehabilitation of
tea factories managed by the two major Government-owned corporations, the
State Plantation Corporation (SPC) and the Janatha Estate Development Board
(JEDB). The project was to replant and in-fill tea on 5,600 ha, rehabilitate
soil conservation structures on 5,300 ha and diversify 8,200 ha of unprofit-
able low-yielding tea lands into spices and fuelvood. In addition, 62
Government estate and 22 private tea factories were to be rehabilitated, the
management and fina.cial control of SPC and JEDB were to be strengthened, and
the social infrastructure for estate labour improved. In addition, the scope
and modified financial procedures for a smallholder replanting programme were
to be tested on a pilot basis.
Implementation Experience
2.        The project was planned to be implemented over a period of four
years, starting in January 1981 (with retroactive financing) and ending
December 1984. Allowing time for unforeseen delays, the project was expected
to be completed by September 1985 with final disbursements made by September
1986. Total costs were estimated at Rs695 million (US$33.1 million). An IDA
credit ot SDR17.8 million (US$20 million) was made available.
3.        Tea replanting on estate land progressed satisfactorily and 1,513
ha, 86Z of the SAR estimate, were replanted by the end of the project. In-
filling, however, fell short by about 252 of the appraisal target with about
2,915 ha actually covered. This was due to unsatisfactory financial
arrangements and agronomic problems (see para 19). Generally, replanting, in-
filling and subsequent maintenance was carried out in a satisfactory manner.
Soil conservation structures on 4,935 ha (922 of the appraisal target) were
rehabilitated.
4.        The diversification component of the project was planned to be
implemented during a three-year period, beginning in PY2. Insufficient time
for start-up was allowed and tea estate personnel did not have the required
technical knowledge in the cultivation of spices and fuelwood.  These problems
were compounded by a lack of planting m;.-; {al, especially in the case of



iv
pepper and fuelwood, as well as deteriorating prices for cardamoms.
Subsequently, project targets were revised downwards but even the revised
targets could not be fully achieved. At project completion, a total of 5,397
ha, 711 of the appraisal estimate, were diversified (see paras 21 and 22).
Based on a more detailed assessment during implementation, the tea
factory rehabilitatio-n programme was scaled downward.  A total of 58 estate
factories and 16 private factories were rehabilitated, against the appraisal
target of 62 and 22 respectively. Although the programme initially suffered
from some delays and encountered problems in the quality of locally supplied
equipment (see paras 24 and 25), it can be considered successful since both
tea quality and factory labour efficiency has improved (see para 26).
6.        The pilot programme to replant 100 ha of smallholder tea was a
failure, as only 13 ha were replanted. The main problems were delays in
obtaining credit and the csimbersome linkage between subsidy payment and credit
recovery. An already cxisting programme was less complicated and thus
preferred by farmers. As planned, the Tea Smallholder Development Authority
(TSHDA) was strengthened through the recruitment of 21 additional extension
officers (see para 31).
7.        Following the consultant's findings, the social infrastructure
component was scaled down from appraisal estimates and nearly all revised
targets were achieved. The facilities for local training of JEDB and SPC
staff and estate managers were established.  Howev;., due to delays in the
construction of facilities and appointment of local consultants as trainers,
only a few training courses were conducted during the project period.
Generally, the technical assistance (TA) provided was considered useful. Only
the TA to improve the management information system (MIS) did not fulfil
expectations, as the procedures and formats prepared by the consultants proved
to be unsuitable for estate management purposes (see para 30).
8.        Total prGject costs were re-estimated at US$20.9 million.  At the
time of credit closing in September 1986, a balance of US$6.5 (SDR5.4 million)
remained undisbursed and was cancelled. This shortfall in disbursement was
mainly due to the depreciation of the Sri Lankan rupee against the US dollar
(para 12) and the reduction of the diversification component.
Results
9.        At appraisal, it was estimated that without the project the
production of 'made tea' would decline from 24,904 tons to 17,709 tons by the
year 2010. As a result of the project, this decline was expected to be
arrested and a total output of 31,874 tons was expected to be reached by year
2010. However, due mainly to a shortfall of 25? under the in-filling
programme, the PCR mission estimates 2010 production slightly lower at 30,649
tons.
10.       The economic rate of return (ERR) at appraisal was estimated at 29Z
for the project as a whole. The re-estimated ERR of the project is 40X. The
increase is due mainly to the substantial increase in the economic price of
'made tea'. The re-estimated financial rate of return (IRR) for the project



v
as a whole is 132, considerably below the SAR estimate of 21Z. This reduction
can mainly be attributed to the steep increases in daily labour rates,
fertilizer prices and cost of fuel and power which would not fully compensated
by the increase in tea prices.
Sustainability
11.       Generally, field activities and facilities initiated or established
under the project continue to be well maintained. Both the estate and private
factories rehabilitated with project funds are kept in operating order. The
further deterioration of world market prices, especially for cardamom and
cloves, constitutes a risk for the financial viability and sustainability of
the diversification component. It can, however, be assumed that the project
will maintain an acceptable level of net benefits throughout its economic
life.
Findings and Lessons Learned
12.       Although the project can be considered a success, some
subcomponents, especially the diversification programme, suffered design
flaws. The implemention experience suggests a number of specific lessons to
be learned (see paras 39 and 41). More attention should have been paid to the
level of technical knowledge of staff in charge of the diversification
component, to the supply and quality control of planting material and the
capacity and capability of local machinery producers.



- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
TEA REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
( Cr.1240-CE)
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Prolect Identity
Project Name     :  Tea Rehabi'litation and Diversification Project
Credit No.       s  1240-CE
RVP Unit         :  Asia Region
Country              Sri Lanka
Sector           :  Agriculture
Sub-sector       :  Tree Crops
B. Background
1.       Recognizing the pivotal role of agriculture in stimulating economic
growth and rural development, the Government of Sri Lanka's (GOSL) development
plans and programmes have persistently focused on: (a) increasing
agricultural employment, as well as improving income levels; (b) increasing
self-sufficiency in basic food items; and (c) expanding export earnings both
from traditional agricultural exports, (i.e. mainly tea, rubber and coconut)
and 'non-traditional' items such as coffee, cocoa and spices.
2.       The Government's strategy for achieving these objectives has
emphasized better utilization of the existing potential through institutional
and policy improvement and rehabilitation of the production base, including
stepped-up programmes for rehabilitation of plantation tree crops. The tree
crop sector is second only in importance to the food crop sector within Sri
Lanka's agricultural economy. Over the last decade tree crops accounted for
over 70? of total export earnings and provided some 45? of all agricultural
employment. Tea, the most important export crop, was responsible for about
one-third of total export earnings. The total area under tea in 1978 was
estimated at about 240,000 ha, two thirds of which was grown on State-owned
estates. However, the tea sub-sector remained neglected due to uncertainties
of ownership rights prior to nationalisation in 1975. This resulted in a lack
of attention to stand maintenance, replanting, and in-filling and factory
modernization.



3.       In an effort to improve the above situation, GOSL had requested IDA
aasistance. The first tree crop project (Tree Crop Rehabilitation Project:
Cr.818-CE) supported the rehabilitation of high-country tea areas, while the
sabsequent Tree Crops Diversification (Tea) Project (Cr.819-CE) was to assist
the division of u-'rofitable mid-country tea estates into small units to be
planted with various crops such as pepper, cardamom, cloves and fuelwood.
This latter project was approved in 1978, but cancelled in 1980 due mainly to
the opposition of labour unions to the division of estates and the resulting
conversion of their membership to independent farmers. The project under
review, which did not involve the division of the estates, was therefore
launched to support the development of the tea sub-sector.
C. Project Objectives and Description
4.       Objectives.  The major objective of the project wae to reduce tea
production costs while, at the same time, improving tea quality.  This was to
be achieved by: (a) increasing the productivity of existing tea lands in
potential areas of the low and high country; (b) rehabilitating factories;
(c) improving leaf transport; and (d) diversifying out of tea, in unprofitable
low-yielding lands in the mid-country, into minor export crops and fuelwood.
In addition, the project aimed to: (a) strengthen the management and financial
control of the two major Government-ownel tea producing corporations;
(b) stabilize tea producing lands through soil conservation practices; and
(c) improve the welfare of estate workers.
5.       Components.  The project included the fc__owing main components:
(a)  Field Programme:  continuing tea replanting (1,762 ha); and expanding
in-filling programmes in high and low country areas (3,896 ha);
renovation of soil conservation works (5,345 ha) and diversifying
non-viable tea and abandoned tea areas into minor export crops (2,526
ha) and fuelwood plantations (5,683 ha);
(b) Processing and Storage Facilities: expanding and rehabilitating 84
tea factories (62 State and 22 private) and providing 18 cardamom
drying barns;
(c) Providing field and nursery equipment;
(d) Providing additional vehicles for green leaf transport;
(e) Constructing 390 new labour houses, rehabilitating 3,744 line houses
(including the renovation of 1,935 line rooms) and improving water
supplies for estate labour;
(f) Improving project area medical facilities;
(g) Providing local and overseas training and strengthening local
training facilities to improve skills in management and technical
fields;



- 3 -
(h) Providing technical assistance for the housing, medical and factory
components, and ior improving financial management;
(i) Providing extension support for smallholders in a pilot area;
(j)  Providing staff, equi, lent and vehicles to improve 3dministration;
and
(k) Providing funds for future project preparation.
6.       The project was expected to be implemented over a period of four
years at a total cost of US$33.1 million. The project area consisted of three
geographically distinct tea growing regions. The public estate rehabilitation
and diversification components, including the factory rehabilitation,
accounted for over 972 of total costs and were to be implemented by the two
public sector corporations: Janatha Estates Development Board (JEDB) and State
Plantations Corporation (SPC) which then controlled 602 of tea lands and 70?
of tea production. Besides the support from the project, the corporations
were also to receive funds from the Tea Cess for tea and spice planting
programmes, some factory development and 'made tea' production.
D. Project Design and Organization
7.       Design.  The concept of the project was consistent with the
Government's development strategy which emphasized restoring productivity of
the export oriented tree crop sector. The project concept was not
particularly innovative since it was the third project in support of the tea
sub-sector. However, it was the first attempt to diversify unprofitable tea
and abandoned lands into better suited crops under estate management.
8.       The project was prepared by JEDB and SPC with the Ministry of Finance
and Planning acting as coordinator. Since the rehabiliation and
diversification components were designed and appraised by two separate
missions, the project lacked an integrated approach and, due to time
constraints, no study on land utilisation or adequate pre-planning of the
various facets of the project activities was carried out. These shortcomings
required numerous adjustments throughout the life of the project. Also, the
pilot smallholder replanting programme suffered from a cumbersome design of
the financing procedures (see para 31).
9.       Generally, the project had too many components and covered too much
area for easy implementation and supervision, and staff lacked proper training
to administer such a large and complex project. The provision of social
infrastructure, with its many facets, overloaded the project effort, and the
coverage of 84 widely dispersed estates gave rise to numerous logistical
problems. In designing the project, it was erroneously assumed that the tea
estate staff would have the required technical know-how in the cultivation of
spices and fuelwood, and the three-year period allowed for the implementation
of the diversification component was too short. In designing the tea factory
rehabilitation component, more emphasis should have been given to technical
innovation rather than to the replacement of old machinery with similar type



-4-
of equipment (para 25). The timing of the project, however, was most
appropriate as it came in the wake of the then recent liberalization of the
national economic policy.
10.      Organization.  The project was to be implemented mainly by five
individual Regional Boards (JEDB I - Hatton; JEDB II - Kandy; JEDB IV -
Nawalapitiya; SPC I -Matale and SPC IV - Galle) and the Ministry of Janatha
Estates Development (MJED). The three JEDB Regional Boards were to implement
the project in the high and mid-country, whereas the two SPC Regional Boards
were responsible for implementing the project in the low country. Each
implementing body designated an existing Director or Chairman as Project
Director. The Tea Smallholder Development Authority (TSHDA) was responsible
for the pilot tea smallholder support component. A Project Coordinating
Committee (PCC) was set up, with the Secretary of the Ministry of Janatha
Estates Development as Chairman, to coordinate and monitor progress of the
project and remove bottlenecks in implementation.
11.      Loans for private factories and smallholders (about US$1 million)
were to be provided through the Bank of Ceylon (BOC). The roles and
responsibilities of the institutions and agencies responsi' v for project
implementaticn were clearly defined at appraisal and understood by all
parties. The fact that project implementation rested with existing agencies
and institutions, whose roles were already well defined, helped considerably
in achieving most of the project objectives. Moreover, it was mostly the
project's focus on tea replanting, in-filling and factory rehabilitation at
the estate level which contributed to the project's success.
E. ProJect Implementation
12.    Critical Variances in ProJect Implementation.  The project was planned
to be implemented over a period of four years, starting in January 1981 (with
retroactive financing) and ending December 1984. Allowing time for unforeseen
delays, the *) 3ject was expected to be completed by September 1985 and
disbursements by September 1986. It was expected to become effective in
September 1982 but, because of the delay in signing of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) and BOC and the delay in
transfer of all project estates to the JEDB and SPC, it became effective only
on November 18, 1982. An IDA credit of SDR17.8 millior (US$20 million
equivalent) was made available. At the time of credit closing in September
1986, a balance of SDR5.4 million remained unspent. This shortfall in
disbursement was due mainly to the depreciation of the Sri Lankan Rupee
against the US dollar from 19.2 Rupees per US$ in 1981 to about 29.4 Rupees
per USS in 1987; and the downward revision of the diversification component
and other appraisal targets.
13.      About 872 of the area earmarked at appraisal for rehabilitation and
712 of the area to be diversified were actually covered, and the performance
of the smallholder rehabilitation component fell considetably short of
expectation. In addition, the social infrastructure sub-component was
substantially scaled down during implementation (see para 28). However,
allocations for technical assistance and provision for administative support
were overspent, as indicated in paras 30 and 32 respectively.



14.      A more careful preparation of the diversification componenit could
have resulted in a smaller variance between planned and actual implementation.
Since the tea estate corporations had little or no experience with spice and
fuelwood production, it was unduly optimistic to assume that a target of over
8,200 ha could be achieved over a 3-year period. Only 13 ha of smallholder
tea were replanted, against 100 ha estimated at appraisal, which can also
partly be attributed to a shortcoming in the design of this component (see
paras 8 and 31). The lack of detailed background information on the
calculation and breakdown of project costs was a disadvantage to project
implementing staff. As a result, the necessary rapid start-up of the project
was not possible. Over-expenditure on certain allocations and the need for
subsequent reallocation of project funds could also be attributed to
insufficient information on SAR cost calculations.
15.      Project Risks.  The main project risks, the l'mited experience of the
Corporations in spice cultivation and processing, weaknesses in management and
limited participation by smallholders, were correctly identified. However,
the project provided only the support to strengthen management, while
insufficient provision and care in design and formulation was made to minimise
the other risks.
16.      Unforeseen Factors Affecting Proiect Implementation.  The severe
drought in 1983 hqd resulted in high casualty rates, especially in spices. In
many areas the planting of crops, especially peppers, was suspended to allow
the establishment of more shade. Partly as a result of this delay, original
project targets had to be revised and project implementaticn had to continue
well into 1986 to achieve even these downward adjusted targets.
F. Project Results
17.      General.  The project as a whole can be considered a success, as it
has met all of its main objectives, namely to reduce tea production costs
while improving the tea quality, to strengthen management and financial
control of the major tea producing Corporations, to stabilize tea producing
lands through soil conservation and to improve the welfare of estate workers.
The success of the project formed the basis for the formulation of the Fourth
Tree Crop Project (Cr.1562-CE), which was approved by the World Bank Group in
1985.
18.      Field Programme.  At appraisal, it was estimated that a total area of
11.620 ha would benefit from the rehabilitation component of the project.  The
comparison between appraisal targets, revised targets and final achievements
is summarized below:
Category                 SAR               Revised           Final
Estimte           Etimate           Achlvem_nt
(ha)
Replanting tea           1,762             1,618              1,518
In-filling too           8,696             2,916             2,916
Soil conservation        5,846             4,936              4,985
Fuelwood planting         617                992               992
Total                    11,620            10,65             10,855



19.      The most notable variance between appraisal estimates and final
achievements is the shortfall of 25Z under the in-filling programme. The main
reason for this lower level of achievement was the lack of replanting
incentives. The Tea Commissioner was not prepared to pay Tea Cess grants on
teas in-filled during the second year of pruning, which applied mainly for
JEDB I. In addition, in some areas patch in-filling suffered from a high
casualty rate at the patch edges, due to competition for moisture from
Eragrostus. Generally, however, replanting and in-filling, as well as
subsequent maintenance, was carried out in a satisfactory manner.
20.      At appraisal, it was estimated that without the project, the
production of 'made tea' would decline from 24,904 tons to 17,709 tons by the
year 2010. As a result of the project, this decline was expected to be
arrested and a total output of 31,874 tons would be reached by 2010. Due
mainly to the reduced in-filling programme, a slight downward adjustment of
the long-term production forecast seems necessary as shown below:
Incremental Production of Made Tea   1990          2000          2010
----------'000 kg ------------
SAR                                    6,119       11,244        14,165
PCR                                    8,009       11,175        12,940
21.      The diversification component comprised the establishment of pepper,
cardamom, cloves and fuelwood to replace non-viable mid-country tea. In
addition, fuelwood was planted on abandoned tea lands to supply factories, to
provide shelter belts and to aid soil conservation. A crop-wise comparison
between SAR targets, revised targets and final achievements is given below:
Crop                  SAR               Revised            Final
Estimate          Estimate           Achievement
------------ ---------(ha) ----------------
Pepper                1,071                713                603
Cardamom              1,105                949                905
Cloves                  350                294                301
Sub-total            2,526               1,956              1,809
Fuelwood              5,066             3,872              3,588
Total                 7,592             5,828              5,397
22.      The reduction in the area under pepper was mainly a response to the
drought conditions, the lack of planting material in the early stages of the
project and casualties after planting, since shade trees were not planted in



advance. The lower than anticipated cardamom plt.ntings were mainly a
reflection of the considerably deteriorating prices for cardamom in the world
market and subsequent low returns. This is also reflected in the reduced
programme for construction of cardamom drying barns. In addition, the whole
spice programme suffered from difficulties in obtaining high quality planting
material in adequate quantities. During a reassessment of the estate land, it
was found that a number of areas were above the considered economically viable
minimum yield of 700 kg of made tea per :;ectare and were therefore not
diversified into spices and fuelwood. As a result of this finding, most of
the fuelwood planting (about 2,400 ha) took place on abandoned tea land and
only 1,188 ha of non-viable mid-country tea was replaced by fuelwood, against
the SAR estimate of 2,481 ha. The fuelwood programme also suffered from a
lack of planting material and mixed varieties. Another factor that influenced
the downward revision of the diversification targets was the objection of
labour unions, fearing that rapid diversification would result in labour
displacement.
23.      Factory Rehabilitation.  Tea factory rehabilitation was envisaged to
take place in 32 JEDB, 30 SPC and 22 private factories processing their own
and smallholder leaf, totalling 84 factories in all. Subsequent to an
asEessment by the factory rehabilitation consultants, this target was reduced
slightly and 29 JEDB factories, 29 SPC factories and 16 private factories,
totalling 74, were renovated. Factory rehabilitation also progressed slower
than anticipated, as it generally suffered from late delivery of equipment and
delayed commissioning.
24.      Most of the private tea factories were heavily indebted, with
mortgages on all fixed assets. It was only after the agreement of BOC to
consider the new factory equipment, to be provided under the project, as
movable assets and suitable for collateral, that loan disbursement could
commence. A total of Rsl9.8 million were disbursed against SAR estimates of
Rs24.6 million. In spite of these start-up problems, the implementation of
the component as per the revised target was completed on time for credit
closing. All rehabilitated factories are reported to be operating at improved
performance levels. Repayment of the private factory rehabilitation loans is
reported by BOC to be progressing satisfactorily.
25.      Poor quality of the new factory equipment supplied, especially of
furnaces and driers, constituted the main problem in implementing this
component (see para 43). This problem should have been rectified at an early
stage. In addition more emphasis should have been given to innovation rather
than to the replacement of factory equipment. For instance, provisions should
have been made for colour separators to expedite tea cleaning and larger
factories should have been provided with standby power to avoid production
losses during extensive power failure. The related green leaf transport sub-
component, consisting mainly of the purchase of vehicles, was implemented
without any major deviation and has speeded up the transport of tea leaves
from the fields to the factories.
26.      No detailed figures were available to evaluate the impact of the
factory rehabilitation component. However, based on a sample survey of ten
factories carried out by a local consultant on behalf of MJED, the average net



sales price of 'made tea' is estimated to be about 62 higher than without
project intervention. Also, the share of main grades has increased by 2.45Z
on the aveLage through project intervention. Further, the average output per
factory worker has increased by 7.14 kg of 'made tea' per day.
27.      Field and Nursery Equipment.  The main variance under the
rehabilitation component was that 1,841 knapsack sprayers were bought against
an appraisal estimate of only 933. Under the diversification component, less
water pumps were purchased but sprinkler systems increased. Cardamom drying
barns were reduced from 18 to 10 (see para 6.6) and also only 8 pepper drying
floors were constructed, due to the scaling down of the pepper planting
programme.
28.      Social Infrastructure.  The investment included the upgrading of
labour housing on tea estates and the improvement of medical facilities. The
implementation performance of selected main sub-components is st'mmarized
below:
C.o"nent                 SAR               Revised            Final
Estimat           Estimat           Achievmont
----------(units)----------
Renovation of lIin; rooms    1,936        1,627              1,160
Construction of twin cottages  890           824               86e
Improvwe_nt of dispensaries   107             6S                41
Construction of now         7                  7                 6
dispensaries
Procurement of ambulance*  go                 28                25
The main divergence occurred in the renovation of line rooms where 602 of the
SAR target (762 of the revised target) was achieved due to a lack of skilled
construction workers, materials and alternative accommodations during the
construction period. Also, the targets under the medical sub-component were
not reached. However, only indicative provision was made at appraisal, with
details to be prepared by the medical consultant provided under technical
assistance. As a result of that review, most of the physical and financial
targets were adjusted downwards.
29.      Staff Development and Training.  As planned at appraisal, a staff
development and training coordinating capability was established within the
National Institute of Plantation Management (NIPM) of the MPI, with the
objective of improving management and technical skills of the JEDB and SPC
Boards, as well as estate managers. However, due to delays in the allocation
of adequate buildings to NIPH and administrative difficulties in the
appointment of local training consultants, only a few training courses were
organized during the project period. The overseas training course programme
was disrupted due to the civil disturbances, and only 76 man-months of the 95
man-months allocated were utilized. No records were kept of the placement of



people trained, although it was reported that not more than 50Z of the staff
trained continuei with the respective organizations.
30.      Technical Assistance.  Twenty-nine man-months of local expertise and
16 man-months of international assistance were provided, mainly to improve the
management information system (MIS) and management procedures within the JEDB
and SPC. These consultancies were fully utilised, but the MIS formats
prepared were unsatisfactory for estate management purposes and did not
provide the Regional Boards with adequate information to monitor estate
management. Technical assistance (TA) was also provided for the housing
programme (42 man-months), the medical programme (8 man-months) and for
factory rationalization (8 man-months). In addition, a 7 man-month
consultancy was allocated to the TSHDA to carry out an evaluation of each
proposal for private factory rehabilitation; and 3 man-months of cor.sultancy
time was approved for the computerization of the corporations. All the
consultancies were fully utilized and, except for the MIS, considered
beneficial in supporting project activities.
31.      Tea Smallholder Assistance.  Under this pilot programme, a total of
100 ha of smallholder tea was to be replanted. New financial arrangements
were developed, whereby farmers had to obtain a commercial loan for the
purchase of clonal planting material, with recovery being made by TSHDA from
the Government replanting cess. Only 13 ha were replanted, and the shortfall
can be attributed mainly to delays in obtaining credit and the cumbersome
linkage between replanting payments and credit recovery which required farmers
to deal with two different agencies. The already existing Tea Cess replanting
grant programme of TSHDA required farmers only to deal with one agency and was
thus preferred by them.
32.      Administrative Support.  Under this component, provision was made for
office improvement, purchase of equipment and vehicles for estate personnel
transport and trucks for the collection of spices and transport of fuelwood.
The financial allocation for the component was considerably overspent, due
mainly to the additional procurement of 18 trucks, 38 tractors and 16
trailers, as well as equipment for soil analysis.
33.      Prolect Preparr ion.  As a basis for future project preparation,
funds were allocated by ! project to SPC and JEDB to prepare a Medium-Term
Investment Program (MT!k, based on a field-by-field classification of estates.
However, additional consultancy funds were required to complete the investment
plan, which were charged against the TA allocation. The Fourth Tree Crop
Project (Cr.1562-CE) was formulated taking into account the findings of the
MTIP study.
34.      Economic Rate    R aeturn.  At tpraisal, the economic rate of return
(ERR) was estimated at 29Z for the project f' a whole and at 30? and 26Z for
the rehabilitation and diversification compo..ants respectively. Using 1990
constant prices, the re-estimated ERR amounts to 402 for the project as a
whole, 472 and 26Z for its two cotpoltiiL;S respEetively. The higher re-
evaluated ERR is mainly due to a substantial increase in the economic price of
'made tea'.



- 10 -
35.      Financial Performance.  The main financial benefits were to come from
a reduction in tea operating costs, a more effective use of fertilizers and
agro-chemicals and savings of fuel and power due to the use of more efficie.it
factory machinery. Cost data available to the mission were not sufficiently
detailed to allow verification of attained cost savings. The financial rate
of return (IRR) for the project as a whole was estimated, at appraisal, at
about 21Z, 19? for the rehabilitation component and 242 for the
diversification component. The recalculated IRRs amount to 13?, 12X and 162
for the project as a whole and its two components respectively. The reducti3n
can partly be attributed to the steep increase in daily labour rates from
Rs11.69 in 1981 to Rs4l.96 in 1989 for female labour and frem Rsl4.04 to
Rs4l.96 for male labour. Fertilizer, fuel, and power costs increased from
Rsl7.0/kg of made tea in 1981 to Rs49.93/kg of made tea in 1989. These
increased cost components were not fully reflected by increasing tea prices.
In the case of the diversification comp-nent, increasing labour costs were
compounded by a decrease in the commodity prices. For instance, pepper prices
decreased from Rs101.88/kg in 1987 to Rs69.09 in 1989. The recalculated rate
of return for the diversification component is further depressed due to the
reduction in the area actually covered.
36.      Project Impact.  Through the improvement of the production base, the
project had a significant impact on the tea sector, halting the previously
encountered trend of declining production and productivity of the tea estates
in the project area.    In particular, the in-filling and the rehabilitation
of soil conservation structures and drains, as well as the fuelwood planting
programme, had a positive influence on the physical environment, halting gully
erosion and top soil losses on over 12,000 ha. Through factory rehabilita-
tion, more efficient and cost effective technology was introduced. The
conversion of driers from oil to wood from rubber trees resulted in reduced
foreign exchange requirements for energy.
37.      The social environment was ameliorated through the improvement of
estate labour housing and medical infrastructure aud services. The
institutions involved in project implementation benefitted considerably from
the project, as their staff capabilities were upgraded and/or increased.
Their managerial, financial and operational capacities were also improved.
G. Project Sustainability
38.      Generally, field activities and facilities initiated/established
under the project, continue to be well maintained and both the estate and
private factories rehabilitated with project funds are kept in operating
order. The further deterioration of world market prices, especially for
cardamom and cloves, constitutes a risk for the financial viability and
sustainability of the diversification component. Generally, however, it can
be assumed that the project will maintain an acceptable level of net benefits
throughout its economic life.



- 11 -
H. Bank Performance
39.      The Bank performed well from identification through project
appraisal. A total of six supervision missions were fielded between August
1982 and September 19L6, generally with about 8-month intervals. Only the
last supervision mission took place over 14 months after the previous mission
(see Part III/8). Main lessons learned from project implementation that may
be relevant to other Bank-financed projects are:
(a) Where large-scale introduction of new crops on existing estates is
envisaged, prior assessment of the technical capability of staff to
carry out such a programme would be required. Alternatively a pilot
project approach could be undertaken (see para 14).
(b) Before launching any large-scale planting programme, the availability
of adequate planting material would have to be assured (see para 22).
(c) When local procurement of large quantities of highly specialized
factory equipment is envisaged, the capability of the local producers
to deliver quality products in a timely manner has to be ensured (see
paras 25 and 43).
(d) When launching a major factory rehabilitation programme, besides
renovation, emphasis should be given to innovation to modernize the
industry and enhance productivity (see para 25).
(e) If new loan disbursement procedures for smallholder programmes are
developed for project purposes, care must be taken that they do not
become obstacles to project implementation but rather provide
incentives for participation (see para 31).
(f) The experience of this project shows that it is feasible to have a
successful project run by public sector enterprises if they are
financially and managerially strengthened.
I. Borrower Performance
40.      The Borrower performed well throughout the whole project.  The
project coordinator, project managers at regional level, and their staff
showed dedication to their duties. The Project Coordinating Committee,
besides playing a vital role in coordinating the numerous activities, ensured
that procurement procedures, disbursement procedures and progress reporting
requirements were adhered to. The Planning Units established in the Head
Offices of both Corporations also performed their tasks well.
41.      The Borrower adopted all the agreed covenants (see Part III/7),
except for those requiring regular submission of audited accounts, which were
submitted with considerable delays. The draft PCR preparation was one year
behind schedule. The main experiences gained by the borrower were:
(a) Tenders for complex technical installations including civil works,
equipment and auxiliary supplies should be issued on a package basis,



- 12 -
rather than by single components ensuring proper coordination of
deliveries and avoiding unnecessary delays (see para 43).
(b) Adequate staff allocation should be made to ensure timely auditing,
in compliance with the respective covenants.
(c) Care should be taken in selecting suitably qualified consultants to
develop monitoring and evaluation systems (see para 30).
J. Project Relationship
42.      The Bank-Borrower relationship was satisfactory throughout the
project period. A fruitful dialogue was maintained between GOSL, implementing
agencies and the Bank. All ministries and agencies collaborated fully with
the World Bank missions at the preparation and appraisal stages. The
constructive approach to supervision adopted by both the Bank and the
Borrower, including the willingness to make adjustments when the need became
evident, more than compensated for any oversights (or judgements based on
insufficient information) at preparation/appraisal.
K. Consulting Services and Contractors
43.      The function and performance of consultants has already been
described in para 30. Contractors and suppliers played a major role in the
project. At appraisal, approximately 22Z of total project costs were
estimated to be incurred for factory rehabilitation consisting of civil works
but mainly the supply of machinery and equipment. Civil works for factories
were generally carried out in a satisfactory manner. Serious problems arose
with factory equipment, especially furnaces, driers and rollers due to poor
casting and/or finishing. Furthermore, due to inadequate back-up service from
manufacturers, delays were encountered during commissioning. The
manufacturers stated that most of these problems were due to cash flow
problems and difficulties in retaining qualified staff. In some cases serious
delays occurred due to a lack of coordination between civil works,
installation of machinery and auxiliary works required (such as the provision
of switch gear for power supply), as separate tenders were issued for each
individual activity. The standard of civil works of the estate labour housing
programme was not always satisfactory which can be partly attributed to the
use of low quality material and unskilled labour.
L. Project Documentation
44.      The main documents governing project implementation were the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Development Credit Agreement, a Project Agreement
between IDA, SPC and JEDB and a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOSL and
BOC.  All documents were t nerally well prepared and adhered to.  However, due
mainly to the numerous subsequent changes required, their usefulness to the
Bank and the Borrower in monitoring the achievement of physical and financial
targets throughout the project implementation period was limited.
45.      On behalf of GOSL, a locally recruited consultant had prepared a
draft project completion report containing valuable data and information which



- 13 -
has oeen drawn upon heavily in preparing the current document.   Due to the
considerable time gap between project completion and the preparation of this PCR
by the CP, a still on-going reorganization of the State Sector, and changes in
the plantation management system, most additional data were not readily
available.  Durir- the short stay of the PCR mission in the country, field visits
were made only to two out of a total of 84 tea estates to evaluate the
perforwance of low-country tea. No visit could be arranged to tea estates in
the high-country, owing to difficulties caused by the restructuring process.
It was not, therefore, possible to collect andlor generate all the data required
for a thorough financial and economic analysis and, where data were not
available, the results presented are based on mission estimates. This clearly
reinforces the need to start PCR preparation soon after credit closing date.



- 15 -
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
46.      The draft PCR was reviewed by senior Government officials and the
factual information was found to be adequate and accurate.
47.      The performance of the Bank was in general satisfactory.  In particular,
the regular supervision missions helped to solve implementation problems and make
necessary adjustments promptly.  Also, the establishment of a Special Dollar
Account during the latter part of the project period proved most useful.
However, consideration could have been given to the following aspects:
(a) In the formulation of a new project such as diversifying tea into minor
export crops, there must be assurance that staff have the required
technical know-how, soils are suitable and that the supply of planting
material would be adequate. In addition, detailed market research and
cost benefit analyses should be carried out.
(b) Sufficient time should be given to the Borrower in the planning and
preparation of any proposed project.
(c) In the case of disbursements, the Borrower should be advised for each
transaction on the currency of expenditure, as well as the US dollar
and SDR equivalent, to facilitate comparison between actually incurred
cost and SAR estimates.
(d) The Borrower should be given sufficient notice on mission arrivals and
requirements to enable timely preparation of relevant information.
48.      The performance of the Borrower is appropriately reflected in paras 40
and 41.  Additional lessons learned are as follows:
(a) All staff involved in project implementation should be fully briefed
on the project's concept and objectives, as well as their respective
duties and responsibilities, at the onset of the project.
(b) Systematic compilation of data in tabulated form by individual estates
would facilitate the monitoring and evaluation of requirements,
performance and compilation of data at regional and headquarters
level.
(c) Effective monitoring would provide better control of financial
allocations, expenditure and savings.
49.      The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower during the evolution
and implementation of the project was satisfactory (see para 42).



- 17 -
PART III
1. Related Bank Credits
creitl                 Purpe                                 DoeW.l   sXtus          c     t
Title
Tree Crop Reheb.       To improve economic efficiency of     1978       Cospleted    Estate i sproveaent has been a
(Te) Project          tea industry and to improve toa                                succeese  II private teo
(Cr.818-CE)           quality,                                                       factory and saml holder cc.-
pgneiite wore a fa ilure.
Tres Crop Divereifice-  Division of unprofitabl cid-country  1978       Cancelled    Opposition of labour union to
tion 0..) Project      toa eatatee into mm1I unite to be                in 19o      the breakdown of estat  pre-
(Cr .819-CE)           planted to a divereity of crops                               vented full project implemen-
including spiceas, ruit trees and                             tation.
fuelIood.
Fourth Tree Crop       To increase production of two, rubber    1986    On-going     The physical progres of the
Project (Cr.1562-CE)    and coconuts by rehabilitating produc-                       project io *ntie actory.
tion facilit',s and improving the
perforeance of JEWO and SPC.
2. Project Timetable
Ite                                      Date Planned                       Date Actual
Identification                                                              November 1979
Preparation                                                                 July 1980
Appraisal Mission                        February 1981                      October 1981
Credit Negotiations                      July 1981                          March 1982
Board Approval                           September 1981                     May 1982
Credit Signature                                                            June 1982
Credit Effectiveness                     September 1982                     Ncoember 1982
Projct Completion                        December 1984  1/                  September 1986
Credit Closing                           September 1986                     September 1986  2/
Credit Completion                        March 1987                         April 1987
1/  With a provision for a slippage, due to unforeseon delays, (up to September 1986).
2/  With an informal extension of six months to Uarch 30, 1987.
3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbureemente
In SDR  IlIlon and US$ million
World Bank Fiscal Year    1962/O3              1983/84         1984/86         1986/8S          1966/87
Appraisal Estimate (USS)    1.0                  8.1             8.1             18.1              20.0
Actual (US$)                     0.2             2.4             6.2             11.8              1386
Actual as X of Estimate
(USS)                            0.2            77.4            78.6             62.4             67.5
Dote of Final Disbursemnt: April 22, 1987



- 18 -
4.  Project Implementatioll
Key Indleators - Physical Pr"gs
Unit       SAR           Revisd          Actual
Target         Taret
REHABILUTATION COMPONENT
Field Development
Replanting                                  ha        1,762          1,518           1,618
In-fiIling                                 he         8,896          2,916          2,916
Soil Conservation                           ha        5,B46          4,936           4,936
Fuclwood Production                         he        617            992             992
Field and Nursery Equipumnt
Mist blowers                                no.       890            818             818
Power winders                               no.       8              6               6
Hand winders                                no.       20             22              22
Knapsack sprayers                           no.       938            1,746           1,841
Weighing scales                             no.       530            612             812
Green Leaf Transport
Tractors                                    no.       106            106             106
Trailers                                    no.       210            210             210
Trucks                                      no.       73             78              76
Fuel browsers                               no.       6              6               12
Link roads                                  km        14             -               -
Hiousing
Renovation of lines                         no.       1,935          1,627           1,160
Community bathing facilities               no.        281            127            67
Renewal of water pumps                      no.       4,208          -               -
Water tanks                                 no.       210            187             104
Renovation of roofs and drains              no.       1,809          2,079          2,126
Water pumps                                 no.       50             5               18
New twin cottag9e                          no.        390            824            888
Staff quarters                              no.       -              -              89
Melcal Services
Ronovation of dispensaries                  no.       2              n.r.            6
Upgrading of dispensarios                   no.       49             n.r.           20
Now dispensaries                            no.       7              n.r.           6
Ambulances                                 no.        if             n.r.            12
Motorcycloe                                 no.       58             88             26
Dispensary equipment                        no.       58             n.r.            19
Adhinltrativo Support
Estate office equipment                    no.        74             --
Project headquarters equipment             to.        8              -               -
Microcomputers                             no.        3              3              2
Jeeps                                      no.        51             57             64
Motorcycles                                no.        91             89             88
Saloon cars                                 no.       26             10              18
Mini bus                                   no.        1              1              1
Field equipment                            no.        -              1
DIVERSIFICATION COMPONENT
Field Programs
Pepper                                      ha        1,071          718            608



- 19 -
Cloeves                                    he         860           294             801
Cardaomm                                   he         1,105         949             905
Fuelwood                                   he        5,066          8,072           8,563
FI,eld tquipmet and Civil Works
Water PUmr q                               no.        74            29             1i
Sprinklero                                 no.       74             182             114
Knapsack p prayers                         no.        125            124 
Spring balance scale.                      no.       46             48             48
Winnwreoes                                 no.       44             27             6
Cardamom barns                             no.        16181
Mist blowers                               no.       2                             20
Popper dryingo floors                       o.       26             28             B
Platform scales                            no.       45             66             7
Mechanical bush cutters                    no.       -              16             16
Soil Injectors                             no.       -              20             20
Admiaistrativ. Support and Wobblies
Project office oquipmnt                    no.       74             76              19
Project headquarters equipment             no.        8             2               1
Extension - project office                 no.       1              n.r.           1
Jeeps                                      no.       17             44             45
Motorcycles                                no.       44             61             61
Saloon care                                no.       26             1               I
Tractores                                  no.       -              8S             83
Trailers                                   no.       -              45             60
8-ton trucks                               no.       2              2              2
2-ton trucks                               no.       -              16             16
MedCal Se~rvices
Upgrading dispensaries                     no.        56            14              16
Ambulances                                 no.        15            18              18
Motorcycles                                no.       so             85             26
Dispensary equipment                       no.       47             -               -



5.  Project Costs and FinancingA
A. Proec t Cost
Appraisal Estmtaec                                                   Acteal 1/
Local           Foreign           Tot"l             F.E.      Local              Foreign 2/      Total
---  (USSOC0O) ----------                     -------- -(US$VOCO)-   --
F7-ld RehabilItation           8,848           851               4,299             is        3,896             087               4,53
Field Diversif cation         2,792            871               8,163             12         1,749            238               1,987
Factory Equipment             4,409            2,979             7,448             40        4,219              2,812            7,031
Processing and Storage         172             6a                286               27        -                  -                 n.a. 3/
Field A Nursery Equipment     862              241               603               40        290                193                483
Green Leaf Transport          296              1,282             1,668             81        328                1,378            1,701
Support (Vehicles) for
Diversification                122             198               820               62         S1l               883              1,344 4/
Housing                        1,S08           SW8               2,094             28         1,822             514              1,836
kedical                       210              848              653                62         102              l16                 268
Training                      884              444               778               57        129                171                800
Technical Assistance          114              106               220               48        185                171                368
Project Preparation           48               2                 48                c         -                  -                 n.a. S/ 
Adminietrative Support         394             444               838               53        497                Sol              1,058
Total _Ba   Coa*               14,487          7,690             22,152            J4         -
Physical Contingency          879              885               1,274             81        -
Price Contingency             8,871            2,806             9.077             29         -
TOTAL COSTS                   22,217           10,J91           $8,100             83         1,228             7,724           20,947
1/  Figures in USE *wre derivwd from actual rurse figures as provided by MJED. Small discrepancies are due to conversion and rounding.
2/ The foreign exchange component is basd on appraisal estimates.
8/ Included In Support (Vehicles) for diversification.
4/  Includes a lso administrative support to Diversification as well as processing and storage.
S/ Included In Techical Assistance.



- 21 -
S. Project Financing
S0Urce                                 Planned                 Final
USS1imlIIon              (B)                   USS million              (S)
IDA  (Total)                           20.0                      60.4                  18.5                     64.6
1. Civil works and                      2.7                                           3.8
materials
2. Equipmnt and  vehicles   18.8                                                      9.8
8. Consultants'  services               1.6                                           0.4
and training
4. Unallocated                          2.0                                            -
OSL and Agencies                  13.0                       39.8                7.4                       36.4
Smallholdern                        0.1                        0.8                negligible               negligible
TOTAL                                  83.1                     100.0                 20.9                     100.0
6. Project Results
A. Direct SBnfits
Apr i_al                      r;tiin- at                     Estim_    at
Et  to                        Closing Do"                    Ful I Oelqemnt
1  Incremental too production ('000 kg 14,165                            12.940                         12.940
ado te, - yeOe 2010)
2. Pepper production (mtric tons)         1,607                          906                            906
3. Clove production  (metric tons)        105                            111                            120
4. Cerdamm production (m_tric tone)   166                                v                              77
S. Fuslwood production (m)                151.980                        4B7.000                        487,000
NB.  For  pic.., and fuwlwood. the coparieon between appraisal end                aeng dte *tiat -e is based on 1993 .etivetes.  Although
the SAR anticipate. that wood harvesting would continue boyond 10QS, ctrrent practicee indicate that all firewood planted during
the project would have to be entirely replanted thereafter.
B. Ecomoml#- apnact
Artprsal Estimto    PCR
Esanosic at. eof eturn,.
Project as a whole                                                   2V                               40t
Rehabilitation component                                              WSO                             47#
Diversification component                                            26X                              26V
Ihdrlying Asumptione:
Increoental tea production                                           14.1bS                           12.940
('000 ke ends tea - year 2010)
Benefits from iaproved tea quality                                   Include'                         Included
Benefit, from reduced production coat                                Include,                         Included
Benefits from spice and fuolwood prodiCtion                          Include.                         Included
Period of analysis                                                   30 years                         30 years
Cnto:  Th, re-evaluation use carried out in constant 1990 pricee usir.il World Bank Commodity Price Forecasts for 1995.  On this
basie. the economic price for tea wa, satiented at R*62.35/kg.  Financial roat, have been converted into border price  by using
conversion factors estimated during the appraisal of the Fourth Tree Crops Vlrcect as follows:
Field Development                                                       0.59
Field and Nursery Equipment                           0.82
Factory Rehabilitation'                               0.75
Housing                                               0.75
Vehiclca                                              0.78
Medical/Support Component                             0.73
Standard Conversion Factor                            0.65
Economic prices for wood and popper were deore,' from the financial pricee by using a CF of 1.10. while those foe cloves using a
CF of 1.06 and a CF of 1.05 for cardamom.
C. Financial Impact
SAR Estiate                     Actual
Financial  ratee of  retu :
(a)  For the projoet as a whole                                        21X                              13X
(b) For the  -ehabilitation  component                                 191                              12X
(e)  For the  Jivorsification  component                               24X                              16X
D. Studies
stud                                           l4oro   *- Defaine  at  mraimel                              Stw_
Medium-Term Inweotment Programme               To undertake a field-by-field claea.fication of  aestas Draft completed
to draw up a medium-teor invnetoent programs a, a
basis for futur  projoect preparation.



- 22 -
7. Status of Covenants
Covenant       Subject                                        Status
Cred. 3.01C & Borrower shall relend $17.5 million to          Complied
D           SPC & JEDB and $1 million to BOC.
Cred. 4.02    Projected and actual tea profit levels          Complied
to be revised by 5/31/83 and by each
May 31 thereafter.
Cred. 6.01A   Project agreements ratified.                    Complied
Cred. 6.01B   Subsidiary loan agreements with JEDB            Complied
and SPC executed.
Cred. 6.01C   Subsidiary loan agreement with Bank of          Complied
Ceylon executed.
Cred. 6.01D   Management consultants appointed.               Complied
Cred. 6.01E   Project lands transferred to JEDB and SPC.   Complied
Insure imported goods financed out of          Complied
Proj. 2.03A & credit up to delivery at site.
B
Proj. 2.04A   SPC and JEDB to use all goods and               Complied
services financed out of the Credit
exclusively for projects. SPC and JEDB to
furnish IDA plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents, etc.
Proj. 2.04B   Maintain adequate records and procedures to  Complied
record Lad monitor progress of project;
provide access to facilities and construc-
tion sites.
Proj. 2.04D   Prepare prcject completion report.              Started with
over one
year delay
Proj. 2.06    SPC and JEDB shall appoint project              Complied
directors.
Proj. 3.04A   Review recommendations of management            Complied
consultants.
Proj. 3.04B   Begin implementation of recommendations.        Complied
Proj. 4.02B   Furnish financial statements within four        Were submitted
months of FY end and audit report within       with
eight months.                                  substantial
delays
Proj. 4.03A   Maintain long-term debt/equity ratio of not  Complied
more than 70:30.
Proj. 4.03B   Maint&in current ratios of at least 1:3:1    Complied
Proj. 4.04    SPC and JEDB will select fields for             Complied
replanting according to
satisfactory criteria.



8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Took        Pr.-         FY78         FY79         FW0          FY81         FM82        FY83         FY4          FYt85        F            FM7          FY8          FY           FYq0        Total
FY78
LENP        -            -            -            1.6          17.1        -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            18.7
LENA        -            -            -            -           85.5         43.5         -            -             -           -            -            -            -            -            129.0
LENN        -            -            -            -            -                                                  -.7  -  -                              -            -            -            5.7
LOP         -            -            -            -            1.7         5.5          -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -           7.2
SPN         -            -            -            -            -            1.6         13.9         8.6          5.7          2.5          3.6          -            -            -           35.9
PCR            -         -            -            -            -           -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -           0.1          0.1
PIR         -            -            -            -            -           -            -            -            -            0.2          -            -            -            -           0.2
PAD         -            -            -            -           -            -            0.1          -            -            -            -            -            -            -           0.1
Totel       -            -            -            1.6          104.3       86.a         14.0         6.6          5.7          2.           8.6          -            -            0.1          1"6.
LENP  -  Activities prier to Appraisal
LcENA  -  Act iitiea related to Appraisal.
LENN  -   egoti tian activiti s.
LOP   -  Pre-appaial sind Appraisal work by Country Departcont.
SPN   -  Supervision tis.
PCR   -  PCR preparation ties.
PIR     -  Project ispleention rev.aw.
PAD       Project adaini,tration work during Supervisien stage.
B. Missions
Stag  of Project C'Ycla      Mntb/Yaar  1/               Ml. of Parons  2/               0y  in Field                Speicl ;ation Rtsrcssntd  Pformcc  Illte ;            4/   Types o1 Problmm  S/
3/ 
Pre-idsentificstion          11/79                        1                            10                            A
Pro-appraisal Mis ion       7/80                             2 a                       20                            A.E
Appraisal Miaaion 1         2/81                          4                            30                            FA.A,E,E
Appraisal Mission 2          10/81                        4                            27                            A.A,E,T
Supervision 1               8/82                          1                            9                             FA                           1                             F."
Supervision 2               4/83                             2 a                       7                             FA,A                         1                             F,M
Supervision 3                12/83                        1                            7                             E                            1                             T
Supervision 4               8/64                          1                            5                             A                            I                             n
Superv;sion S               3/88                          2                            8                             A,AC                         1                             H
Supervision 6                7/86                            3 a                       5                             E,TC.FA                      1                             M
Closing Mission  6/          1/87                            3 a                        10                           E,A.AC
1/ Date of return to hsadquarters.
2   Multiple purpose sieions  lsrked (e).
3/  A* Agriculturalist;  AC - Accountancy;  E a Econosist   FA a Financial Analyst;  T   Training Specialist;  TC . Tree Crops Specialist.
4/  1 * Problom-free or minor proble.  2 * Modorate probiem.  3 * Major problem.
5/  F a Financil. 11 a Managerial.  T * Technical.
6/ Mission to reviee status of withdrawal applications and status of PCR preparation.
Cests:  The project sac prepared in two stages:  i.e. the preparation report. for rehabilitation wara completd by the implementing agency in Jsnuary 1981
and appraised during February 1981 by a Bank sesion.  During this appraieal.  some of the area proposed for frhabilitation was found to be more -,itable for
diveraification.  An agrea  nt was reached to prepare a diversification component.  The preparation report for this was proesnted in June 19U1 and the
component was appraised during September/October 1981.



SRI tANRA
Yea RehabIlltation Component
000 Rs.
Year                1981         1982        1913         1984         1985        1986         198?         1988        1989        I190         1991         1992        13          1994        I99S
Tea ProdctImi (000 kg.)
With Project                            25016        27016        25403       28888        29291        28363       26963        28275        29265       29852        33224        30569       30649       30649        30649
Without Project                         24904        25S34        26047       2s793        2S263        24702       2312S        23120        22448       21843        21606        21369       21132       20898        20659
lrRentel T   Pc.                               112        1482         .644        3073         4028         3661        3238         SISS         6817        8009         8618         9200        9817        9784         9990
Fire  dpro  c.(000u3)                            0            0           0            0            0           0            0           0            0            0           18          47          212         86            0
1Te  Re ea  - with                         4202         632730      IOW  4     1314359       976192       862996     1060657    1177426        1461171     1490510      IS09084      1526310     1530305    153030S       1530305
- without                      423639      594648      1027459      1165994      834494       743326       914692      950474      1099688      1067894     1073394      1059942      1044568    1030246      1016031
F1r00                                                                                                                        0                                     0        4OOO500     21750        53W0       2180O            0
lnccetel SiW iz dy                            1788        4336         6032         8413        5339         7079       14336        19227         6747            0
Total IrCxi. Rewe                          3648       42418       -12383      156778       147037       126749      160301       246179       368230      402616       440190       478118      838737      521SS9       514274 s
Incr. Ielies adjusted by deflators            6968       76777       -17955       180298      199970       177449       198773      288488       368230      402616       440199       478118      538737      S21559       514274
OPEMTING COSTS (Rs.000)
With Project                                375467       877363      696071       923384      1012089      96918S      1004717     1218404      1328349      1422271      1432676     1443060      1453845    1453848      1403845
Withut Project                              373408       541181      704246       830976      882828       859164       904326     1020651      1039215      1053740      1044119     1034498      1024877    1015286       lOS834
Total I1cre. Owr. costs                 2059        36182       -.17s        92408       129231       109993      100391       1977S3      28613        368531       388857      408882       42898       43869        448211
INNSINET COSTS  RWo.wO)
Field fthabilitatio'                         11369       25133        34711        33442          310           0
Fcwtory  deWl1111tetioo                          0          422        1867        13037       78459        8184         13137            0
Field a kurtery Equtpmet                         0        SO09          745         1791         943         1377            0
6re   Loatf ranssort                             0            0        9403        29607         2967         864         1m              0
bisng                                            0          722       10284         8816         9548       16929         2172            0
Nedical                                          0            0        1507          834          423         375          SO0            0
Trairnig                                         0            0         413         18M6         1405        1111         2437            0
Technical Assistance                             0            0        3495         2970         1365         770          565            0
Adalnistrative Support                           0            0         563        16766         2603        2189         5929            0
Total I nVt. Costs                     11319        31336       62988       109149        9823        110799       28969            0            0           0            0            0           0            0           0
Total PrQject Coatt (tea                     13428       6S1          54783       20s5        227284       22092        126360       1977S3      286134       368531      388857       408582       42896M      438589      448211
Total Cott  adjsted by deflators             28647      122208        79435       231791      309068       309109       186686      207641       286134       366531      388557       406582       428968      438889       448211
1Ic     . 3.t  eeits (Te)                  -18680       -4S431       -97391      .51496      .109098      -131660       42087        80847        82096        34085       51633        69836      109769        270         66063



SRI tANKA
le$ Rehabilitation Comsonet
000 Rs.
Y'r               11996        1991         1m          199          2000         2001         2002         2003         20W          2005         2005         2007         2008         2009         2010
In Prouctin (000 kg.)
ath PreJoct                            30649        30649        30649       30649        30649        30649        30649        30649        30649        30649        30649        309          30649        30649        30649
Ith"t PVOeJt                           20422        20185        19948        19711       19474        19033        18592        185SO        17709        1)709        17709        11709        11109        17709        17709
Iinyt&l Tt Prlht.                          10227        10464        10701        10938        11175        11616        12057       12499        12940        12940        12940        12940        12940        12940        12940
Firsw  d P e. (000 *3)
tNa llm        1Wth                      1530305      1530305      153030       1530M        1530306      1530305      153030S     153305       1530305      1530305      1530305      r j30S       1530305      1530305      1530306
*ithost                   1001826       987680       973594       959s66       945598       921808      898129       874511       851052       848842       846631       842210       839999       837719       835578
Pilged Omatasidw
laewgutl  Sissiy
T@tel  1mevi. IN ee                    528479       542625       556711      170739       S54707        608497       632176       6S5794       679253       681463      6M3674       688095          0306      692516       64727
lea. bI          adJnted by dfltw         528479       542625       ,56111       570739       s84707       60497        632176       655794       679253       681463       683674      63095        690306        692516       694727
OPtMlM COSTS {R.000)
WIth Poject                               1453845      1453845      1453845      1453845      1453845      1453845     1453845      1453845      1453845      1453845      1453145      1453845      143845       1453845      1453845      l
Wltheut   Oject                            996013       986392       976771       967150      957529        940541      923554       906567        889579        889519     889579       8857         e89s79       B979            S79       1
total  1ear.. Oper. costs            457832       467453       47'074       48669S       496316       61334        530291       547218       564266         4266      564266       564266       564266       564266       564266
Field fgImablitation
facter/ 11lembilitatla"
Field a f1iseup Equ1pmut
Cn LW  transport
Trastugta1"S r
Techiwical Asaitat.,c
Adnisfutrative Support
Total lIut. Cots                           0            0            0            0            0            0           0            0            0            0            0            0            0            0            0
Total Project CoMts (teoo                  457832       467453       4770)4       486695       496316       513304       53029        S47278      564266        564266      564            4266       564266        642         564266
Total costs adjuted by deflators           457832       467453       477074       486695       496316       513304       530291       547218       564266      564266       554266 sum   5642         564266       564266       564266
Incues. Met Beeits (Tea)                   70167         75172        796S7        84044        m8           95193       10185        108516       114967       117197       11940        129         126040       128250        130461
I-.F



-26-                               ~~~~~~~TABLE 2
ur l"'IE    I  I                     I
I      '*X' liii  I           1 1
i      *!t' liii  ii                  *
i~ "II                             *It lE  
r~ ~ ~~-  - .                     r mln  3l  
C ....  -e.  -ov I  o .....  E   
3      **e*  e.e.  _  C   0  3  *e   ft ft N
E!.  CCC**  *    C   *oCOCCC* i C  C
}}l! ~      g 7sA!1      3X:;   



IBRD 156593
~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~-  tio                                                  gr                                                          ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~',. NOVEMBER tr
SRI LANKA
Kankresanturoi                          TEA REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
PROJECT LOCATIONS
Proposed teo rehablitation oreas
(Htgh country and low country)
Prorsod too diversification area
(Mid-country)
Areos of ongoing teo rehabilitation projects
Areo of ongoing teo diversitication projects
J  A  f '         A                                                              Elevotions (feot)
100-499
Toloinrmnnar                                                                                                 : I  3 00.299to
M  A  NJ              V~~~AVuiiN I A                                     -        Over oad
Monnor 0-  r                                                     -                                                                     0Av A  Moqor mods      Towns
AN NA R                                   '-.--- Ralwnays                                                        Q)   Airport
I                            N                             - - -  District boundories                 Rivers
KatunoyaltnO32 
Pli T TAt A     IM-             /                    ' ! *|                     '            |    "\
nr.,.er tO .0.0000                                          r ren.                                    O
T'r Aowui.u  /nd sd 0            _       obuiIi
Ky(I~AIIOA                              B  Ti;LOA
PAKIS1ANJX    ->, NCHINA                          \<t\1AZAL   ' ,                                                         _,
-r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
I~~~~~~Ngm                                                                                                                     AM A II     ^ q-   HAA:4W)  
INDI~~~~~~~                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1RAC *-    ='  IAMbrmo o,, T&   A
SRI LANKA                                                                                                 Mot rAL
_______________                                                        Cr.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Potm



IBRD 15659R
SRI LANKA
Kankesonturr                            TEA REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
PROJECT LOCATIONS
Poo    teo rehabilitation areos
(High country and low country)
Pr oroond teoa dn.rsification area
~~~~~   a                                                    (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mid-counl yt
___\__ Aseoms o ongoing tea rehabiitaltion projects
Area ot ongoing tea diversification projects
i  A          i  A                                                              Elevations (teet)
~~~                                k         iOO~~~~~~~0-499
~*,  '/                                    _2999
Taloinonnor                         / I        Mankula, i000-5000
-\         } 8  VAViJNIYA                                                 Over5000
annr                                                                                                       , /  _  -- 'O
Pnnor      ANN  .R                                                                                                            0    Taw
\    ^,t ANNAR   \   igK-s  \   - - - RAlwoys                            Airport
_  - <\---  District boundaries           Rivers
I A           r~ -$'C   j'                    I ~ >   )TRINCO0AIlE E
4- 11   Medoworhchiyo /                                            ,- 
I    A N U R A| D   A                         KRA    z   
V.           Anuradh             D.io
P tT t A t A-                                        \5/|        g             
/   \    <                \           (,jYA~~ POLONtIARUWAI                      t
,__a W ian 0.ec rad bt U.POi
oreWacSeOV ea t5uche a ai.fflAOci iCc  I
PAr(lSTANyI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                        BATiAO lHN     m Q A,' \b /  
t_~~~~~~~~~~~~K                           ts                A         v          A \ >T P,, LA    I
$ncnnn.c at OCn \.0 ci          -.1   >l7
egombgt                                                                                       AM -r b nt t  I    0          ,
Katuna - - ana 7 k, '!iC- ,
\~~~~~ ~  >RI lANK
_                   '       _ -I                                                                            5e 4
INDIA~~
PAKISTANSRjfANK
I N  D I A                                                                                                    T



IBRD 15660R
SRI LANIKA
TEA REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
HIGH COUNTRY REHABILITATION ESTATES
- -_\  !  |           TEA FACTORIES TO BE REHABILITATED
UNDER PROJECT
INDIA                BURMA                      JEDB I PROJECT TEA ESTATES
20           20X                      JED8 n PROJECT TEA ESTATES
0     TOWNS AND VILLAGES
a \ {AJ                                                    ROADS
--  |.. ,   RAILROADS
\      -  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
1--PRO     PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES        0       1       2       3
70W A , )   '  v   .                      RIVERS                                KILOMETERS
KEGALLA                         b
cENTtX   X d71                                            
ivz xvs^yS   >     \\       ( ~ ~               VARA    EI/YA  DISUI/Cr 
7SO 7P0a7
A 2 S~~~Wataoodo                                           E uiy'
KA ND Y D/cr  
r~~~~~
1 nv)                                                                                            N          1Otto981
KEGLa\( A L L iA
D/SrRIcr Jf \\  
_ h. me *5b  d bw b        
Th. d N-  - s#l./srf               
-d.,.h. om-e f heol/_  __d I"
t rDd. f hc f. fa             
r drelwns 6- n tk/\   
80-.30'                                                                                  801'45'    \/
NOVEMBER 1981



SRI LANKA
TEA REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
LOW COUNTRY REHABILITATION ESTATES
A'AIUI'ARA  DISfRI                                                    ..-N.-,,._A A  NA PURA          '
,3 t Gr \ ~~~~~~~~~~~KALUTAPA   V/S/PClRor 04 ( S                                                                                                         RATNRVBRA O
'- SU1M                 -    -f                                                                                                                 "     '       tj                          RrrP# 
,,                   I                                                                                                              RAT NAPUA
f~*         Ag,h    ),\                                       Sshtyvrt  
LAN-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.A2 AlKA                                                                  A,nSOh.dO   <   \                 I          A
o.s  \N                          n                           FoWE;4""AE BRRRBG                          K              . 2             \.  R.                                G M-                            6,
A ~ ~                ~                   ~                   ~                  ~                 ~                                                
\ ( t ~~~~~~~~~~~~6AIlL  OIS7RICT                                                                                                                                              '=    DISTRICT
A,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IL ArX/pohef hs   h                 X           .ML                     t     , \     
,  ,ND9OdD    V               <_                 I         4f~~~A7ARA D/STRI/cr
AM,BRBBRMO&                                                                                                                                                                             /      frfAMB.AN*TOd.TAhv
A~~~
A                                 A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A~~~~~~
Ai~Ino                                       A                     Ai         A                                                  I
X / S-/t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Kon.bwopGiyo  
Ai-. ~   ~           ~          ~ ~ '
IE_AFACTORIES.ORA
*       NEW FACTORIES (PROJECTE                                                                                                                                                           (
*      NEW fACTORIES INTO ASSISTEDI
EXISTINO ERIVATE FACTORIES
O      EXISTING SPC 15 FACTOHIES_
-d'tS3 ( SPC TI PROJECT TEA ESTATES
O  TOWNSANDVILLAGES                                                                                                          ltxm
ROADS
-       DISTRICT BOUNOARIES
PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                             19 _
RnRO,,RRRR voP RS n "w AR,M BRA WvB_wR TABl p., FhT A,. 'V06M  BR              EIINRRSE
SAtlT                                                                         55 30'
NOVEMBER 191I



745'8'0                                                                               80=45'                                                        VW0Q         7'4 5'
Ttns mpp~ flat Dse poarectl  3V neh| 
2 rprenorrrt  rcre                                                                    ORTH       CFNTRAI
Worl h1 arks Stne*ecr'n,olrs for 
she cnerreenece al the realders of                                               *NRS            C'EA
The d-reporrrt.o,ws eed -cd he.
Onredarenoefn.enson Irn oanrh                                                                  >P0fi 
W orld 6ak .rd ft at&t,tsnv. oy                                                                                            SRI  LAN  1KA
udgger6t on tee  te, tog.  Of
any tr    rerer tc                                                                                                 TEA    REHABILITATION
or acceptance 0t sun.h boundnortes \_;lA                                                                                     I   -A                  t
(j   .,                         ~AND DIVERSIFICATION  PROJECT
Q1n        -,                , A   1'                                  ~~~~~~M(D-COUNTRY
DIVERSIFICATION ESTATES
M' A   T   4A   L  E                           '
r  \Nepr 2\   \4a/la  <J t1                      3  5SPC I Project Tea Estates
er,Correoeeronrn,elnUt  cJ                     t    IJEDB II Project Tea  Estates
JEDOB IZ  Project Tea Estates
Towns and  VdIlages
X /                                                  X                                                       r2g 1? a f; Rcl.lRoods
Mov.va-=,                         ;  <ed/pnd,  - Rivets
30o-oor~~                     eon, A5ViUnESOSO   )   7botgnbo/   ---  DtSTrCt taUrsdOTeS                  7'30
jor KoooegaX )or                Morforle                               Nftqr |                                                    - - Provmnctomi Baundottes
atotie gfosg/
e         AJ   k folbg
4\~ ~~~~~~~~~/5/  Hor,, ,/,osA  Pn korr3                                    Kgordtlotr
. n. \                             ''     .- 3       H t. 3
n   Coerogool5nv                     !$orreo
K1~ A    N   D   Y
,                                                               Aie )                                QvRorott>tSvo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Srpyro
N          8n,  K          ore                             )
~~~~~~\.Ka.                                                                                                                   et<Oo* 
kii X   \I t                                                                                                         Horlr d
I  4Me/ uc4*J..la~*\I.rt,, mOT
-   ~~    ~> CHINA
\_;W Roh2od~rr                                 PAKIS1AN 
5, '  p5   gf
n5fodor/gy  ~    t  f            O\                     J R A                                                                            I N D I A
    .g              ulpId NUW   RA    K.'/ J                                          
7530!              re   Ho   :ronro  riXdse/r             *        ,            ,,,                 a
7'0                                                f  6hoo%Klpotr        -                                #\                               
C   t            gMesn    p                 t            ~~~~~~~~~        ~ ~~~~~E L I Y A  NEi p            rtinSo          X             e  5
1Rn  l  sr<"PROVINCE                                           LANKA
_    :       >    I                    \W   f r )I                                                I .  1_



