Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3267-CE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
TEA REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
April 12, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanceo I
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



.1
SRI LANKA
TEA REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00      =   SL Rs 21
SL Rs 1.00   =   US$0.048
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENT
1 kilometer (km)  =  0.62 mile
1 meter (m)        =  1.09 yards
1 kilogram (kg)   =  2.2 pounds
1 hectare (ha)    =  2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOC   -  Bank of Ceylon
JEDB  -  Janatha Estates Development Board
M     -  Million
MPI   -  Ministry of Plantation Industries
NIPM  -  National Institute of Plantation Management
SPC   -  State Plantations Corporation
TSHDA - Tea Smallholders Development Authority
SRI LANKA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
TEA REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Beneficiaries:           State Plantations Corporation (SPC)
Janatha Estates Development Board (JEDB)
Private factory owners
Smallholders
Amount:                  SDR 17.8 million (US$20.0 million equivalent
at the time of negotiations).
Terms:                   Standard.
Relending Terms:         The Government will relend up to US$17.5 million
of the IDA Credit to SPC and JEDB at an interest
rate of initially 16% per annum and US$1.0 million
to the Bank of Ceylon (BOC) at an interest rate
initially of 13% per annum. The latter amount would
be onlent by BOC to private factory owners
and smallholders at an interest rate initially
of 16% per annum. All subloans would be repaid
over a period of 15 years with 5 years of grace.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange
risk.
Project Description:    The project aims to reduce tea production costs and
improve tea quality from high potential tea areas, and
to diversify unprofitable low yielding tea lands out
of tea into spices and fuelwood. The project would
help improve management systems and also strengthen
financial control and information systems in major
tea producing public corporations, stablize eroding
lands, and improve welfare of tea estate workers.
The project comprises: tea replanting, and factory
rehabilitation infilling prograns in high country
and low country areas; greenleaf and made tea transport;
rehabilitation of labor housing and improvement of
water supply and medical facilities; provision of
processing and storage facilities for spices and
field and nursery equipment; and technical assistance
and training. The project faces no major risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
US$ Million Equivalent
Estimated Cost: a/                                         Foreign   Local  Total
Field Works                               1.0      6.5      7.5
Field and Nursery Equipment                .2        .4     0.6
Vehicles                                  1.6        .4     2.0
Factory Equipment                         3.0       4.7     7.7
Housing                                    .6       1.5     2.1
Medical Facilities                         .3        .2       .5
Training and Technical Assistance          .6        .4     1.0
Administrative Support                     .4        .4      .8
Total Base Costs                          7.7     14.5    22.2
Physical Contingencies                     .4        .9     1.3
Price Contingencies                       2.8      6.8      9.6
Total Costs                              10.9     22.2    33.1
Financing Plan:                                  US$ Million Equivalent
Foreign   Local  Total
IDA                           10.9       9.1    20.0
Government of Sri Lanka          -       3.6     3.6
JEDB                             -       3.8     3.8
SPC                              -       3.9     3.9
Smallholders                     -        .1      .1
Tea Board and Department
of Minor Export Crops          -      1.7      1.7
Total                        10.9    22.2    33.1
Estimated                                                    US$ Million Equivalent
Disbursement:      IDA FY                   FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87
Annual                    1.0     2.1      5.0     9.9      2.0
Cumulative                1.0     3.1      8.1    18.0    20.0
Economic Rate
of Return:         29X
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 3531a-CE dated April 9, 1982
Map:                IBRD 15659R
a/ Includes taxes and duties of US$1.9 M equivalent.



INTERNATIONAL T)EVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMFNDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A TEA REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
1.         T submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
Development Credit to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka in an
amount of SDRs 17.8 million (US$20.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms to help finance a Tea Rehabilitation and Diversification Project. Up
to US$17.5 million of the Credit would be initially relent to SPC and JEDB at
*         an interest rate of 16% per annum and US$1.0 million to the Bank of Ceylon
(BOC) at 13% interest rate per annum. BOC would onlend the proceeds to
smallholders and private factory owners for project purposes initially at 16%
per annumn. All subloans would be repayable over a term of 15 years, includ-
ing five years' grace, with Government bearing the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.         The most recent economic report, "Sri Lanka:  Policies and
Prospects for Economic Adjustment" (Report No. 3466-CE, May 15, 1981), was
distribtuted to the Executive Directors on May 26, 1981. Country data are
provided in Annex I.
3.         After several years of relative stagnation, Sri Lanka's economy
has experienced sustained growth. This growth has been the direct result
of the economic liberalization of 1977, and the development push associated
with it. U!ntil 1977, Sri Lanka's growth performance had been below both need
and potential. Although CDP growth in the 1960s, at 4.4% per annum, was
above the average for low income countries, it slackened sharply in the
1970-77 period to 2.9% per annum, just below the average for low income
countries. Through much of this period, the terms of trade deteriorated
steadily, eroding even these modest gains; as a consequence, per capita gross
national income rose by a mere 0.9% per annum during the 1970-76 period. The
slowdown in economic growth in the 1970-77 period was attributable to a
combination of factors, including inadequate investment, poor management of
the economy, and a policy environment not conducive to growth and investment;
these factors were compounded by poor weather in some years and a sharp rise
in the cost of imported food and petroleum.
1/ This part is substantially the same as Part I of the President-s
Report on Seventh Power (Mahaweli Transmission) Project for
Sri Lanka (Report No. P3195-CE, dated February 3,1982) which was
approved by the Executive Directors on February 23, 1982.



4.        The three tree crops--tea, rubber, and coconuts--which are still
the mainstay of the economy, suffered from low replanting and inadequate
incentives.   These problems were exacerbated by a dual exchange rate system,
introduced in 1968, that discriminated against these crops, and by the uncer-
tainties surrounding a protracted nationalization (1972-75) of the larger
estates. After the exceptional output growth of the 1960s, rice yields and
cropping intensities declined in the 1970-77 period due to poor institutional
support. Investment in manufacturing was also low, and the inefficiency of
most public and private sector firms, nurtured in a highly protected environ-
ment, resulted in growth of manufacturing of 1% per annum. The only bright
spots were subsidiary food crops and industrial exports which benefited from
good incentives.
5.        An inadequate public savings effort, caused by inelastic revenues
and uncontrolled growth in recurrent expenditures, inhibited public invest-
ment. Unfavorable policies further constrained private savings. The slow
growth rates and changes in the structure of output provided neither the jobs
nor the employment structure for a growing labor force. The low output
growth, the excessive capital intensity of investment, the mismatch between
the job aspirations of those with post-primary education and the jobs avaiL-
able to them, the post-war demographic bulge, and the rising female par-
ticipation rates contributed to a massive increase in unemployment, estimated
at over 1 million, or some 18% of the labor force in 1977.
6.        In sharp contrast to this poor economic performance, Sri Lanka's
social achievements in relation to per capita income have been outstanding.
Sri Lanka has about one and one-half times the life expectancy, almost thrice
the literacy, one-quarter the infant mortality, and half the birth rate which
would be expected for a country at its per capita income level. Nutrition
levels have been adequate, and in the 1960s paralleled gains in income dis-
tribution. These improvements in the quality of life, in particular the rise
in health standards, the spread of education and the availability of sub-
sidized food have been important factors in the decline in mortality. The
increasing age of marriage, the spread of female education and employment,
and a vigorous family planning program, have also contributed to a sharp
decline in fertility. As a consequence, population growth, net of migration,
has dropped steadily, from 2.7% per annum in the 1953-63 period to 2.2% per
annum in the 1963-71 period, and 1.7% per annum during 1971-81.
7.        Favorable initial conditions induced these social gains.  Compul-
sory primary education was introduced as early as 1901. The food ration was
introduced in 1942. Thus, at the time of Independence in 1948, Sri Lanka
already enjoyed high levels of adult literacy and life expectancy. These
initial gains were consolidated and expanded in the post-independence
period through large expenditures on social services and the food subsidy,
expenditures which accounted for two-fifths to one-half of government
revenues in the 1960s and early 1970s.  These expenditures were traditionally



- 3 --
financed bv capturing the surpluses of the three major tree crops, which
provided the Government with easy sources of revenue and foreign exchange.
These surpluses began to decline in the late 1960s as government policies
discriminated against tree crops and export unit prices weakened. As growth
in other productive sectors also decelerated in the 1970-77 period, the
budgetary resources available for social programs were squeezed between
inelastic revenues and rapid inflation.  As a consequence, expenditures for
social services other than the food subsidy began to decline as a proportion
of total current expenditures and of GDP, threatening the hard-won gains in
health and education. In short, the economy could no longer generate the
resources needed to sustain the large program of welfare expenditures.
Moreover, the very size of those programs reduced the scope for policy makers
to shift resources to development.
8.         The policy changes introduced in 1977, following the election of
the United National Party, were intended to break this vicious circle.  The
new Government identified its objectives as the sustained revival and resus-
citation of the economy and increased employment through (i) increased
capacity utilization in the productive sectors, (ii) stimulation of savings
and investment, and (iii) efforts to encourage exports, and import substitu-
tion in foodgrains. A program of policy reforms was developed in close
consultation with the IMF. These reforms were supported initially by an IMF
standby arrangement covering 1978 for SDR 93 million. On January 26, 1979,
the Fund's Executive Board approved an SDR 260 million Extended Arrangement
to cover the 1979-81 period. The principal aim of the reform program was to
dismantle controls over resource allocation and initiate price adjustments
with a view to establishing more realistic relative prices. By 1980, these
goals had largely been achieved.
9.         The program of reforms comprised a number of major policy initia-
tives. The exchange rate was unified 1/ on November 16, 1977, at a
depreciated rate of Rs 16 = US$1.00 and allowed to float. This implied a
depreciation of 46% against the official rate prevailing prior to unifica-
tion, and 11.2% with respect to the Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificate
(FEEC) rate. The trade and payment regime was liberalized. Public sector
import monopolies were almost entirely terminated. Prior licensing of
imports was abolished for all but a handful of commodities. The tariff
structure was revised and simplified. Other budgetary taxes and subsidies
were adjusted to reflect the change in trade and exchange rate policies. In
particular, rice and sugar rations were confined to the poorer half of the
1/ Prior to unification, all exports other than tea, rubber, and coconut
products and all imports other than food, fertilizers, and drugs were
channelled through the certificate market. Since November 1972, the
FEEC rate was maintained at a 65% premium over the official rate.



- 4 -
population, and the food subsidy was eliminated through a series of adjust-
ments in administered prices. On September 1, 1979, the Government intro-
duced a system of food and kerosene stamps for families with monthly incomes
of less than Rs 300 to replace specific subsidies and food rationing, and
to target benefits to the poor. To help offset the adverse impact of these
changes on real incomes, public sector wages were periodically adjusted
upwards. Public corporations were asked to pass on cost increases, except
for fertilizer, petroleum, milk, and public transport, for which price
increases were initially deferred to cushion the impact on consumers. The
Government subsequently eliminated the overall subsidy on petroleum products
and made sizable adjustments in bus and train fares, electricity and fer-
tilizer prices. The burden of selected subsidies and transfers, as a conse-
quence, fell from around 9% of GDP in 1978 to around 4% bv 1981. These
changes, and higher aid receipts, have helped permit a sizable increase in
capital expenditures.
10.       Agricultural pricing policies have changed dramatically.  The
domestic support price for paddy was increased by 21% in November 1977, by
25% in November 1980, and by a further 15% in the course of 1981 following
substantial increases in fertilizer prices. With the related increase in
flour prices, incentives for paddy and other flour substitutes benefited.
At the same time, there occurred a large policy-induced decline in the role
of the state in domestic rice trade. Fresh coconut prices were also
increased, and in November 1981, the system of fixed and variable duties
which had effectively insulated the large domestic coconut market from the
world market was replaced by a sliding scale export system that allowed some
linkage between the two markets. While the unification of the exchange rate
ended formal discrimination against tree crops, high export duties, par-
ticularly on tea, continued to siphon off most of the operating surplus for
the Government. As tea prices fell and production costs rose in 1978-79, the
Government responded to the reduced producer margins by lowering taxes on
tea. The Government also ended most price controls, and reformed the inter-
est rate and tax systems. The burden of company and personal taxation was
lowered, and the taxation svstem was rationalized to increase revenue elas-
ticity; nevertheless, the overall revenue elasticity to economic growth and
domestic inflation remains low as taxes on slowly growing tree crop exports
have averaged over 30% of current revenues. Interest rates were also raised
sharply to encourage savings and discourage speculative imports. However,
inflation eroded these rates and in April 1980 further upward adjustments
were made.
11.       These economic reforms were accompanied by a major effort to step
up public investment. The Government's capital expenditures jumped from 6%
of GDP in 1977 to an average of 13% in 1978 and 1979, and 19% in 1980, as
government departments responded to the initial improvement in the budgetary
resource position and embarked on long overdue replacement investments and
new projects that had been shelved earlier for lack of resources. At the
same time, the Government undertook three major new programs which are to be



the lead projects in a five-year rolling public investment program. These
are: (i) accelerated implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga Development
Program, by far the largest multipurpose river basin development program ever
undertaken in Sri Lanka; (ii) a 200 square mile free trade zone north of
Colombo under a newly constituted Greater Colombo Economic Commission which
has established the first of several Investment Promotions Zones near
Colombo's international airport and by end-1980 had signed agreements with 64
investors involving a total investment of US$130 million; and (iii) a massive
housing and urban renewal program with its main focus on the Colombo
metropolitan region, including the construction of a new capital complex at
Kotte, a suburb of Colombo.  Budgetary expenditures on these three programs
will amount to Rs 34 billion, or 52% of projected budgetary resources over
the 1981-85 period. The underlying public investment strategy seeks to
balance the large investment requirements of the Government's high priority
programs with the urgent rehabilitation and fresh investment needs in other
sectors. The main thrust of the public sector program is to lay the founda-
tion for longer-term development, both by encouraging efficient use of exist-
ing infrastructure investments and by expanding the longer-term private
sector to respond to the economic reforms and the stimulus of the public
sector investment program, and provide much of the short-term growth.
Private fixed investment has so far responded well, increasing from about 7%
of GDP in 1977 to 15% by 1980, and helping overall fixed investment to exceed
33% of GDP in 1980.
12.       In response to the policy reforms and the accompanying acceleration
in investment, economic growth in 1978-80 averaged an impressive 6.8% per
annum. This growth was shared by almost all sectors of the economy, par-
ticularly construction and services. The only major exception has been the
tree crop sector. The otherwise impressive performance is due to a number of
factors including the improved availability of inputs following import
liberalization, an increased role for the private sector in distribution, and
the removal of price controls. Although there is little information avail-
able on employment, Central Bank estimates suggest that unemployment dropped
from 18% of the labor force to 15% between 1977 and 1979.
13.       Despite this strong performance, major weaknesses in economic
performance emerged in 1980. In particular, the national savings effort has
not matched the rapid rise in investment. Gross national savings fluctuated
around 15% of GDP during the 1978-80 period, while recourse to foreign
savings to finance the hi-her investment rose from 4.5% of GDP in 1978 to
19.5% in 1980. The Government succeeded in containing the costly
consumer suosidy and transfer programs, expenditures on which have
declined as a percent of GDP (para 9). However, relatively inelastic
revenues combined with steadily rising other recurrent expenditures
and declining terms of trade resulted in hardly any public savings.
As a result, the Government has financed its rapidly rising capital expendi-
tures through foreign aid, and increased its domestic borrowings. Initially



-6-
the Government met its domestic financing requirements through
non-expansionary borrowings from captive financial institutions, which could
mobilize increased private savings following the interest rate reform.
However, resources mobilized through these channels have not grown as rapidly
as the budgetary deficit, and the Government has been increasingly forced to
undertake expansionary borrowings from the Central Bank. Between 1978 and
1979, these rose from 0.4% to 1.2% of GDP and in 1980 increased sharply to
10.5% of GDP.  It has also resorted to the use of foreign commercial loans to
help finance the deficit, borrowing US$50 million in 1980, and US$75 million
in 1981.
14.        Inflation has also increased sharply since 1977.  The exchange rate
adjustment, the other policy-induced price increases and related wage
increases, the removal of price controls, and the build-up of external
assets, which added to the money supply, contributed significantly to infla-
tionary pressures in 1978 and 1979. However, these were moderated by bumper
paddy harvests, increased capacity utilization in the economy, increased
availability of imports, and the beneficial effects of competition from
imports and in domestic distribution. Since then, rapid growth in the broad
money supply--38% in 1979 and 32% in 1980-has added a sizable "built-in"
increase to the system. Together with the corrective price increases
designed to reduce budgetary subsidies and keep pace with rapid increases in
international petroleum, wheat and sugar prices, these pressures have caused
inflation (as measured by the Colombo Consumer Price Index) to accelerate
from an average of 11% in 1978 and 1979, to 26% in 1980.
15.       Rapid expansion in economic activity has been reflected most
vividly in the balance of payments. Import volume growth since 1978 has
averaged 15%. Between 1978 and 1980, the net petroleum import bill more than
tripled and increased from 11% to 36% of non-petroleum exports, while capital
goods imports more than doubled in response to the acceleration in invest-
ment. However, exports have shown barely any volume growth as declining tree
crop export volumes offset the strong growth in garments exports.  These
adverse trade volume trends were compounded by a 20% terms of trade
deterioration over the same period. The rapid growth in tourism receipts and
private remittances from abroad in this period failed to offset the
deterioration on the trade account and the current account deficit rose from
S124 million (4.5% of GDP) to $805 million in 1980 (19.5% of GDP). In 1978
and 1979, rapidly rising non-monetary capital inflows due mainly to increased
net aid disbursements more than offset the current account deficit, and Sri
Lanka continued to add to its net international reserves, albeit at a declin-
ing rate.  In 1980, however, net international reserves fell by $220 million,
and by end-1980 gross international reserves stood at $377 million, or equiv-
alent to less than nine weeks of imports of goods and non-factor services.
With the rapid drawdown in reserves, the public sector has begun to make
significant use of commercial financing.



16.       The Government, realizing in early 1981 that continuation of the
1980 trends would risk continued high inflation and unsustainable pressures
on the balance of payments, took corrective steps. Budgetary expenditures
were held below their 1980 level in real terms. Capital expenditures
declined significantly from 19% in 1980, to about 14% of GDP, and were held
to below their 1980 level in nominal terms. As a result, the overall deficit
declined from 22% to 15% of GDP; bank borrowings, from 10.3 to 4.6% of GDP.
Similar improvement was achieved in the balance of payments, where the cur-
rent account deficit declined from 19% to 14% of GDP, and net international
reserves declined by only an additional $33 million over 1980.  Due mainly to
large disbursements under the IMF Extended Arrangement and Compensatory
Finance Facility, Sri Lanka's gross international reserves increased to $451
million, equivalent to about 11 weeks' imports coverage. The stabilization
measures also resulted in a significant decline in inflation--the Colombo
Consumer Price Index averaged 18% growth during 1981, compared to 26% in
1980. Despite the significant achievements in 1981, continued strong
measures will be needed throughout the medium term to ensure that budgetary
expenditures are consistent with overall economic stability, as many of the
large development schemes the Government has initiated are only now beginning
to peak. Sri Lanka will also have to carefully monitor balance of payments
developments, commercial borrowings in particular, and accelerate exports
growth to ensure longer-run stability in the external sector.
17.       Aid donors have responded enthusiastically to the Government's
development initiatives, the average level of aid commitments in 1978-80 was
almost 120% higher in nominal terms and almost 40% higher in real terms than
in 1975-77. Commitments in 1981 rose to a record US$814 million. Most of
the growth has come in project aid, reflecting the Government's efforts to
increase investment, particularly in the Accelerated Mahaweli Program. Since
public investment is already overprogrammed, continued high levels of aid
will depend upon donors' abilities to shift from project to non-project aid
and to finance a sizable portion of local costs; the Government will need to
maintain donor confidence in its economic policies and management through a
vigorous domestic resource mobilization program and continued restraint on
government expenditures. Despite recent measures to support its investment
program, Sri Lanka's budgetary situation remains tight. The adverse impact
on revenues of slowly rising export prices and volumes, and rapidly rising
import prices, has increased budgetary pressures. Local cost financing, in
support of Sri Lanka's own resource mobilization efforts will not only
provide valuable relief to these budgetary pressures but also supplement
foreign exchange resources needed in support of balance of payments.
18.       External public debt outstanding and disbursed stood at US$1,335
million at the end of 1980, amounting to about 35% of GDP. However, this
is almost all long-term concessional debt. As a result, the debt service
burden is relatively low; debt service ratio in 1981 excluding IMF repur-
chases stood at 8.2% of exports of goods and non-factor services, declining
from 13.3% in 1977. While this sustained decline is due in part to improved



- B -
export earnings, the main cause has been a decline in outstanding short- and
medium-term commercial borrowings. Unless the ratio of the current account
deficit to GDP continues the improvement begun in 1981, Sri Lanka will again
have to begin undertaking significant shorter maturity commercial borrowings
to fill the gap between the current account deficit and likely concessional
aid flows. In that case, the debt service ratio could increase quickly.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
19.     Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, the Bank                    A
Group has approved eight loans totalling US$72.9 million (net of cancella-
tions) and 25 credits denominated in US dollars totalling US$362.0 million
and 6 credits denominated in Special Drawing Rights totalling SDR 192.3
million (net of cancellations and exchange adjustments) in support of 37
projects. About 47% of Bank Group assistance has been for agriculture
(irrigation, agricultural, and dairy development), 18% for power, 11% for
transport, 10% for development finance company operations, and the remainder
for a progran credit (mainlv involving the import of raw materials for
industry), water supnly, construction industrv, and telecommunications.
'ight loans and eight credits have beer fully disbursed so far. Annex II
contains a summa-v statement of Bank Group operations as of March 31, 1982,
together with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.     IFC has an equity investment of about 1JS15O,000 equivalent in the
Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC). Two IFC lines of credit
totalling uS$7.0 million have been made to the Government-owned Bank of
Ceylon (BOC) for term loans to medium industries. IFC has also an investment
of US$250,000 in an equipment leasing company. In FY81, IFC approved an
investment of about US$0.7 million in equity and about U$19.0 million in
loans for a new hotel project in Colombo.
21.       The Bank Group's current strategy focusses on production-oriented
activities together with complementary infrastructure. It aims to support
Government efforts to increase food production and reduce dependence on food
imports, and to raise productivity, employment, incomes and living standards
of the rural population in Sri Lanka.  This strategy includes projects to
support basic infrastructure. In addition, in line with the Government's
strategy, private sector activities in the industrial sector are also being
supported. The Executive Directors approved the Second Small and Medium
Industries Project on October 13, 1981 and Seventh Power (Mahaweli Transmis-
sion) Project on February 23, 1982. Currently under appraisal are a thermal
(diesel) power generation project, industrial development project, and a
forestry project.
22.        The Bank Group as of end-1980 accounted for 9.7% (IBRD, 2.3%; IDA,
7.4%) of Sri Lanka's total debt outstanding and disbursed, and 6.5% (over 80%



- 9 -
IBRD) of debt service on medium and long-term debt. The projected Bank
Group's share in total existing external debt outstanding and disbursed will
increase to 17% by 1985 (with the IBRD-s share declining to 1.3%). The Bank
and IDA portions of this debt service are expected to decline to about 4%
by 1985.
PART III - THE TREE CROP SECTOR
23.        Sri Lankas tree crop sector consists mainly of tea, rubber and
coconut, which together occupy about 48% of crop land and about 95% of land
under tree crops. The sector has a dominant role in Sri Lanka's economy.
It continues to be the main source of foreign exchange earnings and in 1980
provided about 58% of export revenue. The sector also employed about
one-fifth of the labor force and accounted for ?1% of the CT)P in 1980. In
spite of its importance, the sector has suffered from continuing neglect.
Production of the three main crops grew by only about 1% per annum during the
1960s and stagnated during the 1970s. The disappointing performance was due
to uncertainties associated with a protracted nationalization, declining
profitability due to low prices and high export taxes, and inadequate
availability of inputs.
24.        The Tea Sub-Sector.  Tea retains a major role in the Sri Lankan
economy and in the tree crop sector, although its dominance recently has
diminished. Value added, including both growing and processing, accounted
for 10% of GUP in 1980, compared to 13.5% in 1977. Tea is still Sri Lanka-s
main export although its share in total export revenue fell from 50% in 1977
to 36% in 1980. Even then tea accounted for about 60% of the export revenue
from the tree crop sector. Taxes on tea, particularly the export levy,
provided 17% of the Government's revenue in 1980. About 18% of Sri Lanka's
labor force is employed in the tea sector. Tea is cultivated in the South
WJest wet zone on about 244,000 ha classified into three elevational
categories: high-country (1,200-2,000 m), mid-country (600-1,200 m) and
low-country (0-600 m). The high country (37%) produces the renowned flavor
teas which established Sri Lanka's tea reputation. The low-country (25%)
produces the heaviest yields of strong black teas demande(d by Middle East
countries.  The mid-country (39%) produces neither high quality nor high
yields and its lower tea prices are not compensated by greater production.
The Government strategy is therefore to invest in tea rehabilitation in the
high and low country whilst diversifying out of tea in the mid-country. The
IDA-supported Tree Crops Rehabilitation (Tea) Project (Cr. 818-CE) in the
high country and the Tree Crops Diversification (Tea) Project (Cr. 819-CE) in
the mid-country are assisting in this process. The proposed project combines
both rehabilitation and diversification components and is consistent with the
aforementioned strategy.



- 10 -
25.        Sri Lanka-s share in total world tea production has declined from
20% in 1960 to about 10% at present and its share in world trade has declined
to around 21% from about 33% in the 1960s. The poor production performance
in the 1970s was due partly to frequent drought, falling world tea prices,
and the uncertainties associated with land reform and the Government's tax
and foreign exchange policies which discriminated against the tea sector. As
a result fertilizer use stagnated, stand maintenance was poor and field
investment activities were inadequate. Replanting has increased recently to
about 2,000 ha annually, although the level is still below the Government's
goal of 3,000 ha per year. In total, only 14% of the country's tea land has
been replanted with higher yielding clonal teas, an important reason for the
lack of sustained improvement in tea yields. Although yields rose from an
average of 1,000 kg per ha in the 1960s to 1,200 kg per ha in 1974-76, the
figure was slightly less than 1,000 kg per ha in 1977-79. At least half of
the tea bushes in Sri Lanka will be over 70 years old by 1985, beyond their
maximum productive period; most are seedling varieties of uncertain yield and
quality and most fields have high vacancy rates. The past neglect of stand
maintenance and replanting will continue to affect production adversely over
the next decade. The proposed project has a substantial field rehabilitation
program to reverse that trend.
26.     Most Sri Lankan tea is manufactured by the traditiona. "orthodox"
rolling process which produces high quality loose black tea demanded by
Europe, the Middle-2ast, Asia and Australia. Processing and manufacturing is
done in about 720 scattered tea factories, most of which were constructed
before World War II and contain machinery which is old and inefficient.  The
proposed project would rehabilitate and modernize some of these factorites.
27.        In 1979, tea export taxes accounted for 47% of tea export value but
were reduced by about a third on July 4, 1979, to account for about 35% in
1980. Still, the Sri Lankan tea industry continues to be the most highly
taxed tea industry in the world. The specific export tax which forms about
95% of tea tax revenues maintains incentive for price improvement through
more careful tea plucking and manufacture, gives greater incentives for
growing tea in the higher priority areas of low-country and high-country, and
discourages tea growing in the mid-country. However, in periods when local
cost inflation outstrips increases in tea export prices, both the specific
and the gross revenue based ad valorem taxes erode tea margins. Under these
circumstances, incentives are squeezed which reduces production and exports,
as happened in 1978 and 1979. In response to falling margins, the Government
reduced taxes on tea on two occasions (para 42). However, the adjustment
process has been slow.
28.        The 'Ministry of Plantation Industries (MPI) was established in 1970
and given overall responsibility for the major crops in the tree crop sector.
The tea estates in the public sector are managed and operated by two corpora-
tions: State Plantations Corporation (SPC) and Janatha Estates Development



- 11 -
Board (JEDB). However, the Government felt that MPI was too large for effec-
tive management and in February 1980 created two new ministries--Ministry of
State Plantations and Ministry of Janatha Estates Development--with respon-
sibilities for SPC and JEDB respectively. The President is currently the
Minister-in-charge of these two ministries. MPI was left with primary
responsibility for tea smallholders and subsidy administration through the
Tea Smallholders Development Authority (TSHDA), tea research, promotion
policy and control through the Tea Board, and training through the National
Institute of Plantation Management (NIPM). The TSHDA has the responsibility
for the smallholder tea sector and for assisting private tea plantations up
to 20 ha without their own factories. The Authority has faced many problems
which have impaired its effectiveness; overall management is weak, par-
ticularly in the areas of finance and planning, there are insufficient staff,
and training is inadequate. As a result extension suffers. The Government
wishes to strengthen TSHDA and has started implementing an Asian Development
Bank assisted project which would provide staff, training, and tea processing
facilities for TSP-DA in the low country. Consequentlv, the proposed project
would limit itself to strengthening TSHDA extension services in a small area
so as not to strain the limited implementation capacity of TSHDA.
29.       The Tea Board was established in 1976 for tea promotion and
research, collection of statistics and market information and the administra-
tion of subsidies. The Tea Board also gives advice on tea policy. These
functions are performed through three agencies under the Tea Board--the Tea
Promotion Board, the Tea Commissioner's Department and the Tea Research
Institute (TRI). The Tea Promotion Board carries out some marketing
activities. The Tea Commissioner-s Department administers subsidies and
collects statistics. The Tea Research Institute carries out research into
all aspects of tea production and has produced recommendations which can
produce tea of the highest standard. Provision for training in the tree crop
sector is the responsiblity of the NIPM. The Institute works closely with
the Advisory and Extension Service of TRI but the training program has been
almost exclusively of a technical nature with ad hoc courses designed solely
to improve tea production methods. No attention has been given to the need
for systematic staff development. The proposed project addresses these
problems and includes assistance to NIPM.
30.       The two public sector corporations, SPC and JEDB, control 60% of
tea lands and 70% of tea production. Smallholders with less than 4 ha
account for 20%, while the remainder comprises private holdings above 4 ha.
In February 1980, the corporations, which had previously been highly central-
ized, were given a regional structure with four boards each, to improve
manageability. However, decision making is still centralized which has on
occasion caused uncertainty and confusion at the regional level. Reporting
procedures are cumbersome and financial management is weak. Furthermore,
performance incentives for both staff and management are non-existent.
Improvement in organization and management of SPC and JEDR is an important
objective of the proposed project.



- 12 -
31.        World trade in tea is estimated at about 940 M kg and is expected
to grow at about 2.7% per annum, slightly above the historic trend of about
2.2% during 1961-80. THowever, Sri Lankan tea exports of about 187 M kg in
1950 have declined from a peak of 224 M kg reached in 1965. Consequently,
Sri Lanka's market share has declined from about 33% in the 1960s to about
217 in 1980.  The decline in exports is due to decline in production which
averaged ahout-0.3% per annum during 1961-80.  The major markets for Sri
Lankan tea in 1979 were the United Kingdom, Pakistan, the UJnited States,
Iraq, Egypt and Saudi Arabia.  The major growth market for Sri Lankan tea
comprises the Middle East and Persian Gulf countries which now account for
50% of Sri Lankan exports, compared with only 25% in 1975. These markets
favor leafy black tea grown in Sri Lanka's low-country. Consequently, the
average price of low country tea is now higher than that for other regions,
whereas it was the lowest in Sri Lanka before 1970. Most of the proposed
project investment is directed towards rehabilitating low-country tea areas
and factories.
32.          Over 90% of Sri Lankan tea is marketed through intermediaries
who buy at the Colombo tea auction, now the world's largest. Only about 10%
is locally consumed. The market is competitive and functions well, although
in some market segments a few major international tea paclcaging and merchan-
dizing firms dominate. The price of Sri Lankan tea at London auction rela-
tive to world averages has declined from a 6% premium in 1969/70 to a 4%
disadvantage in 1980. Both buyers and brokers complain about a general
deterioration in tea quality.  The proposed project would help raise quality
through factory rehabilitation and through improvements in green leaf tran-
sport and handling.
The Minor Crops Sub Sector
33.        Sri Lanka's minor export crops, which consist of cocoa, coffee,
cinnamon, cardamom, pepper, cloves, nutmeg, mace, cashew, ginger, citronella,
papain and sesame, are important to the economy. The export of minor crops
has proved to be a significant foreign exchange earner and above all offers
the opportunity of broadening the export base. Sri Lanka is the world's
largest exporter of cinnamon (33% of the market) and exports a significant
proportion of cloves (6.7%), sesame seed (5.9%), cardamom (3.2%) and nutmeg
and mace (2.8%). Exports of the other minor crops constitute less than 1% of
the world market. Sri Lanka pepper is admired for its high quality and
commands a premium price on world markets. The share of the market is small
(0.6%) so that even large proportional expansion in pepper exports would have
no repercussions on market prices. Cardamom is a high-value spice and the
quality of Sri Lanka's export is considered good; it could, however, be
easily improved further by expanding better processing facilities. Sri
Lanka's small share of the world's clove production is of high quality and
occupies a selective and secure position in the market. In contrast to tea,
rubber and coconuts the minor crops are mostly grown by smallholders on



- 13 -
homestead plots and have received little formal attention from Government
extension, research and marketing programs. Recently, however, in response
to worsening world prices for the major crops and the country's rapidly
deteriorating foreign reserve position, Sri Lanka has made minor export crops
a high priority agricultural activity, established institutions devoted to
these crops, and developed promotional and incentive schemes to improve
production and quality. The area under minor export crops is currently
estimated at 50,000 hectares and Government policy is to increase this to
80,000 hectares by lq9n.
34.        The Department of Minor Export Crops (DMEC) within the Ministry of
Agricultural Development and Research has prime responsibility for the promo-
tion of minor export crops. A Minor Export Crops Research Station is main-
tained by DM`EC and supported by a TTNDP/FAO program.  Work has begun on a
substation at Delpitiya in Vandv district under the IDA-assisted Tree Crops
Diversification (Tea) Project (Cr. 819-CE).  Impressive crop growth and early
yields are in evidence on trials established in 1170 on old tea lands typical
of the proposed project area. Extension of new technology to smallholders is
weak because of staff shortages and lack of extension transport to ensure
good coverage of the widely dispersed smallholdings. Resuonsibility for
export promotion of minor crops is held by the Export nevelopment Board which
offers incentives to produtcers to gear production to export demand through
attention to type and nuality standards.  It also operates special export
credit schemes and export expansion grants. The existing domestic marketing
system for minor export crops is adequate. The produce from small farmers
passes through several middlemen who then auction it away to exporters.
There are a considerable number of exporters, both large and small, which
ensures adequate competition. These exporters are generally well informed
about daily fluctuations in world markets, and have adequate communication
with potential markets.
IDA Involvement in the Tree Crops Sector
35.        IDA credits are supporting five projects in Sri Lanka's tree crops
sector. A Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea) I Project (Cr. 818-CE) is promoting
rehabilitation of high country tea areas whilst a Tree Crops Diversification
(Tea) I Project (Cr. 819-CE) supports the replacement of unprofitable
mid-country tea with a diversity of crops including pepper, cardamom, cloves,
fuelwood and a range of local fruit trees by smallholder settlers. The
proposed project will support a similar approach to rehabilitation and diver-
sification of tea lands by estates.  The replanting, infilling and soil
conservation programs in the tea rehabilitation project are going well but
the civil works programs are behind schedule and disburserents slower than
anticipated. The training program has focused on technical training and,
through visits to other tea producing countries, has exposed the estate staff
to new ideas; this has had a marked effect in stimulating changes in tea
production technology.  Roth projects have suffered from high local cost
inflation which has also necessitated modification of the civil works



- 14 -
programs, particularly housing.  Housing design modifications have reduced
per unit cost. Procedural problems have slowed disbursement of credit to
smallholders but procedures are being modified to accelerate disbursements.
Lessons learned from the tea rehabilitation and diversification projects have
been incorporated into the proposed project. The Second Rural Development
Project (Cr. 1079-CE) includes strengthening of research facilities and
extension services for minor export crops. This project and Kurunegala Rural
Development Project (Cr. Q91-CE) also support coconut rehabilitation
programs. The fifth project, Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation (Cr.
1017-CE), supports a rubber rehabilitation program in the low country.
Management of all these projects is good and physical achievements on field
programs are close to targets.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The proposed project was prepared by SPC and JEDB, with Ministry
of Finance and Planning coordinating the preparation work. The rehabilita-
tion component of the project was appraised first during January-February
1981. At the request of the Government, it was decided to include a diver-
sification component which was appraised in September-October 1981. Nego-
tiations were held in Washington, D.C. in March 1982. The Government delega-
tion was led by Mr. Ackiel Mohamed, Additional 1Diector, External Resources
Department. A staff appraisal report (No. 3531a-CE dated April 9, 1982) is
being distributed separately. A timetable of key events relating to the
project and special conditions are given in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
37.       The project aims to reduce tea production costs and improve tea
quality from high potential tea areas in high- and low-coulntry, and to diver-
sify unprofitable low-yielding tea lands in mid-country out of tea into
spices and fuelwood. The project would support a rehabilitation program
designed to prevent further decline in output. In addition, it would
strengthen management systems and financial control in the major tea produc-
ing corporations, stabilize eroding lands and improve the welfare of tea
estate workers.
The Project includes the following components:
(i) Tea replanting (1760 ha) and infilling programs (3900 ha) in high
country and low country areas; renovating soil conservation works
(5350 ha); diversifying non-viable and abandoned tea areas (8000
ha) in the mid-country into spices and fuelwood.
(ii) Renovating 84 tea factories, providing processing and storage
facilities for spices, and providing field and nursery equipment
for tea, spices and fuelwood.



- 15 -
(iii)  Providing v,ehicles for transport of spices and for transporting
green leaf from field to factory in order to improve plucking
efficiency and ensure that leaf arrives in top condition at
factories.
(iv) Constructing about 400 new twin cottages, rehabilitating about
3750 line rooms for labor housing, and improving water supplies
and medical facilities for estate labor.
(v) Providing staff development and training facilities and organiz-
ing local and overseas training courses.
(vi) Providing extension support for smallholder tea producers.
(vii) Providing technical assistance to improve management and finan-
cial control systems, to supervise the civil wiorks program and to
develop detailed specifications for factory and medical services
rehabilitation.
Project Implementation and Organization
38.       The proposed project would be implemented over 4 years mainly by
the two Covernment owned corporations--JEDB and SPC.  Three of the four
regional boards within JEDB--Boards I, II and IV-- would implement the
proposed project in the high and mid-country (42% of total project invest-
ments); while two of the four SPC regional boards--Boards I and IV--would
implement the proposed project in the low-country (50% of total investments).
Smallholders through TSHDA would be responsible for the remaining investments
(8%). As a condition of effectiveness, the Government would transfer owner-
ship of all Project area lands to SPC and JEDB (Section 6.01(e), draft
Development Credit Agreement (DCA)).
39.       Both JEDB and SPC would continue to operate within the framework of
the existing decentralized organizational structure and to be headed by
separate chairmen, each assisted by the following: a. sub-regional directors
supervising groups of estates, with each estate headed by an Estate Superin-
tendent, and b. an office manager supervising accounting, personnel and other
support staff at board headquarters. Each of the five regional Boards (para
38) has appointed a Project Director for the project area under it.
Similarly, MPI has appointed a Project Director for components to be imple-
mented through TSITDA and NIPM. SPC and JEDB central offices would coordinate
project implementation by their respective regional Boards. At the apex, a
Project Coordination Committee (PCC) has been set up with the Secretary,
Mlinistry of Janatha Estates Development as the Chairman. The PCC-s respon-
sibilitv would include: coordinating and monitoring the progress of the
project and removing implementation bottlenecks. A Project Coordinator,
located in the Ministry of Janatha Fstates Development, would service the
PCC.



- 16 -
40.        In order to achieve the project's objective of improved management
and reduced costs of tea production, some changes in the management system
and financial control will be necessary. To help with effective
decentralization of management, without loss of control over corporate per-
formance, a financial control and information system would be developed and
management accounting and internal audit procedures strengthened and tied to
an effective incentive system.  A management manual would be drawn up to help
establish operating procedures for effective decentralization. As a condi-
tion of effectiveness of the Credit, management consultants would be hired to
make recommendations and subsequentlv impart training to establish and imple-
ment the accepted systems and procedures. SPC and JEDB would review with the
recommendations of management consultants with IDA by August 31, 1983, and
begin to implement the agreed recommendations by December 1, 1983 (Section
3.04, draft Project Agreement (PA)).
41.        The Project Directors would prepare progress reports using formats
established for the ongoing rehabilitation project. The reports would be
collated by the central offices of each corporation and furnished to IDA
through the PCC.
42.        In the past JEDB and SPC incurred losses on their operations
because of high export taxes, weak tea markets, inefficient management, and
high local inflation. Recognizing the inadequacy of tea margins and in
response to an agreement with IDA (under Cr. 818-CE), which requires tea
industry profitability to be maintained at November 1977 level, the Govern-
ment reduced the specific export duty in 1979 from Rs 14.50 per kg by about a
third to Rs 10.50 per kg. Since then, margins again suffered due to falling
world tea prices and in response the Government announced a further 24%
reduction in export duty (to Rs 8.00 per kg) in November 1981. The Govern-
ment would review, by May 31 each year, actual and projected tea profit
levels and agree with IDA on a plan of action to ensure satisfactory returns
to tea producers (Section 4.02, draft DCA). In view of the importance of tea
taxes as a source of revenue for the Government, in the longer term more
reliance will have to be put on reducing tea production costs and increasing
productivity of tea lands. The proposed project aims to achieve this through
rehabilitation of tea lands and factories and diversification of poorer tea
areas into other crops.
Project Costs and Financing
43.       The estimated total cost of the 4-year project, including contin-
gencies, is about IJS$33.1 M, with a foreign exchange cost of about IJSS10.9 M.
The total cost includes taxes and duties of approximately ITSSJ.9 M. The
project includes 120 man-months of technical assistance for a total cost of
US$.22 M. Physical contingencies are calculated at 5% for field activities,
equipment and vehicles; and 10% for factory civil works, housing and medical



- 17 -
facilities, reflecting site-specific design variations. Local price contin-
gencies have been calculated at 17% for 1Q82, 12% for 1983, 10% for 1984 and
8% for 1985.  Foreign price contingencies have been calculated at 8.5% for
198? and 7.5% thereafter.
44.        The proposed TDA credit of uSS2o.n million woull finance 100% of
foreign costs and contrihute ITSS9.1 M equivalent to local costs and thus
would finance about 64% of the total project cost, net of duties and taxes.
The remaining local costs would be met by the Government, SPC, JEDB and
smallholders. Despite a number of measures to raise additional resources in
support of its investment program, Sri Lanka-s resource situation remains
extremely tight. A major reason for this is the adverse impact on revenues
of the relatively slow increase in export volumes and prices, and the pres-
sure on expenditure arising partly from the rapid increase in import prices.
This tight budgetary situation will take time to resolve. Local cost financ-
ing in support of Sri Lanka's own resource mobilization efforts will not only
provide valuable relief to these budgetary pressures but also supplement
foreign exchange resources in support of the balance of payments.
45.        The Covernment would relend an amount of US$17.5 M to SPC and JEDB
at an interest rate initially of 16% per annum, and IJS$1.O M to BOC initially
at 13% per annum.  The latter amount would be onlent to private factory
owners and smallholders at an interest rate initially of 16% per annum.
Repayment period of all subloans would extend to 15 years including five
years of grace period (Section 3.01(c) and (d), and Schedule 4, draft DCA).
As a result of stabilization measures undertaken by the Government, inflation
during 1981, using the GDP deflator, is estimated to have declined to about
20% from 24% in 1980. Provided stabilization measures are continued and
strengthened, inflation during the next three years could decline to an
average of 15-167 and to around 10% beyond 1985. The initial onlending rate
of 16% would represent a positive real rate over the term of the loan. The
initial rate would be reviewed and revised annually to keep it positive in
real terms over the medium term. Any modifications in the onlending rates
would affect only new subloans. The Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Procurement and Disbursement
46.        All factory equipment, tractors and vehicles ($9.1 M) would be
procured following international competitive bidding (TCB), in accordance
with IDA procurement guidelines. Bids from domestic manufacturers would
receive a margin of preference of 15% or the prevailing customs duty,
whichever is lower. Nion-factory equipment, tanker-trucks and trailers ($0.8
M) would be purchased in small lots, not suitable for ICB, and would, there-
fore be procured after competitive bidding advertised locally, following
procedures acceptable to IDA. Civil works construction would be scattered
and would consist mainly of small housing construction and renovation and as
such would not interest foreign bidders. Contracts for building of new



- 18 -
cottages, processing and storage facilities and for construction materials
($2.0 M) would, therefore, be awarded through local competitive bidding.
Following existing practices, field rehabilitation and diversification work
($7.5 M) and housing renovation ($0.3 M) would be undertaken by estate labor
on force account. Consultants for technical assistance ($0.2 M) would be
appointed following Bank guidelines.
47.       Disbursements out of the proposed credit will be made as follows:
a. 100% of foreign expenditure on directly imported, or 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory) on locally manufactured, or 85%
of expenditures on imported but locally procured vehicles and
equipment;
b. 100% of expenditure on training, technical assistance and
project preparation; and
c. 85% of expenditure on civil works for the construction of new
labor housing, factory, processing and storage facilities, and
construction material for renovation.
Credit withdrawal applications for expenditure on all categories would be
fully documented. Project implementation has already started. Retroactive
financing up to USS.5 M is provided for eligible project expenditure incurred
after January 1, 1982, so that project implementation is not slowed down.
48.        Separate project accounts would be maintained by the implementing
agencies, in a format similar to what has been agreed upon in the ongoing tea
rehabilitation project. Accounting and internal audit functions are weak and
would be strengthened through technical assistance to be provided under the
proposed project. The implementing agencies have been slow in preparing
financial statements, but the performance is improving. All project execut-
ing agencies would submit their unaudited accounts to IDA within four months
of the end of the fiscal year, and audited accounts within eight months.
Project Benefits and Risks
49.       The project would not increase the total tea production of Sri
Lanka. All production increases in the high country and low country tea
areas would he offset by production loss due to diversification out of
mid-country tea areas. Increases in revenues from tea would be small, about
TTSS1.R M per year by 1990, due to improvements in quality which would improve
prices by 5% in the high-country and 3% in the low-country. Financial
benefits from spices and. fuielwood would he about USS4 M per annum. The
project's main benefit would come from reduction in tea production and
processing costs and improvement in the quality of tea through replacement of
old machiney and equipment. The financial benefits from reductions in tea
operating costs would amount to about US$6.0 M per year which even when



- 19 -
offset by operating cost increases due to spice and fuelwood operations,
would still result in annual savings of about TUS$5.0 M.
50.       The project would also produce non quantified benefits by improving
the health and welfare of estate labor through improvements in labor housing,
water supply, sanitation and medical facilities. Through the training and
technical assistance components, the project would improve corporate manage-
ment and control, which would also benefit tea areas outside the project.
51.       The project's economic rate of return would be about 29% with rates
for components varving between 15% and 75%. While replanting has the lowest
ERR, averaging only 15%, the ERR for infilling component, at 75% is the
highest. ERRs for other major components are as follows: soil conservation,
72%; factory, 347; and spices, 35%. The range of ERRs for the replanting
component shows that for some portions of the project area, returns may be
low. A field by field evaluation of current and potential yields will be
done for each field proposed to be replanted in high-country project area.
SPC and JEDB will select fields for tea replanting in accordance with
criteria satisfactory to the Association (Section 4.04, draft PA).  The
project's economic rate of return is relatively insensitive to changes in
costs and benefits. Even if either revenue increases due to spice production
and tea quality improvements do not materialize or if operating cost savings
in tea production and processing are not realized, the project would still be
viable. Similarly, the project remains viable even if projects costs double.
52.       The technical risks of the project with respect to tea production
are low because of the long experience which the SPC and JEDR have in tea
cultivation and processing. The two corporations have gained considerable
experience in implementing a similar rehabilitation project.  As the corpora-
tions have less experience with minor export crops these risks would be
somewhat higher for the diversification activities.  However, technical
assistance and training are provided under the project to minimize these
risks. Management risks would be greater, because of the current organiza-
tional and management problems.  Management technical assistance has, there-
fore, been included in the project. The organizational structure, as
strengthened under the proposed project is considered adequate for project
implementation.
PART V - LECAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Association, the draft Project Agree-
ment between the Association and SPC and JEDB, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agree-
ment are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 20 -
54.        Special Conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness include: (i) transfer of
ownership of Project area lands to SPC and JEDB (Section 6.01(e), draft DCA);
(ii) execution of the subsidiary loan agreements between the Government of
Sri Lanka and SPC, JEDB, and BOC (Section 6.01(b) and (c), draft DCA); and
(iii) appointment of management consultants (Section 6.01(d), draft DCA).
55.        I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. N. Clauisen
President
Attachments
April 12, 1982



-21-                                          ANNEX I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
SRI LANKA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SRI LANKA                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV5.HAOES
LAND AREA (ThOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                              -  MOST RECENT ESrIMATE)-
TOTAL              65.6                                            MOST RECENT      LOW INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTLRAL       25.8                   1960  /b    1970 /b       ESTIMATE /b   ASIA 6 PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PEE CAPITA (US$)                        60.0        100.0            230.0              232.3                 1136.1
ENERGY CONSLMPTI0A PEA CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           114.4        143.3            140.2             499.4                  1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MPID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)       9889.2      12514.0          14542.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT Ot TOTAL)       17.9         21.9             26.1              17.3                    40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                                    21.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                      31.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                               2065
FPOPJLATIUL DENSITY
PER SQ. KUM.                           150.8        190.8            221.7             153.6                  373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTLRAL LAND          507.0        518.0            552.9             360.3                 2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-I4 YRS.                               42.1         41.9             36.9              37.4                    39.8
15-64 YRS.                               54.3         54.5             59.0              59.2                   56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                         3.6          3.6              4.1               3.5                     3.5
POPFL_ATION GROwF. RSATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    2.5          2.4              1.7               2.1                     2.3
URBAN                                    4.7          4.4              3.6               3.4                     3.8
CiLDE BIRTh RATE (PER THOUSAND)           35.5         29.7             27.6              27.7                    29.7
LRUDE DEATH RATE (PER ThOUSAND)            9.1          6.8              7.4              10.2                     7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    2.5          2.3              1.8               2.5                     1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
AACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)            ..         55.3            113.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)          ..          8.2             41.0              20.4                   44.1
LofuD ANL NUSIlTION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)                93.0        103.0            140.0             107.1                  123.7
PEk .APITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQCIREMENTS)                         97.0        108.0             96.0              9F.6                  112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)                44.0         47.0             43.0              56.9                   62.5
OF wHICH ANINLAL AND PULSE            13.0         13.0              7.0              14.2                   19.7
LHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY SATE            5.8          4.8              3.4              14.6                    4.8
HEALTh
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT dIRTH (YEARS)          62.0         63.5             65.6              57.7                   64.0
INFANRT MORTALITY RATE (PEE
THOUSANL)                                 55.0         51.0             49.0              89.1                   50.2
ALLESS IO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TUTAL                                     ..         21.0             20.0              30.1                   45.9
1RSAN                                     . .        46.4             45.0              65.8                   68.0
RURAL                                     ..         14.0             13.0              20.1                   34.4
NAUDE6 TU EXDJETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
2F' POPULATION)
lrOAL                                     ..         64.0             59.0              17.6                   53.4
URBAN                                      ..        76.0             68.0              71.0                   71.0
RURAL                                     ..         61.0             55.0               4.8                   42.4
PUFLLAlOlN FEE,R PHYSiCIAN              4493.1       6610.7           6751.2            3857.7                 4428.7
POPULADluN PEA NURSING PERSOh           4150.0       2238.0           2055.0            6411.8                 2229.7
POPULANloh PEU HOSPITAL SED
IOTAL                                  319.0        322.0            342.0            1132.8                  588.5
UHEAN                                     ..        217.6            241.1             322.3                  579.6
a                                        RkU.AL                                     .         569.6            584.2            5600.5                 1138.5
;SIoM.SuSNS PER HJSB'TAL BED                ..         56.5            531.3
HOUB    N U
ADVERAGE SIZE UF -OUSEHOLI
ToTAL                                    5.4/c        5.8               ..
URSAN                                    6. 3c        6.3               ..
KURAL                                    S.27T        5.5
AVEEALE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                    2.0/c        2.5
5SAN                                     2.17T        2.7
RURAL                                    2.0N/c       2. 5
AE-SES TO ELELThlUITY (PERCENT
ot  WtELLIGSL)
.OIAL                                    7.5/c        9.0
UKRSAN                                  35.49/c      34.5
RURAL                                    2. 3/c       3.0



-22-                                                ANNEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
SRI LANKA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SRI LANKA                             REFERENCE GROIPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b       EST1MATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                       95.0         99.0              94.0/d            85.9                     99.8
MALE                      100.0         104.0             98.0/d             94.4                    100.6
FEMALE                     90.0         94.0              90.0_/             64.5                     98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                        27.0         47.0              52.0               38.0/aa                 53.5
MALE                       38.0          46.0             63.0               34.6/aa                  58.4
FEMALE                     16.0         48.0              40.0               18.0/as                  48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)            ..          1.0               1.0                3.8                    21.1
PUPIL-TEAChER RAT1O
PRKAAkY                                   31.0           ..              32.0               32.8                    34.2
SECONDARY                                   ..           ..                ..               19.9                    31.7
ADULT LlTERACY RATE (PERCENT)               75.0 /e      77.6              85.0               52.8                    86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                 8.0          7.0               6.8                1.7                    12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                35.8         40.0              71.2              35.3                    174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                  ..           ..                ..                3.7                    50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                         36.0         48.9                ..               14.6                   106.8
CINEMA ANNIUAL ATTENIANCE PER CAPITA         3.0            ..              4.7                3.4                     4.3
LAbOR EORCE
TOTAL IAbOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)             3390.9       4186.9            5011.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                          22.6         23.7              24.4              29.3                     37.4
AGkICULTURE (PERCENT)                     56.3         55.1              54.3              69.8                     50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                        13.5         14.4              14.1              14.1                     21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                       34.3         33.5              34.5               39.7                    40.2
MALE                                        50.8         49.1              50.7               51.5                    49.8
FENALE                                      16.2         16.5              17.3               23.3                    31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                     1.3          1.4               1.2                1.1                     1.1
1hCOME DISTRIEUTION
PERCENT OP PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGhEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          26.4          18.2              18.6
HRGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         52.1          43.4              42.8
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS            4.5          7.5               7.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           13.7         19.2              19.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAh                                       ..           .,                ..             134.1                    248.6
RURAL                                       ..           ..                ..             111.6                    193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY ENCOME
LEVEL (USD PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                       ..           ..               ..                 ..                    249.8
RURAL                                       ..           ..               ..                 ..                    234.3
EST1MATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)                                                                                                                             e
URBAN                                       ..           ..                ..              41.7                     21.2
RURAL                                       ..           ..                ..              51.7                     32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China Included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1963;  /d Due to changes in duration of levels in education, the ratios are not strictly comparable
over time; /e 1962.
May, 1981



-23--                                                                                     ANNEX I
Page 3
LtIN.IGIONI 00 $00CI0 fhflCXldk
Rtotos    Adtoooghth   o~aoa...eo.doro.     to.e....     donorally  ~dga  thooooatoo             ittveooloot hroli    -th tn atte]oaproo-th. inter-
The rsftoroono   gr apese         rh sbassoor    o a          f rho   .bfornoooaadd  (2) scan-Or   gr-,p,o -hvrersoo                           --rooogoroottarr thooaotygr
sro-o frlftoitses).   lthe  rrfte--r gtoap dal.taherano-ges  a-aplroasgsn                              ro-- n_      ona f-tr   ondo   aoyott          _omo..t_
ajoItly or too ee-ortosi ragI'oa? oat data  fry  star tr.oto-- .   Io-  Ohs  -c-r , of C                      r       -oogtb,o"ilatnrseped   -o  ohs oa-flabifliy of data
sod.-          i-         __. fsooohbae Io ae_too_tedor..a_.-stgo-sroaoro-ot fojeon--                     t.r.lbao"f                  n.  -y.t-fil    -pantt            -na. tor
fIfTh AlEAC .                   a-Ia. 1thodasd  s.Io.f                                                      2f-.ot,O o,n r-alioo   ar-      - to tol- .b, -      arct     or..b  - l'nlafon(toal
tota   -  ots. rofan   ara   no-Iot- lo a-eo ... d       ofoosaor ...tobso, afand rota   a nl.o-d pri-t'roarne                                              otohor a-,- o _hpatolbd
AgLcItra-Ot~toIgtost6atosnsdesoaolyo    roonolyoby fhfht                                         oblIhir..pot-    '   grerlr-diroslr            ldysr         ...ado.
COtN      OPIoI  7IFtErRttstfasITnnonrorttrors--dlf    tano-odo.                                                                                  of.sft."    roni"'todhall
oal1-d by  -asooor-t  eotodl or               rd honk Atlat         119-9 bol l, 1990                    soIs o           resnra-as.hosatdr       hs.n    ht0 
197d, sod  9197  dana.                                                                                    od      Ito asoo    n,`   nr,o -Jan,o-.)ooh-be.fsrh -p-t..o tao-In
ONORC  Chlhoo    r  npO    asrel  aoaop Ia        nnosooal   oorn   oaef-                                            n700 -    roar~ lrooahsi roI ad Cltotr7f feaffspta
Itrhnnny' I thfngaot of -oita            afo  Pan tonfra; fI6h, 1970.adI909                               _otton.  Spantae-t  nnspi-.'  jot  toldod Fonl  Cor  ota.1
deta.                                                                                                   yAsloosrfsha dod-oo-nors-                           oodbt-ttt   odist--rot
ft00  -ap ita   dn'-dod by tho r-bor of toOt.
4                                            total yoat..athToo.   ffdY       (tho.-sadn,    Cs A.   Illy a. 16061  1970, ond 1197d9nO
6tat.                                                                                                anroto.-otir.. 7h                      0     on     nrd        otl        -tttd ra l-1 
Coototaoo1..oretf otttal --    -y.fo..or           ... atnltor~ prdartot,_ a tsr  ""Id-anttan                                  at.0   r.. -  alia                - tarslfa,g  qdonrIs
daff _oe rdsfhr196otsofooh-n  or9at eCat-otnoorttttndoa                                                 o -hnnnn osC raolJ vI.o,-thsoxd-t
toto1atro" toor,ntloos                                                                                  Atoae000  o    otn a-l.  -b-   f Pyjj-                          ,_ruranl   A- anreoCe
totofartan to 9000 ff10  - orr yo7lati., prolonoito  aot hb-od no 19ff                          her of 0000000 P- root  n  f.obo   n   mo                     pe    ornt-o
ttloaato Slyats  aod  to  ond thotr  -oto a-s- ald  tortiiliy o-oa.dsloo    5i~0l'.ftfo    toldonnraotto                                                                oetd
toion'Olif    ysoor-t-y sa, sborth lh-da-hr,lhn-tttt yaGtho- a.s';tl oo-                             oratoroed-otho
bogflfoopoesarnyoshorth -tnoo iralrh aao7ry          y-,,~a oshyt   nrse                 dotoatt  tlnrt-ononondtlra-tos                                  .n               ...odarol
loosl.sdfaaioI'frotonao.tr_ sra- h,..lfa,agaro -.l         ara.     .   looor-                    aoottol    adtrb   toftlt- oso-     reon...l. .... rtoIF
fortlilty a-ord hot tn  -00-0  lo            and Patt favohy plaorlogtroros
lah -otryfor hor  anoigoodooafrts-ofni orhoo-on-torfo-alitt                                   roUcA_OcIN
otdfor-ffftprrerdot-.tnro1otttaay..rtassa.                                       hdfotron.-.7.nrtlhvortt.... .. .ataltot
thI  o  _oooo    of_   tnnfosfl    rootsdeof  oo_0                               olsto    onh,"aola    popolorono; rorally Jrnlodoo   hlndr-o aged r-11
oftoso          1-or atrseI ositanto    OhotdnstdnosryarI~a,   e  alotooofoeo                        tonn..rsoI       a          "i Ifro ..d.otfoeI'lls,  osI    estedll pInI
e---otd  0rh tsoatthe              rr- , orrod ntaraot--sot- or tht  ooalooseso a,. -                                 p,Fa.  are 1hotn   or .a.oteho offletaf  tarhoo  ago.
Ij tho  ys-IIG 2000     dr,lrh  rane  f d-olo-of ftn-lonons,etarno                                    Soooedarntobaol  t-tnttf.f          a-Id ft e-  o7asdsaat1ettdr
test sttthoaoh Onto  tint atorsned  -  he ysar  -t-  ..satta-ty  .poto-a-I podat getrl   nooat-o, or roanhar noato.o ItI tat os  orpo
shot hat.. heroa-hnd.                                                                                   ....oIlyaohln2 .7  yor areftgo,oor--t-oo -s-o nnroare   eserafl'yi
toal-    ra  1960. 1117  ald  1979 da.                                                                  aorlCde tsnhoti.aI. iofn-rial, 00 other-          or    oh-th op-tat  ldotod-
Prrso.ha.atooo-nrA. -a d  - asyato   oeob... fos,arn  laainstloy,    det-aot -eoffs--odat   toltrtoo  tt.
oty;  OO    90ad.7  data                                                                            tCh-eorteao   orlaoeasayttfsothtroleald it
royJosias ho  fororars (yrrt-t  - Ih,tho-   .0-10  year,   oloo-g               1-peay  o    oodory  itois  dhoided by  -oehor  of  _oaher  to  f.
It years), sod retinod 765 neor  o-d   otrr as prernn-gee  of -tao-yt root-rrrs dglols
lorlo; ltI,197I9, ota-   1:909 OsaAdol   liternrrt   Orth                                                                                   Lica.-st  sto1ma  fobl ftn  teed asd atIre)
tfolso.ti Cas rSShat         roroo        -taro   - amora  grooth  tarte  at toa  tooI    -                  St 0 torro age  nO total od-..  paoalo    od lb  Feat  and ...er
year totlalost.n -t flat-hI, 1967-77, sod 1979-79.
toroarlo  froet,h hat  (Pernont  -otbo   - a-oo   goo-1, raleo D otrbaa tort-                         CftSlMThIhN
tattoos  foo 1950-ho, t960lhI, -od 1970-79.                                                                                                              Paaoo    astoohtr    ootlr     t.ae..e   naegotioIao
Eroos  ltShas(rthoso     - Aor-tS  lInt bitrts 'ao   toeoof sft-yo.r11 oar    tolag  lots that eight retes..ta;  -oaldea  -eh1-ato , hostess ead
O tolt-o  19hI, 1971,  -o  1979 Oa.-                                                                oaa .nar  nah_la
Go-dea ean  fats (roroth-oandl  - A-oaa  deaths pro tnoooodsat fotd-yoa                                  at  esnr   nrtoso   oootod-Alrtso,oonr   o   ai
rotoataio  19hG .1970, Sod 1979  .tar.                                                                  broahose,teto  g....s  yobllo is-thoso..deaf ypoott   shds0
CtasttraottoaoaooSot.:rtoohereoI__lhornItes                                                                               d rs_ooe 'loonoota  adl             Isosoegeotalrotet
Rareo-oAoalrsyrodont loootdfhotreos    oso    g-7afIfo                                         ese        00er;dtloettpoaoyodrrpoholr
ttIh,y tts   na-aly ffoe-year  ,aerag             do   It169   970, sod 19:9                           rosIo'thsahlss    toao
ofbrr-Sorldoor-e  tador soetass   f ooaao...l faehhypl ..soist  ,.trort                                 goooo.al tblia  pro  th-attd 001tto    o loots   aa_l_otso   TVIrestoe
tettitlatPlng.~i,- U-r   (t-e-on  ofsa-ttdoott-  trotodlgealftS rrd                                       Iroosnrhoardotyarsrb h                 t,   rtoo    f TVs sotag  Itoeffo.-
allsathd hono. io saoo ago Irtay.                                                                    nStaoo   'daIly geosraf Iltr....o.soapaor'. detlo                      rs    9tdtisl
pnhblooetto   denotel PrI  r _.y  so  _nodlog  general toot.  It ia ososdeted
tOldOff OfUTI_ThII                                                                                           no he "doily"  lIsta  o...ar. an loast foo  totes a -ksl
_rooo loot.lfondooerotoao.    tnaaitsooa.essea     sod'  fsonr.delekts ..ddot..                                              bya,oldhsdlsatndtooese
on--tdalfssgoohat          orhsh sdlblesiadao-tooooaeistos   (e.g                oea.d
tioro_   avrgo  -rdo-oPo         -otoighta, l96l-6a, 1970, aed 1979 dat.                            sTol lobor f-oeOnoode                      - Oooogoll  artlo-  ertoo-s  osolofta
tsr foatt  softly  O ralooto  (rernen  tO otooterneottl-CGooaatd Ioa                   sto    arsaod  aoooyayd hDr00 a   ldg oaol oe sndoe   eta,,
snrtgy eooae     Itr  ts  foadsopaa or-ilablei oota -o-p-~o  toplts                                   notrog t`taIstOor of all afo.  Dfifatltoo   to -orb-s  h -tooteto
Ptotday.       A Ctlable  sorolto_  Isyr     d-assti  fr-dotos,   asyrtP       lee                   oa   roapatable; lh60, 197f ood 1979Oas
eatoIIs , ad nhasgsor ejana    Nat sopylies eonlode ootoal teed,  asdsmasle (toao                                         Fa-teals  labor fareo ra toteo- so ofI        1 ttS   .oh. fo..
qootoesed   vfodII       oosog    odtstshodsdiasno    eqte-atlotoe(r-oa)      Oo   ore--frsoL'ots'y    -rig   o
-et  sr  eooa-d ho tFA  b-aod 00 phystol.. totoosfrooaithifslgo   err.t   0ntol =aban ftt l9hf  1970  o   99dt 
oioy asd hrolth Ir.o.inoriog tnrir-..c.sl   Pee...aIo. body  aislghs,age                           Lnaoy  tro ;-bOor frare it nI-tog, notnto,~taotatto
*                                                so~~~~~~~~~~~~~.deoo  di.tItbor-.orfpoth -ooadsf11-ioglf  taratr.nfrosa                               ardehtn-rtaoy,  -trertodgo               a -rr-oag      ftt  allshoofotro;lI '. 9h0.
hon....'   lee;lIOo    lG ad 1970 doo                                                                0979I ard  1979da.
Pet  _atItos -t1l of oratolo (troe   ro  dar   - tr-otio             t no Io of too  -arhos           tftrrna          se  ttet  .tto,ol,adt                       le - tarotootatto  or
ott e_sryt  at food 700 day.  Nto  eotply offood Is dofiood    as  b-o.  to-                         oottteiI      _etrstor tod  as tots, tab, sod feroa   labor Farsa
qai-o ntoos Ioral  entrts   ososIhliohod by tSDA pt-oodo  for tato                                    erttgtfnt-,tl   o I-laa   pptlatloi o  elI ags .re .s ..loly;
e11ooaor; o   7  rotoftoa  oroso" Pot dsy aed 20 groo.I-fololSd                                       1960, 197f', Sd I197  dots.I bes r  baean  l'  peoiot patos aOte
prals  rroois  o  ohlo  10 gota  hoold be a..'-I pronir -  Tbhe-  ssad-                    reflenoong  geg-too   -ato rnr  ad th   rpla -tn  ad  sg                   reod     A
*                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ard.aarloosrthar.tbh-efl75oooo.   tlttal proteoooodba2 rastol                           tsee-     oat tar  froroati-oal  -
aiaf   rnt   st  a                  -og   a  rho osld, roorosed by FAO toro ,     o                tooarolthonoio,t-,o    o  ttoslo tdt ~Ia5 aod t65 aod doer
Otold toad Sotoey;-1961-65 ..197  aod   9r7 daa,t   the .tta  labor foras.I
t"IarI t        tro ilr....rlr loot ovloa sod aolse  . .... otot  sotly of foal de-
thoedifrot.' solal  od polses  - gra.e tot day; 1961-65 , 1970 ond 1977 data.                    INCOME DISTRhIrL tfN
ChilI(.yern4oon,v(Patne..ttd -ffA-    deoonoonth-                                     d i                                                     tooorffersonaotorodl   trrrsh-
rosdosdele   iro    hlof alo-   ; 1961.i '97   sod 1979 dato                                   ata.p,   hoaetha_11lts.~l2'p     .1             0p-        ,-          ..  l4    a-
lttley d.Of rIlGd -ihft9   ff0177
s  ,broh; 1960.17  oo      t99a-t                                                                    andool   sttrondoo    osdshoon.a
lsao_rotoliL09t          rIhb... ldl -       - dosoldatbs of ioa-taotd-rr   roo yothoahd Ch- atot totoyOooh  oel (OtTbl   -tt  5rtl   ra  adrsa
at age ret ohoasood hot htttlrt. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~        ~       ~       ~        ~       ~       ~      ~      ~       -il) -rb.              a~
ah,seata late Oater (rerenoa             oroahn-ttsl.. obo, and ratol -dt-A                                    looynvp  ,inndone   levl t  tbo ..         eo..  i leo... ho ond obtoha ... oI
he   t  ete (ta-si  orbav, od rtal)ob  Oosvboassaeafo                                             ffrsl
eSe   o     stht_o  trot-onted  .osas                   .torog ...sd aI.sr   sells. I.iasa            taos.     lsls  oriy-oro    oods   o-tiddf vtooyo    ept
.erreotagh  of  toi  rete. r.tlv     bPtoaton      _oaorSo   are ..  itory-ltn           .-
footoloortrndtetheanrootorsbaolfasottfrooboosoooe                       tvtoai.troroofh.tat.ot5-    illrboriovthhodrt.o.h..t..oP"r",ih
oaosdert  so  ato   tnoroaoobl  aeeeo    tha   tbo.    torsoebliota                               boot o            P-dIoot  0    thro:  fIo                o  ohtast
hotet fensa  ltror otoCit1--rtl,rto,odeol.
peoetee   othitsorIr_ totobsotoos.    thtoadepslsy   nld
aodiooaoe-a_e  breane-oo    rtesaPh.so,h tot   sd5Ot                                                                                             eooh    o   rtl  oafoes
rto  qsife   to   o         ' sero   sooo  or"  aoioledIo  level.         ....
tstl -ortr roso tl      tsoo         ppto atia.d-ts     ytorteof        Iasct.
-alsstsal-grodt--to -rs            y.pst-iealhvorse  ,eo   aestepossootrota.



-24-
ANNEX I
Page 4
SRI LANKA: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
OUTPUT IN 1980 BY SECTOR                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
Value Added
$ Million    %                       1970-77         1977-80        1970-.30
Agriculture                        1,038    27.6                       2.0              3.5           2.5
Industry a/                        1,116    29.6                       2.1              8.6           4.0
Services                           1,612    42.8                       3.7              7.6           4.9
Total b/                      3,766   100.0                        2.9              6.8           4.0
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1980
US$ Million           %
GDP at Market Prices                                  4,130           100.0
Investment                                            1,480            35.8
Gross National Savings                                  675            16.3
Current Account Balance                                 805            19.5
Exports of Goods and NFS                              1,295            31.3
Imports of Goods and NFS                              2,211            53.5
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(Rs Million)    % of GDP at Market Prices
1980          1975      1979       1980
Current Receipts c/                 12,927           17.2     23.1        18.9
Current Expenditures d/             14,594           18.3     22.8        21.4
Current Surplus                     -1,667          -1.1        0.2      -2.4
Capital Expenditures e/             12,772            7.3      14.1       18.7
External Assistance                  5,717            3.2       7.2        8.4
a/ Manufacturing, mining, construction, and utilities.
b/ GDP at factor cost.
c/ Includes capital revenue.
d/ Includes advance accounts.
e/ Includes net lending.
March 31, 1982



-25-
ANNEX I
Page 5
COUNTRY DATA - SRI LANKA
MONEY, CREDIT, AND PRICES                       1970       1975       1976      1977       1978      1979      1980
(end of period)                                                           (Rs Million)
Money and Quasi Money                          3,061     4,712       6,251     8,636    10,803    14,957      19,709
Bank Credit to Public Sector                   2,680     2,460       3,725     4,834     4,518    6,703       13,075
Bank Credit to Private Sector                  1,446     3,363       3,919     5,714     8,666    11,953      16,343
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as 4 of ODP               22.4       17.8       20.9      24.0       25.3      28.7       28.9
Ceneral Price Index (1970 = 100)               100.0    143.3        145.2    147.0    164.6    182.6          230.3
Annual Perceetage Changes in:
General Price Index                             +5.9       +6.7       +1.3      +1.2    +12.1    +10.8         +26.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector                   +15.9      +9.4      +51.4    +35.0        -6.5    +48.4        +95.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector                   +0.7      +5.5       +16.5    +45.8    +51.7    +36.8         +37.9
RALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                     MERC1hANDISE EXPORTS (1980)
1979      1980
(11s5 Million)                                                    S Million           %
Exports of Goods, NFS                     1,135     1,295                 Tea                                     373          35.7
Imports of Goods, 'NFS                    1,539    2,211                  Rubber                                  156          14.9
Resource Gap (deficit   -)                 -404      -916                 Coconut Products                         45           4.3
Interest Payments (net)                      -9       -12                 All Other Commodities                   471         45.1
Workers' Remittances
Other Factor Payments (ret)                  -7       -14                        Total                          1,045 a/    100.0
Net Transfers                                4h       137
Balance on Current Account                -372       -805
Direct FPreign Investment                    47        43               EXTERNAL DEBT (5 Million) b!
Net MLT Borrowing                           162       247
Disbursements                            225        309                                                    December        December
Amortization                               63        62                                                       1979            1980
Capital Grants                              144       138
Other Capital (net)                         +67      +157                 Total Outstanding                    1,773.3         2,264.9
Chaoge in Reserves (+   increase)           +48      -220
Total Outstanding
Gross Reserves (end-year)                   62b       377                    and Disbursed                     1,091.1         1,327.6
Net Reserves (end-year)                     258        38
DEBT SERV1CE RATIO -  (Z)                  9.8             9.3
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                        IBRD/IDA LENDING, March 31.  1982 (5Million)
13RD        IDA
1967-71                        End 1976
US$1.00 = Rs 5.93              US$1.00 = Rs 8.83                          Outstanding and Disbursed                           28.6       149.1
RN  1.00 = US509.17            Rs 1.00 = L'S$0.11                         Undisbursed                                            -       427.0
Outstanding, including Undisbursed                 28.6       576.1
End 1972                       End 1977
US$1.00 = Rs 6.70              US$1.00 = Rs 15.56
Rs 1.00 = US50.15              Rs 1.00 = US$0.06
End 1973                       End 1978                                 Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificate (FEEC)  lates d/
USS1.O0 = Rs 6.75              US$1.00 = Rs 15.51
Rs 1.00 = US$0.15              Rs 1.00 = US$0.06                        1968                       US$1.00 = Rs  8.54 (441  REEC)
1969 ro 1971               US$1.00 = Rs  9.19 (554  EEEC)
End 1974                       End 1979                                 1972 (end)                 US$1.00 = Rs 10.38 (55%  FEEC)
LS$1.00 =s 6.69                US$1.00 = Rs 15.45                       1973 (end)                 USS1.00 = Rs 11.13 (65%  FEEC)
Rs 1.00 = US$0.15              Rs 1.00 = US$0.06                        1974 (end)                 US$1.00   Rs 11.04 (65% FEEC)
1975 (end)                US$1.00 = Rs 12.72 (65% FEEC)
End 1975                       End 1980                                 1976 (end)                 U5$1.00 = Rs 14.57 (65% FEEC)
US$1.00 = Rs 7.71              US$1.00 = Rs 18.00                       1977 (until Nov. 15)    US51.00 = Rs 13.02 (65% FEEC)
Rs 1.00   2 9S50.13            Rs 1.00 = US50.06
End 1981
US$1.00 = Rs 18.00
Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.49
a/  Customs data.
b/  Repayable in foreign currencies and with a maturity over one year.
c/  Ratio of debt service, excluding short-term capital repayments and IMF repurchases to exports of goods and
non-factor services.
d!  The certificates were abolished on November 15, 1977.
South Asia Programs Department
March 31, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 1
- 26 -
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1982)
USS Million
Loan or                                                                 Amount (net of
Credit                                                                 cancellations)
No.    Year  Borrower           Purpos                           Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Eight loans and eight credits fully disbursed                     72.9   66.8
504   1974  Sri Lanka  Dairy Development                                  9.0       5.1
666   1976  Sri Lanka  Taink Irrigation Modernization                     5.0       2.1
701   1977  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Development II                     19.0      13.0
709   1977  Sri Lanka  Water Supply                                       9.2        .4
742   1977  Sri Lanka  DFC - Industrial IV                                8.0        .5
818   1978  Sri Lanka  Tree Crop Rehab. (Tea)                            21.0      15.3
819   1978  Sri Lanka  Tree Crop Diver. (Tea)                             4.5        .3
891   1979  Sri Lanka  Kurunegala Rural Development                      20.0      15.5
900   1979  Sri Lanka  Road Maintenance                                  16.5      13.7
931   1979  Sri Lanka  Agricultural Extension and
Adaptive Research                            15.5      13.8
942   1979  Sri Lanka  Small and Medium Industries                       16.0       7.4
979   1980  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Technical Asst.                     3.0       l.Q
994   1980  Sri Lanka  Road Passenger Transport                          53.0     45.2
1017   1980  Sri Lanka  Rubber Rehabilitation                             16.0     15.7
1020   1980  Sri Lanka  Telecommunications                               30.0      30.0
1041   1980  Sri Lanka  Second Water Supply                               30.0      29.8
1048   1980  Sri Lanka  Sixth Power                                       19.5      19.4
Total,                                                            72.9  362.0    229.1
of which has been repaid                                        44.3    0.4
lTotal now outstanding                                            28.6  361.6
Amount sold,                                3.6
of which has been repaid                  3.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA a/                                 28.6  361.6
a/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
- 27 -                         ANXT
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS EXPRESSED IN SDR (As of March 31, 1982)
Amount in SDR Million
Credit                                                            (less cancellations)
Number    Year    Borrower    Purpose                             Original   Undisbursed
1079     1981    Sri Lanka   Second Ruiral Development             25.6          24.6
1130     19Pi    Sri Lanka   Construction Industry                 10.9           9.7
1160     1981    Sri Lanka   Village Irrigation Rehab.             24.5          24.0
1166     1981    Sri Lanka   Mahaweli Ganga Development            73.3          61.5
1182     1982    Sri Lanka   Second Small & Medium
Indtustries                      26.7          26.7
1210     1982    Sri Lanka   Seventh Power                         31.3          31.3
192.3         177.8
Total
of which has been repaid                                           0.0
Total now outstanding                                              192.3
Total now held by IDA                                              192.3
Undisbursed                                                                      177.8
C. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of March 31, 1982)
Amount (US$Million)
Year            Obligor                  Type of Business         Loan  Equity  Total
1970      Pearl Textile                  Textiles                  2.50   0.75    3.25
1977/80   The Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon       Development Banking          -   0.15    0.15
1978/81   Bank of Ceylon                 Development Banking       7.00       -    7.00
1979      Cyntex                         Textiles                  3.15   0.54    3.69
1974      Mikechris Indulstries          Polypropylene Bag         0.89   0.10      .99
1q80      LOLC                           Leasing                      -   0.25    0.25
1481      Taj Lanka Hotels                                        19.30    .70   20.00
*                     Total rross Commitments                             32.84   2.49   35.33
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments, and Sales                       15.17    .75   15.92
Total Commitments now Held by IFC                   17.67   1.74   19.41



- 28 -                         ANNEX II
Page 3
D.  STATITS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF MARCHI 31, 1982  1/
Cr. No. 504 - Dairy Development Project; UIS$9 .O million of August 9, 1974;
Effective Date:  February 10, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Project focus has been shifted from the provision of credit for
cattle purchase and on-farm development to the establishment of Dairy
Producer Associations along the lines of the successful Anan(d pattern in
India. The Closing Date was extended by one year to permit Credit proceeds
to be used to finance the feasibility study for a proposed milk processing
plant near Kandy. The extension was also intended to provide IDA with the
opportunity to continue its dialogue with the Government on the milk price/
subsidy issue. The consultant-s report recommended a plant costing about
US$16.0 million, which the Government considers too large. Tn view of this,
the overall poor performance of the project, and lack of progress on milk
price/subsidy issue, it has been decided not to extend the present closing
date. However, the books are being kept open till June 1982 to allow
disbursement against committed expenditures.
Cr. No. 666 - Tank Irrigation Modernization Project; US$5.0 million of
January 12, 1q77; Effective Date: April 12, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Given the local budget constraints, good progress was made in
project implementation during 1981.  Staff positions and equipment provided
are sufficient to complete the project by end 1983, excluding some drainage
works and farm roads which have been deleted by the Government for budgetary
reasons. The water management program introduced in one tanl area during
Maha 1QO/5l went very well, hut its envisaged extension to all five tanks
has not yet taken place.  Severe drought in Anuradhapura district during
Maha 1081/82 caused a total failure of the paddy crop at the Mahakandarawa
Tank, where the water management program had been initiated the year before,
and a partial failure was experienced at Pavatkulam.
.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them.  They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balance evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -                       ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 701 - Mahaweli Ganga Development II Project; US$19.0 million of
June 27, 1977; Effective Date: December 29, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
With the exception of irrigation system infrastructure in one
block of the command area (about 1200 ac) and various buildings (about 580)
throughout System H, the construction of irrigation and social infrastruture
in the project area is essentially completed. Work remaining to be done is
scheduled for completion by early 1983. IDA has recommended that a massive
and concerted effort be made to make the irrigation system responsive and
operational. The Government agreed to establish a special construction unit
to undertake the needed modification and completion work, staffed by experienced
and capable technical staff.
Cr. No. 709 - Water Supply Project; USA9.2 million of June 3n, 1977;
Effective Date:  February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
June 3n, 1983
The Project has made good progress in completing the procurement of
equipment and materials and in advancing the construction of civil works.
The InA Credit and the IDA-administered CIDA Credit are almost entirely
lisbursed.  vinancial Management of the National Water Supply and Drainage
Board (WIThB) has improved with WDB now producing the financial information
required for management. WDB's progress in implementing consumer metering
is now satisfactory as a result of steps taken to accelerate the program;
WIDB is now experiencing the difficulties expected to accompany the
introduction of consumer billing and collection.
Cr. U7o. 742 - Fourth Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon Project;
US$8.0 million of September 30, 1977; Effective Date:
December 16, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
DFCC's management problems have improved under the new General
Manager, although problems at the Board of Directors level still persist.
DFCC's capitalization and hence its exposure limits are to be expanded by
means of an increase in its issued share capital from Rs 24 nillion to Rs 60
million. Credit 742-CE has been fully committed and all disbursements are
a        expected to be completed by May 1982.



- 30 -                          ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 818 - Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea) Project; U$21.0 million of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 184
Project progress is close to target for field work and the standard
of field operations is high.  New factory equipment is improving tea quality
and reducing cost of production. Housing has fallen behind schedule because
of escalating costs but the introduction of new designs and riaterials has
increased building momentum. The smallholder component has lagged behind
estate development because of weak smallholder extension; this position is
slowly improving.
Cr. No. 819 - Tree Crop Diversification (Tea) Project; US84.5 million of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: December 15, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Project activities have been seriously affected by political and
social opposition to the breakup of mid-country estates into settlements.
Despite impressive activity in diversification and housing construction the
project has only been able to allocate a small number of settlements.
Continued unanticipated responsibility for tea lands and for settlement
maintenance has drained project finances. The Credit is more than 90%
disbursed. rovernment has handed back to Land Reform Commission some
project areas including project financed houses and diversified crops. IDA
is undertaking a detailed review of the project.
Cr. No. 891 - Kurunegala Rural Development Project; US$20.0 million of
April 26, 1979; Effective Date:  August 27, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
The project is generally on schedule; rural electrification works
have already been completed; and rural roads, health, livestock and
education works should be completed by June/July 1992. Problems on quality
of construction of irrigation and education works were identified at early
stage of project implementation. Supervisory consultants, appointed for
the Second Rural Development Project (Cr. No. 1079), are helping to improve
construction activities. Improvements on the institutional arrangements for
agricultural credit, water management, and agricultural extension are somewhat
slower than expected. High cost overruns were noted in nearly all project
components.  Efforts are being made to cut down cost by introducing farmers-                    a
donated labor for some of the activities.



- 31 -                         ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 900 - Road Maintenance Project; US$16.5 million of June 22, 1979;
Effective Date: December 19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
A general 25% reduction in budget allocations 1981, followed by a
further 10%, has meant a rescheduling of proposed expenditures for the project.
This has been possible without sacrificing principal project objectives but
at the cost of deferring major rehabilitation work until towards the end of
the project. The allocation for 1982 has been increased to the original
estimate and it is expected that the project would be completed by mid-1984,
almost nine months later than estimated at appraisal.
Cr. No. 931 - Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project; US$15.5
million of July 24, 1979; Effective Date: October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The basic infrastructure and programs for providing agricultural
extension services in line with the T&V system have been established and the
Department of Agriculture is making steady progress in implenenting the
system. Effective linkages have been established between research, training
and extension activities. Revised technical assistance and overseas
training programs have been agreed with Government and are being
implemented. Civil works started during the past two years have been
completed while vehicles and equipment for current requirements have been
procured. Disbursements have been slow due to delays in recruitment, civil
works, staffing, procurement and technical assistance program.
Cr. No. 942 - Small and Medium Industries Project; TJS$16.0 million of
July 24, 1979; Effective Date: October 23, 1979; Closing
Date:  June 30, 1984
The principal objectives of the project would be to encourage and
assist growth and productivity improvement of small and medium firms,
defined as enterprises having plant and equipment valued at less than Rs 1
million, so as to increase their contribution to efficient low cost
employment creation, export expansion, regional development and economic
growth. The subloan amount has been fully committed, and
disbursements  hlicb ha Te accelerated during the last six 2onths, are
expected to be completed one year ahead of schedule. Most technical and
marketing service assistance activities have been launched.



- 32 -                          ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 979 - Mahaweli Ganga Technical Assistance Project; USS3.0 million
of April 16, 1980; EffectiveDate:  July 7, 1980; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
A review of the final draft report for the Transbasin Diversion
Study was held in Colombo during March 1982 and the consultant was asked
to prepare cost and time estimates for completion of some additional studies.
It is expected that an extension of the credit will be required to complete
these studies.
Cr. N7o. 994 - Poad Passenger Transport Project; USS53.0 million of
April 16, 1980; Effective Date: October 27, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1q83
After a long delay by the beneficiary (SLCTB) in preparing bidding
documents for the procurement of the first batch of 660 bus chassis a tender
was awarded in August 1981 and the first deliveries began in January 1982.
A second invitation to bid was issued in February 1982, and an award for 400
chassis is expected in September 1982. The SLCTB is preparing a third tender
for complete buses.
Orders for workshop machinery, critical units and spares have been
delivered but disbursements are lagging.
Cr. No. 1017 - Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project; US$16.0 million
of June 24, 1980; Effective Date: September 10, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project continues to progress well. The replanting program in
particular is proceeding at above target levels. Distribution of fertilizer
is also taking place properly. Response by farmers to participate in
replanting under the project has been highly satisfactory.
The institution building aspects of the project have been progressing
slowly. This is not having serious repercussions on the physcial implementation
of the project. However, measures are underway to speed up the institutional
aspects of the project.
Consultants for training, processing, and replanting scheme
administration have submitted their draft reports.  Construction of Training
Center is complete.



- 33 -                          ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 1020 - Telecommunicatons Project; US$30.0 million of June 24, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date: June 30.
1985
The Government has already established a separate Telecommunications
Department as part of orgaizational improvements under the project. The
Goverment has also increased overseas telephone and telex rates.
Procurement is about two to three months behind schedule but otherwise
proceeding well in accordance with the revised schedule.
Cr. No. 1041 - Water Supply and Sewerage II Project; US$30.0 million of
September 24, 1980; Effective Date: February 26, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
WDB has appointed engineering consultants to supervise the
construction of the sewerage works under the Project and the financial
consultants for completion of WDB-s organization management and financial
study. The project expenditures have been rephased to reflect the reduction
in local resource allocation during 198l. Procurement of materials and
equipment, and civil works for the major component of the water supply
project are proceeding according to the new agreed schedule.
Cr. No. 1048 - Sixth Power Project; US$19.5 million of Septenber 24, 1980;
Eff-ective Date: March 30, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
The IDA financed components are now proceeding satisfactorily. The
average tariff for power supplied by the Ceylon Electricity Board was increased
from about Rs 0.o0 to Ps 0.58/kWh on October 1, 1O80. The LRMC tariff study
was recently completed and structural improvements are proposed as part of the
tariff increase scheduled prior to effectiveness of the Credit for the Seventh
Power Project.  CEE has appointed consultants for a program of "restoration"
of systems and training: a comprehensive training program has been prepared
and implementation has started. Engineering consultants have been appointed
to design the project components to be financed by the Saudi Fund.



- 34 -                            ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 1079 - Second Rural Development Project; SDRs 25.6 million of
February 2, 1981; Effective Date:  June 2, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
The project is making satisfactory progress. Supervisory and
planning consultants have been appointed. Project equipment, with the
exception of a few items, have been procured and handed out to the
respective agencies. Construction programs for all components are generally
on schedule.
Cr. No. 1130 - Construction Industry Project; SDRs 25.6 million of June 1,
1981; Effective Date: August 19, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Overall project progress is satisfactory and on schedule. Pilot
training programs for basic artisans in carpentry and masonry, and technical
site supervision started in August.  The  on-site- phase of these programs
have just began and are being monitored closely to determine whether the
downturn in the construction sector would seriously jeopardize this aspect of
the project. Programs in Plant Mechanics started in early October 1981, and
a Plant Operator course began in early November 1981.
Cr. No. 1160 - Village Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; SDRs 24.5 million
of July 15, 181; Not Yet Effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
Construction activities during 1981 fell slightly below appraisal
estimates manily due to budgetary constraints. The investigation program has
also lagged slightly behind schedule although this is not expected to affect
the 1982 program significantly. The institutional changes in the Department
of Agrarian Services in support of a systematic water management program have
been made, an adviser has been recruited and training programs initiated.
Procurement of equipment has proceeded on schedule and orders for the bulk
of equipment to be supplied under the project have been placed.
Cr. No. 1166 - Mahaweli Canga Development Project III; SDRs 73.3 million of
November 5, 1981;  Effectiveness Date:  February 5, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The credit became effective on February 8, 1982.  The Japanese OECF
loan agreement was signed on October 16, 1981, and the Kuwait Fund A.E.D.
loan agreement has been initialed in draft form and Bsoard approval is
imminent.  Construction of the Right Bank Transbasin Canal is somewhat
behind schedule but the quality  of completed work is good.  The contractor
requested a contract extension of seven months (from December 1981 to Julv
l982), but later reduced the extension request to four months and is
importing additional equipment.



- 35 -                      ANNEX II
Page 10
Cr. No. 1182 - Second Small and Medium Industries Project; SDRs 26.7 million
of February 5, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1210 - Seventh (Mahaweli Transmission) Power Project; SDRs 33.1 million
of April 8, 1982; Closing Date: May 31, 1985
The project is not yet effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1
- 36 -
SRI LANKA
TEA REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Country to prepare the project
12 months
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
SPC and JEDB coordinated by the Ministry of
Finance and Planning
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of the first mission to consider the project
November 1980 and July 1981 -
January 1981 and September 1981
(Two project reports were presented and two separate
missions considered the two components.)
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
January 21, 1981 and September 12, 1981
(Two field appraisal missions because of inclusion
of a diversification component subsequent to the
first appraisal mission.)
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
March 31, 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 15, lq82
Section II: Special IDA implementation Action
None



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section IIT: Special Conditons
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) transfer of Project area lands to SPC and
JET)1 (para 38);
(b) appointment of management consultants (para 40); and
(c) execution of the subsidiary loan agreements between
the Government, and SPC, .JEDB, and BOC (paras 45 and 54).
Other Conditions
(a) the Government to maintain returns to tea producers
at a satisfactory level (para 42);
(b) SPC and JEDB to select fields for tea replanting in
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Association
(para 51).
f-



I



IBRD 15659R
r  3l *                                                          z2>NOVEMPER 1t81
SRI LANKA
Kankesrntug -                             TEA REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
PROJECT LOCATIONS
!                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ProDosed lec oehoboliotion oreos
(High country ond low country)
N _K. gW         . - <;<rooosed tea  o5r5iThc]tBoo orea
j cd-cOouritry)
K                                                               fo-  <  \  Areos of ongoing tea rehabilitfoOoo projects
K    ctS   |            -<                                                              Areo of ongoing tec diversificotion projects
N .: 0 t  -   S.                                    Elevotions (feetl;
K>        ~    -  .   t .........               >                                             0-99
100-499
500 - 2999
3oorooonnr            /                        \\Morkum                   NA                                ! 5r3000-5000
K       K           !                                                                                         '.3' G Over 5000
Moon-9                                                                                                            Maojor roads                 0    Towns
'K           -.-- ~~~~Rodlrays                     (J    Airoort
K1  .    , <   .        avinly.                                   .               - - oDistrict boundaries                Rivers
ff <           >         {~~~~~Mezamcichchlya  l        rm                          e                 
O c e 0 0
00    ~; 00000 00 ,00  -0 0 00
: Xt<   .)         ~~~K.runega a                 iMIatW P '                                  /
f                                                    COLOMBO,
PAKISTAN'- CiA|h:,- ...........: '
Ooo, oZ   --g atoota 0 000000
I N DIA
4 * // . 7  a  i? - :l   C           .          7          :         O
SRI LANKA



