CREDIT NUMBER 1240 CE
Development Credit Agreement
(Tea Rehabilitation and Diversification Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATIOh
Dated                                * 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1240 CE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             2   , 1982, between DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION    (hereinafter called
the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Sri
Lanka State Plantations Corporation (hereinafter called SPC) and
the Janatha Estates Development Board (hereinafter called JEDB)
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to SPC and JEDB part of the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and SPC
and JEDB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force.and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between      the
Association and SPC and JEDB of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supple-
mental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Part A Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and SPC and JEDB pursuant
to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Part A Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and "Part B Subsidiary Loan
Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Bank of Ceylon pursuant to Section 3,01 (d) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules to the Part B Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(c) "High Country Project Area" means the area mainly in
the Nuwara Eliya administrative district of the Borrower where
parts of the Project are to be carried out, and which includes
regional boards of JEDB at the date of this Agreement designated
as JEDB-I and JEDB-II;
(d) "Mid Country Project Area" means the area mainly in the
randy and Matale administrative districts of the Borrower where
parts of the Project are to be carried out, and which includes
regional boards of SPC and JEDB at the date of this Agreement
designated as SPC-I, JEDB-II and JEDB-IV;
(e) "Low Country Project Area" means the area mainly in the
Galle and Matara administrative districts of the Borrower where
parts of the Project are to be carried out, and which includes
the regional board of SPC at the date of this Agreement desig-
nated as SPC-IV;
(f) "Minor Export Crops" mean pepper, cardamom and cloves;
and
(g) "sub-borrowers" mean private estate owners and small-
holders.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to seventeen million eight hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 17,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
pf the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods andIcivil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1986
or such later date as the Association shall establish.         The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to


﻿-4-
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service and commitment charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
March 1 and September 1 commencing September 1, 1992, and ending
March 1, 2032, each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 1, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
i  Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out or cause to
be carried out Parts B and C of the Project, and cause SPC and
JEDB to carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
agricultural, financial and engineering practices, and shall pro-
vide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause SPC and JEDB to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable     SPC and JEDB to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.


﻿-5-
(c) The Borrower shall relend up to the equivalent of
seventeen million five hundred thousand dollars ($17,500,000)
out of the proceeds of the Credit to SPC and JEDB under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and SPC and JEDB, in accordance with terms and conditions
outlined in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time.
(d) The Borrower shall relend up to the equivalent of
one million dollars ($1,000,000) out of the proceeds of the
Credit to the Bank of Ceylon under a subsidiary loan agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Bank of Ceylon for
on-lending to sub-borrowers under the Project, in accordance with
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association, including the terms and conditions outlined in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Credit, and except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist in carrying out the Pro-
ject, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed, consul-
tants whose selection, qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association
in accordance with the principles and procedures described in the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Cred.it against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by' the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.


﻿-6-
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, training programs, contract documents and work and pro-
curement schedules for Parts B and C of the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and proce-
dures adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts B and
C of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) enable the Association's representatives to visit
the facilities, construction sites and planting areas included in
Parts B and C of the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at regular inter-
vals all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning Parts B and C of the Project, its costand,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the ex-
penditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and ser-
vices financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of Parts B and C of the
Project, but in any event not later than six months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall pre-
pare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of Parts B and C of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall appoint and maintain in
that position a Project Director responsible for the implementa-
tion of Parts B and C of the Project, whose qualifications and
experience are satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall cause the Bank of Ceylon,
the National Institute of Plantation Management and the Tea
Smallholders Developme-t Authority:
(a) to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices
their operations and financial condition, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts for the Project.
(b) to have their accounts and financial statements       for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association;
(c)  (i) to furnish to the Association and said auditors, as
soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, copies of their financial state-
ments for such year, and (ii) to furnish to the Association eight
months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit
by said auditors and the audited financial statements, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors on the sep,.rate accounts refer-
red to in paragraph (a) of this Section; and
(d) to furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts, financial statements, records and
expenditures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4 .02. The Borrower shall take all measures neces-
sary to ensure that tea producers realize returns satisfactory to
the Association.
To that end, the Borrower shall review with the Association,
projected and actual tea profit levels by May 31, 1983 and by
each May 31 thereafter, and agree with the Association on a plan
of action to ensure reasonable financial returns to tea pro-
ducers.


﻿-8-
Section 4.03.   The Borrower shall take all such action as
may be necessary on its part to enable SPC and JEDB to comply
with the provisions of Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) SPC or JEDB shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that SPC or JEDB will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) The laws or regulations establishing SPC or JEDB shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as
to affect materially and adversely the ability of SPC or JEDB to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SPC or JEDB or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) Any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower;
(b) Any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit


﻿-9-
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of SPC and JEDB have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary governmental and corporate action;
(b) the Part A Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and SPC and JEDB;
(c) the Part B Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and the Bank of Ceylon;
(d) the management consultants for SPC and JEDB have been
appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of
this Agreement; and
(e) the land and rights in respect of land required for
carrying out Part A of the Project have been transferred to SPC
and JEDB.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agrcement has been duly authorized or
ratified by SPC and JEDB, and is legally binding upon SPC and
JEDB in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Part A Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and SPC and JEDB, and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and SPC and JEDB in accordance
with its terms; and
(c) that the Part B Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Bank of Ceylon and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Bank of Ceylon in
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date      t   Ais   /is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Con-
ditions.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.02 of this Agrement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance and
Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Colombo
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Cable address:                       Telex:
SECMINFIN                           21232
Colombo                             FORAID
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 11 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI IANKA
By
li   Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Re inal Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works               2,400,000       85%
and materials
(2) Equipment and            12,300,000       100% of foreign
vehicles                                 expenditures for
directly imported
items, 100% of
local expenditures
(ex-factory) for
locally manu-
factured items, and
85% for other loc-
ally procured items
(3) Consultants' services     1,300,000       100%
and training
(4) Unallocated               1,800,000
TOTAL    17,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and


﻿- 13 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for ex-
penditures prior to the date of this Agreement- except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 450,000 may be made on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1982.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Cate-
gory may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no ex-
penditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of


﻿- 14 -
the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restrict-
ing or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to improve tea
production by the rehabilitation of fields and facilities in the
High Country Project Area and the Low Country Project Area, and
to diversify poor tea lands mainly in the Mid Cou'ntry Project
Area   into minor export crops and fuelwood, and cotsists of the
following Parts:
Part A:   SPC and JEDB
1.   Field Works
a.   Tea replanting and infilling on about 5,700 hec-
tares;
b.   Renovation of soil conservation works on about
-5,300 hectares; and
c.   Diversification into Minor Export Crops and fuel-
wood on about 8,200 hectares.
2.   Processing and Storage
a.   Expansion and rehabilitation of tea factories; and
b.   Provision  of processing   facilities mainly    for
Minor Export Crops.
3.   Staff.and Equipment
a.   Provision of field and nursery equipment;
b.   Provision of vehicles for green leaf tea trans-
port; and
c.   Provision of staff, office equipment and vehicles.
4.   Housing and Health
a.   Construction and rehabilitation of housing and
water supply facilities; and
b.   Provision of health services.


﻿- 16 -
5.    Organization and Management
Improvement in organization and management of SPC and
JEDB.
Part B:   Private Sector
1.   Field Works
Tea replanting.
2.   Processing and Storage
Expansion and rehabilitation of tea factories.
Part C:   Borrower
1.   Staff Training
Provision of training in the National Institute of
Plantation Management.
2.   Program Preparation
Preparation of a medium-term tree-crop investment pro-
gram.
3.   Extension
Provision of extension services to tea smallholders in
the Low Country Project Area through the Tea Small-
holders Development Authority.
Part C.2 of the Project is expected to be completed by
September 30, 1983, and the remainder of the Project is expected
to be completed by September 30, 1985.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
11   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the. date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifica-
tion to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
goods in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary in-
formation to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 18 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the pro-
cedures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured
in Sri Lanka may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
sholl clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Sri
Lanka if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Sri Lanka equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿- 19 -
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the low-
est evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Equipment, except those under Parts A.2 and B.2 of the Proj-
ect, trucks, tractors and trailers may be procured in accordance
with the Borrower's competitive bidding procedures satisfactory
to the Association.
2.   Except as provided in Part C.3 hereunder, contracts for
works shall be awarded in accordance with the Borrower's competi-
tive bidding procedurrs satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Housing renovation may be carried out by estate labor under
force account.-
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence be-fore it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other


﻿- 20 -
information as the Association shall reasonably request. ThE
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the. Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Principal Terms and Conditions for Re-Lending
A.   Borrower to SPC and JEDB
1.   Loan amount                  $17,500,000 equivalent
2.   Initial interest rate     : 16% per annum
3.   Amortization period          15 years, including
5 years of grace
4.   Foreign exchange risk        to be borne by the
Borrower
B.   Borrower to Bank of Ceylon
1.   Loan amount                  $1,000,000 equivalent
2.   Initial interest rate        13% per annum
3.   Amortization period          15 years, including
5 years of grace
4.   Foreign exchange risk        to be borne by the
Borrower
C.   Bank of Ceylon to sub-borrower
1.   Loan amount                  $1,000,000 equivalent
2.   Initial interest rate        16% per annum
3.   Amortization period          15 years, including
5 years of grace
D.   Other Terms and Conditions
The Borrower shall on the date of the Development Credit
Agreement and on each January 1 thereafter, notify the Associa-
tion of the prevailing rate, and unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, shall adjust the interest rates referred to in
this Schedule by one percentage point for each percentage point
change between the prevailing rate on such January 1 and the pre-


﻿vailing rate on the date hereof. For purposes of this Schedule
"prevailing rate" means the interest rate of the Central Bank's
medium- and long-term refinancing scheme.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of   \M, Ai,
1 98 1X.
FOR SECRETARY


