Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7478-AR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Small Farmer Development Project) 
 
between 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 6, 2008
Page  2
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated November 6, 2008, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
 (“Borrower”) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) 
for the purposes of providing additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of forty five million Dollars ($45,000,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this A
greement (“Loan”), to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject to any waiver 
of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) of the 
Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be determined by the 
Bank from time to time.   
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time to time; provided, that upon 
a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest 
payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be 
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are January 1 and July 1 in each year. 
Page  3
2
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of 
limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the 
Borrower shall: (a) carry out: (i) Part 1 (b) and (c) of the Project, through SAGPyA 
(within the umbrella of the PSA); (ii) Part 2 (a), (c), (d) (i), (e) (i) and (f) of the Project, 
through SAGPyA with the assistance of DDA; and (iii) Part 3 of the Project, through 
SAGPyA with the assistance of the NCU, all in accordance with the provisions of Article 
V
of
the General Conditions; and (b) cause: (i) each Community Beneficiary  to carry out 
the pertinent Community Subproject with the assistance of the SAGPyA (within the 
umbrella of the PSA), and in accordance with the provisions of the corresponding 
Community Subproject Agreement; (ii) each Participating Province to carry out the 
pertinent technical proposals under Part 2 (b) of the Project with the assistance of the 
SAGPyA, and in accordance with the provisions of the corresponding Provincial 
Agreement; (iii) each Research Beneficiary to carry out the pertinent Research 
Subproject with the assistance of the SAGPyA (including the participation of DDA), and 
in accordance with the provisions of the corresponding Research Subproject Agreement; 
and (iv) each Organization-Entity of Small Producer to carry out the pertinent 
Institutional Strengthening Subproject with the assistance of the SAGPyA (including the 
participation of DDA), and in accordance with the provisions of the corresponding 
Institutional Strengthening Subproject Agreement.  
Page  4
3
3.02. 
(a)  
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
 
except as the Borrower, through SAGPyA, and the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
 
the Borrower, through SAGPyA, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in 
 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the 
 Operational 
Manual. 
(b)  
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of 
 
this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
ARTICLE IV 
—TERMINATION
 
4.01 
The Effectiveness Deadline is January 16, 2009. 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. T
he
Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Production.   
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministerio de Economía y Producción 
 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
 
C1086AAB, Buenos Aires, Argentina 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
MINISTERIO DE         121942-AR 
 
(54 11) 4349-8815 
DE ECONOMIA Y  
PRODUCCION 
Baires 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Buenos Aires, Argentine Republic, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
By
 /s/ Carlos Fernández 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Pedro Alba 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase productive and organizational capacity in 
targeted poor rural communities; and (b) increase emphasis on rural poverty issues in sectoral 
policies, and improve coordination mechanisms at the national and provincial levels. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts included in the Original Project, as amended 
solely for purposes of the Loan: 
Part 1
:
Rural Investment
(a) 
Carrying out of demand-based, small-scale, self-help investments in targeted 
poor rural communities, which investments consist of, 
inter alia
:
(i) the diversification of 
production in household gardens and development of community organizational skills; (ii) the 
execution of commercially-oriented technology transfer and marketing projects for group-based 
small rural enterprises; (iii) the rehabilitation and construction of small community infrastructure, 
such as community marketing and storage facilities; and (iv) any other investment of similar 
nature, acceptable to the Bank. 
 
(b) 
Promoting the participation of poor rural communities in, 
inter alia
,
the decision-
making of PSA, and in the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of Community 
Subprojects, through, 
inter alia
:
(i) the provision of technical assistance and/or training (as the 
case may be) to poor rural communities (in particular to vulnerable groups, such as indigenous 
population, women and the youth) and PSA technical assistance providers; (ii) the carrying out of 
pre-investment and marketing studies; (iii) the development of a marketing information system; 
and (iv) the implementation of the Participation Action Plan and the Indigenous Peoples Strategy. 
 
(c) 
Provision of technical support to SAGPyA to enable the same to carry out its 
Project responsibilities under Part 1 (a) and (b) of the Project, through, 
inter alia
:
(i) the provision 
of specialized technical assistance to PSA staff and the upgrading of the equipment 
in PSA’s 
national and provincial offices; and (ii) the operation of PSA local units to further decentralize the 
same. 
Part 2
:
Strengthening of Rural Development Policy Formulation
(a) 
Strengthening of national policy development through: (i) the carrying out of 
surveys and studies; (ii) the establishment of a data base of rural development programs, 
agricultural producers, and of the characteristics of poor rural communities and households; and 
(iii) the provision of technical support to the Rural Development Commission. 
 
Page  7
6
(b) 
Strengthening of provincial policy development through the carrying out of 
demand-driven technical proposals for the preparation of provincial rural development strategies 
and programs. 
 
(c) 
Provision of technical assistance and/or training (as the case may be) to selected 
civil service staff (at the national, provincial, and municipal level), representatives of non-
governmental organizations and other institutions which provide rural development services, in 
priority areas such as project and policy formulation, implementation, and monitoring and 
evaluation of said projects and policies.  
 
(d) 
Development and dissemination of appropriate technologies for poor rural 
communities through, 
inter alia
:
(i) the carrying out of studies: (A) to identify and catalogue 
existing information on appropriate technology for poor rural communities; and (B) to identify 
the needs of rural communities; and (ii) the carrying out of competitive research activities to 
develop appropriate technology packages in priority areas. 
 
(e) 
Carrying out of activities to strengthen the organizational and operational 
capacity of: (i) Organization of Small Producers; and (ii) Organization-Entities of Small 
Producers, all through, 
inter alia
,
the provision of technical assistance and/or training (as the case 
may be), and/or the acquisition and utilization of the goods required therefor. 
 
(f) 
Provision of technical support to DDA to enable the same to assist SAGPyA in 
the carrying out of its Project responsibilities under this Part of the Project, through, 
inter alia
,
the 
provision of specialized technical assistance and/or training (as the case may be), and the 
acquisition and utilization of the goods required therefor.  
Part 3
:
Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation
Provision of technical support to the NCU in order to assist the Borrower, through the 
SAGPyA, in the: (a) overall coordination of the Project; (b) monitoring and evaluation of all 
Project activities; (c) promotion of the Project, through dissemination and communication 
activities; and (d) administrative support of the Project, such as procurement, disbursements and 
financial management. 
 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation and Other Arrangements
A
.
Without
 
limitation to the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines.  
B. 
(a)
 
For purposes of the carrying out any given Community Subproject, and as part of 
the approval of the same, the Borrower, through SAGPyA, shall: 
(i) 
carry out an environmental screening of the pertinent Community 
 
Subproject in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental 
 Management 
Framework; 
(ii) 
if the environmental screening mentioned in (i) herein has identified 
 
potential negative environmental impacts (including the pertinent 
 
mitigatory measures and their implementation timing), cause the 
 
pertinent Community Beneficiary to carry out said mitigatory measures 
 
in a manner and on terms acceptable to the Bank pursuant to the terms of 
 
the corresponding Community Subproject Agreement;  and 
(iii) 
upon completion of said environmental screening, and approval of the 
 
pertinent Community Subproject, the Borrower, through SAGPyA, shall 
 
transfer, on a grant basis, part of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to 
 
Category (1) (a) (the Community Grant) to the corresponding 
 
Community Beneficiary under a community subproject agreement (the 
 
Community Subproject Agreement) to be entered into between the 
 
Borrower, through SAGPyA, and said Community Beneficiary under 
 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, 
inter 
 alia
,
those set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.  
(b) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) (iii) above, the Borrower, 
through SAGPyA, shall, and shall cause the pertinent Community Beneficiary to, prior to the 
carrying out of any activity under the pertinent Community Subproject, sign the corresponding 
Community Subproject Agreement. 
(c)  
(i) The Borrower, through SAGPyA, shall exercise its rights under each 
Community Subproject Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower, through SAGPyA, shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail 
to enforce any Community Subproject Agreement or any provision thereof.
 
Page  9
8
C. 
(a)
 
For purposes of carrying out Part 2 (b) of the Project, and upon approval of the 
pertinent technical proposal, the Borrower, through SAGPyA, shall make available (on a grant 
basis) part of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (2) (a) to the corresponding 
Participating Province, but without transferring the same to said Participating Province, under an 
agreement (the Provincial Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower, through 
SAGPyA, and said Participating Province under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, 
which shall include, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  
 
(b)  
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the Borrower, 
through SAGPyA, shall, and shall cause the pertinent Participating Province to, prior to the 
carrying out of any activity under the pertinent technical proposal under Part 2 (b) of the Project, 
sign the corresponding Provincial Agreement. 
(c)  
(i) The Borrower, through SAGPyA, shall exercise its rights under each 
Provincial Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower, through SAGPyA, shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to 
enforce any Provincial Agreement or any provision thereof.
 
D
.
(a)
 
For purposes of carrying out any given Research Subproject, and as part of the 
approval of the same, the Borrower, through SAGPyA, shall transfer, on a grant basis, part of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (2) (a) (the Research Grant) to the corresponding 
Research Beneficiary under a research subproject agreement (the Research Subproject 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower, through SAGPyA, and said Research 
Beneficiary under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, 
inter alia
,
those set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
 
(b)  
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the Borrower, 
through SAGPyA, shall, and shall cause the pertinent Research Beneficiary to, prior to the 
carrying out of any activity under the pertinent Research Subproject, sign the corresponding 
Research Subproject Agreement. 
(c)  
(i) The Borrower, through SAGPyA, shall exercise its rights under each Research 
Subproject Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower, through SAGPyA, shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to 
enforce any Research Subproject Agreement or any provision thereof. 
E
.
(a)
 
For purposes of carrying out any given Institutional Strengthening Subproject, 
and as part of the approval of the same, the Borrower, through SAGPyA, shall transfer, on a grant 
basis, part of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (2) (a) (the Institutional 
Strengthening Grant) to the corresponding Organization-Entity of Small Producers under a 
institutional strengthening subproject agreement (the Institutional Strengthening Subproject 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower, through SAGPyA, and said Organization-
Entity of Small Producers under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall 
include, 
inter alia
,
those set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement. 
Page  10
9
(b)  
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the Borrower, 
through SAGPyA, shall, and shall cause the pertinent Organization-Entity of Small Producers to, 
prior to the carrying out of any activity under the pertinent Institutional Strengthening Subproject, 
sign the corresponding Institutional Strengthening Subproject Agreement. 
 
(c)  
(i) The Borrower, through SAGPyA, shall exercise its rights under each 
Institutional Strengthening Subproject Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through SAGPyA, shall not assign, amend, abrogate, 
terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Institutional Strengthening Subproject Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
 
F
.
(a)  
The Borrower, through SAGPyA, shall operate and maintain, at all times during 
Project implementation: (i) the NCU with a structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable to 
the Bank, including those referred to in Part 3 of the Project; and (ii) the Rural Development 
Commission, the UTCN, and the provincial offices of the PSA, all with a structure, functions and 
responsibilities set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
(b)  
The Borrower shall ensure that the NCU is, at all times during Project 
implementation, comprised of professional and administrative staff, all in numbers and with terms 
of reference, and qualifications and experience, acceptable to the Bank. 
G
.
The Borrower, through SAGPyA, shall operate and maintain, at all times during Project 
implementation, a management information system, acceptable to the Bank, in the NCU, UTCN, 
DDA, and in all provincial offices of the PSA.  
H
.
Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 3.01 and 3.02 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower, through SAGPyA, shall: (a) not later than November 30 of each year of Project 
implementation (starting in the year 2007), prepare and furnish to the Bank, an annual work plan 
(acceptable to the Bank) which shall include, inter alia, the Project activities expected to be 
carried out during the calendar year following the date of presentation of said plan; and (b) 
thereafter implement the same in accordance with its terms, and in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank.  
 
I
.
The Borrower, through SAGPyA, shall, prior to the commencement of each calendar year 
during Project implementation, create, and thereafter maintain throughout each said calendar year 
of Project implementation, a specific budget line entry in the relevant annual budget in order to 
keep track of the corresponding expenditures incurred during Project implementation. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
1. 
The Borrower, through SAGPyA, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project 
and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operational Manual. Each Project 
Page  11
10 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than three months after the end of the period covered by such report.  
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.08 (b) of the General Conditions in 
respect of the information to be contained in each Progress Report, each such Progress Report 
shall also include the pertinent annual work plan referred to in Section I.H (a) of this Schedule. 
3. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (b) of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through 
SAGPyA, shall, not later than June 30 of each year of Project implementation (starting in the year 
2008), exchange views with the Bank (the annual reviews). 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
(a)  
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, 
through SAGPyA, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than one month after the end of 
each calendar semester during Project implementation (starting with the second calendar semester 
of the year 2007), interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the pertinent 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(b)  
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the Borrower, 
through SAGPyA, shall, starting with the interim unaudited financial report covering the first 
calendar semester of the year 2008, and thereafter during Project implementation, also include in 
each of said reports the list of signed contracts for works, goods and cons
ultants’ services under 
the Project as reflected in the Borrower’s financial management system (UEPEX) during the 
period covered by each of said reports.  
3. 
The Borrower, through SAGPyA, shall have its Financial Statements audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months 
after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.  
 All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.  
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements 
Page  12
11 
set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions 
of this Section.   
3. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the 
corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the 
case may be. 
4. 
Special Provisions.   
Without limitation to the provisions in Section III A.1 and 2 of this 
Schedule, the following additional provisions shall also govern the procurement of goods, works 
and consultants’ services under the Project (as the case may be): 
(a) 
procurement of goods, works and consultants’ services (in respect of firms) shall 
be carried out using standard bidding documents (which bidding documents in respect of works 
shall include, if applicable, a provision whereby the pertinent contractor must comply with the 
pertinent provisions of the Environmental Management Framework) and standard requests for 
quotations/proposals, all acceptable to the Bank, which shall all include, 
inter alia
,
a
settlement of 
dispute provision; 
 
(b) 
all contracts for works to be procured on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding, National Competitive Bidding or Direct Contracting under the Project shall contain a 
methodology, acceptable to the Bank, whereby the price of each said contracts shall be adjusted 
through the use of price adjustment formulas, in a manner acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(c)    
a two-envelope bidding procedure shall not be allowed in the procurement of 
goods and works;  
(d)    after the public opening of bids for goods and works, information relating to the 
examination, clarification and evaluation of bids and recommendations concerning awards, shall 
not be disclosed to bidders or other persons not officially concerned with this process until the 
publication of contract award. In addition, bidders and/or other persons not officially concerned 
with said process shall not be allowed to review or make copies of other bidders’ bids; 
 
(e) 
  after the public opening of consultants’ proposals, information relating to the 
examination, clarification and evaluation of proposals and recommendations concerning awards, 
shall not be disclosed to consultants or other persons not officially concerned with this process 
until the publication of contract award (except as provided in paragraphs 2.20 and 2.27 of the 
Consultant Guidelines). In addition, consultants and/or other persons not officially concerned 
with said process shall not be allowed to review or make copies of other consultants’ proposals; 
(f)    
bidders or consultants shall not, as a condition for submitting bids or proposals 
and/or for contract award: (i) be required to be registered in Argentina; (ii) have a representative 
in Argentina; and (iii) be associated or subcontract with Argentine suppliers, contractors or 
consultants; 
Page  13
12 
(g)  
the invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid openings, requests for 
expressions of interest and the pertinent summary of the evaluation reports of bids and proposals 
of all goods, works and consultants’ services, as the case may be, shall be published in the web 
page of the Borrower’s Office of National Procurement (
Oficina Nacional de Contrataciones
), 
and in a manner acceptable to the Bank. The bidding period shall be counted from the date of 
publication of the invitation to bid or the date of the availability of the bidding documents, 
whichever is later, to the date of bid opening;  
 
(h) 
the provisions set forth in paragraphs 2.49, 2.50, 2.52, 2.53, 2.54 and 2.59 of the 
Procurement Guidelines shall also be applicable to contracts for goods and works to be procured 
under National Competitive Bidding procedures; 
 
(i) 
references to bidders in one or more specialized magazines shall not be used by 
the Borrower in determining if the bidder in respect of goods whose bid has been determined to 
be the lowest evaluated bid has the capability and resources to effectively carry out the contract as 
offered in the bid, as referred to in the provision set forth in paragraph 2.58 of the Procurement 
Guidelines. The provision set forth in paragraph 2.58 of the Procurement Guidelines (including 
the limitation set forth herein) shall also be applicable to contracts for goods to be procured under 
National Competitive Bidding procedures;  
(j) 
witness prices shall not be used as a parameter for bid evaluation, bid rejection or 
contract award; 
(k) 
the Borrower, through SAGPyA, shall: (i) supply the Bank’s publicly accessible 
Procurement Plans Execution System (SEPA) with the information contained in the initial 
Procurement Plan within 30 days after such plan has been approved by the Bank; and (ii) update 
the Procurement Plan at least biannually, or as required by the Bank, to reflect the actual project 
implementation needs and progress and shall supply the Bank’s Procurement Plans Execution 
System with the information contained in the updated Procurement Plan immediately thereafter; 
(l) 
consultants shall not be required to submit bid or performance securities; and 
(m) 
the types of contracts described in Section IV of the Consultant Guidelines shall 
be the only types of contracts to be used by the Borrower, through SAGPyA, the Participating 
Provinces, the Research Beneficiaries and the Organization-Entities of Small Producers in 
connection with the contracting of consultants’ services provided by a firm and to be financed 
with the proceeds of the Loan. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.
 Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
.
The following table specifies 
the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used 
Page  14
13 
for goods and works. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such 
methods may be used. 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
For purposes of paragraph 2 (a) herein, and without limitation to the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines, the term National Competitive Bidding 
means the pertinent competitive procedures used by the Borrower for public federal procurement, 
and by the Participating Provinces for public provincial procurement in respect of the carrying out 
of the technical proposals under Part 2 (b) of the Project.  
C. 
Particular Methods o
f
Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-
based Selection.
 
2.
 Other 
Meth
ods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which may be 
used for consult
ants’ services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which 
such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection. 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Least-Cost Selection 
(d) Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e) Single-Source Selection 
(f)   Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 through 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for 
the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, through 
SAGPyA, the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank:  (a) each contract 
for goods or works procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding; (b) each contract 
for goods and works procured on the basis of Direct Contracting; and (c) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm: (i) estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; 
or (ii) on the basis of Single-Source Selection. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Bank. 
Page  15
14 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the 
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for 
Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the 
table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan 
to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in 
each Category. 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
 
(1)  Rural  Investment 
Component – Part 1 of the 
Project 
 
(a) Works and/or goods 
under Community 
Subprojects 
 
(b) Consultants’ services 
under Part 1 (b) (i), (ii) 
and (iii) of the Project 
 
(c) Goods and/or 
consultants’ services 
under Part 1 (b) (iv) and 
(c) of the Project 
 
28,000,000 
 
7,750,000 
 
2,730,000 
 
100% 
 
100% 
 
100% 
 
(2) Rural Development 
Component – Part 2 of the 
Project 
 
(a) Goods, consultants’ 
services and/or Training 
under Research 
Subprojects, Institutional 
Strengthening 
Subprojects,  and Part 2 
(a), (b), (c) , (d) (i), (e) (i) 
and (f) of the Project (as 
the case may be) 
 
3,580,000 
 
100% 
 
Page  16
15 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
 
(3) Project Administration 
Component 
–
Part 3 of the 
Project  
 
(a) Goods and consultants’ 
services  
 
1,140,000 
 
100% 
(4) Front-end Fee 
0 
Amounts payable pursuant to 
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
(5) 
Premia for Interest Rate    
Caps and Interest Collars 
0
Amounts payable pursuant to 
Section 2.08 (c) of this 
Agreement 
(6)  Unallocated 
  1,800,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
45,000,000 
 
For purposes of this table, the term “Training” means expenditures (other than those for 
consultants’ services) incurred by the Borrower, through SAGPyA, the Participating Provinces 
and the Organization-Entities of Small Producers, all as approved by the Bank on the basis of an 
annual budget acceptable to the Bank, to finance reasonable transportation costs and per-diem of 
trainees and trainers (if applicable), training registration fees, and rental of training facilities and 
equipment under the Project. 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,500,000 equivalent may be made for payments made 
prior to this date but on or after January 1, 2007 (but in no case more than one year prior to the 
date of this Agreement) for Eligible Expenditures for Categories (1) through (3), if the pertinent 
obligations/conditions set forth in this Agreement, as applicable to each Eligible Expenditure 
have been complied with and/or met, as the case may be; and    
(b) 
under Category (1) (b), unless the Operational Manual has been updated in a 
manner and on terms acceptable to the Bank so as to include the necessary information to permit 
the Borrower, through SAGPyA, to carry out Part 1 (b) (i), (ii) and (iii) of the Project. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2011. 
Page  17
16 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date 
(“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan 
Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each January 1 and July 1 
Beginning January 1, 2013  
through July 1, 2022 
 
5% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal 
Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in 
accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined by 
the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of 
which is the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for 
said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the 
sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal 
Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment 
Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after the 
Page  18
17 
respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to 
any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency, the 
amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal Payment Date 
occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such 
amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the 
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the 
Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan 
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  19
18 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Terms and Conditions of Community Subproject Agreements. 
Each Community Subproject Agreement shall contain, 
inter alia
,
the following 
provisions: 
(a) 
the obligation of the Borrower, through SAGPyA: 
(i) 
to promptly disburse to each Community Beneficiary the proceeds of the 
corresponding Community Grant in a manner acceptable to the Bank; 
and 
(ii) 
to ensure that the pertinent Community Subproject is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; 
(b) 
the right of the Borrower, through SAGPyA, to take remedial actions against the 
pertinent Community Beneficiary in case said Community Beneficiary shall have failed to 
comply with any of its obligations under the pertinent Community Subproject Agreement (which 
actions may include, 
inter alia
,
the partial or total suspension and/or cancellation of the proceeds 
of the Community Grant (as the case may be), all as previously agreed with the Bank); and 
 
(c) 
the obligation of each Community Beneficiary: 
(i) 
to carry out the pertinent Community Subproject with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, economic, financial, 
managerial, environmental, social and cultural property practices, 
including in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines (applicable to recipients of Loan proceeds other than the 
Borrower) and the Operational Manual; 
(ii) 
to use the Community Grant for purposes of partially financing the 
carrying out of the pertinent Community Subproject; 
(iii) 
to provide the counterpart funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to carry out the corresponding Community 
Subproject;  
(iv) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce 
the Community Subproject Agreement or any provision thereof unless 
previously agreed by the Borrower, through SAGPyA, and Bank;  
(v) 
if applicable, comply, or caused to be complied, with the obligations 
referred to in Sections 5.05, 5.06 (a), 5.07 and 5.10 of the General 
Conditions (relating to land acquisition, use of goods, works and 
Page  20
19 
services, plans, documents and records, cooperation and consultation and 
visits, respectively) in respect of said Community Subproject; and 
(vi) 
to take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower, through 
SAGPyA, to comply with its obligations referred to in this Agreement, as 
applicable to the carrying out of Community Subprojects. 
Page  21
20 
SCHEDULE 5  
 
Terms and Conditions of Provincial Agreements  
 
 
Each Provincial Agreement shall contain, 
inter alia
,
the following provisions: 
(a) 
the obligation of the Borrower, through, SAGPyA: 
(i)  
upon receipt from the pertinent Participating Province of an application 
of withdrawal from the Loan Account to finance Eligible Expenditures in 
respect of a given technical proposal under Part 2 (b) of the Project, to 
pay the amount from the Loan Account on the order of the Participating 
Province; and 
(ii) 
to ensure that the pertinent technical proposal mentioned in (i) above is 
carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines; 
(b) 
the right of the Borrower, through SAGPyA, to take remedial actions against the 
pertinent Participating Province in case said Participating Province shall have failed to comply 
with any of its obligations under the pertinent Provincial Agreement (which actions may include, 
inter alia
,
the termination of said Provincial Agreement, all as previously agreed with the Bank); 
and 
 
(c) 
the obligation of each Participating Province: 
(i) 
to carry out the pertinent technical proposal mentioned in (a) (i) above 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social 
practices, including in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines
 
(applicable to recipients of Loan proceeds other 
than the Borrower) and the Operational Manual; 
(ii) 
to provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to carry out said technical proposal; 
(iii) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce 
the Provincial Agreement or any provision thereof unless previously 
agreed by the Borrower, through SAGPyA, and the Bank;  
(iv) 
if applicable, to comply with, or caused to be complied, the obligations 
referred to in Sections 5.04, 5.05, 5.06, 5.07, 5.10 and 5.11 of the 
General Conditions (relating to insurance, land acquisition, use of goods, 
works and services-maintenance of facilities, plans, documents and 
Page  22
21 
records, cooperation and consultation and visits, respectively) in respect 
of said Provincial Subproject; and 
(v) 
to take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower, through 
SAGPyA, to comply with its obligations referred to in this Agreement, as 
applicable to the carrying out of said technical proposal. 
 
Page  23
22 
SCHEDULE 6 
Terms and Conditions of Research Subproject Agreements 
Each Research Subproject Agreement shall contain, 
inter alia
,
the following provisions: 
(a) 
the obligation of the Borrower, through SAGPyA: 
(i) 
to promptly disburse to each Research Beneficiary the proceeds of the 
corresponding Research Grant in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and 
(ii) 
to ensure that the pertinent Research Subproject is carried out in 
 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; 
(b) 
the right of the Borrower, through SAGPyA, to take remedial actions against the 
pertinent Research Beneficiary in case said Research Beneficiary shall have failed to comply with 
any of its obligations under the pertinent Research Subproject Agreement (which actions may 
include, 
inter alia
,
the partial or total suspension and/or cancellation of the proceeds of the 
Research Grant (as the case may be), all as previously agreed with the Bank); and 
 
(c) 
the obligation of each Research Beneficiary: 
(i) 
to carry out the pertinent Research Subproject with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, economic, financial, 
managerial, environmental, social and cultural property practices, 
including in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines (applicable to recipients of Loan proceeds other than the 
Borrower) and the Operational Manual; 
(ii) 
to use the Research Grant for purposes of partially financing the carrying 
out of the pertinent Research Subproject; 
(iii) 
to provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to carry out the corresponding Research Subproject;  
(iv) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce 
the Research Subproject Agreement or any provision thereof unless 
previously agreed by the Borrower, through SAGPyA, and the Bank;  
(v) 
if applicable, comply, or caused to be complied, with the obligations 
referred to in Sections 5.05, 5.06 (a), 5.07 and 5.10 of the General 
Conditions (relating to land acquisition, use of goods, works and 
services, plans, documents and records, cooperation and consultation and 
visits, respectively) in respect of said Research Subproject; and 
Page  24
23 
(vi) 
to take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower, through 
SAGPyA, to comply with its obligations referred to in this Agreement, as 
applicable to the carrying out of Research Subprojects. 
Page  25
24 
SCHEDULE 7 
Terms and Conditions of Institutional Strengthening Subproject Agreements. 
Each Institutional Strengthening Subproject Agreement shall contain, 
inter alia
,
the 
following provisions: 
(a) 
the obligation of the Borrower, through SAGPyA: 
(i) 
to promptly disburse to each Organization-Entity of Small Producers the 
proceeds of the corresponding Institutional Strengthening Grant in a 
manner acceptable to the Bank; and 
(ii) 
to ensure that the pertinent Institutional Strengthening Subproject is 
carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines; 
(b) 
the right of the Borrower, through SAGPyA, to take remedial actions against the 
pertinent Organization-Entity of Small Producers in case said Organization-Entity of Small 
Producers shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the pertinent Institutional 
Strengthening Subproject Agreement (which actions may include, 
inter alia
,
the partial or total 
suspension and/or cancellation of the proceeds of the Institutional Strengthening Grant (as the 
case may be), all as previously agreed with the Bank); and 
 
(c) 
the obligation of each Organization-Entity of Small Producers: 
(i) 
to carry out the pertinent Institutional Strengthening Subproject with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
economic, financial, managerial, environmental, social and cultural 
property practices, including in accordance with the provisions of the 
Anti-Corruption Guidelines (applicable to recipients of Loan proceeds 
other than the Borrower) and the Operational Manual; 
(ii) 
to use the Institutional Strengthening Grant for purposes of partially 
financing the carrying out of the pertinent Institutional Strengthening 
Subproject; 
(iii) 
to provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to carry out the corresponding Institutional Strengthening 
Subproject;  
(iv) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce 
the Institutional Strengthening Subproject Agreement or any provision 
thereof unless previously agreed by the Borrower, through SAGPyA, and 
the Bank;  
Page  26
25 
(v) 
if applicable, comply, or caused to be complied, with the obligations 
referred to in Sections 5.05, 5.06 (a), 5.07 and 5.10 of the General 
Conditions (relating to land acquisition, use of goods, works and 
services, plans, documents and records, cooperation and consultation and 
visits, respectively) in respect of said Institutional Strengthening 
Subproject; and 
(vi) 
to take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower, through 
SAGPyA, to comply with its obligations referred to in this Agreement, as 
applicable to the carrying out of Institutional Strengthening Subprojects.
 
Page  27
26 
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
3. 
“Community Beneficiary” means an individual or a group of individuals who have met 
the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as defined below) to carry out 
a
Community Subproject (as defined below). 
4. 
“Community Grant” means any of the grants to be provided under the pertinent 
Community Subproject Agreement (as defined below). 
5. 
“Community Subproject” means any of the investments referred to in Part 1 (a) of the 
Project. 
6. 
“Community Subproject Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
I.B (a) (iii) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
7. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
8. “DDA” 
means 
Direcci
ón de Desarrollo Agropecuario
,
the Directorate of Agricultural 
Development established within SAGPyA (as defined below), or any successor thereto.  
9. 
“Environmental Management Framework” means the Borrower’s framework set forth in 
the Operational Manual (as defined below), which includes, 
inter alia
:
(a) the 
environmental screening process of Project activities to be followed during Project 
implementation; (b) the actions and procedures to be followed during Project 
implementation in connection with the finding of cultural property under the Project; and 
(c) the measures and procedures to mitigate, prevent and manage environmental and 
social impacts associated with the carrying out of the Project (including natural habitats 
and pest management).  
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
October 15, 2006). 
Page  28
27 
11. 
“Indigenous Peoples Strategy” means Borrower’s strategy set forth in the Operational 
Manual (as defined below), which includes, 
inter alia
:
(a) special dissemination 
mechanisms to ensure that indigenous peoples would be adequately informed of the 
Project; (b) culturally appropriate mechanisms to provide technical assistance and 
training to indigenous peoples so as to ensure that the Community Subprojects are 
prepared with the full participation of the same; (c) specific criteria for Community 
Subproject appraisal, to promote Community Subproject proposals from indigenous 
groups; (d) specific targeting criteria in the Borrower’s Provinces of Formosa and Salta to 
ensure that the areas within said provinces with high concentration of indigenous 
population would be attended; (e) mechanisms to ensure participation of indigenous 
representatives in provincial oversight units in the provinces mentioned herein; (f) special 
allocation of resources for supporting Community Subprojects from indigenous 
population in the provinces mentioned herein; and (g) coordination mechanisms with 
other programs and public agencies working with, or that have jurisdiction with respect 
to, indigenous population. 
12. 
“Institutional Strengthening Grant” means any of the grants to be provided under the 
pertinent Institutional Strengthening Subproject Agreement (as defined below). 
13. 
“Institutional Strengthening Subproject” means any of the activities referred to in Part 2 
(e) (ii) of the Project. 
14. 
“Institutional Strengthening Subproject Agreement” means any of the agreements 
referred to in Section I.E (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
15. “NCU” 
means 
Unidad Nacional de Coordinaci
ón
,
the Borrower’s National Coordination 
Unit, established within the administrative jurisdiction of SAGPyA (as defined below), or 
any successor thereto, acceptable to the Bank. 
16. 
“Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s manual, acceptable to the Bank, dated April 
20, 2007 which sets forth, 
inter alia
:
(a) the institutional and administrative structure of 
the NCU, the PSA, the Rural Development Commission, and  the UTCN (all as defined 
in this Appendix), including their functions and responsibilities; (b) the Environmental 
Management Framework (as defined above); (c) the Indigenous Peoples Strategy (as 
defined above); (d) the Participation Action Plan (as defined below); (e) the eligibility 
criteria for selecting Community Beneficiaries, Research Beneficiaries, Participating 
Provinces, Organization of Small Producers, Organization-Entities of Small Producers, 
and approving Community Subprojects, Research Subprojects, Institutional 
Strengthening Subprojects and technical assistance proposals under Part 2 (b) of the 
Project, respectively (all as defined in this Appendix); (f) the Project’s chart of accounts, 
internal controls, and budgeting, accounting and financial reporting systems; (g) the 
format of: (i) the Progress Reports referred to in Section II.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; (ii) the interim unaudited financial reports referred to in Section II. B. 2 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (iii) the Financial Statements; (h) the terms of 
reference for carrying out the Project audits under Section II.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; (i) the Project’s flow of funds structure; (j) the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
(as defined above); (k) the Project indicators; and (l) the Project’s administrative and 
Page  29
28 
procurement procedures, as said manual may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank. 
17 
“Organization-Entity of Small Producers” means an organization of small producers 
which has been vested with legal personality or adopted any other form of association 
supported and/or acknowledged by the Borrower’s legislation, and which has met the 
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as defined above) to carry out an 
Institutional Strengthening Subproject. 
18. 
“Organization of Small Producers” means an organization of small producers which has 
not been vested with legal personality nor adopted any other form of association 
supported and/or acknowledged by the Borrower’s legislation, which has met the 
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as defined above) to benefit under 
Part 2 (e) (i) of the Project.   
19. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement  
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank, dated May 6, 1998 (Loan No. 4212-
AR), as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
20. 
“Participation Action Plan” means the Borrower’s plan set forth in the Operational 
Manual (as defined above), which includes, 
inter alia
:
the actions to ensure and facilitate 
the participation of the Project’s stakeholders (in particular vulnerable groups, such 
indigenous population, women and the youth within the Borrower’s territory) during the 
entire Community Subproject cycle (which includes design, approval, implementation, 
monitoring and evaluation). 
21. 
“Participating Province” means any of the Borrower’s political subdivisions (as per title 
Two of the Borrower’s 1994 Constitution), which meet the eligibility criteria set forth in 
the Operational Manual (as defined above) to carry out the pertinent technical proposals 
under Part 2 (b) of the Project. 
22. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
23. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated April 
25, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 
1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
24. 
“Provincial Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section I.C (a) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
25. 
“PSA” means the Borrower’s Social Program for Agriculture (
Programa Social 
Agropecuario
)
established pursuant to Resolution No. 158/93 dated April 7, 1993 issued 
by the predecessor of SAGPyA (as said resolution has been amended to the date of this 
Agreement), for purposes of, inter alia, alleviating poverty. 
Page  30
29 
26. 
“Research Beneficiary” means an entity which has met the eligibility criteria set forth in 
the Operational Manual (as defined below) to carry out a Research Subproject (as defined 
below). 
27. 
“Research Grant” means any of the grants to be provided under the pertinent Research 
Subproject Agreement (as defined below). 
28. 
“Research Subproject” means any of the investments referred to in Part 2 (d) (ii) of the 
Project. 
29. 
“Research Subproject Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section I.D 
(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
30. 
“Rural Development Commission” means the commission established within SAGPyA 
for purposes of, 
inter alia
,
ensuring proper coordination of all rural development 
activities under the administrative jurisdiction of SAGPyA, and advice to DDA in 
connection with the carrying out of its responsibilities under the Project, or any successor 
thereto. 
31. “SAGPyA” 
means 
Secretar
ía de Agricultura, Ganadería, Pesca y Alimentos
,
the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and Food, or any successor 
thereto.  
32. 
“UTCN” means the 
Unidad T
écnica de Coordinación Nacional
,
the technical unit for 
national coordination established within SAGPyA (as defined above) which administers 
the PSA (as defined above), or any successor thereto.  
 
