                                       Documentof
                                     The World Bank

                              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                       ReportNo: 38714




                                    PROJECTPAPER

                                           ONA

                  PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCINGLOAN

                      INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$45.0MILLION

                                          TO THE

                               ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

                                        FOR THE

                   SMALLFARMERDEVELOPMENTPROJECT


                                       June 20,2007




Latin America and CaribbeanRegion
Argentina, Chile, ParaguayandUruguay CountryManagementUnit
SustainableDevelopmentSector ManagementUnit

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performanceo f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout
World Bank authorization.

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective: April 20,2007)


                     Currency Unit = Argentine Peso
                           AR$3.09 = US$l
                           US$O.32 = AR$1

                              FISCALYEAR
                          January 1   - December31




                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CDR       Rural Development Commission (Comisidn deDesarrollo Rural)
CP        Provincial Coordinator o f PSA (Coordinador Provincial)
DDA       Directorate o f Agriculural Development (Direccidn de Desarrollo
         Agropecuario)
INTA      National Agricultural Technology Institute(InstitutoNacional de
          TecnologiaAgropecuaria)
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MERCOSUR  Southern Cone Common Market (Mercado Comtin del Sur)
POA       Annual Operating Plan (Plan Operativo Anual)
PRODERNEA Northeast Rural Development Program(Programa deDesarrolloRural del
         Nordeste)
PSA       Agriculture/Livestock Social Program (Programa Social Agropecuario)
SAGPyA    Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and Food (Secretaria de
         Agricultura, Ganaderia, Pescay Alimentos)
UL        Local Unit (Unidad Local)
U N C    National Project Coordination Unit (UnidadNacional de Coordinacidn)
UP        Provincial Coordinating Unit o f PSA (Unidad Provincial)
UTCN     National Technical Coordination Unit o f PSA (Unidad Te'cnicade
          Coordinacidn Nacional)




                   Vice President:       Pamela Cox
                 Country Director:       Axel van Trotsenburg
                   Sector Director:      Laura Tuck
               Task Team Leader:         Dorte Verner

                                                                                 FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                  ARGENTINA

               SMALLFARMERDEVELOPMENTPROJECT - ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                                                PROJECT PAPER

                                   LATINAMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

                                                      LCSSD

         Date: June 14, 2007                                 IITeam Leader: Dorte Verner
                                                               Sector Director: Laura Tuck
         Project Name: Small Farmer Development                Country Director: Axel van Trotsenburg
         Additional Financing Project
         Project ID: P102446                                   Environmental Category: B




        FY                                2007           2008         2009         2010            2011
        Original Loan                    75.00           0.00          0.00         0.00           0.00
       Additional Loan (annual)            0.00          5.00         10.00        15.00           15.00
        Cumulative for both              75.00          80.00         90.00       105.00         120.00
        loans


        Does the restructuredproject or scaled-up require any exceptions from Bank            [ ]Yes [XINo
        policies?                                                                              I: ]Yes [ IN0
        Have these been approvedby Bank Management? Not Required                              [ ]Yes [XINO
         I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?

         Revised Project Development Objective: Since the Additional Loani s to finance scaling-up o f
         the original project activities, the original development objective remains unchanged: The
        principal objective o f the project i s to increase the productive and organizational capacity in
        targetedpoor rural communities. The project also aims to increase emphasis on rural poverty
        issues in sectoral policies and to improve coordination mechanisms at the national and provincial
        levels.

        Revised Project Description: The project description generally remains unchanged, and
        continues to have the following three main components:
              (a) Rural Investment;
              (b) Strengthening Rural Policy Development Policy Formulation;
              (c) Project Administration, and Monitoring and Evaluation




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

Does the restructuredor scaled-up project trigger any new safeguard policies? Ifso, indicate
which one.

The Additional Loan i s to finance scaling-up o f original project activities. The two safeguard
policies which were triggered for the original project continue to remain applicable to the scaled-
upproject. These are: EnvironmentalAssessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01) and IndigenousPeoples
(OPBP 4.10). Inaddition, due to possible inclusiono f sub-projects relating to silvi-pastoral uses
o f small plantation forests and improved management o f native forests, the safeguard policy
relating to Forests (OPBP 4.36) has also been triggered for the scaled-up project.




[XI Loan     [ ]Credit       [ ] Grant [ 3 Guarantee      [ ]Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 45.00
Proposed terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace Period (years): 5                                Years to maturity: 15
Commitment Fee: 0.75% per annum on undisbursedloan
Front-end fee (FEF) on Bank Loan: 1.OO% o f Loan amount subject to waivers n effect, if
applicable.
Payment for FEF: Capitalize from Loan Proceeds
Initial choice o f Interest-rate basis: Maintain as Variable
Type o fRepayment Schedule: [XI Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method:
Level
                                  [ ] Linked to Disbursement
Conversion Options: [XI Currency [XI Interest Rate [XI Caps/Collars: Capitalize from Loan
Proceeds

                                             ARGENTINA

  SMALL FARMERDEVELOPMENTPROJECT- ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                                     TABLE OF CONTENTS



                                                                                                                              Page


1.    Introduction..,,,,.,,.,. ............... ...
                             .                                                                           ,
2.    BackgroundandRationalefor AdditionalFinancing....,,,...,........ ..
                                             . ..............,,,..,,,.,,,,.,,,,,,,,.,,,,..,,........ ........................-1
                                                                                                            ........................1
3.    ProposedChanges      .................................................................................................... 5
4.    Consistencywith CAS         ......................................,....................................................lo
5.    Appraisalof Scaled-upActivities..........................................................................                    12
6.    ExpectedOutcomes...............         .......................,.......................................................    .17
7.    AdditionalBenefitsandRisks ,........................................               ..........................   ,            18
8.    FinancialTerms and Conditionsfor the AdditionalLoan........                                  ................................19
                                                                                                                       ........

Annex 1 ResultsFramework..........................................................................................                20
Annex 2   DocumentsinProjectFile.......................................................................                   .........21


                                    1. INTRODUCTION


 1.1     This project paper seeks the approval o fthe Executive Directors to provide an
additional loan inan amount o fUS$45.0 million to the Argentine Republic (the
Borrower), Small Farmer Development Project (Project ID:PO06041;Loan 4212-AR).
The proposed additional loanwould help finance costs associatedwith scalingup o fthe
existing project activities to enhance the impact o f a well-performing project.

 1.2    N o major changes from the original project are being proposedinterms o fproject
design, approach, and implementationarrangements. The nature, size and geographical
coverage o f the sub-projects, and the targeted beneficiaries will remain the same for the
scaled-up project activities. The scaled-up project may include sub-projects relating to
sustainable forestry; there i s a possibility o f invoking the Safeguard Policy OPBP4.36.
Apart, from this, there are no new safeguards or fiduciary issues applicable to the
additional loan. The environmental management framework, the indigenous peoples'
strategy, and the participation action plan, updated based on the implementation learning
o f the original project, would be applied to the scaled-up project activities. Risks
identified for the original project activities continue to remain relevant, as do the
proposedmeasures incorporated inthe project design, which have proved to be effective
inriskmitigation.

1.3     The nature o f the expected outcomes from the scaled-up project will remain the
same as those o f the original project, except that the magnitude would be smaller, given
the reduced size o fthe proposed project: US$56.8 million inproject cost, compared to
US$108 million for the original project; about 3,000 sub-projects benefiting about 22,000
families compared to the more than 9,000 sub-projects benefiting some 50,000 families
under the original project; and a reduced scale o f capacity buildingand institutional
strengtheningunderthe scaled-up project.

1.4     Partnership Arrangements: None.


   2. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALEFORADDITIONAL FINANCINGIN
                           THE AMOUNT OFUS$45.0 MILLION


2.1     Details o f the Original Loan. The Loan Agreement inthe amount o fUS$75.0
million was approved on July 17, 1997, and became effective on August 20, 1998. The
original closing date o f December 31,2003 was extended four times for a total o f 48
months. This has been solely due to exogenous factors, and, more specifically, due to the
deep economic crisis between end-2001 to mid-2003. The project did not receive
adequate counterpart fundingduringthis period, adversely affecting the pace o f
implementation performance. The current closing date is December 31,2007.



                                                  1

2.2      Proiect Development Obiective (PDO). The PDO o f the original project as
indicated inthe Loan Agreement i s as follows: "The PDO o f the original project as
indicated inthe Loan Agreement i s as follows: "The mainproject development objective
i s to increase the productive and organizational capacity intargeted poor rural
communities. The related subsidiary project development objective is to increase the
emphasis on rural poverty issues in government's sectoral policies and to improve
coordination mechanisms at the national andprovincial levels."

2.3      Proiect Components. The original project has three components to achieve the
PDO:

     (a) Rural Investment Component - Rural InvestmentGrants to finance small grants
         for demand-based sub-projects (civil works, goods, technical assistance); Support
         Services, including training, marketing information system and implementation o f
         Participation Action Plan and Indigenous Peoples Strategy (training and studies);
         and Management o f Rural Investment Activities at the national, provincial and
         local levels (technical assistance and equipment).

     (b) Strengthening Rural Policv Development Policv Formulation - National Strategy
         Development (studies, establishment o f Rural Development Commission, and
         rural development database inthe Secretariat o f Agriculture); Provincial Strategy
         Development (demand-driven studies and technical assistance); Training for sub-
         national and national agencies; Appropriate Technology Development (studies
         and competitive research grants); Institutional Strengthening for Directorate o f
         Planning and Agricultural Development to manage component activities
         (equipment and technical assistance); and
     (c) Proiect Administration and M&E - Technical assistance, studies and equipment to
         establish project coordination unit and carry out M&E.

2.4      InSeptember 1998,due to floods inArgentina, an "agricultural emergency" was
declared by the Government, and a fourth component, the "agricultural emergency"
component (PROEMER), was added to the project. Implementation o f this component
was successfilly completed by end-2000. The addition o fthis new component, which
required a reallocation o f US$23 million from other components, did not inany way
compromise the outputs or outcomes o f the original project. As a consequence o f the
devaluation o fthe AR$ vis-a-vis the US$, the project ended up with local currency funds
significantly more than originally expected at appraisal when the AR$ and the US$ were
linked for parity. This allowed the new component to be financed out o fthe project
funds without jeopardizing the achievement o fthe targets relating to the original project
components.

2.5      The proposed additional loanwill only support expansion o fthe Rural Investment
Component, and deepeningo f the Rural Development Policy Formulation, and Project
Administration and M&Ecomponents.

2.6      No major changes from the original project are proposed; the project development
objective, components, scope and design continue to be relevant, and remain unaltered
for the purposes o f the additional loan.




                                              2

2.7     Proiect Performance. Under the Rural Investment component, the original project
has reached some 50,000 families (nearly 250,000 persons) through more than 9,000
subprojects. These figures exceed the original target o f 30,000 families and 150,000
persons, as well as the revised objective o f 40,000 new families agreed inthe Action Plan
for 2004-2006 which served as the basis for the second extension o f the closing date. In
addition, the groups carrying out the sub-projects benefited from technical assistance for
a period o f two years.

2.8     Interms o fimpact, the 2002 and 2005 monitoring andimpact assessment surveys
suggest that beneficiary families' income and quality o f life improved significantly, and
so did their organizational capacity andparticipation. According to the 2005 survey, the
following key impacts were clearly visible: (a) project-assisted producers' income had
increased 79 percent since project launch; (b) the governance mechanism o fthe Rural
Investment Component involvingbeneficiaries inthe provincial bodies which approve
subprojects, andbringingthem together annually inprovincial, regional and national
meetings, had increased the social capital o f the rural poor; (c) the organizational and
management capacity o f the rural poor to prepare and manage investments had
considerably improved; and (d) the participatory mechanisms supported by the project
(e.g. the participation action plan) had increased the voice o f the rural poor, and rural
development has become more prominent inthe national andprovincial agenda.

2.9     Underthe Rural Development Policy Formulationcomponent, nineteen provincial
technical assistance agreements were carried out, andby the end o f the project, at least
ten provinces will have defined their rural development strategy. These strategies reflect
the provincial government's short, mediumand long term vision on rural development,
including the policies, instrumentsand programs through which they will increase
productive capacity o f small farmers, consolidate integrated productive chains, improve
the quality o f life o f small farmers, and reduce their migration. At the national level, the
Rural Development Commission was established as part o f the project and made progress
incoordinating rural programswithin the Agriculture Secretariat, and defining anational
rural development strategy. A number o f important sectoral and rural household studies
have beencompleted under this component.

2.10    The adaptive research program financed thirty-three completed researchprojects,
with a further seven to be completedbyproject closing. The first catalogue o f
technologies usedappropriate for small farmedrural poor inArgentina has been
publishedandwidely disseminated; the second catalogue is expected before project
closing. Outreach and support to vulnerable groups (indigenous peoples, women and
youth) i s exemplary with a broader impact at the local, provincial and national levels.

2.11    Interms o fimpact, progresshas beenmadetowards greater emphasis onrural
poverty issues inthe sectoral agenda and improved co-ordination o f rural development
programs andpolicies. Duringthe previous year, the provinces requested participation in
the Rural Development Commission and informulation o fthe national rural development
strategy.

2.12    A synopsis o fthe project performance is provided below:




                                                3

    (a) The ISRratings over the most recent twelve months, including those for overall
        implementationprogress (IP) and its constituents, project components, and PDO
        have been consistently "Satisfactory" or higher.
    (b) As o fMarch28,2007, three monthsbefore the revised closing date, the entire
        loan proceeds o fUS$75.0 million have been disbursed, barringa small balance in
        the Designated Account.
    (c) The project has had no fiduciary (financial or procurement) issues.
    (d) The project is categorized "B" from the environmental viewpoint, employing an
        Environmental Management Framework which i s commensurate with the
        requirement o f the original project activities, and i s beingsatisfactorily applied to
        mitigate adverse environmental impacts and/or to enhance the favorable impacts
        on environment.
    (e) OD 4.10 (Indigenous Peoples) is the social safeguard policy that i s triggered. The
        project i s infull compliance with this requirement. The IP Strategy prepared for
        the project i s being satisfactorily implemented.
    (f) All legal covenants are in full compliance.

Rationale and Reasons for the Borrower to Request the Additional Loan. Apart from the
fact that the proposedAF project consists o f activities which support the three CAS
pillars o f sustained growth with equity, social inclusion, and improved governance, the
additional loan isjustified for three main reasons:

    (a) Scaling-up a Well-performinn Proiect - Implementation o f the original project
        commenced in2000, but slowed down during the 2001-2003 economic crisis in
        Argentina, due to inadequate counterpart finding. This was the main reason for
        extension o f its closing date by over three years. It was not until2005 that the
        project started to receive the required level o f fbnding, and it has since had an
        excellent performance. All major project outputs have been met or exceeded; and
        key development objectives relating to its two components have been achieved.
        The need for a follow-on project to deepen the development impact o fthe original
        project i s real, and the probability o f success is highdue to the implementation
        experience accumulated under the original project.
    (b) Continuity o fthe prosram-A quickly preparedadditional loanwould bevery
        timely at thisjuncture to avoid a funding gap that could adversely affect the
        implementation momentum built up over the last two years, and could result ina
        loss o f the program's credibility inthe eyes o f the rural population and provincial
        authorities. The institutional infrastructure that the project has built up, and the
        attendant arrangements that are inplace - primarily at the provincial, but
        including a small national level nodal implementing unit-are well placed to
        provide the platform to launchthe new operation without any start-up delay.
    (c) Bridge Financing - The additional loan would serve as bridgefinancing for this
        successful outreach to small farmers while a Programmatic DPR on Rural Poverty
        is being carried out (completion inFY08), and a new Rural Poverty and Growth
        project i s being prepared (CAS program for FY09).




                                                4

                                 3. PROPOSEDCHANGES


   3.1     Project DO, Desimand/or Scope. The project DO remains the same in
   substantive terms: (a) increase productive and organizational capacity intargeted poor
   rural communities; and (b) increase emphasis on rural poverty issues in sectoral policies,
   and (c) improve coordination mechanisms at the national and provincial levels.

   3.2     The AF loanmerely extends the coverage o frural households from the original
   project target o f 30,000 households (actual achievement: 50,000 households) to 72,000
   households. Some families benefitingfrom sub-projects under the original project may
   receive complementary sub-projects under the scaled-up project. This is expected to be
   developmentally synergistic. The number o f sub-projects to be financed through
   Component 1-Rural Investment-would increase from about 9,000 (actual achievement
   underthe original project) to 12,000 with the AF project. Itwill also continue to support
   some capacity buildingand institutional strengthening activities.

   3.3     There is no change inthe project design, approach or scope compared to the
   original project, barring some refinements which have been introduced from time-to-time
   duringthe implementationo fthe original project. The geographical coverage also
   remains unchanged. Almost 99 percent o f the scaled-up project cost relates to project
   components included inthe original project. These are summarized below on a
   component-by-component basis.

           ORIGINAL PROJECT                               PROPOSEDSCALED-UPPROJECT
Component1: RuralInvestment
(a) Rural Investment Grants (to finance pre-      No change proposed, except remodeling pre-
investment, householdproduction,                  investment and marketing assistance from individual
commercially-oriented technology transfer,        sub-projects to consultancies for evaluation and
community infrastructure, andmarketing            assistance on a territorial basis. Since this component
assistance sub-projects                           i s "sub-project" oriented, these two types o f
                                                  assistance would be offered under the sub-component
                                                  "Support Services" inthe form o f TA
(b) Support Services (to train and capacity-      No change proposed, except adding: (i) pre-
                                                                                            the
build focused on targeted communities, public investment and marketingTA from Component l(a)
and private TA providers, and implementing        to the activity relating to marketing information; (ii)
agency staff (PSA); to develop marketing          beneficiary/producer groups formation, and
information; and to implement the                 implementation andM&E assistance; and (iii)     a
ParticipationAction Plan                          special focus on vulnerable groups (women, IF', and
                                                  youth) incapacity building activities. Assistance
                                                  could be inthe form o f individual specialist
                                                  consultants at sub-project level or multi-disciplinary
                                                  teams at provincial level, or both `
                                                  No change proposed, except scale reduction since
                                                  entities already strengthened under original project




                                                5

(a) National Strategy Development (to create       N o change proposed, except to develop the next stage
rural development database, establish the          vision for the Commission, and a database o f
Commission for Rural Development, and              producers
facilitate coordination o f rural programs)
(b) Provincial Strategy Development (to assist No change proposed, except getting the provincial
with provincial level poverty analysis and         rural strategy prepared for the remaining provinces,
strategy development, and capacity                 creating capacity to implement the rural strategy, and
enhancement for management o f rural               giving a territorial focus to the provincial rural
programs)                                          strategy through civil society consultation
(c) Training and TA (for national, provincial      N o change proposed, except focusing specifically on
and municipal staff, NGOs, beneficiaries and       small farmers' organizations. To be able to provide a
other rural service providers to implement         separate fund for this activity, this has been
project activities. The original project also      introduced as a separate sub-component (see (d)
strengthened the capacity o f individual small     below)
farmers participating inthe project)
(d) Appropriate Technology Development             N o change proposed
and Dissemination (to create a catalogue o f
technologies, and to provide competitive
grants for appropriate technology
development and dissemination
(e) Strengthening small farmers'                   Based on experience, and giventhe critical role o f
organizations. (Did not exist as a separate        small farmers' organizations inrural development,
sub-component but project support was              the scaled-up project will support their development
embedded as assistance to individual small         through the provision o f TA, minor equipment, and
farmers under (c) above)                           training under a separate sub-component
( f ) Support to DDA for the implementation o f   N o change proposed, except scale reduction since
the Component                                      entities already strengthened under original project
Component3: ProjectAdministration,
M&E
(a) Proiect Administration                        N o change proposed
fbh M&E                                           N o change r>ror>osed

     3.4     Proiect duration and Closing Date. The original loan i s now fully disbursed
     barring a small balance inthe Designated Account. The Additional Financing Loan i s
     expected to become effective within six months o fBoard Date, or by end o f C Y 2007.
     All activities are expected to be completedbyDecember 31,2010, withproject closing
     scheduled on June 30,201 1.

     3.5     Institutional Arrangements. There are no changes inthe institutional
     arrangements for the proposed scaled-up project activities. The same implementation
     structures would continue to perform the various project management functions as under
     the original project. These are summarized below.

     3.6     Executing Agencv; The Secretariat o fAgriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and Food
     (SAGPyA) will continue to be the nodal executing agency. Implementation would be
     guidedby the annual operating plans (POAs), presented to the Bank for its no-objection
     by November 30 o f each year, which would reflect project outputs for the following
     January 1through December 31implementing year.



                                                6

3.7     ImplementingAgencies: The Rural Investment Component would continue be
implementedby SAGPyAwithin the umbrella o fthe Social Agricultural Program (PSA),
which will manage the Rural Investment grants component and associated support
services component through its existingnational andprovincial units. The Strengthening
o f Rural Development Policy Formulation Component would continue to be implemented
by SAGPyA with assistancefrom the Department o fAgricultural and Livestock
Development (DDA), except for the provincial policy development sub-component
which would be implementeddirectly by SAGPyA.

3.8     Project Administration: SAGPyA will continue to administer the project activities
through the already functional national co-ordination unit (UNC), which will provide
administrative and technical assistance to PSA and DDA. It will have the primary
responsibility for coordinating project-wide implementation issues including
development o f a project promotional strategy, project monitoring, reporting and
evaluation, assisting implementing agencies with procurement and associated
communication with the Bank, and managing financial recordkeeping, the Designated
Account and disbursements.

3.9     Project Costs andFinancing Plan. The original project cost o f about US$l08.0
million was to have been funded as follows: Borrower: US$25.0 million; Bank:US$75.0
million; and project beneficiaries: US$8.0 million. The original Borrower:Bank
financing ratio was 1:3. At the time o f the economic crisis inArgentina, the
government's contribution to project cost was reduced to 10% through an amendment to
the Loan Agreement. For the scaled-up project activities, the Government's contribution'
i s expected to increase to 16.7% o f the expected scaled-up project cost o fUS$54.0
million, which would be financed as follows: Borrower share: US$9.0 million and Bank
share: US$45.0 million.

3.10    The revisedproject costs are providedbelow to indicate the original project costs
and those proposedto be financed through the Additional FinancingLoan.




                                              7

Project Components         Original Project      Proposed Scaled-up           Total Revised
                              (US$M)               Project (US$M)            Project (USSM)
Rural Investment                95.80                     49.58                   144.38
Strengthening Rural               8.80                     3.93                    12.73
Development Policy
Formulation
Project Administration            3-40                     1.49                      4.89
and M&E
Unallocated                                                1.80                      1.80
TOTAL PROJECT                  108.00                     56.80                   164.80




The revised financingplanwould be as follows:

Source:                                     Original       Proposed Scaled-up     Total Revised
                                             Project         Project (US$M)           Project
                                            (US$M)                                   (US$M)
Borrower                                      25.00                9.00                 34.00
IBRD                                          75.00               45.00                120.00
Beneficiaries                                  8.00                2.80                 10.80
TOTAL PROJECT                                108.00               56.80                164.80

The following table specifies the categories o f eligible expenditures that may be financed
out o f the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation o fthe amounts o f the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage o f expendituresto be financed for eligible
expenditures ineach Category (for detailed project description, see Loan Agreement).




                                              8

                                            Amount of        % of                           Total
  Components              Category           the Loan    expenditure      Counterpart      project
                                             allocated     financed      Contribution     Expenditure
                   (1) Works and/or
                   goods for Community
                   Sub-projects               28.00          100%           2.80 "          30.80
                   (2) Consultants'
                   services Community
                   Sub-projects                 7.75         100%              0        1 7 . 7 5

Rural              (3) Consultants'

Investment         services for

Component          participatory action
                   planand indigenous
                   people strategy              1.28         100%              0             1.28
                   (4) Goods for
                   SAGPyA support               1.45         100%              0             1.45
                   (5) Training                  0            0%              5.80           5.80
                   (6) Recurrent                 0            0%              2.50          2.50
                   Subtotal                   38.48
                   (1) Consultants'                                    020
                   services                    2.85          100%
                   (2) Goods                   0.10          100%
Rural              (3) Support for small
Development        producers'
Strategy           organizations               0.20          100%
                   (4) Training                0.43          100%                       I   0.43
                   (5) Recurrent                 0            0%              0.35          0.35
                   Subtotal                    3.58                           0.35          3.93
                   (1) Goods                   0.12          100%
    Project        (2) Consultant               1.02         100%
 administration (3) Recurrent                                 0%              0.35          0.35
                   Subtotal                     1.14                          0.35           1.49

                   Unallocated                  1.80

                   TOTAL                      45.00                          11.80          56.80

"Thisisthebeneficiarycontributiontowardssub-projectscost

  3.11    Fiduciary Aspects. The same accounting and financial management, and
  procurement arrangements, as applicable to the original project activities, are proposed
  for the scaled-up project activities.

  3.12    Accounting and Financial Management Arrangements. UNC would have
  responsibility for financial accounting, reporting and audits. An audit of the financial
  status of the program would take place once a year, carried out by an independent auditor


                                                9

acceptable to the Bank according to the standard terms o freference, also acceptable to
the Bank.

3.13    Disbursements. The project will continue to use a Segregated Designated
Account (old terminology: Special Account) managed by UNC. The disbursement
arrangements already in effect under the on-going project have been updated based on the
revised DisbursementHandbook for World Bank Clients. The Designated Account
would be audited annually by independentauditors acceptable to the Bank. The proposed
ceiling for advances into the Designated Account i s US$5 million, sufficient to cover the
highestpoint o fdisbursementsunder the project.

3.14     Retroactive Financing. US$4.5 million (10% o f the Additional Loan amount)
would beprovided to disburse against eligible expenditures incurred since January 1,
2007, but inno case more than one year before the date o f signing o f the Additional
Financing Loan Agreement.

3.15     Procurement Arranaements. Primary responsibility for procurement would be
with the UNC, which would supervise and support procurement carried out byPSA and
DDA. Communication o frequiredprocurementprocedures to eachbeneficiary group
would be the responsibility o f the PSA provincial-level technical units, and procurement
procedures would be described inthe corresponding sub-project grant agreements signed
between the SAGPyA and the beneficiary groups. Equivalent procedures would govern
procurement under appropriate technology research grants and assistance to the provinces
underthe Strengthening Rural Development PolicyFormulation component.

3.16     Monitoringo fprocurement practices would continue to be carried out to ensure
consistency with Bank guidelines andthe Operational Manual. The original project
protocol o fprior review o fprocurements would apply to the scaled-up project
procurements: for all ICB and N C B procurement o f goods; some steps relating to
consulting contracts above the designated threshold; and for training activities. However,
as about 70% o fprocurement would be inthe form o f small and dispersedsub-projects
which would not be subject to prior review, an ex-post procurement review would be
carried out annually to assess compliance.

3.17     An acceptable global procurementplan for activities to be financed through the
Additional Financing Loanhas been received. Said procurement plan will be posted in
SEPA (Procurement Plan Execution System), inline with the Argentina Fiduciary Action
Plan (FAP) included inthe Country Assistance Strategy.

3.18    Bank' fiduciaw supervision. The project will be subject to annual Integrated
Fiduciary PerformanceAssessments (IFPA) supervision missions, inline with the FAP.


                       4. CONSISTENCY WITH CAS OR CPS


4.1     The Additional Financing Loan supports a scaling-up o f original project activities,
and i s completely consistent with the 2006 CAS. It proposes to finance interventions




                                            10

designed to advance the three pillars o f sustained growth with equity, social inclusion,
andimproved governance, as follows:

    (a) Sustained Growth - The project supports creation o frural infrastructure services
        which i s an essential ingredient for enhance productivity and widely shared
        growth. It uses public-private partnerships inirrigation sub-projects, productive
        commercial sub-projects, agricultural technology generation and diffusion
        initiatives, and employs NGOs andprivate sector as a key provider o f contracted
        services. The project also finances development o fnational andprovincial level
        rural development strategy to enrich the overall growth strategy.
    (b) Social Inclusion-The project supports growth with equityby focusing on the
        marginalized andvulnerable groups inthe society. Sub-projects are directed to
        women, youth, and other vulnerable sections o f the population, including
        indigenouspeoples which face a poverty rate twice that o f the non-IP population.
        Inadditionto income generation sub-projects, other sub-projects which
        significantly enhance the quality o f life (such as water services and housing-
        related improvements) are also proposed for financing.
    (c) Improved Governance - The project supports decentralization andregional
        development. Followinga demand-driven approach to infrastructure
        development, the project involves the various stakeholders inthe entire range o f
        sub-project activities: representation, proposal for sub-projects, decision-making,
        implementation, and monitoring and evaluation. The capacity o f the project-
        related national and provincial level government departments, NGOs, and private
        sector operators i s being further strengthened to efficiently and effectively
        manage the project and other government-supported programs. The project also
        focuses on deepening coordination betweennational and provincial level rural
        development activities.

4.2     Inaddition, theproposedproject reflectsthe three core principles ofperformance,
selectivity, and poverty alleviation around which Bank-financed projects are supported in
Argentina: (a) it has emanated from an existing project which i s perfonning well with
consistent "satisfactory" ratings on DO and IP;(b) it i s clearly focused on poverty
alleviation, and on the most vulnerable sections o f the population; and (c) it proposes to
advance further, on a selective basis, the government's effort to create decentralized and
dispersedinfrastructureservices following the successful community-driven development
approach.




                                               11

                     5. APPRAISAL OF SCALED-UPACTIVITIES


5.1     Economic Assessment. Underthe original project, estimates o f the internal
economic rates o freturnwere calculated for the nine pilot sub-project types which
covered representative geographical areas, and which spanned the different types of
anticipated interventions and technical assistancerequirements. Inorder to test the
feasibility o f the demand-driven mechanism for sub-project identification and
preparation, proposals for these sub-projects were developedby groups o fbeneficiaries
as part o f a comprehensive beneficiary assessment, and reflected their views regarding
which interventions could be undertaken to improve their present situation.

5.2     Estimated economic rates o f return for the market-oriented pilot sub-projects
rangedbetween 14.2% and 33.5%. Considering the mix o f annual number o f sub-
projects, an average economic rate o f returno f 26.3% for all types o f sub-projects was
estimated for the matching grant assistance under the Rural Investment component. An
average rate o f returno f 19.0% was calculated for the overall project.

5.3     The outcome o f the evaluation carried out inApril 2006 indicatedthat the sub-
projects funded under the original project increased beneficiary incomes, and that the
realization o f the assumptions underlying the original ERR calculations was robust and
consistent.

5.4     ERRShave not beenrecomputed for these productive sub-projects under the
scaled-up project because: (a) the original project evaluation results have confirmed their
viability; (b) there i s no significant change inthe type o f sub-projects supported - these
models have been tested on the ground; and (c) there has beenlearning duringthe
original project period which has enhanced the design, operational, and implementation
feasibility. Also, since the scaled-up project has a proportionally higher share o fproject
cost devoted to productive sub-projects, the aggregate ERRo f the combined original and
scaled-up project i s expected to be higher than the original project's expected ERR o f
19%.

5.5     Nevertheless, to ensure that the expected ERR at the sub-project level and overall

with ERR above 12% - would be financedunder the scaled-up project, with the exception
project level i s notjeopardized, only economically sound sub-project proposals - those

o f those destinedto enhance the quality and quantity o f on farm consumption. These
may be financed even if economic returns are below 12%, since they would be
considered initial projects to promote group formation. This group o f sub-projects i s not
expected to be more than 7-8% o f the total portfolio, and i s therefore not expected to
adversely affect the expected overall ERR o f the combined project.

5.6     Technical Assessment. The continued use o fplacing funds with the sub-project
beneficiaries and providing them technical assistance for execution o f the sub-project i s
based on the successful experience o f the original project. Increased participation o f
beneficiaries i s to be accompanied with technical assistance to assist beneficiaries with
sub-project preparation, implementation, and maintenance and operation. The quality o f



                                                12

sub-projects under the original project was found to be satisfactory. There were issues
relating to the needfor a holistic review o f sub-projects at the territorial level, providing
integratedmarketing assistanceto a group o f sub-projects rather than at each sub-project
level, and the needto form and nurtureproducers' organizations for sub-projects.
Without altering the basic design and approach o f the original project, these issues have
been addressed by incorporating appropriate activities inthe scaled-up project.

5.7      Development o f appropriate agricultural development technologies under the
original project has clearly demonstrated the viability o f implementing a public-private
partnership model utilizing a competitive grants program.

5.8      The use o f the community-driven development model for small and dispersed
rural infrastructure services, and the public-private partnership model usinga competitive
grants program for agricultural technology development, are inlinewith international
best practice. This approach i s also consistent with Argentina's technical environment as
experience inmost of the project technical areas is either primarily or wholly outside o f
government (INTA i s an important exception inagriculturalresearch). The project
facilitates the government's effort to transition from a rural service provider to a manager
and coordinator o f rural services.

5.9      Assessment o f Institutional Arrangements. The scaled-up project would use the
institutional arrangements established and refined under the original project. These are
adequate for the implementation o f the scaled-up project activities.

5.10    At theproject administration level, SAGPyA, which has demonstrated its ability
to effectively execute Bank-financed projects through its implementation o fthe on-going
project, would continue as the nodal implementing agency.

5.11    At theproject management level, the Rural Investment component would
continue to be implementedby PSA, which provides production assistance to poor, rural
communities with offices in21provinces. PSA has demonstrated its effectiveness in
reaching the target population under the project by usingexisting capacity o fNGOs,
private sector, and local and national government agencies as service providers, and inits
strong commitment to participatory approaches in all levels o f decision making and
evaluation. PSA has been strengthened under the original project to achieve the transition
from being a direct service provider to a manager o f these services.

5.12    The Strengthening Rural Development Policy Formulationcomponent would
continue to be implementedby DDA, with the exception o fthe provincial policy
development sub-component, which will be implemented directly by SAGPyA. The
original project has assisted DDA to become more oriented towards formulation o f
national and provincial rural development strategy, and co-ordination with other
departments implementing rural development programs.

5.13    At the provincial level, the sub-national government capacityhasbeen
strengthened under the original project through training and technical assistance to
analyze rural development needs and to formulate strategies through: (a) increased
provincial government participation inthe provincial-level PSA coordination units; and
(b) increased municipal governmentparticipation through establishment o fpilot local


                                              13

level implementation units and other coordination mechanisms. These arrangements will
continue to be inplace duringthe scaled-up project period.

5.14    Intermediaries for implementation o f rural investment activities include NGOs,
local andnational government agencies, universities and independent contractors, a large
numbero fwhom have already beenprovided associated training under the original
project inrelevant subjects to ensure that field agents have the at least the minimum
qualifications to provide technical and organizational assistance to project beneficiaries.

5.15    Beneficiaries would be responsible for preparation, presentation, implementation
andmaintenance o f sub-projects financed bythe rural investment component. The
original project has already provided action areas for this group: (a) offer technical
experience; (b) form organizations o f producers andbeneficiaries; and (c) improve their
financial management and marketing skills. These actions, already a part o f the original
project, will continue to be a central theme inthe scaled-up project's institutional
strengthening design.

5.16    Assessment o f Accounting and Financial Management Arrangements. The
existing accounting and financial management arrangements are proposedto continue for
the scaled-up project activities. The accounting and financial management performance
was rated Satisfactory duringthe November 2006 supervisionmission o f the original
project based on the framework o f the Argentina Fiduciary Action Plan. The original
project has adequate financial management arrangements inplace that meet minimum
Bank requirements; minor shortcomings in financial management exist, but these do not
hinderthe provision o ftimely andreliable information requiredto manage andmonitor
project implementation. Inaddition, all o f the project audits that have been received so
far have beenfound acceptable to the Bank. There are no outstanding financial
management issues.

5.17    The financial management arrangements under the existing project are
commensurate with the needs o f the activities under the proposed scaled-up project.

5.18    Assessment o f Procurement Arrangements: The original project's procurement
arrangements for the scaled-up project will be used, consisting of: (a) small purchases at
the national level - UNC, PSA and DDA - for which aprocurementplanhas been
received; and (b) procurement o f small goods and technical assistance services by the
provincial level agencies for which the procurement plan will list broad targets, and the
periodic reporting will show the actual procurement. These procurements will be modest,
and further capacity assessment o f the central or provincial implementationunits i s not
neededgiventhe small quantum o fthe procurement, and the experience gainedbythe
staff duringthe implementation o f the original project.

5.19    Procurement relating to sub-projects represents the largest share o fthe additional
financing. These will be made at communitiesheneficiaries level i s a highlydispersed
environment. The monitoring arrangements (ex-post review) are adequate to assess
compliance with Bank procedures.

5.20    The overall procurement risk o fthe scaled-up project activities remains average.
For the purposes o f activities relating to the Additional Financing loan: (a) the existing


                                               14

procurement staff arrangement and capacity i s adequate; and (b) the existing procurement
system i s satisfactory. The Bank's Procurement Guidelines o f M a y 2004 (revised inOct.
2006) will apply to the additional Finance loan.

5.21      Assessment o f Environmental Aspects. A comprehensive environmental analysis
o f the original project was carried out at preparationo f the original project to review: (a)
the institutional context; (b) mitigation measures; and (c) required technical assistanceto
support implementation. Project activities which were likelyto pose the greatest risk o f
adverse environmental impact were associated with Rural Investment Component-
supported sub-projects. Most o f the sub-projects were likely to have either positive or
neutral impacts on the environment. However, some sub-projects which would support
agricultural expansion and diversification, and improved physical infrastructure could
potentially prove to be more problematic. An Environmental Management Framework
(EMF) was prepared inconformity with existingBankpolicies andprocedures, and
proposed mitigation measures were integrated into the project's sub-project screening,
evaluation, approval and monitoring procedures so as to be cost-effective and not overly-
burdensome.

5.22      Implementation o f the EMFunder the original project has been satisfactory. The
mitigating measures that were incorporatedinto original project design have worked well.
The EMFitselfhas been revisedduringthe course o fproject implementation to better
reflect the needs o f environmental management. It has therefore beenappropriately
upgraded.

5.23      The scaled-up project would have the same geographical coverage, and would
fund sub-projects with almost the same size, scope, and technology as under the original
project. The original project rating o f Category B (EA dated 8/15/1999) would be
maintained for the scaled-up project. The project will employ the environmental
safeguard procedures enshrined inthe original project's upgraded EMF for sub-project
screening, evaluation, approval, and monitoring (Operational Manual). Inaddition,
training inthis area has already beenprovided to the provincial technical teams managing
the Rural Investment Component, and will berepeated duringthe first year o fthe scaled-
up project.

5.24      No commercial harvesting o fnative forests or large-scale plantation forestry i s
contemplated under the AF project, nor has occurred inthe first phase o f implementation.
The forestry OP has been triggered as aprecaution to ensure that the Bank's safeguards
regarding forestry (OP/BP 4.36) are carried out duringthe project, even though the
forestry activities are extremely limited and would be carried out by small farmers.
These forestry/forest activities do not involve commercial operations, and would cover
establishment o f silvopastoril systems, uses o f small plantation forests', and improved
management* o fnative forests that have earlier suffered highlevels o f degradation or
unsustainable use.

5.25      "Harvesting" and "charcoal making" have been included inthe negative list inthe
OperationalManual, and related sub-projects will be specifically excluded from the
''Plantationsmanagement
              would be establishedto help take pressure off o f the native forests.
  Improved              inthis context does not include "harvesting", butwould include enrichment
plantings to improve degraded sites.


                                                    15

project. The project will, however, provide training and capacity buildingto small-
holders that are conducting forestry activities outside the scope o f the project inorder to
help them make those practices more sustainable.

5.26    Both the PSA staff and the Bank review missions will specifically monitor and
report on application o fthe negative list to sub-project selection to ensure compliance
with the requirementso f OPh3P4.36.

5.27    Assessment o f Social Aspects. A comprehensive social assessment o f the full
universe o fpotential beneficiaries was carried out as part o f original project preparation
to address issues regardingpoor households' survival strategies, beneficiaries' priorities,
potential types o f activities to be supported, and participatory mechanisms for project
implementation. Secondary data and case studies were analyzed. Consultations inthe
format o fparticipatory diagnostic workshops were conducted with a broad spectrum o f
potential beneficiaries and intermediary organizations inorder to: (i)    characterize
potential beneficiaries; (ii) analyze their views/perceptions o f rural poverty and existing
programs; and (iii)   identify principal problems and potential solutions. Based on this
information, targeting and eligibility criteria proposed, an Indigenous Peoples' Plan
(IPP), referred to under the original project as a strategy, (Estrategia de DesarroZZo
Indigena) was developed, and a ParticipationAction Plan (PAP) was designed which
have all been successfully implementedunder the original project.

5.28    The Indigenous Peoples' Strategy (IPP) for the original project activities included
the following provisions: (a) special dissemination mechanisms to ensure that indigenous
groups would be adequately informed o f the project; (b) culturally appropriate technical
assistance and training to ensure that the demand-driven sub-projects are prepared with
the full participation o f indigenous groups; (c) specific criteria for sub-project appraisal,
to stimulate sub-project proposals from indigenous groups; (d) specific targeting criteria
inFormosaand Salta Provinces to ensure that departments with highconcentrationo f
indigenous population would be attended; (e) ensured participation o f indigenous
representatives inprovincial oversight units inSalta and Formosa; (0 special allocation
o f resources for supporting sub-projects from indigenous communities inFormosa
Province; and (8) co-ordination mechanisms with other programs and agencies working
with indigenous groups.

5.29    Duringproject implementation, the project helpedgenerate a decentralized project
structure that facilitated the direct involvement and participation o f indigenous peoples in
project activities. Indigenousrepresentatives were included inlocal project management
units and involved indiagnostic activities; the development and approval o f subproject
guidelines; as well as monitoring and evaluation o f implementation o f subprojects and
related technical assistance and organizational strengthening activities. Indigenous
representatives participated inregional consultations every six months, and national
consultations yearly. While only inthe province o f Formosa was there a special project
implementation unit dedicated to indigenous people, in all decentralized project units
there were key staff specifically trained to work inculturally appropriate ways with
indigenous people, and to ensure the good performance o fthe project's indigenous
strategy. Inaddition, specialized monitoring was carried out, and evaluative case studies
were done as well inSalta and Formosa, showing positive outcomes. Consultations and
monitoring provided information over time to improve the delivery o fproject benefits to


                                               16

indigenous communities, such as better targeted technical assistance to indigenous
communities.

5.30    The ParticipationAction Plan (PAP) for the original project incorporated
measures to facilitate various stakeholder groups' participation, including o f indigenous
peoples, at national, provincial, regional and local level, and across all stages o f sub-
project cycle, has been very successful. The PAP has beenrevised from time-to-time
duringimplementationo fthe original project based on stakeholder consultations. The
most recent version o f the PAP has an added focus: greater emphasis on the participation
of, and support for, organizations o f small producers and the rural poor (independent o f
support to specific sub-projects), and will be used for the scaled-up project.

5.31    For the scaled-up project, the nature o f the sub-projects, the universe o f the
indigenous populations targeted, and the geographic area coveredby the project remains
unchanged. The Indigenous Peoples Strategy (IPP), developed originally under OD4.20
and fully consistent with the current applicable policy, OP4.10, continues to apply to the
scaled-up project activities. Since its development duringpreparation o f the original
project, the IP Strategy has been slightly adjusted from time-to-time during
implementation to reflect the periodic IP consultations on the project carried out during
implementation, especially interms o f culturally appropriate outreach and technical
assistance. Hence, the original IPP with some minor refinements (the eligibility criteria
to reflect the reality on the ground and make the project more poor-and vulnerable
groups-oriented) i s considered adequate for the purposes o f the proposed project, and will
be adopted for applicationto scaled-up project-targeted IPgroups.

5.32    The scaled-up project will: (a) rely on the latest versions o fthe IPP andthe PAP
which have been referenced inthe legal agreement as annexes to the Operational Manual,
as well as be continue to be disclosed locally and nationally inArgentina and inthe
Bank's INFOSHOP; (b) support improved documentationo f accomplishments and
lessons learned inthe project with respect to indigenous communities, and monitoring o f
project progress would be disaggregated by internal social variables within indigenous
groups; and (c) assure that broad community support continues to exist through the
multipleconsultations duringthe scaled-up project implementation.


                               6. EXPECTED OUTCOMES


6.1     Since the scaled-up project proposes no changes to the original project activities,
the expected outcomes and the attendant indicators for the original project continue to
remain relevant. However, six additional indicators have been incorporated based on
experience on the ground. The two broad outcomes, and their respective indicators, are
as follows:

    (a) Increased productive and organizational capacity inparticipating poor rural
        communities - Indicators: (i) increased income from productive infrastructure; (ii)
        increased production o f food for family consumption; (iii)   diversification o f
        productive activities; (iv) conversion or integration o fbeneficiary groups into
        producers' organizations; (v) group input procurement and produce marketing,



                                             17

        (vi) improvement o frural habitat; and (vii) increased participation o frural
        families incommunities activities.
    (b) Greater emphasis on ruralpoverty issues and improved coordination o frural
        development policies and programs - Indicators: (i)     provincial rural development
        policies prepared with increased participation o fbeneficiary population; (ii)  rural
        development strategies reflect the database developed under the project; (iii)
        coordination mechanisms incorporatedinto national level agency procedures, and
        inprovincialruraldevelopment programs, (iv) informationcreated for the Project
        i s required for other institutions, (v) new legislation in support o frural
        development policies i s presented to legislative powers, (vi) rural development
        agencies inthe Provinces identified andinitiated actions on a local andregional
        level from the start o f the Project; and (vii) demands andproposals from small
         farmer organizations presented and addressed at the local and national levels.


                       7. ADDITIONAL BENEFITS AND RISKS


7.1     Additional Benefits. The nature, scope and coverage o f the scaled-up project are
predominantly the same as those o f the original project. Additional benefits from project
activities emanate mainly from: (i)     an additional 3,000 sub-projects benefitingsome
22,000 families, o fwhich at least 50% will be new families; (ii)    institutional
strengthening; and (iii)  overall policy dialogue improvement, as indicated inthe section
on Expected Outcomes above.

7.2     Additional Risks. The main factor contributing to delayed implementation o f the
original project was allocation o f inadequate counterpart finding duringthe economic
crisis o f 2001-03. The relatively stable macro-economic condition o f the economy, and
the regular flow o f counterpart finding and inadequate overall budget allocations (after
the recovery this has not been an issue) since then, provided a strong fillip to
implementation, with project outputs exceeding the revised targets. This risk needs to be
monitored and managed carefully.

7.3     Other risks associated with the achievement o f development objectives and
project outputs were identifiedat appraisal o fthe original project and are reflected inthe
Critical Risks section o f the Project Appraisal Document. Some o f these risks continue
to remain applicable to scaled-up project activities, with identified measures proving to
be effective intheir mitigation for the original project.

7.4     N o significant changes are proposed to project design, components, approach, or
the target population that would introduce any "additional" safeguard, fiduciary,
technical, or reputational risk that couldjeopardize the achievement o f the project's
development objective or compromise its outputs.

7.5     Since the scaled-up project i s essentially sequential innature, following closing o f
the original project inJune 2007, there will be no additional burdenon the
implementation, financial management or procurement capacity at the national/provincial
level project implementation units, or at the level o fprivate partners or NGOs.




                                                18

 8. FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR THE ADDITIONAL LOAN


8.1    The financial terms for the Additional FinancingLoanwould be as follows:

   (a) IBRD Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL), with a 15 year maturity and a five year grace
       period;
   (b) Commitment Fee: 0.75% per annumonundisbursedloan;
   (c) Front-end Fee (FEF) on Bank Loan: 1.00%o f the US$45.0 million Additional
       Loan, subject to waivers ineffect, ifapplicable, to be capitalized from Loan
       Proceeds,
   (d) Interest Rate Basis: Variable;
   (e) Repayment Schedule: Fixed at Commitment, with the Level Repayment method;
       and
   (9 Conversion Options: Currency, Interest Rate and Caps/Collars, allto be
       capitalized from Loan Proceeds.




                                           19

                                         Annex 1

                       Argentina Small Farmer DevelopmentProject
                                    Results Framework

   ProjectDevelopmentObjective
   (a) Productive and organizational
   capacity inparticipating poor,
   rural communities increased




   (b) Greater emphasis on rural
   development innational and
   provincial policy



                                     the project initiated
         Key Project Outputs            IncrementalIndicatorsfor the Scaled-upProject


                                      benefits to about 22,000 families
                                      (b) At least 50% o fthe families insub-projects belong
                                      to vulnerable groups (IP, youth and women)
                                      (c) At least 80% o f sub-projects are technically and
                                      financially sustainable
   Support Services                  About 300 producers groups established (new, converted


             Component2: Strength
  National Rural Development
   Strategy



  Provincial Rural Development
~~~




   Strategy
   Small Farmers Organizations



  Appropriate Technology


                       Component2
 Monitoring and Evaluation
                                     (b) End-of-project FinalEvaluation carried out


                                            20

                                 Annex 2

               Argentina Small Farmer DevelopmentProject
                       Documents in the Project File

e Originalproject PAD
e Originalproject LoanAgreement and amendmentsfrom time to time
e IP Strategy as amended from time to time (latest version: basedon 2006
  consultations)
0 Participation Action Plan
e Environmental ManagementFramework as amended from time to time (latest
  version: 2001)
  M&EReport ofApril 2006
  Government's Project Concept Paper ofNovember 2006
  Post-ProcurementReview Report of March2007
  Argentina CAS o fMay 2006
  Loan Products Choice Sheet from Government of Argentina
 Project Costs Computation Sheet for AF project
 AF ProposalJustification to Country ManagementUnit
  OPCS Clearance Memo for AF Proposal
 Minutes of the Technical Discussion- April 23-25,2007




                                    21




