Page  1
October 14, 1998 
Mr. Roque Fernández 
Ministro de Economía y Obras y Servicios Públicos 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
1086 Buenos Aires, Argentina
Re:
Loan No. 4212-AR (Small Farmer Development Project)
Second Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) and the Argentine Republic (the Borrower) dated May 6, 1998 
(the Loan Agreement), as amended, with regard to the above-captioned Loan.  We are 
pleased to inform you that, pursuant to your request dated September 22, 1998, and our 
recent discussions on your proposal to increase the percentage of Bank financing for 
grants and extend access to the Flood Emergency Fund to selected provinces, the Bank 
agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.
Category (4) (a) detailed in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1, as amended, 
is hereby amended to read as follows:
"(4)
Part D of the Project
(a)
Grants $37,500,000
80%"
2.
Section 1.02 (s) is hereby corrected to insert Santa Fé as a Flood Emergency 
Eligible Province, and to extend access to the Flood Emergency Fund to other selected 
provinces, as follows:
"(s)
"Flood Emergency Eligible Provinces" means the Borrower’s provinces of 
Chaco, Corrientes, Entre Rios, Formosa, Misiones and Santa Fe, and any other 
province selected by the Borrower in agreement with the Bank, as set forth in 
the Operational Manual; and "Flood Emergency Eligible Province" means, 
singularly, any of such provinces;"
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this Amendment Letter in the spaces provided below.  This Amendment Letter may be 
executed in two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  Upon your 
confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.  The provisions of this 
Amendment Letter will become effective as of the date first above written upon receipt 
by the Bank of one fully executed original of this Amendment Letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
/s/ Myrna L. Alexander
    Director
    Country Management Unit
       for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
    Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
/s/ Roque Fernández
    Minister of Economy and
    Public Works and Services
Page  2
Date: December 16, 1998
