Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15281-lI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NICARAGUA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
May 2, 1996
Central America Country Department
Latin America and Caribbean Region



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Cordoba
US$1.00 = C$7.8 in December 1995
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Weights And Measures
Metric                   British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)       =      3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)    =    0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)   =      2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton) =   2.205 pounds (lb)
I liter (1)        =     0.27 gallon (gal)
1 hectare (ha)           2.47 acres
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADT                Average Daily Traffic
ARI                Acuerdo de Reestructuraci6n Institucional
Institutional Restructuring Agreement
BCIE               Banco Centroamericano de Integracion Econ6mica
Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CERC               Corporaci6n de Empresas Regionales de Construccion
Regional Highway Construction Agencies
COCATRAM           Comisi6n Centroamericana de Transporte Maritimo
Central American Comission of Maritime Transport
DANIDA             Danish International Development Agency
DDT                Direcci6n de Transito
DGTT               Direcci6n General de Transport Terrestre
Directorate-General of Land Transport
EAAI               Empresa Administradora de Aeropuerto Intemacional
ENAP               Empresa Nacional Portuaria



ERR                Economic Rate of Return
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
GON                Government of Nicaragua
HDM                Highway Design and Maintenance Model
IDA                International Development Association
1DB                Inter-American Development Bank
IDP                Institutional Development Project
IRI                International Road Roughness Index
ITP                Integral Transport Plan
MCT                Ministry of Construction and Transport
MOF                Ministry of Finance
OECF               Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
PPMM               Proyecto Piloto de Microempresas de Mantenimiento
REMECAR            Rehabilitaci6n y Mejoramiento de Caminos Rurales
Rehabilitation and Improvement of Rural Roads
REMEVIAL           RehabilitacionyMejoramiento Vial
Rehabilitation and Improvement of Roads
REMITRAN           Regional Forum for Ministers of Transport
RMF                Road Maintenance Fund
SEECA              Secretaria Permanente del Tratado General de Integracion
Econ6mica (SIECA)
TST                Technical Support Team
UCP                Project Coordinating Unit
UNDP               United Nations Development Program
VOC                Vehicle Operating Costs






NICARAGUA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Republic of Nicaragua
Implementing
Agency:                   Ministry of Construction and Transport (MCT)
Beneficiary:             Not Applicable
Poverty
Category:                Not Applicable
Amount:                   SDR 17.2 million (US$25.0 million equivalent)
Lending
Terms:                    Standard IDA, with 40 year maturity
Commitment
Fee:                     0.5% oh undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60
days after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:           See para. 4.13.
Economic Rate
of Return:                89%
Memorandum of the
President:               Report No. P-6786
Maps:                     IBRD No. 27723 and No. 27724






NICARAGUA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Pa2e No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY.                                                         ................................ iv
1.   THE  TRANSPORT  SECTOR                         . ....1....  .. .................................................. .... I
A. Background and Economic Setting ..... .......1....... .... ...........................................I
B System Overview .............................. 2
C. Objectives and Strategy ...............................    3
H. THE ROAD SUBSECTOR ................................ S5
A. Road Network   ............  ........  .   ....................................................................5
B. International Corridor.                                       .....................................................  5
C. Road Transport                                                                      ..............................   6
D. Administration                        ........                 ...................... 7
E. Planning and Programming ..............................                                                          8
F. Revenues and Expenditures ...... ...... .. .. . ............................. ..             ..................... 9
G. Maintenance ..                                                 . ................................. .........................1.................................I 0
H. Technical Aspects  ...............1..1.. .. ......         ........ ..................r... ....................
I. Construction Industry                          ........................                                        11
J Environmental Aspects ........................ 12
K. Safety  ... .... ..... -- .............1......2............................    ..............2........ ...... . 12
tII. PAST IDA INVOLVEMENT
AND  LESSONS APPLICABLE .......................... ....14......................                          .       ... 14
A. Portfolio Overview ........................... 14
B. Lessons Applicable.....14
IV. THE PROJECT ................16
A. Origin and Preparation ............................. 16
B. Objectives ............................. 16
C. Rationale for IDA Involvement ...........                             ................ 16
D. Project Description ............................                                                               16
E. Cost Estimates ............................. 18
F. Financing ............................ 19
G. Implementation and Monitoring                           ............................ 20
H. Procurement .............................                                                                      21
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission which visited Nicaragua in December. 1995. The
mission team consisted of Emmanuel A. James (Task Manager) and Guillermo Ruan (Senior Highway Engineer),
and was assisted by Ms. Ellen Newfield. The peer reviewer for the project was Ms. Mirtha Pokorny (Transport
Economist). Ms. Migdalia Quijada assisted in the production of the report. The Country Department Director
(Acting) is Ms. Donna Dowsett-Coirolo, and the Sector Leader is Martin Staab.



Paee No.
I. Disbursements ...................................                                                                     23
J. Accounts and Audits ...................................                                                               23
K. Environmental Impact ................................... 24
L. Sustainability ...................................                                                                    24
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION ........................................                                                                  25
A. Introduction ........................................                                                                 25
B. Traffic ........................................                                                                      25
C. Benefits and Beneficiaries ........................................                                                   26
D. Economic Returns ........................................                                                             26
E. Risks and Sensitivity Analysis ........................................                                               26
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ......................................... 28
ANNEXES
Annex A: Maintenance ...................................                                                                29
Annex B:  Technical Assistance ...................................                                                       33
Annex C:  Implementation Plan ...................................                                                       34
Annex  D:   Reporting Requirements ...................................                                                   38
Annex E:  Bank Supervision Plan ...................................                                                     40
Annex F: Documents and Data Available in the Project File .44
TABLES
Table 1-1: Regional Overview .46
Table 2-1:  Road Network by Surface Type and Condition .47
Table 2-2:  International Road Corridor .48
Table 2-3: Registered Motor Vehicles .49
Table 2-4:  Registered Motor Vehicles by Region .50
Table 2-5:  Transport Infrastructure Investments                                              .51
Table 2-6: Road Network Improvement .52
Table 2-7:  Capital and Recurrent Expenditures .53
Table 4- 1:  Existing Road Design Standards .54
Table 4-2: Maintenance Targets .55
Table 4-3:  Estimated Disbursement Schedule .56
Table 5-1:  Actual and Expected Traffic Volumes .57
Table 5-2: Vehicle Operating Costs .58
Table 5-3: ERR (Izapa-Leon) .59
Table 5-4: ERR (Leon-Chinandega) .60
Table 5-5: Sensitivity Analysis .61
CHARTS
Chart 1:   Ministry of Construction and Transport Organigram .62
MAPS
Map 1-IBRD 27723: .............                                                                                          63
Map 2-IBRD 27724: .............                                                                                          64



NICARAGUA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Background and Economic Setting
1.1   Background. The performance of the Nicaraguan economy over the last four years
has been characterized by a remarkable stabilization effort accompanied by a strong fiscal
adjustment. Recently, after more than a decade of decline and stagnation, the economy has
begun to turn around as demonstrated by a 3.3% real GDP growth in 1994 and 4.2% in
1995. Recovery in the agriculture sector, which is the largest employer and accounts for
over 30% of GDP and some 70% of total exports, provided the impetus for growth.
1.2   The strategy of the Government of Nicaragua (GON) to turn the economy around
has been based on several interrelated components.  One component dealt with the
redeployment of public assets to more productive uses through privatization and the
continued deregulation of the economy. Other key components concerned improving the
Government's institutional capacity to design and implement policies, the strengthening of
public finances through increased public sector savings, and the rebuilding of the country's
infrastructure which had been rundown during the extended period of civil unrest.
1.3   While the economic reform measures are beginning to show positive impacts on
growth, the transition process has been arduous and slow. This may be due largely to the
major problems that limit prospects for growth in the near tern. These include problematic
land titling, high dependence of the economy on foreign aid, high external debt, weak
production and export prospects for its traditional commodities, and important
infrastructure bottlenecks. Several of these issues are being addressed within the context of
the Bank's macro-economic dialogue with Nicaragua as well as by projects such as the
Second Economic Recovery Credit (Cr. 2631-NI,), the Institutional Development Project
(Cr. 2690-NI), and the recently concluded commercial debt buyback operation (TF-
023396).
1.4   However, economic growth could be severely constrained if key needs in the
transport sector, especially in road transport as identified in the recent Transport Sector
Report (No. 14474-NI of June 1995) are not addressed soon. The econonic recovery
requires minimum levels of transport infrastructure and the efficient delivery of transport
services in order to achieve sustained rates of growth. Currently, however, Nicaragua is
relatively less endowed than its Central American neighbors in terms of transport
infrastructure (Table 1.1). Insufficient, or malfunctioning, transport infrastructure serves as
a bottleneck for external as well as internal trade, thereby limiting the competitiveness of
exports as well as discouraging the development of areas with agricultural potential.



- 2 -
B. System Overview
1.5    With the closing of its railway system in 1993, Nicaragua has largely committed
itself to a road-based transport system for getting its exports to deep-water ports.
However, most infrastructure and vehicle fleets are in poor condition, and neither is
adequate to support Nicaragua's transition to a market-based economy. Furthermore,
nearly all of Nicaragua's exports are agricultural products with low value added and small
profit margins. High transport costs and operational inefficiencies in the transport sector
have further slowed agricultural recovery prospects.
1.6   The Government's Policy Framework Paper for 1994-97 recognizes the need to
intensify the process of structural reform for the efficient functioning of a competitive
economy. This reform includes the privatization and deregulation of service provision as
well as institutional reform within Government units. The Government has already removed
some constraints in the transport sector through recent reforms but other key problems
remain, including neglected physical infrastructure, insufficient resources for maintenance,
institutional shortcomings which affect the administration of the sector, and a shortage of
human resource skills.
1.7   The need to rehabilitate and modernize the transport sector is now an urgent priority
if the Government is to achieve sustained export-led economic growth. The Government
has already started the process by undertaking an ambitious plan of public sector reform
(including the Ministry of Construction and Transport) and by divesting itself of public
assets, most recently in the power and telecommunications industries and, two years ago, in
urban transport. There are, however, other issues that need to be addressed in the short and
medium term. These include:
(a)    public sector reform and capacity building: Market regulatory reform needs
to be accompanied by institutional reform of the public sector to define its
new role as planner and regulator instead of provider of transport services
or infrastructure;
(b)   infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance: Transport facilities are in poor
condition due to inadequate .maintenance, especially in the road and port
sub-sectors. Given the very limited resources available, expenditures on
transport infrastructure should concentrate on maintenance and rehabilitation
of facilities; and
(c)    urban transport: Urban transport in Managua lacks planning and integration
with traffic management and road and street development. An integral
transport improvement plan needs to be developed.



- 3 -
C. Objectives and Strategy
1.8   The main objective of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) that was discussed by
the Board on June 23, 1994 is to support the Government of Nicaragua in its efforts to
complete the transformation toward a market economy capable of sustaining growth and
reducing poverty. It is to be realized by focusing now on four main areas, namely reviving
growth, reforming the public sector and strengthening institutional capacity, alleviating
poverty and investing in human capital, and improving environmental and natural resource
management. Reviving economic growth is essential because without it there would be
little chance that progress could be made in meeting the other challenges facing the country,
including poverty reduction. In order to help revive growth, IDA supports strategies
directed at (i) maintaining a stable economy and deepening the structural adjustment
process; (ii) developing a broad-based national consensus to underpin the reform effort; (iii)
removing constraints to private sector development: and (iv) rebuilding the country's social
and physical infrastructure base so as to increase productivity and raise living standards.
The latter item is the main focus of the proposed project.
1.9   Nicaragua no longer has a railroad and its seaports, though rundown, have adequate
capacity to handle current traffic levels. The main bottlenecks lie in road transport. Hence,
rebuilding key segments of the road network, which is in a state of disrepair after years of
civil unrest and a neglect of maintenance, is a key element of the transport strategy. In the
short- and medium-term, the priorities for road improvement are clear as they should focus
on reconstruction of the roads in the East-West and North-South corridors. Reconstruction
of both corridors would reduce the costs of transporting both exports and imports while at
the same time helping to increase the viability of national ports. A second priority should be
to improve the principal production roads that connect the export corridors and provide
access to the major agricultural production regions. Complementary improvements to
selected rural and feeder roads should form part of the program. Bridges in the main
corridors also need strengthening, so as to permit raising gross vehicle weights to the more
efficient levels prevailing in neighboring countries. These priority areas form a coherent
program that would go far in eliminating the road infrastructure constraints to economic
growth.
1.10   Apart from road improvement, the strategy also includes other elements that are
intended to promote sustainable development in the sector.  These consist mainly of
helping: (i) to improve the planning, programming, and implementation of  road
maintenance by contract; (ii) to ensure that priority Is given to, and funds provided for, the
maintenance of the road network; (iii) to ensure that attention is paid to safety and
environmental issues in the sector; and (iv) to support the Ministry of Construction and
Transport (MCT) in adapting to its changed role in a policy environment of deregulation
and greater private sector involvement.
1.11  IDA's overall strategy also  provides impetus for improving public sector
management, including in the transport sector. With IDA support, under the Institutional
Development Project, restructuring agreements (ARI) are to be prepared for several
Government departments, including the MCT, and implemented in 1995/96. The ARI calls
inter-alia for the 'right sizing' of the MCT by changing it from a large, operating entity to



one that is more normative and that will make greater use of private contractors to
implement both road maintenance and rehabilitation. MCT has really taken ownership of
this institutional strengthening and reform process, and its implementation is proceeding
well.



- 5 -
II. THE ROAD SUBSECTOR
A. Road Network
2.1   Nicaragua's road network totals about 17,146 km and is divided into paved,
unpaved all-weather, and unpaved dry-season roads (See Table 2.1). While its density (15
km/OOOkm2) and service index (0.4km/000pop.), in terms of paved roads, are among the
lowest in Central America, the key road transport problem arises from the fact that some
83% of the network is in poor condition. This includes extensive segments of the north-
south trunk road between the Honduran and Costa Rican borders, as well as the east-west
road linking Managua to the port of Rama. During the 1980s, the condition of the road
network worsened, with almost no resurfacing or reconstruction taking place. Since 1990,
some rehabilitation has begun, but much further investment is needed.
2.2   Beyond the condition of the roads themselves, the general lack of complementary
infrastructure adds a further burden to the economy. For example, the lack of shoulders
and vehicle pull-offs on steeply graded sections, the generally poor condition of freight
vehicles, and the high percentage of non-motorized traffic on rural roads, together have
significantly slowed traffic over large sections of the road network, and increased the
number of accidents. The safety situation will worsen as vehicular traffic increases in the
future unless adequate mitigatory steps, such as the provision of shoulders, are taken.
B. International Road Corridor
2.3   For a number of years, the ministers of transport of the Central American countries
have been meeting annually to discuss and resolve issues of common interest under their
responsibility. These meetings have produced a significant number of agreements which are
intended to benefit the region as a whole. One of the initiatives taken by the ministers was
to request the Secretaria Permanente del Tratado General de Integraci6n Econ6mica
Centroamericana (SIECA) to examine the various road corridors connecting all countries
and to determine the investment priorities and the phasing of these investments. The
technical assistance provided by UNDP supported a study in 1990 that looked into the road
transport corridors.  Of the three corridors studied, the so called 'Natural Corridor"
(Corredor Natural) is considered the best intra-regional option as it connects all countries
over relatively flat lands and with reasonably good geometric design characteristics (See
Map IBRD No. 27724).
2.4   Furthermore, the report makes recommendations on specific investments and on the
phasing of these investments.  The recommended phase I investments include the
rehabilitation of sections of the Natural Corridor in Honduras and also throughout
Nicaragua. In Honduras, IDA is financing the rehabilitation of the 44km section between
Choluteca and the Nicaraguan border (Guasaule). Across the border, the GON intends to
seek financing from OECF for rehabilitation of the 71.1km Guasaule-Chinandega road
section. The next link, which is from Chinandega to Izapa (67.7km), would be financed by
the proposed IDA credit.  The 50km  section from  Izapa to Nejapa was recently
rehabilitated with financing from the Banco Centroamericano de Integraci6n Econ6mica
(BCIE). South of Managua, the 84km section (Nandaime-Pefnas Blancas, on the border



- 6 -
with Costa Rica) is to be rehabilitated with financing from DANIDA. These projects
account for 45% of the phase one investments proposed by the SIECA Study. Most of the
remaining investments are in Costa Rica and Guatemala. Table 2.2 has further details on
the condition and improvement programs for selected links in the corridor.
C. Road Transport
2.5   The provision of freight transport services is fully private. All public enterprises that
provided road transport services in the previous administration have been privatized.
Operators are organized in transport cooperatives, and for commercial cargo (vehicles with
less than 3 tons), there are 10 cooperatives in Nicaragua. There are 94 cooperatives in the
light and heavy duty segment of the freight market with a total of 1,634 vehicles. Half of
the freight operators are owner-drivers while the other half own, on average, a maximum of
three trucks. There is limited recent data on the age of the vehicle fleet although in 1989,
50% of the freight transport fleet was estimated to be more than 1  years old. Tables 2.3
and 2.4 have further details on the vehicle fleet.
2.6    However, interurban road transport services remain partially regulated. Entry in
both the passenger and freight markets, for example, is controlled by the need to obtain an
annual license.  Licenses are granted by MCT, through the Direcci6n General de
Transporte Terrestre (DGTT). Operating licenses for interurban passenger services specify
the route, the capacity and characteristics of the vehicle to be used, and the level of service
proposed by the operator. For passenger transport, taxis and commercial cargo, licenses
are limited to one per person, while for collective transport, the limit is three per person.
Technical and safety regulations, however, which are more important from the operating
and traffic safety points of view, are not sufficiently developed and DGTT lacks monitoring
and enforcement capabilities.
2.7    There are no substantial market imbalances in the provision of road freight services.
There is, however, a degree of excess supply caused by the stagnation of economic activity
between 1990 and 1993, and the inability of Nicaraguan trucks to attract traffic and
compete with their Central American neighbors. Although not many new licenses have
been granted since 1979, agricultural exporters do not face difficulties in contracting freight
services. This is partly because importers frequently enter into agreements with maritime
shipping companies, which then become responsible for transporting the merchandise from
the port to the hinterland. These maritime companies, in turn, contract their services with
domestic or international truckers.  Thus, trucks from Honduras or Costa Rica, for
example, transport and deliver their cargo into Nicaragua and then at times compete for
backhaul export traffic.
2.8   The main issues that need to be addressed in interurban transport in the short to
medium term are: (i) the high costs of freight operations; and (ii) in passenger transport,
the remaining controls on entry and price. High operating costs are caused mainly by the
high input costs (fuel and spare part costs), and outdated axle-load regulations that reduce
the efficiency of modern freight transport. The price of fuel in Nicaragua has traditionally
been high compared with its Central America neighbors.  In December 1995, the
Nicaraguan prices of gasoline and diesel were US$2.20/gallon and US$1.15/gallon



respectively, compared to US$1.50/gallon and US$1.06 in Honduras and US$1.30/gallon
and US$0.97 in Costa Rica. The opportunity cost, based on the border price plus
distribution and marketing costs, is about US$1.10 per gallon for both gasoline and diesel.
The tax component in fuel prices is over 100% of the ex-refinery price for gasoline. The
price of fuel is a constant source of complaint from transport operators. In response, the
Government has deregulated the hydrocarbon sector and since April 1, 1995 the import of
crude oil and refined products, as well as their marketing and distribution, have been
liberalized. Retail fuel prices will be calculated from an import parity formnula. This reform
is expected to contribute to a slight reduction in fuel prices.
2.9   Failure to update vehicle weight and axle load regulations and to make them
compatible with those in adjoining countries contributes to the lack of competitiveness and
market access of Nicaraguan truckers. Honduras, Costa Rica, and Guatemala apply a
common 37-ton maximum vehicle weight, while Nicaragua, based on the national standards
for bridge design and construction, still uses a 33 ton limit for domestic trucks. Hence,
since Nicaragua allows trucks from neighboring countries to use their roads at weights
beyond the latter limit, domestic trucks in theory are disadvantaged. GON, consistent with
other regional Governments, has agreed on a timetable for increasing axle load limits in the
international corridors in order to conform with existing Central American standards. A
program is currently being implemented to strengthen bridges on the principal road network
to allow higher loads, and studies are being made to see if the design safety margin on other
bridges could be sufficient to allow some increase in loads.
2.10  Finally, the rationale for the current inter-urban passenger transport regulations on
entry and rates is weak, being based on protecting existing operators from competition
while at the same time attempting to protect users from monopoly pricing by the protected
operators. Although operating licenses remain the ownership of the Government and
therefore do not entail any property rights, in practice they are sold on the parallel market at
a high premium. This suggests there are significant gains to be made from liberalizing the
supply-side of the interurban passenger market by a removal of economic regulations, with
the Government moving its focus to regulation of service operation rather than entry.
Under the project, the proposed urban transport improvement study will examine this and
other issues related to passenger transport.
D. Administration
2.11   MCT is responsible for the construction of roads and public buildings and the
operation and regulation of road, sea and air transport. It is also responsible for land use
planning and public housing. In addition to road construction, its transport functions relate
to the promulgation and implementation of regulations relating to the safety and efficiency
of operation of all means of public transport, by land, sea and air. This includes establishing
tariffs for inter- and intra-urban transport of passengers, authorizing licenses for the use of
vehicles and vessels on particular routes, including those temporarily in the national
territory. In relation to ports, MCT is responsible for their construction and maintenance,
including the dredging and marking of navigation channels.



- 8 -
2.12  MCT was formed by the fusion of three ministries. There are separate Divisions for
Highways (planning and execution of civil works), Land Transport (regulation of
operations), Air Transport (investment and operations), Maritime Transport (ports and
waterways investment and operations as well as maritime operations) and Public Works
(civil works). In addition to the inefficiencies resulting from the failure to integrate the three
previous structures fully, MCT still functions as a Ministry responsible for doing and
controlling rather than for supervising and monitoring.  The detailed organizational
structure of MCT is shown in Chart I.
2.13   The administrative reforms being supported by the Institutional Development Credit
2690-NI would help transform MCT from an agency deeply involved in the day to day
activities of the sector, into one more concerned with ensuring that the provision of services
by others is closely related to the needs of the users, and preventing abuses in a more open
and competitive environment. The regulatory role of MCT would be reduced to the
minimum level necessary for the safe and efficient operation of services. Implementation of
regulations regarding vehicle design and safety, driver competence and exhaust emissions
would be more strictly enforced, with higher penalties for lack of compliance.
2.14  MCT has about 630 staff and the level of staff training varies widely. At the highest
levels there are several staff with post-graduate specialist qualifications, very pertinent to
the tasks for which they are responsible, while at the other extreme, there are many staff
without any qualifications beyond secondary school. Currently, MCT's 5-person training
unit, is not very effective in the formulation and implementation of training plans. Even the
plans that are prepared are usually underfunded and therefore the level of compliance with
them is low (about 50%). With a reduction of its regulatory role in respect to transport
operations and in its executive role in respect to construction and maintenance, a smaller
but overall more professional and better trained staff will be required.
2.15  To that end, Credit 2690-NI includes the preparation of a two-year training plan
consistent with the changing needs of MCT. The proposed project will supplement Credit
2690-NI in this effort by providing on-the-job as well as professional training for selected
MCT staff. The progress of training will be monitored during project implementation.
E. Planning and Programming
2.16  Planning is undertaken in relation to preparing annual investments for inclusion in
the national budget, as exemplified in the current Esquema General del Plan Nacional de
Transporte. Under the proposed reorganization of MCT, its planning function would be
emphasized with a strengthening of its sector responsibilities, staffing and budget. The first
activities of the new Planning Directorate, now in the process of formation, will be to create
a dynamic data base of transport statistics and a reliable road inventory, the lack of which
has been a severe impediment to any serious planning. The Directorate will also prepare
and update investment and maintenance plans.
2.17 The IDA Transport Sector Report recommended a program of maintenance and
investments in the entire transport sector for the period 1996-2000 that totals about
US$300 million. In the road subsector, the program includes maintenance of the road



- 9 -
network as well as the rehabilitation of economically justified sections of the trunk,
collector, and rural roads. Completion of the program will result in about 30% of the
network being in good and fair condition by 2000, up significantly from 17% now. The
program targets the most critical road subsector needs and is expected to be supported
primarily by IDB (US$75 million), IDA (US$25 million), DANIDA and other donors
(US$80 million). In general, the IDA and DANIDA assistance would be focused on the
trunk roads in the main corridors that are essential to the least cost movement of
Nicaragua's imports and exports. Most of the IDB assistance will be for rehabilitating
complementary rural and collector roads under a project that is similar to their first rural
road project (REMECAR). A second rural roads project (REMEVIAL) was appraised in
June 1995 by the IDB, with the participation of IDA staff. Subsequently, the IDB Board
approved a US$75 million credit for it on October 18, 1995. More details on the program
are given in Tables 2.5 and 2.6.
2.18   Several donors will be funding these investments and hence coordination will be
necessary. The MCT has agreed to organize annual project progress and investment
program reviews with the Donors active in the road sub-sector, whose focus will be to
disseminate information, coordinate plans, and to help resolve investment and maintenance
issues. In the case of unsatisfactory progress or program content as determined by these
reviews, IDA will ask the Government to take remedial steps. This was confirmed at
negotiations. The reviews will be important since, at current levels, the program represents
about 21% of public investments in the period. The corresponding figure for the proposed
1DA project is about 3%.
F. Revenue and Expenditures
2.19  Currently the main road user charges are the gasoline and diesel tax, which have
been primarily set with a revenue-raising rationale. Based on 1994 statistics, from a tax of
US$1.15 per gallon on 37.9 million gallons of gasoline and of US$0.35 per gallon on 78.3
million gallons of diesel, some US$71 million are raised annually through the fuel taxes. Of
the total revenues raised from road users at the national level, over 90% come from fuel
taxes and a very small percentage from non-road use related sources such as license plates,
driving permits, or traffic violations.
2.20  There is only a coincidental relationship between revenues from user charges and
expenditure on roads, with user charge revenues being considered part of the general
revenue from taxation, while road expenditure is subject to the normal budgetary processes.
Total expenditure on roads have typically been less than 50% of sector revenue levels and
about 8% of total Government expenditure. These ratios will not change significantly with
the implementation of the project as its routine and periodic maintenance costs are only
about 0.2% of Government expenditure or 1.6% of MCT's recurrent budget at a maximum.
Table 2.7 has further details on expenditures.
G. Maintenance
2.21   The poor road condition has resulted not only from years of civil war but also
largely from a lack of maintenance during the past 15 years due to weaknesses in MCT



- 10 -
especially in planning, programming, and implementation. The implementation of road
maintenance was problematic also because it was carried out primarily by the
Corporaciones de Empresas Regionales de Construcci6n (CERC), which are essentially
parastatals dependent on the MCT. However, GON intends to implement true contract
maintenance and hence has phased out most of the CERCs and reduced staffing levels by
over 50% in the remaining ones. They will mostly carry-out emergency works and do road
maintenance mainly in regions where they are considered to be the only viable alternative
because of the lack of qualified private contractors.
2.22  Road maintenance allocations have fluctuated significantly in the recent past and
have been averaging less than US$12.0 million during the past 4 years. This is the amount
needed to protect the existing maintainable road segments at appropriate levels and also
provide for a minimum of repairs elsewhere in the network. With the budgetary restrictions
and extreme needs that exist in Nicaragua in many sectors of the economy, alternative
financing mechanisms need to be implemented in order to ensure adequate road
maintenance on a consistent basis. One practical way of making these changes operational
would be the creation of a Road Maintenance Fund (RMF).
2.23  The RMF would basically be a funding mechanism, which can provide an adequatc
and stable flow of finance to meet the demand for maintenance. The RMF would be placed
under a Road Board, with representatives of road users and private sector organizations as
well as of national and local governments. The effectiveness and sustainability of the Fund
depends on the specific legal and institutional framework under which it operates. The
RMF would review annually a three-year rolling maintenance plan, decide how much is
needed, and determine a tariff level that would be proportional to the costs imposed on the
road network by different classes of road users, or proportional to the benefits derived from
the use of the network.
2.24  Since the objective is to charge road users a tariff explicitly for road operation and
maintenance, this road tariff should be clearly recognizable and distinguishable from the
indirect taxes that road users also have to pay. The tariff could comprise primarily: (i) a
fuel levy (a user charge) added to pre-existing fuel taxes; and (ii) vehicle license fees (a
charge for access to the road network). Other sources could include bridge and ferry tolls,
weighbridge fees and international transit fees. In some countries, fines from overloaded
vehicles are transferred into the Road Fund, on the grounds that such vehicles have
damaged the road pavement. Other taxes such as value added tax, registration fees, vehicle
inspection fees, and driving licenses fees - would not be paid into the Road Fund. The most
important charge is the fuel levy, which is a discrete road tariff added to the price of fuel.
In Nicaragua's case, for example, an additional charge of US$0.10 per gallon on gasoline
and diesel would generate another US$12 million at the 1994 consumption level. However,
mechanisms would be included in its design to ensure that the fund raises only the
appropriate amount of resources as previous IDA experience shows that avoiding both
under- and over-funding is essential to the long term success of a fund. This is best achieved
by a two part charge. Terms of reference for a study on the design of the RMF, to be
financed by the IDB, have been finalized and consultants have been invited to submit
proposals.



- 11 -
2.25  Hence, in order to help assure reliable funding for maintenance, that could also
encourage further participation of private contractors, it was agreed at negotiations that
legislation for the establishment of a RMIF be presented to Congress by June 1997. The
Government agreed also to provide funding satisfactory to IDA in order to carryout
required annual programs of routine and periodic maintenance.
H. Technical Aspects
2.26   Given that the development of roads in Nicaragua has been limited by the shortage
of funds and trained personnel, the project will utilize international competitive bidding for
the selection of contractors to carryout the road rehabilitation works. GON will also use
experienced international consultants for the supervision of these works. This will be
supplemented by appropriate design standards so as to ensure the use of resources more
efficiently. The overall objective is to design and build roads with the most appropriate
technology so as to ensure an economic life of at least 15 years.
2.27   At present, there is considerable variation in the technical standards for main roads
particularly with respect to geometric design (narrow lanes and shoulders). Because of the
limitation of funds, recent rehabilitation efforts have been carried out without significant
improvement to the substandard cross section dimensions. Better civil works construction
techniques and technologies are also needed.
2.28   The geometric design standards used for the roads to be financed under the Credit
are an improvement to existing practices. They include adequate shoulders and standard
lane widths, consistent with the type of road (trunk) to be rehabilitated. As a result, it is
anticipated that once the works are completed, the accident rate on these roads should
decrease.
2.29   Similarly, adequate standards have been used in the design of pavement structures,
drainage structures and other road components. The proposed pavement design will allow
for an increase in the axle load regulations for Nicaragua to bring them up to the agreed
Central American (REMITRAN) limits.  The work carried out by the consulting
engineering group responsible for the design is of high quality and well detailed. This will
facilitate the work of the contractor in charge of the rehabilitation works.
I. Construction Industry
2.30  Following the 1979 revolution, the provision of road construction and maintenance
services became the responsibility of the Government and the CERCs were created for this
purpose thereby limiting the participation of the private sector. As a result of this, most of
the construction companies either left the country or folded their operations. The current
administration is, however, looking at increasing the involvement of the private sector.
2.31   Several construction companies are participating in projects with IDB financing
while others are preparing to bid for the proposed rehabilitation works. However, with the
approval of this Credit and of IDB's program, Government officials and local contractors



- 12 -
need to familiarize themselves with the bidding requirements and documents used by IDA
and other institutions for the contraction of works.
2.32   Discussions held with the Cdmara de la Construcci6n indicate that there are several
Nicaraguan construction companies with sufficient know-how to undertake the type of
works to be financed under the Credit. Lack of equipment and of spare parts, and the
difficulty in obtaining financing will, however, limit their participation in the proposed
project. It is therefore anticipated that the road rehabilitation works under the credit will be
carried out by foreign contractors possibly with the participation of local contractors as
subcontractors. Also, local firms could participate by forming local consortia or associating
with foreign firms.
2.33   The ongoing shift from force account to contracting of works, particularly of
maintenance activities, will require changes in implementation procedures and a more rapid
development of the private sector. Under Credit 2690-NI funds will be made available for
an evaluation of the issues affecting the capacity of the construction industry.
Subsequently, technical assistance and training in those areas where weaknesses are
identified should be provided.
J. Environmental Aspects
2.34   The environmental analysis was carried out as part of the feasibility studies. Since
the project includes mainly the rehabilitation of existing trunk roads, within existing rights
of way and with no major realignment works, there were no significant environmental or
resettlement problems identified by the study. There could be, at most, the potential for
minor short-term impacts on the environment during project implementation. These are to
be mitigated through specifications agreed with the IDA that will be placed in the civil
works contracts to ensure that acceptable procedures are followed during construction to
protect the environment. There will be no need to resettle people. The project has been
rated as 'B' in terms of overall environmental impact.
K. Safety
2.35   The Direcci6n de Transito (DDT) of the Ministerio de Gobernacidn is responsible
nationally for traffic regulation and control.  As such, matters relating to accident
prevention, driver education campaigns, statistics and their analysis is the responsibility of
the DDT. The DDT reports to the Policia Nacional. On the other hand, matters relating
to the regulation of the road transport sector are the responsibility of the Direcci6n General
de Transporte Terrestre of MCT. The extent of coordination between the DDT and DGTT
is limited as DGTT gets to participate in accident prevention and analysis only when a
public transport unit is involved in an accident.
2.36   Road Accidents are recorded and analyzed by DDT and the police. The fatality rate
per 100,000 inhabitants in the Department of Managua where 25% of the population of the
country lives is 15, a figure that is about twice the rate in Costa Rica and Colombia. This
rate has been on the increase during the last few years as the vehicle fleet increased.



- 13 -
2.37   To some extent, the high accident rate is a reflection of the condition of the roads,
the mostly old vehicles using the roads, and the general driver behavior.  Accidents
involving pedestrians are very common, amounting to 52% of the fatalities. Two-vehicle
accidents accounted for 24% of the fatalities with the remaining 24% evenly distributed
among other accident categories (i.e. vehicle overturns, collision with a fixed object, etc.)
2.38  In the rural areas, road safety is affected adversely by the presence of non-motorized
vehicles and motorcycles, the restrictive road design standards, and the generally poor
condition of vehicles.  The lack of reliable statistics, however,  makes it difficult to
determine which of the preceding factors contributes most to the high accident and fatality
rates. The proposed project will contribute to improving road safety in the rural areas by
using proper road design standards, including adequate shoulders intended to meet current
and projected traffic volumes. The Government can improve the current situation further
by providing better general education of the public, better vehicle inspection systems and
driver training schemes, and increased police enforcement of road safety laws.



- 14 -
mEl. PAST IDA INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS APPLICABLE
A. Portfolio Overview
3.1   This would be the first IDA project in the transport sector since the re-opening of
lending operations. Inferences need to be drawn therefore from lessons learned from the IDA
portfolio as a whole, from other similar operations, and from the experience of other donors.
3.2   In FY95 there were six IDA operations ongoing in Nicaragua. According to the FY95
Annual Review of Project Progress (ARPP), all projects were rated as being satisfactory from
both the viewpoints of meeting development objectives and implementation progress. There
were no project cancellations, closing date extensions, major problem-driven project
restructurings or overdue audits during FY95. The important factors that have contributed to
this good performance have been the high degree of project ownership and commitment by the
Government, as well as the rapid and flexible response by IDA in the provision of technical
assistance. Total disbursements of US$54.2 million in FY95 were somewhat higher than the
average annual projections (US$40-45 million) due to the heavy influence of the disbursement
pattern of the adjustment credits. However, there were brief delays during the year in
disbursements from some operations due to late startups and to the implementation of
difficult tranche release conditions.
B. Lessons Applicable
3.3   IDA has extensive experience with initial operations in countries whose infrastructure
has deteriorated severely after years of neglect. The experience seems to indicate that, even
given the Governments' typically overriding desire to rehabilitate the entire road network,
emphasis should be placed on designing a balanced program that focuses on the sustainable
development of the institutions that manage the sector as well as on the maintenance of
infrastructure. As for rehabilitation, IDA would support typically projects that focus only on
the core, economically viable segments of the old network. Very important too would be the
use of project conditionality that is designed to increase the level and reliability of budgetary
allocations for maintenance of at least the segments of the network that are in good or fair
condition and, subsequently, for other segments once they have been rehabilitated.
3.4    Apart from some startup difficulties, the experience of other donors who have been
active in the transport sector, especially the IDB, has been relatively good. The main lessons
from this experience, which are consistent with IDA experiences in other countries, have been
that: (a) planning and programming procedures, especially for road maintenance, need to be
given increased emphasis; (b) effective supervision requires considerable effort due to the
weaknesses of Government agencies; (c) sustainable institutional improvements require
significant effort from the Government and support from foreign donors over a long period of
time and possibly through repeater projects; and (d) unless dealt with continuously, the
inconsistent and inadequate provision of counterpart funds could reduce project
implementation rates well below existing MCT capacity.



- 15 -
3.5   IDA experience with road funds is also appropriate here. Though there is significant
variation by country, certain elements seem to be essential to designing a successful and
sustainable road fund. First, a fund should be fully funded by user fees (or road tariff) rather
than transfers from tax revenues. Second, the fund should be managed by an independent
board comprising representatives of road user groups who are selected by the organizations
they represent. Third, the board should be free to determine the level of the tariff - based on a
fuel levy, licence fees, etc. - in response to changing road maintenance expenditure needs,
currency devaluation and inflation.  Fourth,  the fuel levy should be collected by fuel
companies, and when feasible other fees should be collected under contract, with the
requirement that all of the proceeds be deposited directly into the road fund. Fifth, the fund
should be managed according to sound commercial principles - with a commercial accounting
system, clear disbursement procedures, an independent financial audit, and technical audits.
Finally, to avoid mostly the problems associated with over funding, the fund should have built
in mechanisms for regularly adjusting the road tariff.
3.6    The above lessons have all been taken into account. The road rehabilitation works
form an economically justified part of the core road network that Nicaragua will need to help
sustain growth. The Government will be encouraged to give priority to maintenance funding
and implementation through the establishment of a road fuind and also by increasing the
participation of the private sector. Finally, the project's management and implementation
arrangements are consistent with Government plans and policies.



- 16 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Origin and Preparation
4.1   The need for road rehabilitation was identified initially in connection with
improvement options for the access to Corinto port. Feasibility studies were conducted
with Japanese grant financing for the rehabilitation of the 140 km road section on the
North-South corridor connecting Guasaule, on the Honduran border, to the town of Izapa.
Preparation of the proposed project began in 1995 when the Government requested IDA
assistance in the rehabilitation and maintenance of the main road network, in strengthening
MCT's planning, programming and implementation activities, and in consolidating ongoing
measures and policy reforms on road maintenance.
B. Objectives
4.2   The objectives of the proposed project are to strengthen the institutions that are
responsible for road transport in Nicaragua, to improve the planning, funding, and
implementation of road maintenance, and to improve the quality and the capacity of selected
trunk roads on a sustainable basis so as to enhance Nicaragua's export competitiveness.
C. Rationale for 1DA Involvement
4.3    The proposed project is fully consistent with the CAS (para. 1.8). Currently, an
extensive program of institutional changes and infrastructure facilities modernization is
about to be carried out. Given the weakness of MCT, the management and development of
the road subsector could benefit considerably from IDA expertise. Apart from financing
needed investments, the key areas that the IDA contribution would be needed include: (a)
improving the planning, and implementation of road maintenance by contract; (b) helping
to ensure that adequate attention is paid to, and funds provided for, maintenance of the
roads in good or fair condition; and (c) ensuring that attention is paid to safety,
environmental, and policy issues in the sector. In addition, MCT needs assistance in
adapting to its changed role in a policy environment of deregulation and greater private
sector involvement. In this regard, IDA has relevant experience which it can draw on to
help support the formulation and the supervision of policy and analytical studies required to
obtain legislative or other approvals needed for proposed changes.
D. Project Description
4.4   The proposed project includes:
(a)   civil works, including the rehabilitation and improvement of the Chinandega-
Izapa section (67.7 km) of the trunk road connecting Nicaragua with
Honduras and Costa Rica;
(b)   a pilot project to maintain 500 km of roads using microenterprises (Proyecto
Piloto de Microempresas de Mantenimiento-PPMM); and



- 17 -
(c)   technical assistance, training and studies.
4.5    Road Network Rehabilitation and Improvement. The main component of the
proposed project will be the rehabilitation and improvement of the Chinandega-Izapa road
section located in the natural corridor connecting Nicaragua with Honduras in the north.
DANIDA will be financing the rehabilitation and improvement of the section Nandaime-
Rivas-Pefias Blancas (81.7 km) that is also in this corridor and connects Nicaragua with
Costa Rica in the south. Works on the Chinandega-Izapa section will be divided into two
contracts and international competitive bidding will be used in contracting the works.
Detailed engineering for the section has been completed by a local civil engineering
consultant.
4.6    Overall, the project is designed to rehabilitate all damaged sections, widen the
substandard sections and provide adequate shoulders along the road. The section Leon-
Chinandega (40.3 km) carries approximately 4000 vehicles per day as well as some slow
moving traffic (agricultural tractors and animal drawn vehicles). As traffic volume increases,
there will be a need to widen this section; for this reason major bridge substructures will in
some locations be built to allow for the widening of the road to four lanes. The existing
design standards of MCT (Table 4.1) are adequate and will be applied unless otherwise
specified in the detailed engineering.
4.7    Road Maintenance. The Credit will finance a pilot project on road maintenance
with the participation of local communities through the formation of microenterprises
(PPMM). The proposed three-year pilot project would cover the routine maintenance of
500 km of roads of various types (trunk, secondary, and feeder roads). Ten to twelve
microempresas, composed of 12 to 14 persons each from communities along the 40-50 km
road section to be maintained, would be formed and trained with the assistance of
consultants familiar with the experience of the Ministry of Transport of Colombia where the
microempresas concept has been used successfully for several years. Annex A has further
details on the establishment of the PPMM.
4.8    With regards to increasing the implementation of maintenance by contract, the
project will provide technical assistance in developing the required managerial and
administrative capacity within MCT. Based on discussions with MCT a feasible range of
targets for road maintenance has been developed and is shown in Table 4.2. To further
strengthen its commitment, the GON agreed at negotiations to carry-out maintenance by
contract in accordance with the following annual contract values and kilometer targets:



- 18 -
Contract Maintenance Targets
Item               Year I  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5
Km maintained                     375     1025    1395    1985    3050
US$Mil. allocated                 1.2      2.4      3.6      4.8      7.5
4.9   This maintenance effort will be complemented by the technical assistance being
provided by DANIDA under which a condition inventory of about 8000 km of the road
network will be carried out in 1996/97. A systematic procedure for determining road
conditions will also be set up and used as a basis for developing the road maintenance by
contract program annually.
4.10  Technical Assistance, Training and Studies. Under this component, consultants
will be retained to: (i) assist with the supervision of the road rehabilitation works and with
the implementation of the road maintenance pilot project using microenterprises (PPMM);
(ii) improve MCT' s maintenance management, planning and operations and provide training
when required; (iii) examine the role of the private sector and the communities in the
execution of road maintenance activities; (iv) carry-out transport and transit studies in the
international corridors, as well as integral urban transport studies for Managua and other
cities; (v) assist with monitoring and evaluation; and (vi) assist the Government in the
preparation of future projects.
4.11 Training for the PPMM implementation will include training the trainers (promoters)
as well as members of the microenterprises and MCT staff in the sustainable implementation
of this concept. There will also be funding for overseas study tours that are focused on
microenterprises, professional courses in transportation planning and maintenance
management at universities abroad, as well as attendance by selected staff at relevant
regional seminars and workshops. A training program will be prepared and it will include
the qualifications of the candidates, the type, duration and cost of proposed training, and an
indication of the assignment proposed upon the return of the candidates. At appraisal,
MCT agreed to prepare TOR and a schedule for the provision of technical assistance,
training, and the carrying out of agreed studies under the project. The proposed amounts
and timing are in Annex B.
E. Cost Estimates
4.12  The estimated total cost of the Project is US$28.4 million (excluding taxes, but
including physical and price contingencies) with a foreign exchange component of US$17.8
million equivalent or 63% of Project cost net of taxes and duties. The cost includes: (a)
physical contingencies of 10% on the base cost; and (b) price contingencies of 2.4% p.a. on
the foreign component and of 8, 7, 6, and 5.5% annually on the local component for the
respective years, starting in 1996. Costs are based on December 1995 prices, using an



- 19 -
exchange rate of US$1.00 = 7.8 C6rdobas. Cost estimates for road rehabilitation works
were prepared by the consulting engineering firm that carried out the engineering designs
and are based on recent experience in Nicaragua. Consulting services are based on standard
international rates. The estimated project costs are summarized below.
Project Cost Summary a/
(CS Million)             (USS Million)          IDA's Share
Local Foreign    Total   Local  Foreign    Total        US$   %
lzapa - Leon                        14.0    31.0    45.0       1.8       4.0      5.8      4.9
Leon - Chinandega                   26.6    58.8    85.3       3.4       7.5    10.9       9.3
Sub-total Road Rehabilitation   40.6    89.7   130.3        5.2      11.5    16.7      14.2    85
Road Maintenance Pilot (PPMM)       10.1     2.4    12.5       1.3       0.3      1.6      1.4    85
TAlTrg./Studies                      8.1    23.7    31.7       1.0       3.0      4.1      4.1    100
Total Base Cost                 58.8   115.8   174.5        7.5      14.8    22.4      19.7    88
Physical Contingencies               5.9    11.6    17.5       0.8       1.5      2.2      2.0
Price Contingencies                 18.2    11.1    29.3       2.3       1.4      3.8      3.3
Total Project Cost              82.8   138.5   221.3    10.6         17.8    28.4      25.0    88
a! Excluding taxes and duties estimated e 21% which is equivalent to 46.8 million Cordobas or US$6.0 million.
F. Financing
4.13   IDA' s financing of US$25 mnillion would represent 88%  of the total project cost net
of taxes and duties. The Government of Nicaragua will contribute US$3.4 million or 12%
of the total project cost. IDA will also be financing some of the local costs but this is
justified given the limited resources available to the Government. The overall financing plan
is as follows:
Project Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Source of Finance                          Local          Foreign            Total
Government                                  3.4              0.0               3.4
IDA                                         7.2             17.8              25.0
Total a/                           10.6             17.8              28.4
a! Net of taxes and duties.



- 20 -
G. Implementation and Monitoring
4.14  MCT will have overall responsibility for project coordination and implementation.
Day-to-day project activities will be coordinated by a Technical Support Team (TST).
Except for an expatriate adviser, the TST staff will be provided by MCT and include: a
Project Manager, two highway engineers - one with not less than 7 years of road
construction supervision experience and the other similarly experienced in maintenance
planning and implementation, an accountant experienced in the use of computer software,
and support personnel, as required.  The adviser will be an experienced (consultant)
transport planner, familiar with the implementation of IDA projects who will be hired under
the project. The TST is to be maintained for the duration of the project and it will report to
the Director of the existing Project Coordination Unit (UCP) in the MCT. The efficacy of
this arrangement will be reviewed annually by IDA and, if necessary changes will be
recommended.  As a condition of credit effectiveness, the Government agreed at
negotiations to staff the TST with the following minimum staff: a Project Manager, two
highway engineers, and an accountant, all with qualifications, experience, functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to IDA.
4.15  The TST will have two primary functions: (i) overall project coordination, including
preparation of progress reports, processing of disbursement requests, and management of
the Special Account; and (ii) project execution which will include: preparation and
processing of tender documents, contracting of consultants and contractors, monitoring of
project progress, supervision and payment of contracts, and overall management of project
accounts. The TST will also help to administer local and overseas training under the
project. Draft TOR for the TST have been prepared by MCT.
4.16 Performance Monitoring. The Implementation Plan (Annex C) as agreed for the
various project components will be monitored through quarterly progress reports which
would be prepared by the TST. Furthermore, by September 30 each year, representatives of
the Government and IDA will conduct a detailed review of the progress made in reaching
the project objectives and in implementing project components.  In the case of
unsatisfactory progress, remedial action plans will be prepared by the Government within
one month of the review. During appraisal, performance indicators for project monitoring
purposes were agreed upon and are included in the Implementation Plan (Annex C). These
include indicators that link the project's inputs with the expected outcome of an improved
road network. In addition, other indicators are related more to the impact the project will
have on the developmental objectives of the Government.  Taken together these
implementation performance (IP) and developmental objective (DO) indicators would
provide a reliable measure of project performance. It was agreed also that the Government
will supply information, in a manner satisfactory to IDA, on monitoring and project
progress. The reporting requirements are listed in Annex D, and the nature and staffing of
IDA supervision missions is in Annex E. Also, MCT will prepare a detailed project
completion report and submit it to IDA no later than six months after the closing date of the
Credit. The latter is scheduled currently for December 31, 2000. All of these annual
review/reporting agreements were reached at negotiations.



- 21 -
H. Procurement
4.17  Procurement will be carried out in accordance with the 'Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995," with the revisions of January, 1996.
Selection and appointment of consultants will follow the 'Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency of
1981" World Bank Standard Bidding Documents will be used for the bidding of works
under the Road Rehabilitation and Improvement Component. The following table presents
the breakdown by procurement method:
Procurement Arrangements
(USSmillion)
Procurement Method
Item             ICB          Other a/        Total
Civil Works             21.2            -             21.2
(18.2)                       (18.2)
Maintenance Works        -             1.1            1.1
(0.9)          (0.9)
Goods & Materials        -             0.6            0.6
(0.5)          (0.5)
PPMM Training            -             0.5            0.5
(0.4)          (0.4)
Consultants              -             4.7            4.7
(4.7)          (4.7)
Training                 -             0.3            0.3
(0.3)         (0.3)
Totals                  21.2           7.2            28.4
(18.2)         (6.8)         (25.0)
a/ 'Other" includes prudent shopping, direct contracting, and IDA 's consultant
selection procedures.
Note: Figures in parentheses indicate IDA financing.
4.18  Civil Works and Maintenance Works.  Civil Work Contracts for road
rehabilitation (estimated value US$21.2 million) will be procured on the basis of
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Formal prequalification of contractors will be
carried out for all ICB contracts. Prior review of procurement procedures and
documentation by IDA will be required for all procurement under ICB. Road maintenance
works estimated to cost less than US$100,000 per contract will be contracted directly



- 22 -
following special procedures outlined in paragraph 3.07 of the Guidelines and on the basis
of reference unit prices and standardized quantities; these contracts will aggregate up to
US$1.1 million.  The MCT will when necessary provide technical assistance to the
communities to assure that before entering into a contract for road maintenance, a
community must be properly organized and possess the capacity to execute a contract. The
first two of these contracts will be subject to prior review while the others will be reviewed
ex-post by IDA supervision missions, and they will all be based on a standard form of
contract agreed by IDA. Given the supervision needs of the PPMM, six vehicles suitable
for field operations (e.g. pick-ups) will be procured by international shopping. The other
PPMM related goods (tools, training materials, small items of equipment, construction
materials, office equipment and supplies - all estimated to cost less than US$25,000 per
contract) will be procured through national and international shopping procedures after
receiving at least three quotations, up to an aggregate of US$0.6 million.
4.19 Consultant Services. Consultants for technical assistance, training, and studies will
be selected following the 1981 Bank Group consultant guidelines. The Borrower has
agreed to use IDA 's standard letter of invitation, and standard form of contract for time-
based assignments and for lump-sum assignments. IDA prior review would be required for
all contracts for consulting services valued at more than US$100,000 for consultant firms
and all contracts with individuals costing more than US$50,000 equivalent. For consultant
contracts valued at less that the amounts indicated above, prior review by the Bank will only
cover the corresponding terms of reference and short list of firms. This exception shall not
apply to: (a) single source selection of consulting firms; (b) assignments of a critical nature
as reasonably determined by IDA; (c) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to US$100,000 or above; and (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
US$50,000 equivalent or above. Financing for training and study tours will be based on a
detailed program to be submitted to IDA for prior approval.
4.20 Advance Procurement Action and Retroactive Financing. With the objective of
initiating road works quickly after credit approval, emphasis was placed during project
preparation on advancing key procurement steps.   Accordingly, the international
prequalification notice for road contractors was published in April 1996. It is also planned
to select supervision consultants for road rehabilitation works shortly after credit approval.
Also, extensive and avoidable delays have occurred in the implementation of projects in
Nicaragua because procurement actions are not initiated early enough.  This could
particularly affect the implementation of contract maintenance where repeated, timely award
of contracts is essential. In order to avoid this, and in keeping with the implementation
schedule, MCT will, when appropriate, initiate and complete all procurement steps up to
(but not including) contract signature for any project component prior to the release of
budgetary allocations. Finally, retroactive financing for all components of the project, not
to exceed SDR 350,000, would be provided for expenditures incurred between January 1,
1996 and the date of the Credit Agreement. This is also considered necessary for adherence
to the project' s implementation schedule.



-23 -
I. Disbursements
4.21   Credit funds will be disbursed (net of taxes) on the following basis:
(a) Civil Works: 85% of expenditures;
(b) Maintenance Works: 85% of expenditures;
(c) Goods: 85% of expenditures;
(d) PPMM training: 80% of expenditures; and
(e) Consultancy Services, studies, and training: 100% of expenditures.
4.22  Disbursements under the project will be made against full documentation of
expenditure except for the following items, for which disbursements would be on the basis
of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs): (i) maintenance works contracts, except for the first
two contracts; (ii) goods, including construction materials, training materials, office
equipment, and supplies; (iii) consultants contracts, estimated to cost less than US$100,000
equivalent, for firms and less than US$50,000 equivalent for individuals; and (iv) all
training. This training will include the costs of fuel, oil, and spares for vehicles, and also
other costs incurred by MCT in establishing and supporting the PPMM. Similarly, the
promoters' fees, per diem, training facilities rentals and the printing of training materials will
also be eligible expenditures for reimbursement. SOE records would be made available to
IDA staff as required for inspection during supervision. The disbursement schedule is
shown in Table 4.3. It corresponds to the standard disbursement profile for IDA projects in
Nicaragua. The credit should be disbursed completely by June 2000.
J. Accounts and Audits
4.23   Special Account.  In order to expedite and facilitate disbursements a Special
Account, with an initial deposit of US$1.0 million equivalent and an authorized allocation of
US$2.0 million equivalent, would be established in the Central Bank or in a commercial
bank acceptable to IDA. This account will be maintained by MCT. The Special Account
would be used for all eligible foreign and local expenditures. Replenishments to the Special
Account would be made on a monthly basis or when 20 percent of the initial deposit has
been used, whichever occurs first.
4.24 Revolving Fund in Local Currency. MCT will need a timely and reliable supply
of counterpart funds if the project is to be implemented efficiently. Hence, it was agreed
during negotiations that a revolving fund in local currency (Fondo Rotatorio) would be
established at a commercial bank acceptable to IDA, solely for project purposes. As a
condition of credit effectiveness, the account where the counterpart funds are to be
deposited will be opened by the MOF. It was agreed also at negotiations that at the



- 24 -
beginning of each quarter the MOF will deposit 3 months worth of counterpart funding into
the revolving fund.
4.25  During negotiations, agreement was reached also with the Government that: (a) the
project's records and accounts, including for the SOEs and the Special Account, will be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and (b) it will submit to IDA
certified copies of the audit reports no later than four months after the end of each fiscal
year. In the case of SOEs, the audit report will contain a separate opinion as to whether the
SOEs submitted during each fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
K. Environmental Impact
4.26  Works under the project consist of the rehabilitation of existing facilities and
therefore they would not cause direct impacts on the environment other than those linked to
the construction process itself These are to be addressed in the bid and contract documents
which will have clauses to ensure that civil works are executed in accordance with
environmental protection specifications acceptable to IDA. MCT' s institutional capacity to
handle the environmental aspects of road works is being strengthened through technical
assistance being financed by the IDB. MCT agreed at appraisal to inform the IDA annually
on the status of this ongoing institutional strengthening program with the IDB.
L. Sustainability
4.27   Implementation of this project will lead to the adoption of better planning,
organization, and management procedures and techniques. Important too would be the
improved provision of funds for road maintenance and the encouragement of greater
participation by the private sector in activities that have so far been reserved for
Government agencies. The changes in practices and procedures are sustainable individually
and taken together, they can promote lasting and highly beneficial changes in the road
sector.



- 25 -
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Introduction
5.1    The project roads are located in the Departments of Chinandega and Le6n which,
with populations of 348,971 and 330,168, rank 3rd and 4th respectively in the country, after
Managua and Matagalpa. Defined as Nicaragua's western region in the Bank's Poverty
Assessment (Report No. 14038-NI of June 1995) it contains about 12% of the country's
land area and about 17% of its population. This makes it one of the more densely
populated regions with about 70 persons/km2. The population of the region has more than
doubled since the 1971 census and some 52.4% of it is considered urban; this is about the
same as at the national level (51.6%). It is also the region with the highest agricultural
potential, because it has deep and fertile volcanic soils much of which are suitable for
irrigation, and is traditionally one of the more dynamic parts of the country.
5.2    The western region has about 2,500km of roads, of which about 950 km are dry-
season rural roads, but most of them are in poor condition. Agriculture is the most
important sector in the regional economy. However, it is estimated, that wholesale prices
are about 40% higher than farmgate prices, for a weighted average of the six more
important regional crops (mostly grains). There may be other factors but the poor road
conditions have certainly contributed to high agricultural production losses, high transport
costs, and the resulting high spread between wholesale and farmgate prices. If better roads
could help to reduce the spread then this could lead directly to additional incomes for local
producers.
B. Trafric
5.3    The traffic volumes on the project road sections were estimated by counts carried
out originally in 1993 by MCT. These traffic volumes were updated on the basis of a
systematic 7 day, 24 hr-count organized by the consultants in October 1995. Actual traffic
volumes were between 3,300 and 3,800 vehicles per day (vpd) on the project roads. This
represented about 10.8% p.a. growth on average during 1993-95 and was probably due to
the reactivation of the economy. Trucks and pickups represented about 45% of the traffic
in both road sections. Articulated vehicles, like tractor-trailers and agricultural vehicles, the
types of traffic that contribute to congestion and slow operating speeds, accounted for over
10% of the total traffic. Passenger traffic growth has been overall much faster than freight.
5.4   For the future, growth rates have been estimated at 5% p.a. for passenger traffic
and 3% p.a. per freight. Conservative growth rates were used because it is expected that
traffic will return to its slower, long term trends that prevail usually in the corridor. These
reflect the road functions and general economic trends expected during the lifetime of the
project roads since, according to the traffic survey, over two-thirds of trips are work or
business related. The resulting projections for the various vehicle types are shown in Table
5.1.



- 26 -
C. Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.5    The investments, maintenance, and institutional strengthening supported by the
project will provide a wide range of benefits. First, the road rehabilitation will cause
reductions in vehicle operating costs (voc) for users of these roads. Second, improved
planning and implementation procedures for maintenance will prevent further deterioration
of roads countrywide and help to protect earlier investments as well as to stimulate the
private construction industry. Finally, the institutional support should help MCT to use
resources more efficiently and to prepare itself to better manage the challenges of the
future.
5.6    The benefits deriving from the road rehabilitation can be quantified as they consist
largely of voc savings accruing to road users. The voc both with and without the project
for different types of vehicles is shown in Table 5.2. The economic operating costs were
derived from recent information on costs in Nicaragua, after adjusting for taxes and duties.
The voc savings vary by vehicle type but they are typically a 50% reduction from current
operating costs as the project will improve the poor condition of the roads considerably.
VOC savings for heavy vehicles are about 80%, which is not unexpected. Also, since the
improved roads will permit higher average speeds, travel times could be reduced. This is
another source of savings to users that has been quantified and included in Table 5.2. The
time savings are very modest in comparison to voc savings.
D. Economic Returns
5.7    The economic rates of return (ERR) are based on the costs and benefit streams
shown in Tables 5.3 and 5.4. The ERR with and without time savings for the two road
sections range from 84.6% to 96.7%. For the project as a whole, the weighted average
ERR is 88.6% (and 90.8%, including time savings). The benefit cost ratios, at a discount
rate of 10%, are 11.00 for the Izapa-Le6n road and 9.30 for the Le6n-Chinandega section.
The newly rehabilitated roads will also improve road safety by eliminating the hazardous
conditions caused by large potholes and other irregularities. The construction and paving
will create employment for about 400 workers over a 30 month period; about 40% would
be unskilled labor that can be recruited locally. Also given the substantial traffic volumes
and the increased proportions of trucks and pickups expected in the future, the ERR
estimate is quite robust.
E. Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
5.8    The project is not subject to unusual risks with respect to its implementation and the
use of experienced consultants and contractors will further minimize this. The main risks
relate to the unreliability of counterpart funds, and to inefficiencies in the planning,
budgeting, and implementation of road maintenance. These will be addressed through
agreements with the Government on the size and availability of funds for maintenance and
rehabilitation works, by using the Fondo Rotatorio, by setting up a good technical support
team, and by the guidance from IDA supervision missions. There are also some risks



- 27 -
associated with the failure to reach the road fund and the MCT institutional development
goals. These do not threaten project implementation directly as it does not need the
proceeds from the road fund and the TST will handle implementation arrangements.
However, they do present risks to the broader IDA objectives of sustainable development,
especially with regards to maintenance in the road sector. Currently, the risk of either
failure is very low since both MCT and users want the road fund, and the institutional
strengthening is desired highly because of the need to learn how to implement maintenance
by contract.
5.9   Still the sensitivity of the ERR to various scenarios was tested and the results
summarized in Table 5.5. Given the high base case ERR, even under adverse scenarios
(including 20% cost increase, 20% benefits decrease, lack of maintenance) the project's
ERR does not fall below 70%. Even if this road is not maintained adequately, it would take
more than 10 years for it to return to its current status of disrepair. The economic benefits
still so heavily outweigh the costs in this scenario that the ERR remains high (85%). This
project is clearly justified economically.



- 28 -
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1   At negotiations the GON agreed on:
(a)  holding annual reviews of its road program with IDA (para. 2.18);
(b)  presenting legislation for the establishment of the RMF to Congress by June
1997 (para. 2.25);
(c)  providing sufficient funds to carry out required annual programs of routine and
periodic maintenance (para. 2.25); and
(d)  a program of contract maintenance, including annual targets in terms of both
value and kilometers to be performed by contractors (para. 4.8).
6.2   Prior to credit effectiveness, GON will provide evidence: (a) that the manager/staff
satisfactory to IDA have been provided for the TST (para. 4.14), and (b) of opening an
account in local currency in a commercial bank for the project's counterpart funding needs
(para. 4.24).
6.3   Based on the above agreements the project is suitable for a credit of SDR 17.2
million (US$25.0 million equivalent), with a 40 year maturity, including 10 years of grace,
on standard IDA terms.



- 29 -
Annex A
NICARAGUA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
ROAD MAINTENANCE PILOT PROJECT
Background
1.    The reasons in the past for the poor condition of the Nicaraguan roads were mainly
financial and institutional. The Government is committed now to better policies for the
implementation of road maintenance, to improve the operation and management of the
MCT, and to increase the participation of the private sector in maintenance operations. A
number of technical assistance programs and studies are being undertaken by the MCT to
address these issues, one of which is a pilot project to create microenterprises for the
execution of routine maintenance activities of the road network.
The Pilot Project
2.    The Pilot Project, (Programa Piloto sobre Mantenimiento por Microempresas,
PPMM), will cover 500 km of roads most of which will be on the paved road network. The
maintenance for the selected roads will be provided by 10 to 12 microenterprises made up
of 10 to 14 persons (12 on average) who carry out manual routine maintenance activities on
approximately 50 km of roads. This scheme has been thoroughly tested in Colombia where
398 microenterprises provide routine maintenance to 21,500 km and employ 4,900 persons.
3.    The proposed PPMM was prepared by the MCT with the assistance of a Consultant
who visited Nicaragua (Dr. Martha I. Lobo Soler, Technical Advisor to the Microenterprise
Program of the Instituto Nacional de Vias de Colombia). The mission visited Nicaragua to
discuss with the MCT and other agencies the feasibility of launching such a program. In her
report, Mantenimiento de Vias a traves de Microempresas Asociativas, the Consultant
concluded that the existing conditions in Nicaragua, such as high unemployment and past
experience with labor intensive programs, provide an ideal environment for the
microenterprise concept. A copy of the report can be found in the Project files.
4.    The microenterprises will be organized as cooperatives (Cooperativas de Servicios
de Mantenimiento Vial) with members having equal rights and obligations. Contracts will
be with the MCT with the microenterprises providing their own tools and MCT providing,
on site, materials and small items of equipment, when needed. MCT will acquire the
required tools for the microenterprises the cost of which will be deducted from the
monthly payments over the life of the contract.



- 30 -
Annex A
5.    The microenterprises will do light patching and sealing, vegetation clearance within
the road's right-of-way, cleaning of culverts and ditches, maintaining and replacing road
signs and all other routine maintenance activities on the 50 km assigned to each of them.
Supervision of the works will be conducted by the MCT.
6.    The PPMM's cost per km-year of routine maintenance using microenterprises has
been estimated at US$ 500.00 which includes: labor (including fringe benefits), tools,
uniforms and other equipment), daily transportation to and from the job site, and
administrative expenses. Cost per km-year does not include the cost to MCT of providing
materials (for instance, cold mix for patching) and the cost of supervising the works. The
cost per km-year will increase to approximately US$600-700 when those costs are added.
7.    The nature of the PPMM requires the participation of other Government agencies
in addition to the MCT. The Ministerio del Trabajo (Miitry of Labor) will be involved in
setting up the legal structure under which the microenterprises will work, the contracting
arrangements (contract type and duration) and in advising on the process to be followed in
the fornation of cooperatives. The Instituto Nacional Tecnol6gico (INATEC) will be
involved in providing the necessary training to the personnel to be responsible for selecting
the microenterprises (promotores) as well as for the microenterprises themselves. Training
will be provided, through workshops, in areas such as how to create a microenterprise, how
to deal with the change from being a laborer to being a contractor, organizational aspects,
basic administration and accounting, and, with the assistance of the MCT, on how to carry
out the contract maintenance activities. Finally, The Programa de Apoyo a la
Microempresa (PAIC), a program under the Presidency aimed at supporting the role of
microenterprises in the country, will participate in the PPMM as the experience of PAIMIC
with microenterprises initiatives is very valuable and also very relevant.
8.    Microenterprises will be selected from communities along the road sections to be
maintained. The selection of microenterprises will be carried out by MCT with advice from
the 6 promotores to be contracted under the Project. Continued advice on setting up the
PPMM will be sought from the Instituto Nacional de Vias of Colombia which is the agency
responsible for the microenterprise program in that country. In addition, consultants with
extensive experience on the subject will be financed under the Project to provide advice
during the initial stages of the PPMM as well as during its implementation and evaluation
phases.
9.    The PPMM will have a total duration of3 years and a cost of US$1.6 rnillion.
Approximately 9 months will be required for Phase I - Organization and Launching of the
PPMM - which will include: the establishment of policies and the preparation and signing of
the required agreements among the participating agencies, making an initial visit by the
agencies to Colombia to become familiar with that program, selecting and training the 6
promotores, contracting the consulting services, confirming the roads to be included under



-31 -
Annex A
the PPMM, preparing training material, selecting, contracting and training the
microenterprises, acquiring the necessary tools, and launching the PPMM. Phase 2 - Initial
Implementation and Adjustment - during which adjustments will be made to the PPMM will
run for approximately three months. Finally, Phase 3 - Implementation, Monitoring and
Evaluation will run for 24 months. During Phase 3, the PPMM will be under permanent
monitoring in to ensure the quality of the work and to assess the possibility of increasing the
number of microenterprises with local financing.
10.   The preliminary list of roads from which the PPMM will be selected is presented in
the following table:
No.               Road Section               Surface Type    Length (kin)
I   San Isidro-Esteli-La Sirena                Paved            41.3
2   La Sirena-Empalme Yalaguina                Paved            48.3
3   Yalaguina-Las Manos                        Paved            43.7
4   Yalaguina-El Espino                        Paved            31.1
5   San Isidro-Dos Montes                      Paved            49.0
6   Dos Montes-Telica                          Paved            49.0
7   Chinandega-Corinto                         Paved            20.6
8   Chinandega-El Congo                        Paved            44.8
9   El Congo-Cosiguina-Potosi                 Unpaved           30.7
10   El Viejo-Tonala-Puerto Moraza             Unpaved           27.0
11   Somotillo-San Pedro del Norte             Unpaved           35.3
12  Izapa-La Paz Centro-Managua                 Paved            60.3
13   Zona Franca-Km 65+000                      Paved            53.0
14   Km 65+000-Sebaco                           Paved            38.0
15   Matagalpa-Sebaco-San Isidro                Paved            35.0
16   Acoyapa-Tepenaguazapa                     Unpaved           62.7
17   Tepenaguazapa-San Carlos                  Unpaved           64.5
Total                                                      734.3
11.   The PPMM will provide direct employment initially to about 180 persons in the
rural areas where unemployment rate is high. If the PPMM proves to be successful, an
expanded program of routine maintenance by microenterprises will be a source of
continuous and productive employment with a unit cost significantly lower (less than half)
than the one paid to contractors at present.



- 32 -
Annex A
12.   To be successful, the PPMM, or for that matter an expanded program  of
microenterprises, will require that work performed be paid for promptly at the end of the
month or pay period in order to ensure that workIers will remain on the job. For this
purpose, it is essential that a simple payment mechanism, free of delays, be established at
the start of the PPMM. The proposed Fondo Rotatorio (para. 4.24), if properly handled,
would be the suitable mechanism.



-33-                                         Annex B
NICARAGUA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Technical Assistance, Training and Studies
Ust of TA                                                    Person- Status of TOR (Date)  Short List
ContractVAcfivity            Purpose/Objective                Month  Started   Completed Expected
A. Supervision:
1. Civil Works            Assistance for design             70F     Dec-95    Apr-96      Apr-96
Implementation          and supervision                  120L
B. Technical Support:
2. PPMM                   Setup & train                     15F     Jan-96    Jun-96      Jun-96
'microempresas'                  1 OL
3. Maintenance Mgt.       Design & implementation           15F     Jan-96    Jun-96      Jun-96
of contract maintenance          IOL
4. Institutional Support  Performance monitoring,           5OF     Jan-96     Jul-96    Periodically
training program design          15L
& admin., technical
audits, preparation of
data & organizing Annual
Coordination reviews,
PCR preparabon, etc.
C. Training:
5. Fellowships and        PPMM needs, and                    -      Jan-96     Jul-96
study tours            professional training
of MCT staff.
D. Studies:
6. Transport & feasibility  Urban Transport, and            45F     Feb-96    Dec-96      Dec-96
Corridor O-D Studies.            25L
Totals                           375
F = Foreign Professional
L = Local Professional
a/ Estfmates are net of contingencies.
Note: Standard Contract documents are expected to be used in all cases.



- 34 -
Annex C
NICARAGUA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Implementation Plan
ELEMENTS                TOPICS                  DESCRIPTION
1. The Project       Scope and Objectves     To strengthen the insttutons that are responsible
for road transport in Nicaragua, and to improve the
quality and the capacity of selected trunk roads on a
sustainable basis so as to enhance Nicaragua's
growth prospects.
Project Description     The project will include:
(a) the rehabilitation and improvement of 67.7 km
of main roads;
(b) the design and implementaton of a road
maintenance pilot project using microenterprises;
(c) consulting services for technical assistance,
training and studies.
Financial Plan          The cost of the Project is estimated at US$28.4
million to be financed as follows:
IDA:   US$ 25.0 million
GON:  US$ 3.4 million
TOTAL: US$ 28.4 million
2. Implementation    Organization            MCT will be responsible for overall project
Arrangements                               coordination. Project acbvibes will be coordinated
by the Technical Support Team (TST) to be set up
within existing Project Coordination Unit (UCP)
responsible for the coordinaton of IDB's
REMECAR project. The TST will have 5 staff
members.
Responsibilities of the  The MCT through the TST will:
organizaton            (a) monitor, evaluate and report physical and
financial progress of the project;
(b) manage all procurement aspects of the project
(i.e. prepare bid documents, advertise, conduct
bidding and evaluabon processes, obtain approvals,
conclude contracts, process payments, etc.);
(c) manage the selection of consultants to be
engaged under the project (i.e. prepare terms of
reference (TOR), shortlist qualified firms, prepare
letters of invitaton and supplementary documents,
invite proposals, define evaluation criteria, etc.);
(d) manage the flow of project funds and maintain
all accounts for the project;
(e) coordinate the preparation of the project's Audit
Report and forward report to IDA;
(f) ensure that GON makes adequate budget
allocabons for the Project, and that funds be made
available in a timely manner;
(g) prepare and submit disbursement requests to
IDA;
(h) coordinate project preparabon studies;
(i) prepare a project completion report.



- 35 -
Annex C
Implementation Plan
(Continued)
ELEMENTS             TOPICS                  DESCRIPTION
2. Implementation    Role of IDA during project IDA will conduct regular supervision missions
Arrangements      implementation          during project implementabon. Given the limited
(cont.)                                   experience of MCT with IDA's procedures,
it is anticipated that frequent missions will be
required during the inital year of project
implementation. The supervision plan therefore calls
for 4 supervision missions per year.
3. Implementation    Implementation Plan for   See attached Implementation Schedule.
Plan              various project
components
Schedule of procurement  See attached Implementation Schedule
actions
Economic analysis       See Section 5 in the main text
Project risks          The critical factors that could affect the project's
success relate to the unreliability of counterpart
funding, and the limited funding for road maintenance.
Risks were minimized by: (i) reaching an agreement
with the GON to open a revolving fund account in the
Central Bank into which counterpart funds for six
months of project implementation are to be deposited
in advance; and (ii) appropriate road maintenance
targets were established during project preparation.
4. Project Monitoring   Major Credit Covenants   The main covenants cover the following areas:
and Evaluabon                              (a) establishment of the "Fondo Rotatorio";
(b) establishment of TST; and
(c) maintenance financing and the Road Fund.
Key Indicators          See next page.



- 36 -                                      Annex C
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
(Continued)
List of Performance Monitoring Indicators
Performance Measure/Target
Item & Unit                       1996      1997      1998     1999
A. Input Indicators:
1. Establish Fondo Rotatorio (month):              June
2. Deposit counterpart funds ($mil.;gross):          0.5       2.8      2.8       1.0
3. Establish Technical Support Team (month):     August
4. Total road maintenance budget ($mil.):            12        12        12        12
5. % of Budget Allocated to Contract Maintenance:      See Table 4.2 for targets
6. Number of maintenance contracts signed:             See Table 4.2 for targets
B. Output Indicators:
7. Establish and maintain microempresas
(Min. Total no.):                               0        12        12        12
S. Roads maintained by PPMM (km):                     See Table 4.2 for targets
9. Overall maintenance by contractors (km):            See Table 4.2 for targets
10. Trunk roads rehabilitated (km):                  10        30        28         -
C. Outcome Indicators: a/
11. Avg. delay in counterpart funding (vs. the
quarterly target dates) in days:               0         0         0         0
12. % of road network maintainable (1994 = 17%):     20       23        26        30
13. Presentation of road fund legislation (month)     -     June          -        -
D. Impact Indicators at:
14. Traffic growth (%)                                5         5         5         5
15. Reduced transport costs (%): b/                   0         0         4        2
a/ Where appropriate, the TST will carryout surveys or studies to establish/verify these indicators.
b/ With reference to the Managua-Corinto trip (154 kmi). The current charge is
C$1 ,617 for 500 quintals.



NICARAGUA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1996                  1997                   1998                   1999
COMPONENTS
1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4
SCHEDULING
ROAD REHABILITATION
- Prequalification of contractors                    -
- Tendering/contract award                              . _ _
- Construction                                                        _ _
- Supervision of construction                       ._
MAINTENANCE PILOT PROJECT (PPMM)                                                           =   = _  __
- Design/contracting/awarding (Phase 1)                     _    _ -
- Initial implementabon/adjustment (Phase 2)                       .
- Implementation/evaluation (Phase 3) _
- Supervision of PPMM                                      _        _ . _ . __
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE & STUDIES                                    l       -    -                      _    _
- Technical assistance - road maintenance                                                                                                                  c o __
- Urban transport study                                              . _      .  _ _          -    -
MAIN PROCUREMENT ACTIONS
ROAD REHABILITATION
- Review and approval fo procurement documents       * (Jan. 31196)
Publication for contractor prequalificabon             * (Mar. 15/96)
- Prequalificabon of contractors                            * (May 15/96)
- Request for tenders/bids                                    X (June 30/96)
- Submission and evaluation of bids                           I       (Sept. 30/96)
- Contract awards/signature                                         1        (Dec. 31/96)
MAINTENANCE PILOT PROJECT (PPMM)
- Review/approval o procurement documents            *(Jan. 31/96)
- Submission/approval of TORs and short list of consultants    * (Feb. 296
- Submission/evaluation of proposals                       * (Apri 306)
- Contract award/signature                                   * May 31/96)
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE & STUDIES
- Review/approval of package for invitation of consultants          X (Sept. 30/96)
(letter of invitabon, TORs, short list)                               * (Nov. 30/96)
- Submission/evaluation of proposals                                            I    I
- Contract award/signature                                 -* (Jan. 15/9I  
Legend: 
Major component                                                                                                                                      (
_ _ _ Preliminary/preparatory work for activity
_   Implementation of acbvity                                                                                                         ksr/c5/ruan
* Completion dates



-38 -
Annex D
NICARAGUA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Project Reporting Requirements
1.    Progress Reports shall be prepared by the TST and submitted quarterly in triplicate
no later than one calendar month after the end of the quarter.
2.    The Report should contain the following information:
2.1   General Information
(a)   Progress accomplished during the reporting period in respect of:
(i)   Road Rehabilitation
*  prequalification of contractors
*  invitation to bid
*  bid receipt and evaluation
*  contract award
(ii)   Road Maintenance Pilot Project (PPMM)
3  selection of roads
-  selection of consultants
*  selection, contracting and training of promoters
*  selection, contracting and training of microenterpreneurs
*  launching of PPMM
*  monitoring of progress
*  Evaluation of PPMM
(iii)  Technical Assistance and studies
*  calling proposals
*  receipt and evaluation of proposals
*  contract award
*  arrival date of staff
*  man-months expended



-39 -
Annex D
(b)   actual or expected deviations from the project implementation schedule:
(c)   actual or expected difficulties or delays and their effects on the
implementation schedule, and the steps planned or taken to overcome the
difficulties and avoid further delay;
(d)   expected changes in the completion date of the project;
(e)   key personnel changes in the staffs of the MCT/UCP/TST, consultants or
contractors;
(f)    matters which may affect the cost of the project;
(g)   any development activity likely to affect the economic viability of project
components; and
(h)   compliance with environmental guidelines.
2.2   A bar-type progress chart, based on the project implementation schedule,
showing the progress on each project component.
2.3   A financial statement set out in a tabular form showing for each project
component:
(a)   original estimated cost;
(b)   revised cost, if appropriate;
(c)   actual expenditure;
(d)   projected expenditure; and
(e)   actual and projected withdrawals from the project account.
2.4   The status of compliance with each covenant of the Credit Agreement.
3.    The first report should cover the quarter ending December 1996 and focus on
activities related to project startup.  It will be important to highlight any early
implementation problems that need to be rectified.



- 40 -
Annex E
NICARAGUA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Supervision Plan
1.    The nature and scope of the project, especially the increase in maintenance by
contract, would necessitate extensive and close supervision, especially during the first two
years of project implementation. On the other hand, the close involvement with the IDB
including cooperation with their field office for supervision should lead to some savings,
particularly after the initial intensive phase. The staff input indicated under the Project
Launch workshop and Annual Coordination and Implementation Review Missions is in
addition to regular supervision needs. It is anticipated that during the first two years two
additional supervision missions will be required annually.
2.    A project launch mission and yearly project reviews will be organized, assisting the
staff of MCT to develop a common understanding of the project's overall development
objectives, operational procedures, coordination needs and potential implementation
problems.
3.    The tentative supervision timetable and required staffing is the following:
Project Launch Workshop:              First Quarter FY97
Focus:                           Reviewing and fine tuning, as necessary, the
implementation plan of each executing unit,
identifying and planning required
coordination among agencies, project
management, procurement, environmental
assessment, disbursement and auditing
procedures and requirements. Technical
assistance and studies.
Duration:                        5 days
Participating IDA Staff:         - Task Manager
- Highway Engineer
- Urban Transport Engineer
- Disbursement Specialist
- Procurement Specialist
- Lawyer



-41 -
Annex E
Total Time Required:              In the field:     5 sw
At Headquarters:   3 sw
Total             8 staff weeks
Annual Coordination and                No later than September 15 of each year,
Implementation Reviews:                starting in 1996.
Focus:                            Project Progress review, identification of
implementation problems and issues, and
planning for the upcoming year.
Duration:                         5 days.
Participating IDA Staff:          - Task Manager
- Highway Engineer
- Urban Transport Engineer
Time Required: (IDA)              In the field:     3 sw/year
At Headquarters:   3 sw/year
Total             6 sw/year
Mid-Term Implementation Review:        No later than September 15, 1998.
Focus:                            Annual Coordination and Implementation
review coverage plus: project performance;
identification of areas in need of
adjustment; status of: (a) implementation
of institutional changes in MCT; (b) status
of Maintenance Funds; (c) performance of
microenterprises on maintenance; and (d)
impact of technical assistance and
availability of counterpart funds.
Duration:                         5 days.
Participating IDA Staff:          - Task Manager
- Highway Engineer
- Urban Transport Engineer
- Lawyer



- 42 -
Annex E
Time Required: (IDA)             In the field:     4 sw
At Headquarters:   4 sw
Total             7 staff weeks
4.    The Project Launch in FY97 would require 8 staff weeks. The Annual Coordination
and Implementation Review would require about 6 staff weeks per year. In addition, one
regular supervision mission (one of one-week duration), comprising the Task Manager, a
Highway Engineer and a Micro Enterprise will be necessary.   The Mid-Term
Implementation Review would require 7 staff weeks. Thus, total field supervision would
amount to 36 staff weeks, and office supervision is expected to amount to an additional 33
weeks, for a total of 69 staff weeks during the life of the project, i.e. an average of 17 staff
weeks per year.
5.    During the first two years of project implementation, supervision efforts will focus
on organization and team development with a view toward strengthening the operational
capacity of the UCP/TST. The Project Launch workshop will be followed by additional
supervision input to familiarize selected local staff with IDA's procurement, disbursement
and auditing procedures and guidelines.
Proposed Agenda for Annual Coordination and Mid-Term Implementation Reviews
6.    The Annual Coordination and Implementation Review-- to be organized by the TST
will take place by September 15 of each year, b6ginning in 1996, with the participation of
the UCP/TST, representatives of the executing units, IDB and IDA staff and staff from
other donor agencies. Annual reviews would focus on evaluation of progress against the
implementation of the Implementation Schedule and against agreed performance indicators
(See Annex C) The result of the annual review would be the agreement on the following
year's program, and on remedial actions required to address problems or changing
circumstances during implementation.
7.    The Mid-Term Implementation Review to be conducted no later than September 15,
1998 would follow the same format as the annual reviews but the analysis of project impact
would be expanded. In addition to covering all the areas included in the annual reviews, the
mid-term review would pay particular attention to reviewing compliance with the
Implementation Schedule Plan, including: (a) the performance of microenterprises in
maintenance; (b) Government's performance on project counterpart funding and on the
status of the RMF; and (c) the effectiveness of technical assistance and studies carried out
under the project.



- 43 -
Annex E
8     IBorrower's Contribution to Supervision:
(a)   Project monitoring and coordination will be the responsibility of the TST.
(b)   The TST will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for Bank
supervision missions, and for providing information required by missions.
(c)   Mission briefing meetings on arrival, and wrap-up meetings will normally be
chaired by the Minister or Vice-Minister of MCT.



- 44 -
Annex F
NICARAGUA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Documents and Data in the Project File
General Reports and Studies:
(a)   Esquema General del Plan Nacional de Transporte, MCT, Febrero 1995.
(b)   Plan Nacional de Transporte - Diagn6stico del Transporte Acuatico, MCT,
Enero 1989.
(c)   Censos Nacionales 1995: Cifras Oficiales Preliminares, INEC, Septiembre
1995.
2.    Project Related Documents:
(a)   Estudio de Factibilidad Tecnica y Econ6mica de la Carretera (i) Izapa-Le6n-
Chinandega and (ii) Chinandega-Guasaule, Louis Berger, June 1993.
(b)   Estudio de Factibilidad Tecnica y Econ6mica de la Carretera Izapa-Le6n-
Chinandega-Guasaule, Informe de Actualizaci6n, Louis Berger, November
1995.
(c)   The Road Improvement and Rehabilitation Study in Nicaragua, JICA, July
1994.
(d)   Feasibility Study on the Development and Strengthening of the Directorate
of Maintenance and Improvement of Road Maintenance Performance,
DANIDA, February 1994.
(e)   Mantenimiento de Vias a traves de Microempresas Asociativas, Dra. Martha
Lobo Soler, November 1995.
(f)   Estudio del Marco Juridico y la Factibilidad Financiera para la Concesi6n de
Proyectos Pilotos de Mantenimiento o Rehabilitaci6n de la Red Vial, Louis
Berger, July 1995.
(g)   Estudio Diagn6stico Institucional y Reestructuraci6n - Ministerio de
Construcci6n y Transporte, Coopers & Lybrand, November 1996.
(h)   MCT Institutional Restructuring Agreement, August 1995.



- 45 -
Annex F
(i)    Environment specifications for civil works contracts, MCT, April 1996.
3.    Terms of Reference:
(a)   Technical Support Team, January 1996.
(b)   Supervision of Road Rehabilitation, February 1996.



-46 -
NICARAGUA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Table: 1.1: Regional Overview
WDR    Km. of Roads   Population     Area    GDPlperson Km. of Paved Roads per.
Country     Rank  Network  Paved   (million)  ('000 kM2)     USS      000 km2  '000 persons
Costa Rica        78    35,600   5,600     3.2         51        1,960      110        1.75
El Salvador       65    12,000   1,739     5.4         21        1,170       83        0.32
Guatemala         58    12,200   3,485     9.7        109         980        32        0.36
Honduras          38    14,200  2,400      5.4        112         580        21        0.44
Nicaragua         23    17,146   1,717     4.1        118         340        15        0.42
Panama            82    9,970   2,360      2.5         77        2,420       31        0.94
NicaraguaRank           2        6        4          1           6         6          4
Sources: Mission estimates, MCT, and the World Development Report, 1995



-47 -
NICARAGUA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Table 2.1: Road Network by Surface Type and Condition
Surface Type    Length (km)   Good (km)    Fair (km)    Poor (km)
Paved                 1,717         103         464         1,150
Unpaved All-Weather    7,152        418        1,936        4,798
Unpaved Dry Season    8,277          0           0          8,277
Total                 17,146        521        2,400        14,225
Source: Ministero de Construccion y Transporte, Direccion General de Vialidad.



-48 -
NICARAGUA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Table 2.2: Intemational Road Corridor
Improvement Program
Length              Time      Cost       Aid
Country/Road Sections     (km)   Condition   Period    ($M)     Source
HONDURAS
Amatillo Jicaro Galan          40.2   Fair       1991-92     0.8  IDB/Taiwan
Jicaro Galan-Choluteca         43.8   Good       1992-93     4.5  IDB
Choluteca-Guasaule             44.3   Poor       1995-96     4.0  IDA
128.3
NICARAGUA
Guasaule-Pte. Real             38.1   Poor          -        8.1
Pte. Real-Chinandega           33.6   Poor          -        6.9
Chinandega-Leon                40.3   Poor       1996-99    10.9  IDA
Leon-lzapa                     27.4   Poor       1996-99     5.8  IDA
Izapa-Nejapa                   57.7   Good       1993-94    12.5   BCIE
Nejapa-Nandaime                56.6   Poor          -        -
Nandaime-Penas Blancas         81.7   Poor       1996-97    14.0   DANIDA
335.4
COSTA RICA
Penas Blancas-Liberia          77.3   Fair          1996     0.4   Local
Liberia Arizona                80.8   Poor          1996     0.4   Local
Arizona-Barranca               39.3   Good       1995-96     3.7   BCIE
Barranca-Caldera               15.2   Good       1995-96     0.6  IBRD
Caldera-Pozon                  17.2   Fair          1996     0.1   Local
Pozon-Tarcoles                 17.6   Fair          1996     0.1   Local
Tarcoles-Loma                  53.5   Poor       1996-97    14.8  IBRD
Loma-Quepos                    27.3   Fair          1996     0.2   Local
Quepos-Bavo                    43.0   Poor                     -
Bavo-Palmar Norte              61.0   Poor       1997-98      19   BCIE
Palmar Norte-Rio Claro         60.3   Fair          1996      19   Local
Rio Claro-Pase Canoas          33.5   Poor           -       -     BCIE
526.6
Total
Source: Ministerio de Construccion y Transporte, Direccion General de Vialidad.



-49 -
NICARAGUA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Table 2.3: Registered Motor Vehicles (1991-1995)
Vehicle Type        1991     1992     1993      1994     1995
Automobiles and Jeeps    61,385   67,158   69,508   72,046   73,557
Buses and Microbuses     4,368    5,943    6,151    6,376    6,719
Trucks and Pick-ups     50,799   64,684   66,947   69.392   70,284
Motorcycles             19,501   22,221   22,998   23,838   24,525
Total                  136,053  160,006  165,604  171,652  175,085
Source: Ministero de Construccion y Transporte, Direccion General de Vialidad.



-50 -
NICARAGUA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Table 2.4: Registered Motor Vehicles by Region (1994)
Province/                   Vehicle
Department                    Fleet
I                  Managua                        85,594
2                  Esteli                          5, 569
3                  Matagalpa                        7,276
4                  Leon                            12,116
5                  Chontales                        5,575
6                  Rama-Nueva Guinea                 719
7                  Rio San Juan                      368
8                  Granada                          9,929
9                  Rivas                            5,187
10                 Madrid                           2,956
11                 Nueva Segovia                    4,317
12                Jinotega                          3,561
13                 Chinandega                      10,947
14                 Boaco                            2,751
15                Carazo                            5,976
16                 Masaya                           7,346
17                South Atlantic Region              886
18                 North Atlantic Region             582
Total                                             171,652
Source: Ministero de Construccion y Transporte, Direccion General de Vialidad.



- 51 -
NICARAGUA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Table 2.5: Transport Infrastructure Investments (1996-2000)
Ongoing  Cost a/    Possible
Sector             Investment             or New   US$m   Finance Source    Priority
Ports     Corinto:
Rehabilitation of container crane   N        0.2   ENAP             High
Rehabilitation of general cargo dock  0      1.3  ENAP              High
Dredging access channel             N       12.0   Netherlands      Low
Rama:
Dredging of sandbar at El Bluff     0       0.1   DANIDA            High
Provision of container crane        N        0.5  Private           High
Provision of chilled/frozen facilities  N    1.0  Private           High
Electricity supply                  N        0.2   ENAP             High
Sub total ports                             15.3
Airports   Managua:
Freight Facilities                  0       2.0  Private/EAAI       High
Psg'r. terminal modernization       N      20.0  Private/EAAl       High
Other airports                      N        5.0   Govemment        Low
Sub total airports                         27.0
Roads    East-West Corridor
San Benito - Rama                   N      22.4  IDA/DANIDAIIDB   High /(
North - South Corridor
Izapa - Chinandega                  N      18.0  IDA                High
Corinto - Chinandega                N       4.4  IDA                High
Chinandega - Guasale                N       17.0  IDA               High
Nandaime - Penas Blancas            0       15.0   DANIDA           High
Other
Rural roads (REMECAR)               0      75.0  IDB                High
Rural and Feeder Roads              0      35.0  IDB                High
Bridge reconstruction               0      20.0   EU/JAPAN          High
Maintenance                         0      60.0   GovernmentVRMF  Very Hig
Sub total roads                           267.8
Total                                     311.1
Source: "Recovery in the Transport Sector" - Report No. 14474-NI.
a/ Estimated costs, including taxes of 15-22%.
b/ DANIDA funds currently being used to carryout emergency repairs
(C$14m in 1995) and to complete studies and designs.



NICARAGUA
ROAD REHADIUTATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Table 2.6: Road Network Improvement a/
Annual Improvement Program dt
t1S94 rJ t(km)                                                     1999 e        Source
Length   b/Condition by Km Maintainable Roads    95  96     97      98      99    Total   Maintainable Roads    or
Category            (km)      Good    Fair  km           I              -        -                      -         km       %      Funds f/
Trunk Roads Total              1,137.0     65.8  255.5  321.3    28.3        0.0   81 7   189.6  176.7  248.3  696.3         865.9    83.7
Izapa-Chinandega                67.7                       0.0    0.0               7 7    30.0   30.0             67.7      67.7   100.0  IDA
Chinandega-Guasaule              73.3             17.1   17.1   23.4                0.0   30.0   30.0   13.3   73.3          73.3   100.0  IDA
Nandaime-Rivas-Penas Blancas    81.7                       0.0    0.0              30.0   30.0   21.7              81.7      81.7   100.0 DANIDA
San Benito-El Rama             260.0                       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0   28.0   50.0   60.0  138.0          138.0    53.1  DANIDA
Boaco-Muy Muy-Matiguas-R. Blan    107.1    8.1    0.0    8.1       7.6             44.0   40.0   15.0              99.0     107.1    100.0   FIV
Managua-Masaya                  31.6              31.6   31.6                              31.6                    31.6      31.6   100.0
Masaya-Granada                   15.4                                                                       7 3     7.3       7.3    47.4
Granada-Guanacaste               10.8                                                                                                  0.0
Guanacaste-Nandaime               9.1                                                                                                  0.0
Masaya-Catanna-Guanacaste       17.4                                                                       10.0   10.0       10.0    57.5
Las Piedrecitas-Nejapa-Nandaime  60.6                                                                                                  0.0
Masaya-Tipitapa                 23.2                                                                                                   0.0
Nejapa-lzapa                    57.7      57.7            57.7                                                               57.7   100.0
Chinandega-Corinto              20.8                                                                                                   0.0
Managua-Yalaguina              206.8             206.8  206.8                                             103.0  103.0      206.8   100.0
Yalaguina-Somoto                  9.5                                                                       9.5    9.5        9.5   100.0
Somoto-El Espino                21.6                                                                       15.0   15.0       15.0    69.4
Las Piedrecitas-lzapa           60.2                                                               30.0   30.2   60.2        60.2   100.0
Valle Dorada-Cuesta de los Martire  2.5
Collector                      6,170.6     58.9  730.0  788.9    12.8       23.0  120.0   82.0  123.0  195.0  543.0    1,331.9    21.6  IDB
Productlon Clrcults            1,305.9     80.0  115.0  195.0   14.9         0.0    5.0   29.9   16.0    0.0   50.9          245.9    18.8  IDB
Feder                          5,258.9    316.0 1,159.0 1,475.0   28.0    119.0  226.0  189.0  141.0  106.0  781.0    2,256,0          42.9
Municipal                      3,274.2      0.0  150.0  150.0    4.6         0.0    0.0   73.0   73.0   73.0  219.0          369.0    11.3
Totals                        1 7,14C.0 _   620.7 2,409.6 2,330.2   17.11   1 42.0  432.7  163.6  629.7  622.3 2,290.2    5,068.71    29.6
Note:
a) Assumes adequate maintenance to prevent deterioration of roads in good and fair condition.
b) Good = IR1 5 or better; Fair = IRk10 or better. Maintainable (minimum) = km of roads in good + fair conditon
c) Best estimates - to be updated as the results from the DANIDA-4inanced road condition study become available.
d) Indicative targets to be updated annually They are based generally on capital budgets of CS132.8 million in 1995, and CS340.6 mililon pa. for 1996-1999.
e) Totals are not always cumulativ as some roads in fair conditon will be rehabilitated.
f) lmprovemert plans by Donor are: IDA=140 km., DANIDA = 200 km., FIV - 99 km.
Source: Ministerio de Construccion y Transporte, Direccion General de Vblidad, December 1995.



- 53 -
NICARAGUA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Table 2.7: Capital and Recurrent Expenditure
(million Cordobas)
Item               1992.0  1993.0  1994.0   1995    1996
(est.)  (prop.)
1. Government Total                2589.6  2535.2  2790.4  2,940.8  4.401.3
1.1 Capital                      815.6   484.9   579.3   697.7  1,471.1
1.2 Recurrent                   1774.0  2050.3  2211.1  2,243.1  2,930.2
2. MCT Total                        329.7   182.9   239.7   242.7   482.3
2.1 Capital                      265.3   130.1   188.2   195.7   443.7
2.2 Recurrent                     64.4    52.8    51.5    47.0    38.6
3. Roads Total                      228.5   105.4   206.1   207.1   399.0
3.1 Captal                        162.4    62.1   102.1   119.6   301.0
3.1.1 Govemment                89.9    36.5    23.7    51.3    53.2
3.1.2 External                 72.5    25.6    78.4    68.3   247.8
3.2 Maintenance                   66.1    43.3   104.0    87.5    98.0
3.2.1 Routine                  42.0    25.0    25.0    23.0    14.2
3.2.2 Reshape Rural Roads                      21.4    23.3    41.2
3.2.3 Resurface Roads          20.9     6.2     8.0      9.9    25.0
3.2.4 Road Drainage                             1.2     2.9      3.2
3.2.5 Coffee Roads              3.2     2.7    34.2    12.3
3.2.6 Rama Road                 0.0     0.0    14.2    16.1    14.4
3.2.6.1 Govemment                           1.8     3.9     8.5
3.2.6.2 DANIDA                             12.4    12.2     5.9
3.2.7 Other (studies, etc)              9.4
4. Inflation (%)                      0.0     0.2     0.1    10%       8%
5. Exchange Rate (C$IUS$)             5.0     6.1     6.7      7.5     8.5
6. GDP                             9225.5 11067.3 12445.4 14,270.4 16,519.8
Source: Ministerio de Construccion y Transporte, Diclembre 1995.



-54-
NICARAGUA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAiNTENANCE PROJECT
Table 4.1: Exising Road Design Standards
Type of Road              National 2nd. Class      Depatmental 1 st Class    Departmental 2nd. class
Right-of-way                            50.00 m.                  40.00 m.                   30.00 m.
Surface width                           9.70 m.                    8.50 m.                    5.00 m
Pavement width                          6.70 m.                    8.10 m                     5.00 m
Maximum slope:
a. Flat terrain               3% and up to 4% for 900 m.   5% and up to 6% for 700 m.   6% and up to 8% fr 500 m.
b. Rolling terrain            5% and up to 6% for 300 m.   7% and up to 10% for 300 m.  8% and up to 10% for 300 m.
c. Mountainous terrain        7% and up to 8% for 300m.   9% and up to 12% for 200 m.  10% and upto 12% for 200 m.
Design Speed:
a. Flat trrain                         80 Kmthr                   60 Kmlhr                   50 Km/hr
b. Rolling terrain                     60KmJhr                    45 Km/hr                   40 Km/hr
c. Mountainous trrain                  40 Km/hr                   30 Knfhr                   30 Km/hr
Vertical Sight Distance:
a. Flatterrain                           110m.                      75m.                       60m.
b. Rolling terrain                       75 m.                      55 m.                      45 m.
c. Mountainous trrain                    45 m.                      30 m.                      30 m.
Dgrees of Curvature (Max.):
a. Flattewmin                            330                       6BW                        15.W
b. Rolling terrain                         so                        12                       24 30'
c. Mountainous terrain                    10.                       20                       43 30
Enbankment slope:
a. <120 meters                            4:1                       3:1                        3:1
b. >1.20 mters but <2.00 meter            3:1                       2:1                        2:1
c. >2.00 metrs                            2:1                      1-1/2:1                    1-1/2:1
Cut Slope:
a. Unknown soil conditions                1:1                        1:1                       1:1
b. Rock                              From 0 to 1/2:1            From 0 to 1/2:1            From 0 to 1/2:1
c. Compacted soil                         1:1                        1:1                       1:1
d. Less compacted soN              From 1-1/4:1 to 2:1        From 1-1/4:1 to 2:1        From 1-1/4:1 to 2:1
Superolevation (max.)                     10%                       10%                        10%
Shoulder width                          1.50 m.                    1.20 m.
Maximum Crown (lateral slope)             3%                        3%                         3%
Width of bridges                        9.70 m.                    7.30 m.                    3.65 m.
Design Load                           HS - 20.44                 HS, -20 -44                HS-20-44
Source: Ministerio de Construccion y Transporte, Direccion General de Vialidad.



-55-
NICARAGUA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Table 4.2: Maintenance Targets
Item                         1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
1. MCT Road Maintenance Budget (USSmil)       12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    15.0
2. % Budget Allocated to Private Sector         10      20      30       40      50
3. Amount Alocated for Contrects (USSmil)      1.2     2.4      3.6     4.8      7.5
4. Km Maintained by Private Sector
4.1 Routine Maintenance
4.1.1 Paved
- Microompresas                                   400     500      600     800
-Other                                   100      150     200      400     600
4.1.2 Unpaved
- Microemprosas                                   100     120      160     300
- Other                                  200      250     400      600    1000
4.2 Periodic Maintenance
4.2.1 Paved                                  25       50      75      100     150
4.2.2 Unpaved                                50       75     100      125     200
Total                          375    1025    139S    1985    3050
5. Cost (USSmil)
5.1 Routne Maintenance
5.1.1 Paved
- Micoemprosas                                   0.40     0.50    0.60    0.80
- Other                                  0.15    0.20     0.30    0.60    0.90
5.1.2 Unpaved
- Microomprosas                                  0.10    0.10    0.15    0.30
- Other                                  0.30    0.35     0.60    0.90    1.50
5.2 Periodic Maintenance
5.2.1 Paved                                 0.50    1.00     1.50    2.00    3.00
5.2.2 Unpaved                               0.25    0.35     0.50    0.60    1.00
Total                         1.20    2.40    3.50    4.85    7.50
a. Costs and km are rounded
b. The numbers, value and duration of contracts wiN be monitored
c. Unit costs estimated by mission as folows:
1. Routino Maintenance (once per year)
1.1 Paved Roads
- Microomprosas    US$ 1000
- Other          USS 1500
2.1 Unpaved Roads
- Microempresas    US5 800
- Other          USS 1500
2. Perodic Maintenance (once every 4-6 yrs)
2.1 Paved Roads     USS 20,000
2.2 Unpaved Roads    USS 5,000



- 56 -
NICARAGUA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Table 4.3: Estimated Disbursement Schedule a/
(US$ million)
IDA fiscal year                   Cumulative     Cumulative
and semester     Disbursements  Disbursements   Percentage
1997
December31, 1996           2             2 bl            8
June 30, 1997              2              4             16
1998
December 31, 1997          6             10             40
June 30, 1998              8              18            72
1999
December31, 1998           3             21             84
June 30, 1999              2             23             92
2000
December 31, 1999          1             24             96
June 30, 2000              1             25             100
a/ Assumes credit effectiveness in September 1996.
b/ Includes retroactive financing of up to US$0.5 million.



-57 -
NICARAGUA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Table 5.1: Actual and Expected Trafflc Volumes
(a) Izapa-Leon
Total                Passenger                        Freight           Other
Year            ADT    Cars  Light Pass. Buses Pick-Ups    Truck (C2) Truck (C3) Tr. Trailer  Traffic
1995            3,352     142    1,379    299    767          367       52       327      19
1996            3,489     149    1,448    314    790          378       54       337      20
1997            3,632     157    1,520    330    814          389       55       347      20
1998            3,781     164    1,596    346    838          401       57       357      21
1999            3,937     173    1,676    363    863          413       59       368      21
2000            4,099     181    1,760    382    889          425       60       379      22
2001            4,268     190    1,848    401    916          438       62       390      23
2002            4,445     200    1,940    421    943          451       64       402      23
2003            4,630     210    2,037    442    972          465       66       414      24
2004            4,822     220    2,139    464   1,001         479       68       427      25
2005            5,023     231    2,246    487   1,031         493       70       439      26
2006            5,233     243    2,359    511   1,062         508       72       453      26
2007            5.453     255    2,476    537   1,094         523       74       466      27
2008            5,682     268    2,600    564   1,126         539       76       480      28
2009            5,921     281    2,730    592   1,160         555       79       495      29
2010            6,170     295    2,867    622   1,195         572       81       509      30
2011            6,431     310    3,010    653   1,231         589       83       525      30
2012            6,704     325    3,161    686   1,268         607       86       540      31
2013            6,988     342    3,319    720   1,306         625       89       557      32
2014            7,285     359    3,485    756   1,345         644       91       573      33
(b) Leon-Chinandega
1995            3,864     187    1,489    347   1,000         417       44       292      88
1996            4,021     197    1,564    364   1,030         430       45       301      90
1997            4,184     206    1,642    382   1,061         443       47       310      93
1998            4,354     217    1,724    402   1,092         456       48       319      96
1999            4,532     228    1,810    422   1,125         470       51       329      99
2000            4,717     239    1,901    443   1,159         484       53       339     102
2001            4,910     251    1,996    465   1,194         498       54       349     105
2002            5,111     264    2,096    488   1,230         513       56       359     108
2003            5,322     277    2,200    512   1,266         529       57       370    111
2004            5,541     291    2,310    538   1,304         545       59       381     115
2005            5,770     305    2,426    565   1,344         561       59       392     118
2006            6,009     320    2,547    593   1,384         578       61       404     122
2007            6,259     336    2,674    623   1,425         595       63       416     125
2008            6,519     353    2,808    654   1,468         613       65       429     129
2009            6,791     371    2,949    687   1,512         631       67       442     133
2010            7,075     389    3,096    721   1,558         650       69       455     137
2011            7,371     409    3,251    757   1,604         670       71       469     141
2012            7,681     429    3,413    795   1,652         690       73       483     145
2013            8,004     451    3,584    835   1,702         711       75       497     150
2014            8,341     473    3,763    876   1,753         732       77       512     154
gI Truck (C2) = 2 axle truck.
h/ Truck (C3) = 3 axle tuck.



- 58 -
NICARAGUA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Table 5.2: (a) Vehicle Operating Costs
(Excluding Passenger Time Costs)
(Cordoba/Km)
Izapa-                Leon-
Section               Leon                Chinandega
Road Condition          Good       Poor       Good        Poor
Pick-up (freight)       1.49       3.32        1.44       3.27
Light truck             2.43       5.54       2.35        5.46
Medium truck            2.84       5.64       2.78        5.58
Heavy truck             6.07       10.09       5.78       9.81
Bus                     2.36       3.11       2.25        3.00
Car/jeep                1.13        1.93       1.12       1.91
(b) Vehicle Operating Costs
(including Passenger Time costs)
(Cordoba/Km)
izapa-                Leon-
Section               Leon                Chinandega
Road Condition          Good       Poor       Good        Poor
Pick-up (freight)       1.49       3.32        1.44       3.27
Light truck             2.43       5.54       2.35        5.46
Medium truck            2.84       5.64       2.78        5.58
Heavy truck             6.07       10.09      5.78        9.81
Bus                     4.60       5.81       4.45        5.68
Carfjeep                1.35       2.17        1.33       2.15



- 59 -
NICARAGUA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Table 5.3: Economic Rates of Retum
(Izapa-Leon)
Total
Maintenance   VOC      Net      Time      Net
Year   Investments a/   Costs b/   Savings  Benefits  Savings  Benefits
1        22,778                            (22,778)           (22,778)
2        22,776                            (22,777)           (22,777)
3                       117       61,219   61,102    2,007   63,110
4                       (957)      63,379   64,335    2,108   66,443
5                      1,816      65,619   63,803    2,213   66,016
6                      2,348       67,943   65,595    2,324   67,919
7                       117        70,355   70,238    2,440   72,678
8                       729        72,858   72,129    2,562   74,691
9                       138        75,456   75,318    2,690   78,008
10                     10,656      78,152   67,496    2,824   70,321
11                      1,802      80,951    79,148    2,966   82,114
12                      (957)      83,856   84,813    3,114   87,926
1 3                      154       86,872   86,718    3,270   89,987
14                      4,034      90,004   85,971     3,433   89,404
1 5                      117       93,256   93,139    3,605   96,744
16                      (91 9)     96,634   97,553    3,785  101,338
17                     11,729     100,141    88,412    3,974   92,386
ERR=94.4%         ERR =96.7%
a/ Includes Supervision Cost.
b/ Adequate maintenance expenditure to keep road passable is assumed
in w/o project scenario.
Note: Values are in C$000.



-60 -
NICARAGUA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Table 5.4: Economic Rates of Return
(Leon-Chinandega)
Total
Maintenance   VOC      Net      Time      Net
Year   Investments a/   Costs b/    Savings  Benefits  Savings  Benefits
1        42,515                            (42,515)          (42,515)
2        42,415                            (42,415)          (42,415)
3                       160       98,992   98,832    3,106  101,938
4                      (1,156)    102,475  103,631    3,261  106,892
5                      5,312     106,089  100,777    3,425  104,202
6                      3,705     109,838  106,133    3,596  109,729
7                       160      113,728  113,568    3,776  117,343
8                      3,955     117,764  113,809    3,964  117,773
9                      270       121,952  121,683    4,163  125,845
10                     15,923     126,299  110,376    4,371  114,747
11                     5,271      130,811  125,540    4,589  130,129
12                     (1,156)    135,495  136,651    4,819  141,469
13                     1,563      140,357  138,794    5,060  143,854
14                     7,524      145,404  137,880    5,313  143,193
15                      160       150,645  150,485    5,578  156,063
16                     (1,046)    156,087  157,133    5,857  162,990
17                     17,239     161,738  144,499    6,150  150,649
ERR=84.6%         ERR = 86.7%
a/ Includes Supervision Cost.
b/ Adequate maintenance expenditure to keep road passable is assumed
in w/o project scenario.
Note: Values are in C$000.



-61-
NICARAGUA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Table 5.5: Characteristics and Sensitivity Analysis of Road Sections
Izapa-             Leon-
Section                   Leon            Chinandega
IRR(%)-VOC + time svgs.              96.7               86.7
B/C ratio @ 10%                      11.0                9.3
Surface type/condition
Existing:                       Carpeta Asfaltica    Carpeta Asfaltica
Condition                          Poor               Poor
IRI                                 10                 10
Proposed:                       Carpeta Asfaltica    Carpeta Asfaltica
Condition                          Good               Good
IRI                                 2.0                2.0
Traffic Range:
Existing ADT (4-whi vehicle)         3,352              3,864
Slow moving vehicles (%)              0.6                2.4
Population                          94,662             217,385
Length (km)                          27.4               40.3
Economic Costs/Km (C$miles)         1,662.6            2,107.4
Main Sources of Benefits:
NPV (C$ mil) @ 10%
- based on voc                    380,146            602,009
- based on voc & time svgs.       395,297            625,455
NPV       ERR       NPV        ERR
Sensitivity                 (miles C$)  (%)       (miles C$)  (%)
Base-case                    327,755    96.7      517,355     86.7
Costs +20%                   319,411    84.4      501,565     75.4
Benefits - 20%               253,860    81.9      398,094     73.0
Current Maintenance          293,481    94.9      465,532     85.2
Exclude time                 315,097    94.4      497,767     84.6



MINISTRY OF CONSTRUCTION AND TRANSPORT
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
Direcci6n Superior
AdivisitnGeneral      Divisi6n General           |im General            Relaciones   |       Auditoria            Asesoria             Unidad
AFinanciera|a          Planificaci6n              Control                Puiblicas            Interna              Legal             Ambiental
ol
Direcci6n General       Direcci6n General               Direcci6n General        Dci6* General      Direcci6n General
Transporte             Aeronautica                      Transporte        lDireaccind ner            Vivienda y
Terrestre                 Civil      |                  Acuatico              e   la                Urbanismo
Asesoria     _ _ DirecciCn Organ.
Tecnica           de Transporte
Direccion Ing.       
Mecanica9             INETE                     CERC
_Direccion Ing.
de Transporte
_Direccion Legis.
Transp.Terre~str]e



IBRD 27723
NICARAGUA                                                                         85
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILTATION    H 0 N D U R A S
PROJECT
___,,___       F                                 Alt,tude sn meters:                                                                              ,;l      o       or                      c
-       .Pon Aneril,an Nighoay                0 - 500
-       !i Jllin pavsd road.                  500-1,000
-     All-wother rads (grovel)                1,000-1,500                                                .-,,-
-----ry weathrrorods                         1,500-2,000                                              T
- \t'   tthe'rppsrPs                                         S                         / t;<        , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4,\\    T>o.o   <-'s~~I  C10 -$QIT$ 
Princpal ports                                                                                 'COSOSWO
Nt  ;'Otherndr  i39;_.                                                                                                                  X+o a   
International airport 
* Secondary airports
.' !Inland water.ays
-   Riners
- P portnrne  boundones                                                                   /    E                         6.  .     _.  -  -
)nternational bowndarles                                    ,_-N.j                                                      o*" Cob. .4
*                                                                                                                             LOCO ?   S,   ),, ,r:                                  Oj^C,,,O
;-1                                                                                         W- .a Ro,,
El SolO
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S. Gu/fo ofI t-.oI,_,.'\,h 
,. ,;< / \ j /,*    sx    rn   El  9  ~~~~~~~~/  C>rjdo4,  * f sq PU0o   m   1                                                 ;. <6 t! go
Molochono      .        _          do,,,~_ZP. ~'\'NeoGn
S.- 'A- 
5'                                                                     N
-OfE1                                                                      Bay    oj            __ D    OLt'  nT  es!o4  Mn    Op
, L   .       .C.*                  _                                  ,     \*                                               ,-    Pf d r a                    P ..  \ d .1
4_                                                                                                                                                                         Cal  onuJdlu   E   OeimaS M
*00ZT 0                                                     50                                                                                                                                 53* I I  C=  d
Sc-  ire-                                            So-do5.,          'S,I'SLAfNDS \e va a}                                                                                                        '
-   e   a  < C0 Gp ~m on El Troi - ,                                                                T.,rr= nsjy |_
BLtl~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~I8RAY19






O                                                                                                           CENTRAL AMERICA
\CJr -- ----C                                                                              ROADS MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION
I =i   !                                                                                    PROJECT
Natural Corridor
LL.                /BELIZE
Natural Corridor (Corredor Natural)
s-  i  *  National Capitals
L*Puerto Barrios
Santo Toma6s           Puerto Cortes                                                                Main Ports
de Castilla                                                                                       International Boundaries
GUATEMALA
Guatemala (                HONDURAS
~ g   >*  Tegucigalpa                      Puerto        k  3 J        Lt) |2
*        IA,                            ,;; Cabezas                 S e Pt
Puerto -   .  \  * San Salvador /    Sno
Acajuth             t               Lorenzq
EL SALVADOR                                        NICARAGUA
L Mana  Sa           Rama
Cr      *, Managua L                El Bluff
P A C F I C                                           \  
OCEAN                                                 f-
-         COSTA
RI CA    . ,Limon - Moin
sL )   Son Jose                         Colon
Caldr                                Pnamiia Canria/ 1
O        I00      200       300       400      500 KILOMETERS                                                                                     A C   ?  I'A  A
|   |   |   |   S   |                                       t    </                        <    4,1; ~~~~~       ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~Panama  
~~I             I            I                                                               \  j                                       nomo P,(?s     
0             100             200            300 MILES                                                                                 Balboa
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                            i ,i,
>    sho,wn or this mop do not impiy, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                               COLOMBIA  r
Group, any judgment on the legai slotus of any territory, or any                                                                                           /       L      B
endorsement or acceplance of such boundaries
a 









IMAGING
Report No:      15281 NI
Type: SAR



