Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22029
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-287 10)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR17.2 MILLION (US$25.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR A
ROAD REHABILITATION & MAINTENANCE PROJECT
May 23, 2001
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
l official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 2001)
Currency Unit = C6rdoba
C$13.1 = US$ 1.00
US$ 0.076 = C$1:00
(US$ 1:00 = C$7.8 in December, 1995)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADT                 Average Daily Traffic
ARI                 Acuerdo de Reestructuraci6n Institucional
Institutional Restructuring Agreement
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
COERCO              Corporaci6n de Empresas Regionales de Construcci6n
Regional Highway Construction Agencies
DANIDA              Danish International Development Agency
DGP                 Direcci6n General de Planificaci6n - Directorate General of Planning
DGTT                Direcci6n General de Transporte Terrestre - DG of Transport
DGV                 Direcci6n General de Vialidad - Directorate General of Roads
EAT                 Equipo Apoyo Tecnico - Technical Support Team
ERR                 Economic Rate of Return
HDM                 Highway Design and Maintenance Model
IDB                 Inter-American Development Bank
MCT                 Ministry of Construction and Transport
MTI                 Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure
PPMM                Proyecto Piloto de Microempresas de Mantenimiento
Pilot Project of Microenterprises for Maintenance
RMF                 Road Maintenance Fund
UNDP                United Nations Development Program
VOC                 Vehicle Operating Cost
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director:   Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Emmanuel James



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
NICARAGUA
ROAD REHABILITATION & MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     8
6. Sustainability                                                                        10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       13
9. Partner Comments                                                                      16
10. Additional Information                                                               20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    28
Annex 8. Personnel Turnover, 1996 - 2000                                                 29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P007788                                        Project Name: ROAD REHAB & MAINT
Team Leader: Emmanuel A. James                             TL Unit: LCSFT
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: May 23, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: ROAD REHAB & MAINT                              L/C/TFNumber: IDA-28710
CountiylDepartment: NICARAGUA                                             Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: TT - Transportation Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  07/27/1995                               Effective:  10/17/96           11/14/96
Appraisal:  00/00/0000                                 MTR: 09/15/98
Approval:  05/30/1996                               Closing: 12/31/2000           12/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agencv:  GOVERNMENT OF NICARAGUA/MIN. OF CONSTRUCTION AND
TRANSPORT
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                          Javed Burki
Country Manager:     D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                         Edilberto Segura
Sector Manager:       Danny Leipziger                            Martin Staab
Team Leader at ICR:   Emmanuel James                            Emmanuel James
ICR Primary Author:   Emmanuel Njomo
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainabilitv: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The original project objectives were to: (i) strengthen the institutions that are responsible for road
transport in Nicaragua; (ii) improve the planning, funding and implementation of road
maintenance; and (iii) improve the quality and the capacity of selected trunk roads on a
sustainable basis so as to enhance Nicaragua's export competitiveness.



The Project's Objectives were consistent with the Government's extensive program of
institutional changes relating to the role of the Ministry of Communications and Transport ( MCT
- later restructured and transformed to the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure - MTI), and
that of the role of the private sector in infrastructure facilities rehabilitation and modernization,
most of which had fallen into an advanced state of disrepair, following a difficult ten-year period
of civil strife and political turmoil between 1980-1990.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The Project Objectives were not revised; however, for poverty alleviation reasons, the objectives
were broadened slightly so as to include the participation of community groups in the undertaking
of minor routine maintenance works.
3.3 Original Components:
The original project components, which did not undergo any significant changes during project
implementation comprise the following:
(a) Institutional Strengthening, Technical Assistance, Training and Studies. Under this
component the project supported: (i) the supervision of the construction of road rehabilitation
works and the establishment and training of the staff of the microenterprises; (ii) the improvement
of the MCT maintenance management, planning and operations as well as the training of staff; (iii)
promoting the use of the private sector and communities in the execution of road maintenance
activities; (iv) the implementation of transport studies in the international corridors and in major
urban centers; (v) monitoring and evaluation activities; and (vi) the preparation of future projects.
(b) Road Maintenance. The project included a three-year pilot program for routine road
maintenance with the participation of local communities through the formation of
microenterprises. It was expected that about 10-12 microenterprises (microempresas), composed
of 12-14 persons each from communities along the 40-50 km road section to be maintained,
would be established, trained and equipped to carry out routine maintenance along a total of 500
km of trunk, secondary and feeder roads. The microenterprises were to be established under a
Pilot Plan for the Maintenance by Microenterprises (PPMM) in order to undertake routine
maintenance in a systematic way. Periodic maintenance was handled then entirely by the
Corporaci6n de Empresas Regionales de Construcci6n (COERCO) that had been established by
the Sandinista Administration to construct and maintain public infrastructure. Given the
significant fluctuations in the budgetary allocations for road maintenance, the project included
plans for the development of a reliable funding mechanism for road maintenance through the
establishment of a Road Maintenance Fund (RMF).
(c) Road Network Rehabilitation and Improvement. This component of the project, aimed at
enhancing Nicaragua's export competitiveness, entailed the rehabilitation and improvement of the
Izapa-Chinandega road section located in the middle-third of the Natural Corridor connecting
Nicaragua with Honduras in the north. During project appraisal it was expected that the
Izapa-Chinandega road section would be divided into two contracts (Izapa-Leon &
Leon-Chinandega) and contracted on the basis of ICB. Specifically, the project was expected to
support the rehabilitation of all damaged sections, the widening of substandard sectors to provide
-2-



adequate shoulders, and rebuild major bridge substructures.
At appraisal the project costs were estimated as follows:
COMPONENT                                         COST (US$mln)
Izapa-Leon                                        5.8
Leon-Chinandega                                  10.9
Sub-total Road Rehabilitation                   16.7
Road Maintenance Pilot (PPMM)                     1.6
TA/Trg/Studies                                    4.1
Total Base Cost                                  22.4
Contingencies                                     6.0
Total Project Cost                               28.4
3.4 Revised Components:
The project's components were not revised. However on June 10, 1998 due to a drought
emergency in the Segovias there was a relatively minor change in the road maintenance
component when an agreement was reached between the Government and the Association to
extend eligibility to community organizations to carry out minor road maintenance activities by
contract. This change enhanced the poverty alleviation and short term employment creation
aspects of the project by allowing communities to immediately organize themselves to participate
in the maintenance program. The activities of the communities were limited to simple routine
maintenance related to clearance of the right-of-way, pothole repairs, drainage works cleaning,
etc. About 160 people benefited from their employment through the community organizations.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry was rated as satisfactory. The project objectives were consistent with the
CAS objectives and Government Priorities. The project objectives were designed to complement
the institutional strengthening objectives of other IDA projects already underway, such as the
Institutional Development Project, which entailed the preparation of restructuring agreements
(ARI) for several Government Departments. In terms of physical investments, the project
components were chosen following a feasibility study and detailed engineering financed under a
then on-going IDB project (REMECAR I, NI-0003) and represented one section of the highest
priority corridor among the road sections studied. ( The other priority section in the natural
corridor connecting Nicaragua to Costa Rica in the south was rehabilitated with the financial
assistance of the Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA)). Since this was the first
IDA operation in the transport sector following the resumption in lending by IDA in Nicaragua
after a 10 year lapse, the project design drew on the IDA's extensive experience with countries
whose infrastructure had undergone severe deterioration after years of neglect. In the case of
Nicaragua, this was accomplished by: (i) focusing on the economically viable segments of the
network; (ii) using project conditionality to increase the level and reliability of budgetary
-3-



allocations for maintenance; and (iii) designing a system of contract road maintenance that
emphasized the role of the private sector while tackling the issues of employment creation and, to
some extent, poverty alleviation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outpuis
4.1 Outcome/achieve,nent ofobjective:
Overall the project objectives were achieved fully despite the fact that this was the first IDA
project in the transport sector. Furthermore this success is remarkable given the fact that the
Government changed prior to the effectiveness of the Credit, causing startup delays, and that
Nicaragua was subjected to several natural disasters during the project implementation period,
including Hurricane Mitch in October 1998; El Nifio Drought in 1997-98; and, Hurricane Keith in
late September 2000. Despite these setbacks the road rehabilitation was completed with a cost
overrun of less than 10% overall and 6 weeks ahead of schedule, and in addition, new
technologies were introduced to Nicaragua.
(a) Institutional Strengthening of MTI
The project was successful in reorienting the MCT away from emphasizing construction and
maintenance solely by state-owned enterprises and operation of road transport to its present
focus on regulation, safety and the environment. This was accomplished through staff training,
consultancy and technical support under this project (and a second project that was approved in
June 1998). The MCT was reorganized in September 1998 and transformed into the Ministry of
Transport and Infrastructure (MTI). Given that this was the first project in the transport sector
following the resumption of IDA activities, knowledge of Bank procedures was non-existent.
Consequently MTI staff had to be provided with training in IDA procurement procedures, which
to some extent have been adopted for the Government's other procurement activities. Staff of
MTI have also been trained in the use of the IDA-developed HDM model for road investment and
prioritization, as well as in transport planning, and project financial management systems. A
purely private initiative - the PPMM - was developed and perfected for the carrying out of road
maintenance by contract. Furthermore consultants were engaged to carry out a variety of studies
and technical assistance related to: urban transport in 8 cities; the preparation of the National
Transport Plan (IDB financed); technical support for the Planning Department (DGP); and
institutional strengthening of the DGP.
(b) Improvement in the Planning, Funding and Implementation of Maintenance
After 1979, the provision of road construction and maintenance services became-the responsibility
of the COERCO, which had been specifically created by the then Government for this purpose.
The end result was that most construction companies either left the country or folded up their
operations. The weakness of the Ministry, lack of budgetary resources and poor quality of staff
and equipment among the COERCOs combined to cause a severe deterioration in the road
network. Through the Pilot Plan of Maintenance by Microenterprises, the project supported the
re-introduction and enhancement of the private sector involvement in the maintenance of roads.
This entailed the design of procedures for the establishment of microenterprises and the
development of a program for the training of the staff and administration of the program.
Microenterprises and community organizations were successfully established to undertake road
maintenance by contract. The project strengthened the financing of road maintenance
- 4 -



expenditures through budgetary allocations. In addition legislation was prepared and submitted to
the Parliament for the establishment of the Road Maintenance Fund to help make the funding of
maintenance dependable and sustainable. The RMF law was passed in June 2000 and specific
charges and levies have been identified as possible sources of a more reliable funding for road
maintenance. However, the Government did provide the agreed budgetary allocations for
maintenance.
(c) Improvement of the quality and capacity of key trunk roads.
The road sections from Izapa - Le6n (27.4 km) and from Le6n - Chinandega (40.3 km) were
successfully improved. The project also introduced a new road paving technology that was aimed
at utilizing existing pavements through the use of recycled asphalt, a process that is both cost
effective and much more environmentally acceptable than previous practices. Traffic flow was
significantly improved through the provision of road shoulders (given the mix of trucks and
slow-moving vehicles), the construction of bus stops, and improved maintenance.
4.2 Outputs by conmponents:
(a) Institutional Strengthening of MTI
MTI staff were trained in IDA procurement procedures, which have been adopted to some extent
for the Government's other procurement activities. Staff of MTI were trained in the use of the
IDA-developed HDM model for road investment and prioritization. Staff were also trained in
transport planning and project financial management systems. A total of 362 staff at MTI (and the
microenterprises) were trained as follows: 69 in 1997, 119 in 1998, 91 in 1999 and 83 in 2000.
In addition, international consultants were hired to assess the transport situation in 8 urban
centers. The study established an urban transport development plan covering a 15-year horizon as
well as investment priorities linked to expected vehicular traffic growth in terms of quantity and
composition. A mathematical model was also developed for forecasting traffic trends which would
serve as the basis for regional plans. Consultants designed a financial management system and
prepared a financial administration manual to help guide the implementation of policies, norms,
and procedures for preparing the operational plans, budgets, accounts, financial statements and
audits. The Ministry's project management capacity was strengthened through the establishment
of the Technical Support Team (EAT). Ministry staffing was rationalized leading to a reduction of
staff from about 8,000 in the 1980's to under 1,400 at present. With DANIDA assistance MTI
undertook a condition inventory of the paved road network and developed the first version of the
Pavement Management System (PMS). The IDA's Roads Economic Decision model was
introduced also and used to analyze roads with low traffic volumes and to advise the concerned
municipalities on likely budgetary requirements for their maintenance. The integration of the PMS
in the normal budget planning cycle of MTI is being undertaken under the second project (Credit
3085-NI). DANIDA also financed two long term consultants to assist the MTI staff in Transport
Planning. DANIDA is continuing its assistance to the PMS program which would lead to the
extension of the PMS to 8,000 km of the road network and the provision of a specialist for 5
years.
(b) Improvement in the Planning, Funding and Implementation of Maintenance
The Plan Piloto de Mantenimiento por Microempresas( Pilot Plan for the Maintenance by
Microenterprises - PPMM) was put in place with the assistance of an expert from Colombia. The
- 5 -



original plan was to set-up 10 microenterprises. Two microenterprises were set-up in 1996 and
about 95 km of roads were maintained by them under contract. By the end of the project in 2000,
12 microenterprises had been set up under the project and over 900 km of roads were being
maintained under contract. The process had become so successful that it was continued under the
next project (Credit 3085-NI Second Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project). Under the
project itself the concept of the microenterprises was complemented by the inclusion of temporary
community organizations. Other donors have set up microenterprises to undertake road
maintenance under contract under their assistance programs. For example, DANIDA helped
established 2 microenterprises in the Puerto Cabezas - Waspam sector. Following a study tour in
2000 to Nicaragua by Honduran officials, the maintenance by microenterprises program is also
being set up in Honduras.
The highlight of the PPMM was on June 18, 1999 when the President held a ceremony in the
National Stadium in Managua to present awards to the top performing microenterprises. There
are now about 25 microenterprises responsible for the maintenance of 1,250 kin of roads. The
PPMM has had other benefits beyond improved road maintenance. The clearance of vegetation
from the right-of-way dramatically lowered the number of accidents caused by grazing animals.
Furthermore the continuous presence of maintenance workers has reportedly discouraged
highway robberies and other crimes and hence enhanced the security of the inhabitants of wayside
villages. The COERCOs have been downsized and medium term plans made to confine their role
in construction or maintenance to remote regions where adequate private contractor participation
was not expected.
The legislation for the Road Maintenance Fund (RMF) was finalized and sent to the President on
March 24, 1998. In February 1999 RMF Law (Ley 355 de 2000) was reviewed by a Parliamentary
Commission. Its approval was delayed in the Parliament due to the multiple natural disasters
facing the country that put a considerable strain on the budgetary resources of the Government. In
February 2000, the law was reviewed by an Inter-Ministerial Committee in order to vary the
options for raising resources for the RMF. The law was finally approved in June 2000 but the
Government could not get approval of a surcharge on petroleum products (the preferred funding
source for the RMF) through congress, due to the impact of rising prices for fuel on the
Nicaraguan economy. The Government had hoped that it could take advantage of the expected
decline of import prices for petroleum to generate the needed funds without raising the retail
prices of petroleum products. While approval of the RMF Law is an important first step, the
project runs the risk of losing the considerable momentum and progress that have so far been
attained, unless dependable domestic sources of funding for road maintenance can be identified
and tapped.
(c) Improvement of the quality and capacity of key trunk roads
Work on the Izapa-Leon-Chinandega road sections was initially delayed by 6 months because of
the lack of experience by the new Government ( which took office on January 10, 1997) with IDA
procurement rules. It was subsequently awarded to an Italian firm to serve as the main contractor,
in a joint venture with several Nicaraguan construction firms. There were several construction set
backs. The original design had called for pavement recycling using a cold emulsion technique.
But as pavement recycling was new to Nicaragua this design concept was expected to be tested
-6 -



and proven in small sections of the road before its adoption. Testing of the initial works using this
method revealed minor cracking of the road surface. After further testing and persistent cracking,
it was decided to switch to a hot mix technique. With the switch in construction technique the
cracking disappeared and the road pavement has since performed as expected. In addition, due to
a mislabeling problem, the subcontractor procured imported steel beams in the local market that
did not meet specifications and quality standards that had been called for in the bidding
documents. The sub-standard steel was used in 7 of the project bridges, and later had to be
further reinforced or retrofitted with steel beams of the required quality at the contractors'
expense. Finally, after a significant portion of the works had been completed, they were damaged
severely by hurricane Mitch in 1998. This led to the diversion of the contractors' resources, in
particular during a 3-month period between November 1998 to January 1999, when the
contractor spent time cleaning roads and landslides and building bypasses in an effort to restore
basic traffic flow. The projects works and the maintenance program were also affected by the
drought caused by the El Niuto phenomenon and Hurricane Keith.
Despite these set-backs the Izapa-Leon-Chinandega road sections were successfully completed
with a cost overrun of about 14%, but within the project time frame. The Izapa-Leon (27.4 km)
section comprising 4 bridges, 5 culverts, 48 drainage structures, 9 diversions, about 500 signs, 9
bus loading bays, etc. was completed and opened to traffic in June, 1999. The Leon-Chinandega
section ( 40.3 km) comprising 4 bridges, 10 major and 22 simple culverts, 78 drainage structures,
7 diversions, 1,310 signs, 19 bus loading bays, etc. was completed in May 2000, 6 weeks ahead of
schedule. The road surface was significantly improved as indicated by the progressive decline in
the Roughness Index from. 6.8 IRI in 1996 to 1.5 IRI in 2000. The right-of-way was cleared of
vegetation, road shoulders were expanded and bus stops were added to enhance safety and
improve traffic flow. These facility upgrading efforts led to the improvement in management of
different types of motorized and non-motorized traffic such as bicycles, carts and animal traffic as
the previous narrow, shoulderless two lane road, with no bus bays was finally upgraded in a
manner consistent with the type of traffic present.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An ex-post evaluation of the Izapa-Leon-Chinandega road sections was carried out following the
completion of the project works. The results of the evaluation was compared to the forecast
included in the Staff Appraisal Report and presented below:
NPV NPV
ERR  ERR                 SAR  Actual
Road Section:      (SAR) (Actual)           US$M US$M
Izapa-Leon Road Section        84.6  118.0              42.1  48.3
Leon-Chinandega R.S.           96.7  78.0                66.3  56.9
The average daily traffic (ADT) on the Izapa-Leon Road Section reached 4,305 in 2000, and for
the Leon-Chinandega road sectioni reached 4,702 in 2000. The project resulted in the reduction
of vehicle operation costs and time savings due to the attendant decline in the IRI. The increase
in the ADT, despite a rise of nearly 50% in the price of petroleum products, was the result of the
-7 -



overall growth in the Nicaraguan economy and possibly induced by improvements that resulted
from the project investments (widening of the shoulders, construction of bus stops, improved road
alignment and signage). The qualitative improvement in transport services as well as safety
resulted from the clearing of vegetation from the right-of-way thereby improving visibility and
limiting grazing by livestock, and the continuous presence of the employees of the
microenterprises under the PPMM. The project also resulted in other significant benefits such as
the introduction' of systematic road maintenance planning procedures that can not be directly
quantified. In addition, the rehabilitation of the two road sections helped revitalize a crucial
economic development growth pole which contains a significant portion of Nicaragua's
agriculture, livestock and agro-industrial investments. The project also helped improve access to
the Port of Corinto, which is one of the key outlets for Nicaragua's exports on its Pacific coast.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N.A.
4.5 Instittitional development impact:
Substantial. The project was instrumental in bringing discipline and accountability to the MCT
and later to the MTI. During the civil war and in its aftermath, sector facilities deteriorated
severely and the country's capacity to construct and maintain roads was almost completely lost.
Staff were trained in all phases of transport sector management and the private sector was
returned to its proper role in road construction and maintenance. The various studies supported
under the project led to the improvement and application of traffic laws and prioritization of
investments. A system of maintenance by contract utilizing microenterprises and community
groups has been set-up and is fully implemented. The framework for the establishment of a
dependable source of funding for road maintenance with the'passage of RMF Law (Ley 355 de
2000) in June 2000 would help ensure that maintenance program would always have the
resources to finance routine and periodic maintenance by contract. Partly because of the natural
disasters that led to unplanned expenditures, the Government could not obtain approval for the
special surcharge needed to fund the RMF automatically from domestic sources. However, for
MTI, the legislative approval of the RMF represented the achievement of a major institutional
milestone.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of governmentel or implementing agency:
(a) Natural Disasters.
Between 1996-2000, Nicaragua was subjected to three natural disasters: Hurricane Mitch in
October, 1998, the El Nifio Phenomenon in 1997-98 and Hurricane Keith in late September 2000.
As indicated above (see para.4.2c), Hurricane Mitch led to a diversion of the contractor resources
and led to an overall delay of the project by almost 6 months. The El Nifio phenomenon changed
rainfall and drought patterns and affected mostly rural roads, while indirectly influencing the
maintenance program through the extension of the concept of the PPMM to the TES. Hurricane
Keith directly affected the northern part of the corridor of the Izapa-Leon-Chinandega road
sections. However, the most significant impact of the natural disasters was that they delayed the
approval of the RMF Law and created such high demands on the resources of the Government.
-8 -



In reality, the extent of the damage brought on by these natural disasters will take the MTI up to
10 years to restore the damaged facilities to their prior state.
(b) Changes in Government.
The project start-up was delayed by nearly 6 months as a result of the 1996 elections and the
transition to a new administration which came to office on January 10, 1997. Because this was
the first project in the sector since the suspension of IDA operations following the Sandinista
Administration, IDA staff had to interact extensively with the new Government officials in order
to clarify IDA's procurement and other lending policies, and the use of the HDM, etc. Despite
these efforts the bidding documents for the main project works took considerable time to get
approved.
(c) Sub-Standard Steel.
The use of sub-standard steel in the construction of 7 project bridges led to problems between the
contractor/sub-contractors and the consulting firm supervising the construction. The
subcontractors had bought the steel beams in the local market. However, despite their being
labeled as meeting the specifications, their performance during construction raised the suspicion
of the supervising consultant. Subsequent tests in laboratories in the United States and Italy
confirmed that the quality of the beams did not conform to specifications. The sub-contractors
had to reinforce the load bearing flanges of the defective steel or retrofit the affected bridges with
steel of the specified quality. These changes were made at the contractors' expense. Although this
problem was resolved without significantly affecting the project's outcome, it led to ill-will and
mistrust between the contractor, sub-contractor, and the supervising consultant while it lasted.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
(a) Frequent Turnover of the Key Staff
During implementation of the project, there were 7 Ministers and 9 Vice Ministers of MCT/MTI,
5 Directors of Highways and 5 Directors of Planning. Overall combined staff turnover amounted
to about 50 in the higher level staff in MTI dealing with the project. Fortunately there was no
turnover in the positions of Coordinator of IDA Projects and the Director of Microenterprises.
While these staff turnovers were not critical to the project implementation and outcome per se,
they nonetheless had an adverse impact in the speed with which consultants were hired and
studies were undertaken, and typically made it difficult to maintain momentum for changes in the
execution of road maintenance (away from COERCO's). Furthermore, changes in the second tier
of staff due to changes in the Government have meant that the newly acquired skills by the staff
from project-financed training would be lost to the project.
(b) Delay in the Approval of RMF Law
Despite being finalized by consultants on March 28, 1998, the Road Maintenance Fund Law (Ley
355 de 2000) was not approved until June, 2000. Furthermore, dependable (in the long term)
domestic funding sources have not yet been identified. However, the delay and lack of funding
sources have not materially affected the implementation of the maintenance by contract through
microenterprises, because of the availability of funding from external funding agencies such as the
IDA, IDB and DANIDA and Government's adherence, so far, to agreements with IDA on the
provision of counterpart funds. The issue of the lack of a dependable domestic source of funding
-9-



remains troublesome since lack of sufficient funding in the future could adversely affect an
otherwise highly successful experiment. This issue needs to be addressed in the on-going
follow-up projects.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Delay in Contracting the Project Works. Following the approval of the project by IDA's
Executive Directors, Nicaraguan officials requested time to carry out a detailed review of all
aspects of the project because they lacked experience in working with IDA. In addition, the MTI
staff were slow in approving the bidding documents partly based on the then prevailing belief that
prior approval of the budget by Congress was necessary before staff at the technical level could
review and approve procurement actions. These factors combined to produce a one year delay in
contracting the project works:
5.4 Costs and financing:
Project cost details are given in.Annex 2 (Project Costs by Component). Despite the natural
disasters that affected the project and the initial quality control problems, the project costs were
not significantly affected and the project was implemented exactly as originally conceived with an
overall project cost overrun of only 9%. The final project cost was US$30.96 million distributed
as follows: civil works, US$24.85 million; maintenance works US$1.07 million; goods and
materials US$0.35 million; consulting services, US$4.04 million; training, US$0.32 million; and
microenterprise training, US$0.33 million. Similarly, the project was financed broadly as
originally envisaged during appraisal with IDA providing US$25.0 million (or 80%) which is
slightly less than the 880/o expected during appraisal and the Government providing just under
US$6 million (or 20%) or slightly more than the 12% expected at appraisal. The main civil works
contract amounting to US$24.85 million or 80% of the total project cost, comprising the
construction of Izapa-Leon-Chinandega road sections, was awarded on the basis of ICB.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sLstainability rating:
Likely. The prospects for maintaining the achievements attained under the project are supported
by the project outcomes (under this and subsequent projects in the sector). From the sectoral
perspective, a new transport sector law was passed that converted MCT and reoriented the
functions of the MTI by emphasizing its regulatory role and enhancing the role of the private
sector. Furthermore transport policies have been significantly improved by several project
financed studies that resulted in the decentralization of municipal transport. Through the
involvement of the IDA, the MTI has been strengthened through training and technical assistance
and sector investments have been properly prioritized. The rehabilitation of the
Izapa-Leon-Chinandega road sections represents the initiation of the rehabilitation of the network
that had become severely deteriorated following years of neglect during the civil war and the
Sandinista Government. Most importantly through the PPMM, the system of maintenance by
contract through microenterprises has been put in place. The PPMM will ensure that roads are
maintained effectively in a manner that will generate employment and facilitate poverty alleviation.
As of present, 25 microenterprises have been established and are under contract to rnaintain 1,200
km of roads. The chances of the sustainability of the project are greatly enhanced with the
- 10-



approval by the Parliament of the Road Maintenance Fund Law in June, 2000. The identification
of a dependable domestic source of funding for the RMF would help to assure the sustainability of
all of the newly implemented maintenance arrangements in the sector.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
All the main objectives of this project: (i) institutional strengthening of MTI; (ii) improvement in
the planning, funding and implementation of maintenance; and (iii) improvement of the quality and
capacity of key trunk roads are all being continued under a second project (Credit 3085-NI,
Transport II) as well as a third project (Credit 3464-NI, Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance III)
that was approved by IDA's Executive Directors on February 15, 2001. The technical assistance
to MTI was continued under the second project and is proceeding satisfactorily. The project has
helped put in place a program of adoquinado ("paving block") which is durable and has a high
local cost content, thereby addressing the issue of resource constraints. In addition, consultants
financed under the project have assisted Nicaraguan authorities in establishing the legal
framework for annual emergency standby contracts for areas prone to natural disasters. Models of
documents for emergency standby contracts have been drafted, which should facilitate the
handling of future natural disasters. Routine road maintenance by contract under the PPMM
through microenterprises has been expanded under the second project and continues to perform
well. Furthermore, the systematic rehabilitation of the major trunk roads continues to be
undertaken under the second project. The rehabilitation of Aeropuerto - San Benito sections and
the Aeropuerto - Portezuelo sections have been started after being delayed by Hurricane Mitch.
The Third project would continue to support the improvement of transportation infrastructure
along the key international trunk road corridors. It would also help improve rural roads in order
to increase access to productive agricultural areas and to rural communities. The Third project
would continue the institutional strengthening of MTI, improving the planning and priortization of
projects, expanding the implementation of routine and periodic maintenance by contract and
strengthening environmental and social analysis. It also includes specific actions to help
operationalize the RMF.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bansk
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactoiy. Project preparation drew from IDA's experience with countries whose infrastructure
had suffered severe deterioration following years of neglect by emphasizing institutional
strengthening, prioritization of investments and putting in place.a suitable mechanism for
addressing road maintenance, which entailed an enhanced role for the private sector, while
facilitating employment generation and poverty alleviation. Consequently the project design
included sector studies to develop the sector's overall plans along with investment.strategy and
technical assistance for institutional strengthening. It also included measures and policy changes
to make the road maintenance program in Nicaragua sustainable, with a dependable source of
long-term funding. The maintenance program was designed as a pilot with the assistance of
consultants from Colombia who had previous extensive hands-on experience with maintenance by
contract using microenterprises and community groups. The initial experimental nature of the
program was appropriate for a society just emerging from an extended civil conflict. Also using a
seasoned consultant from the region was important in facilitating a buy-in into the PPMM by
Nicaraguan authorities. Despite the fact that the preparation team was dealing with a fluid
- 11 -



political situation, the pre-qualification of contractors was finalized before the approval of the
project by IDA's Executive Directors. This was significant in limiting the delay in project start-up
to only 6 months. The initial feasibility study and detailed engineering of the road section that
was rehabilitated under the project was financed under an on-going IDB project (REMECAR 1,
NI-0003). IDA spent about 44.2 staff weeks from its internal budgetary resources to prepare and
appraise the project at a cost of about US$154,000.
7.2 Supervision:
Highly Satisfactory. IDA supervision effort was highly satisfactory and thorough. About 40 staff
weeks were used for supervision costing approximately US$126,000. The approval of a
follow-up project in June 1998 resulted in a cost savings in supervision as the supervision of the
first project was combined with the preparation and supervision of the second project. Even
though the project was approved at the end of May 1996, and became effective in November
1996 the project launch was not held until April 1997 largely to help ensure that officials of the
new Government were appointed before a formal project launch took place. The dialogue was
excellent and there was continuity in task management. IDA assisted in resolving the initial
problems with hiring of the contractor for the main trunk road rehabilitation and the quality
problems that arose with asphalt recycling and steel beams used for construction of some the
project bridges. IDA's prompt and flexible response following Hurricane Mitch was highly
appreciated by the Government. The formal mid-term review that had been planned for late 1998
was not undertaken due to the fact that a thorough review of the status of the project was an
integral part of the preparation of the second project that had just been approved three months
earlier and the pre-occupation of MTI officials with the Hurricane Mitch Emergency.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. Despite the fact that this project was the first operation in the sector following the
resumption of Bank Group operations in Nicaragua in 1990 and despite the several natural
disasters that produced impacts on the project, the project was successfully completed within the
original closing date of December 31, 2000 without experiencing significant cost overruns. The
PPMM that started as an experimental program to initiate maintenance by contract through
microenterprises and community groups could be judged as successful, given its emulation by
other donors and its expansion under subsequent donor-financed projects, including IDA's. The
sector dialogue has also been successful and productive: a Second Transport project was
approved in 1998 which builds on the objectives of this project, and a Third Transport project
was approved in February, 2001.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The Government's performance during project preparation was varied over time.
The MCT worked quite closely with IDA in the preparation of the project. Government officials
participated in the preparation of feasibility studies and transport corridor studies. However, the
Government's impact and involvement were limited given the change in government prior to
Credit effectiveness, its relative inexperience in transportation project management and its lack of
familiarity with IDA policies and procedures.
7.s Government implementation perfonnance:
Satisfactory. The Government's implementation performance was satisfactory, after the initial
- 12-



problems with the pavement recycling and the quality problems with the construction steel
beams. The Government restructured MCT by transforming it to MTI, reduced staff, and
satisfactorily implemented the findings and recommendations of the Staff Appraisal Report. The
Government reformed the operations of the COERCOs and implemented the PPMM program
satisfactorily. After several years of preparation and design, the Government finally passed the
RMF law in June, 2000. However, due to the concerns about likely negative impact of additional
fuel taxes on Nicaraguan exports, the Government has still to take a definitive decision on a
dependable domestic source (fuel surcharge) of funding for the Road Fund.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. Overall the performance of the MTI is rated as satisfactory, after a slow start. The
performance of MTI and its role in implementation improved significantly after: (i) the technical
assistance was in place; (ii) the familiarity with IDA procurement procedures increased; and (iii)
the project financed training began to bear fruit in the MTI.
7.7 Overall Borrower perjbrmance:
Satisfactory. Overall, Borrower performance was satisfactory. Initially, the Government
performance was uneven. This was due to its relative inexperience in transportation projects
management, the lack of familiarity with IDA procedures and the transition to a new
administration that took over soon after project approval. After the initial problems were
addressed, the Borrower performed satisfactorily. Given the passage of the RMF law, which
represented a landmark achievement by the MTI, it is recommended that the issue of the
automatic funding of the RMF be resolved under the succeeding projects.
8. Lessons Learned
The main lessons learned as a result of the implementation of the project can be summarized as
follows:
(a) The Importance of Institution Building
The implementation of this first project which began in 1995 reached its completion in December
2000 just prior to the approval of the Third project in February 2001. As a result of the technical
assistance, training and mentoring of MTI staff, MTI has been transformed from a tentative
organization that emphasized, at the project's inception, the own-account construction and
operation of physical infrastructure to one that is more oriented toward sector planning and
regulation. Its new orientation has begun to bear fruit. Construction and periodic maintenance
are being awarded increasingly to the private sector while microenterprises are fully accepted as
the leading approach for routine maintenance. Routine maintenance has been systematized and a
whole new class of enterprises have been created under this project to provide this critical service.
As an illustration of how far MTI has evolved one only needs to note that while it took over one
year after loan effectiveness to issue the bidding documents under this first project, the bidding
documents for over 50% of the works to be constructed under the Third project have already
been sent to IDA for review, even though the Credit has not yet been declared effective. The
transformation of MTI can be attributed to: (i) targeted technical assistance, training and studies;
(ii) integration of the project unit within the Ministry itself, (iii) continuity in key positions both in
Nicaragua and at the IDA; and (iv) sustained involvement by the IDA in coordination with other
donors active in the sector.
- 13 -



(b) The Importance of a Dependable Long-term Source of Funding for the RMF
Even though the PPMM has been quite successful and is being continued under subsequent
projects as well as emulated by other donors, there is some long term sustainability risk derived
from its current reliance on budgetary financing. The sustainability of the PPMM was linked to a
fully functioning RMF and while the Law was approved, the automatic funding mechanisms are
not yet in place. However, now that the RMF Law has been passed, it is recommended that IDA
agree on a time bound program for the Government to ensure the automatic funding of the RMF.
Under the Third project, IDA funding for the RMF Works has been made contingent on IDA
approval of the first year work plan and the employment of key managerial and support staff.
This is an important first step to provide a good operational basis for the RMF. The availability of
a regulatory framework would ensure that there is an accountability system in place to control the
proper utilization of the funds after they have been mobilized.
(c) Substantial Non-Economic Benefits of Maintenance By Contract
When the IDA designed the PPMM, the primary aim was to develop a cost effective and
sustainable method to maintain the road network in a resource constrained environment. However
once the system of maintenance by contract using microenterprises and community groups was
fully in place, several additional benefits materialized. First, the continuous presence of the
employees of the microenterprises on the roads being maintained resulted in an increase in the
security of the roads, as their presence reportedly deterred roadside criminals. Second, the
clearance of the right-of-way reduced the grazing of animals and erratic road crossings which
significantly reduced the number of vehicular/animal accidents. In addition pedestrian accidents
were also significantly reduced due to the improved visibility around road curves that were
previously hindered by high vegetation growth. Third, the use of microenterprises created over
500 direct new jobs, thereby favorably affecting the lives of over 3,500 inhabitants, assuming that
one worker supports 7 dependents. Finally, a few of the microenterprises have taken advantage of
the training and equipment acquired under the program to branch out to other lines of business
and to perform community services such as repairing school facilities, etc.; they were also the first
group to provide assistance to flood stricken and isolated victims after Hurricane Mitch. Some of
the microenterprises have expanded the scope of their operations thereby increasing employment
and their impact on poverty reduction. The PPMM has thus initiated a virtuous cycle of training,
microenterprises establishment, employment creation, income generation and poverty alleviation
andbeing local, it leaves a community better endowed, after project.completion, in terms of skills
acquired. It is recommended that these other benefits be studied in greater detail and quantified
under the two follow-up projects in Nicaragua and elsewhere. It is also recommended that
baseline data be developed during this early phase in the implementation of the Third project, to
facilitate a full assessment of the project impact following completion.
(d) Need for Flexibility in Disaster Prone Areas
Project implementation confirmed the need for flexibility in project execution in areas that are
prone to natural disasters. Between 1996-2000, Nicaragua was subjected to 2 hurricanes and the
El Nifio phenomenon plus several earthquakes and volcanic eruptions. Hurricane Mitch resulted
in considerable damage to the on-going works under construction. The contractors spent about 3
- 14-



months building bypasses and diversions to facilitate a quick resumption of traffic on the affected
roads. The Government's efforts in this regard were greatly facilitated by IDA's reallocating
approximately US$20 million from Credit 3085-NI (Second Roads Rehabilitation Project) to
finance the remedial works. IDA's action was highly appreciated by the Government. The quick
response by IDA helped mitigate losses that would have occurred if work had been stopped on
the road sections under construction due to lack of funding.
(e) Importance of Procurement Planning
The completion of the pre-qualification of the contractors before Board approval facilitated the
start of the project. The lack of familiarity with IDA procurement procedures caused a six month
delay in hiring the prime contractor for the Izapa-Leon-Chinandega road sections. Even though
the effectiveness of the Credit was delayed by 5 months and the approval of the bidding
documents was also delayed, it is clear that road construction would have been further delayed an
additional 6-9 months had the task team not undertaken the pre-qualification at that stage of the
project cycle. Early completion of the procurement planning aspects of a project is one of the
best insurance provisions against delayed execution.
(f) Importance of Experienced Supervision
The use of sub-standard steel beams in the construction of 7.of the project bridges, because of a
mislabeling problem, had the potential of causing costly consequences in the future, if corrective
measures were not taken to address the problem. This potential problem had been identified by an
experienced firm that was providing the construction supervision. Despite the ill-will generated
during the search for a solution and the insistence on testing the quality in two laboratories, both
in the US and the prime contractor's home country, the test results from both laboratories
confirmed the standards shortfall. The corrective action subsequently taken was beneficial not
only for the project but also for other construction activities in Nicaragua as well.
(g) Safety Benefits from Simple Design Adaptation
Road safety was significantly enhanced when the designs where adapted to the local conditions
existing in Nicaragua where various types of traffic (vehicular, agricultural, non-motorized,
pedestrians, animals) share the same road by adding shoulders in and around towns and villages
not called for in the traditional Nicaraguan designs. This proved especially useful in isolating
pedestrian and animal traffic from fast moving motorized traffic.
(h) The Need to Mainstream Training
The project included a successful training program for staff of the MTI and of the
microenterprises. As noted above (see para.4.2) approximately 362 staff were trained in various
fields during the project period. However, unless permanent arrangements are made to continue
the training program, the acquired skills will be gradually lost through obsolescence, staff
turnover and attrition. It is important that sustainable arrangements be made to continue the
training programs during the subsequent projects and beyond.
(i) Local Involvement in Strategy Formulation
Counterpart staff would have preferred to be mote involved in the studies of the 8 municipalities
and the other studies that defined strategy for the sector. A deeper involvement would ensure a
-15-



much smoother implementation of the recommendations. Furthermore more intensive
involvement of local personnel also facilitates greater domestic ownership of the policy
recommendations.
(j) Continuity in Task Management.
The continuity in task management both on the part of the IDA and the Government of Nicaragua
was a significant factor in the project's implementation success. The project had only one IDA
task manager and only one Head of World Bank Projects Coordinating Unit within MTI, during
the entire project implementation period. Together, these two key individuals coordinated the
briefing of incoming top Government officials (Ministers, Vice Ministers, etc.) as they concluded
their assignments (see Annex 8). Under their guidance, the project was implemented in
accordance with the original objectives despite the difficult, natural disaster-strewn time period
and the fact that this was the first project in the sector following the resumption of IDA lending to
Nicaragua after over 10 years of internal civil strife.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following is the unedited Spanish-version Executive Summary of the Borrower's ICR
INFORME DE TERMINACION DE PROYECTO (ICR)
(Credito Cr-287 1 NI)
INFORME RESUMEN
I-    INTRODUCCION
La ejecuci6n de este proyecto, bajo el convenio de credito 2871 NI, tuvo lugar despues del
restablecimiento de la democracia participativa, entre el Gobierno de Nicaragua y la Asociaci6n
Internacional de Fomento (AIF) del Banco Mundial (1995). Este es el primer convenio de credito
despues de muchos anios en el pais, cuando se inici6 el apoyo fmanciero del Banco Mundial al
sector transporte. Se implement6 a partir del afno 1996, el cual vino a apoyar el desarrollo de
Nicaragua, en un ambiente en que era necesario introducir responsabilidad, eficacia y eficiencia en
la utilizaci6n de los fondos puiblicos.
Mediante el decreto de la ley El antes Ministerio de Comunicaciones y Transporte se transform6
en el actual Ministerio de Transporte e Infraestructura - MTI, que incluye al sector vivienda,
transporte y comunicaciones. Durante Ia ejecuci6n de este Convenio se llev6 a cabo la
descentralizaci6n de las funciones relevantes al manejo del transporte intramunicipal, y se
redujeron substancialmente las n6minas de personal y funciones regionales del Ministerio. Al
mismo tiempo, se continu6 la utilizacion de las Empresas del Ministerio, coordinadas por la
COERCO (Corporaci6n de Empresas Regionales de la Construcci6n).
Para la ejecuci6n del proyecto se acord6 crear una unidad coordinadora, para llevar acabo las
actividades principales de planeaci6n, programaci6n fisica - financiera y coordinaci6n entre las
diferentes direcciones generales, principalmente: planificaci6n, unidad ambiental, sistema integral
de carreteras y otras coordinaciones con organismos extemos como: Ministerio de Hacienda y
-16-



Credito Publico, MARENA, SETEC, Banco Central, etc.
II-    OBJETIVOS DEL PROYECTO
Los objetivos generales del proyecto son: apoyar la rehabilitacion de la red vial principal,
mantenimiento rutinario de la red vial a traves de microempresas, el fortalecimiento de la
planificacion y programacion de inversiones en el desarrollo y fortalecimiento institucional.
Los principales objetivos generales y especificos del proyecto fueron lievados a cabo conforme el
convenio de credito y el SAR, destacandose la rehabilitacion de la carretera Izapa - Le6n -
Chinandega, la creaci6n de mas de 12 microempresas y la creacion de 16 m6dulos comunitarios
para el mantenimiento de carreteras, desarrollo de estudios, programas de capacitaciones, etc.
Los objetivos planeados originalmente al ser evaluados con los objetivos alcanzados al finalizar el
proyecto, son satisfactorios y consistente con los objetivos planteados con las estrategias del pais
EAP del 23 de junio de 1994, como es la de respaldar los esfuerzos del Gobiemo de Nicaragua,
para llevar a cabo la transformacion hacia una economia de mercado para obtener crecimientos
sostenibles y reducir la pobreza.
Los componentes del programa son:
-     La rehabilitacion de la carretera Izapa -Le6n -Chinandega (67.7 km.)
-     El establecimiento del Programa de Mantenimiento Rutinario con Microempresas, PPMM,
lo que incluye la capacitacion de los Microempresarios. Inicialmente se planteo un Proyecto Piloto
de Mantenimiento de 500 km de vias troncales.
-     El fortalecimiento tecnico y gerencial de la entidad, mediante asistencias tecnicas y una
asesoria permanente a la Unidad Coordinadora,
-     La elaboracion de estudios y la supervision de los proyectos
-     La adquisicion de bienes, para la gerencia del proyecto
III-   PRINCIPALES EXPERIENCIAS Y RESULTADOS OBTENIDOS DURANTE LA
IMPLEMENTACION DEL PROGRAMA
El Convenio ha culminado con exito, facilitando la ejecuci6n de los proyectos en que se da un
tratamiento "equitativo" y mas seguro, a los distintos tipos de trAfico en las vias rehabilitadas. La
interacci6n del trafico motorizado y del trafico no-motorizado (peatones, bicicletas, carretas, etc)
es comun en las carreteras nicaraguienses y es una de las causas principales de los accidentes en las
mismas. En los proyectos incluidos en este Convenio (especialmente el proyecto
Izapa-Le6n-Chinandega) se han proporcionado hombros para que el trifico mencionado
anteriormente pueda desplazarse sin mayores complicaciones y en forma segura. Esto ha causado
una disminucion de los probables accidentes, sobre todo teniendo en cuenta que con las vias
mejoradas se tiende a transitar a mayores velocidades.
En el aspecto tecnico se ha introducido el reciclado de pavimentos existentes, como un
mecanismo de reduccion de costos y del impacto ambiental que implica la disminucion de
- 17 -



utilizaci6n de recursos no renovables, como son el material petreo, equipo, combustibles y
lubricantes que se utilizan en el proceso para la ejecuci6n de la obra. Las experiencias en la
construcci6n en los espesores de la estructura del pavimento del proyecto Izapa -Le6n -
Chinandega son un buen ejemplo para la industria de construcci6n nacional. En este mismo
proyecto se han utilizado las emulsiones asfalticas y se han desarrollado esquemas para enfrentar
situaciones de mala calidad de las mismas, para hacerlas utilizables en las carreteras nacionales.
Se ha logrado que las firmas nacionales trabajen con las firmas internacionales, en el disenlo,
supervisi6n y ejecuci6n de proyectos, con la idea de que se logre un buen grado de transferencia
tecnol6gica, tanto en equipo como en mano de obra.
Se ha logrado que el personal del MTI mejore su nivel academico, principalmente a traves de la
asistencia a cursos y seminarios especializados, tanto fuera del pais como a nivel nacional.
Las experiencias obtenidas en la construcci6n de puentes con vigas de acero estructural ha sido
importantes. Aunque por lo general el desempeiio del contratista fue aceptable se presentaron
problemas de calidad de las vigas principales y de otros elementos, los cuales fueron detectados
por el Personal del MTI, todavia el periodo de correcci6n de defectos del contrato. Esto permiti6
obligar al contratista a realizar las reparaciones pertinentes a satisfacci6n del cliente y con la venia
de la firma supervisora. La lecci6n importante es que es necesario asegurar la calidad de las obras
verificando los parametros de resistencia y los documentos de garantia de las mismas, aunque el
contratista presente certificados de origen, es necesario comprobar la calidad de estos materiales
en laboratorios de otros paises, ya que los pocos existentes en este pais no tienen el equipo
id6neo, para realizar tales pruebas. Esto nos confirma tarnbi6n la necesidad de exigir garantias a
mediano plazo por la calidad de todas las obras viales que ejecutan los contratistas.
Durante la ejecuci6n de este Convenio se cre6 el Programa de Microempresas Asociativas de
Mantenimiento vial - PPMM, que actualmente ya incluye a unas 25 empresas cubriendo unos
1,250 kms de red vial. Tambien se crearon m6dulos comunitarios para llevar a cabo obras de
mantenimiento en caminos rurales. Este programna ha permitido demostrar los beneficios de un
buen mantenimiento rutinario, a la vez que se ha mejorado el nivel de vida de muchas personas en
el medio rural. El programa ha servido de ejemplo para otras entidades nacionales y tambien esta
incluido en el Tercer Convenio de Credito CR-3464 NI.
El Convenio ha facilitado la orientaci6n futura de otros convenios, en un marco de eficacia y
eficiencia en el uso de los recursos, dando el adecuado nivel al mantenimiento vial.
Es importante mencionar que con este proyecto se implement6 la automatizaci6n de los registros
contables financieros de todas las operaciones en referencia al convenio de credito. Esto ha
permitido tener los informes financieros conforrne a los requerimientos de la AIF, para efectos de
auditoria, como una herramienta de trabajo para la toma de decisiones.
IV- PAPEL DEL BANCO
La identificacion del programa 2871 se bas6 en la evaluacion del estado de la red vial en las
18 -



etapas de identificaci6n y formulacion del Convenio, y la selecci6n de tramnos de alta importancia
al nivel nacional para su rehabilitaci6n. Igualmente se identificaron las necesidades mas
apremiantes en materia de mantenirniento vial y de fortalecimiento tecnico y gerencial de la
entidad, para lo que se incluyeron los recursos correspondientes en el cr6dito.
Se ha dado especial atenci6n al mejoramiento de la planificaci6n y evaluaci6n econ6mica de las
inversiones viales en el pais. Aunque se ha logrado un cierto avance en este campo, todavia se
requiere un mayor fortalecimiento de la entidad, para lo que se estan asignando recursos
adicionales en los convenios siguientes.
Durante la ejecuci6n de este convenio el Banco financi6 el estudio para formular la estrategia del
sector a ser presentada a los donantes en Estocolmo, Suecia, en mayo de 1999 (ver informe de
LAVIAL, 1999). Este esfuerzo represento un paso hacia delante en el aspecto de la evaluaci6n de
los distintos problemas del sector vial, en coordinaci6n con otras instancias nacionales, tales como
el Ministerio de Economia (MIFIC), el Comite de Reconstruccion - creado despues del Mitch-, y
la Secretaria Tecnica de la Presidencia.
Tambien se llev6 a cabo el Plan Nacional de Transporte, que debe servir para orientar la toma de
decisiones en el campo vial y de transporte de carga y pasajeros en el pais. Desafortunadamente,
no se ha logrado una adecuada participaci6n del MTI en este esfuerzo, a fin de poder actualizarlo
posteriormente. El entrenamiento a los funcionarios de la DGP ha sido regular, y por tanto se
tienen que capacitar, para utilizar los modelos matematicos empleados en tal estudio.
Ademas de su papel financiero, el Banco ha insistido en la introducci6n de mecanismos contables
que permitan la supervisi6n y monitoreo permanentes de las transacciones fmancieras dentro de la
entidad. El Banco ha promovido la participaci6n del personal de la Unidad y del MTI en general
en diferentes cursos de entrenamiento en materia de adquisiciones, desembolsos, procedimientos
administrativos y demas, con el objeto de fortalecer las habilidades administrativas del personal de
la entidad.
Ademas de las diferentes misiones de seguimiento, misiones anuales de evaluaci6n y medio
termino del programa, el Banco proporcion6 apoyo al Gobierno de Nicaragua durante la
emergencia provocada por el Huracin Mitch en octubre de 1998, permitiendo la reorientaci6n de
fondos existentes en las operaciones vigentes, asi como la posibilidad de ampliar los contratos de
obra existentes, con el objeto de dar respuesta inunediata a los desastres provocados en la red vial.
V-   PAPEL DEL PRESTATARIO
A partir de la entrada en vigencia del Programa y con la capacitaci6n proporcionada por el Banco,
el organismo ejecutor desarroll6 una mejor capacidad de ejecucion. Luego de un comienzo lento
en la ejecuci6n del proyecto, las principales obras se lograron culminar con exito.
El prestatario ha tenido una mayor participaci6n en la preparaci6n de los siguientes programas. La
Unidad Coordinadora se ha fortalecido y ha mantenido buenas relaciones con el personal del
Banco, cumpliendo con todas las normas y compromisos adquiridos, los que incluyen las
19-



evaluaciones de auditoria del programa, las cuales se han Ilevado a cabo con exito y a satisfacci6n
del Banco.
El prestatario ha aportado recursos adicionales a la participaci6n minima establecida en el
convenio, para cubrir costos adicionales, bonificaciones y otros gastos.
VI- RESUMEN DE LOS RESULTADOS
En general, los objetivos propuestos en el Informe de Evaluaci6n de Proyecto (Staff Appraisal
Report) fueron alcanzados. La obra civil ejecutada contribuy6 a la expansi6n y mejoramiento del
servicio de transporte y a la rehabilitaci6n de la red vial nacional; y se ha logrado un relativo
fortalecimiento tecnico y gerencial de la entidad, que debe ser afianzado en las operaciones
siguientes.
El analisis econ6mico de los proyectos de obra civil ejecutados ha mostrado que efectivamente se
lograron las tasas de crecimiento y la rentabilidad esperada de los proyectos, aunque las tarifas de
transporte no hayan disminuido en forma paralela con la reducci6n de los costos a los
transportistas. Esto filtimo es comun en la mayoria de proyectos en la regi6n, ya que los
transportistas no transmiten a los usuarios los beneficios por reducci6n de costos de operaci6n.
Durante la ejecuci6n del proyecto se ha reducido la plantilla de personal del MTI y se han
introducido iniciativas para mejorar tecnica y gerencialmente la planificaci6n y la utilizaci6n de los
recursos entre las distintas modalidades de contrataci6n. Se ha reducido a un minimo la presencia
directa del MTI en las regiones, se llevan a cabo acciones en las regiones apartadas mediante la
utilizaci6n de las Empresas de la COERCO, que utilizan su propio personal y su equipo, aunque
tambien utilizan el equipo del MTI. Esta Corporaci6n estA en proceso de transformaci6n, y la
actual administracion del MTI ha sometido un documento de estrategia para los comentarios del
Banco.
La asesoria permanente a la EAT fue descontinuada, pero se esta preparando un concurso de
mrritos para reiniciarla.
VII- OPERACIONES FUTURAS
El Tercer Convenio de Credito, ha sido firmado el 07 de Abril del 2001, igualmente fortalecera las
funciones de planificaci6n y de ejecuci6n de obras de rehabilitaci6n, estabilizaci6n y
mantenimiento del MTI. Se ha previsto el financiamiento de un programa substancial de
estabilizaci6n de caminos secundarios y terciarios a traves del adoquinado vial - iniciado como
parte del Convenio 3085 actualmente en ejecuci6n -, y se han preparado las bases para el
establecimiento de mecanismos para la adecuada planificaci6n y estructuraci6n de programas
intensivos de mantenimiento vial en toda la red vial nacional.
(b) Cofinanciers:
NA
(c) Other partners (NGCOs/private sector):
NA
- 20 -



10. Additional Information
None
- 21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex i-A
Key Performance Monitoring Indicators
A. input Indicators:
I. Establish Fondo Rotatorio (month)
Planned                                                              June
Actual                                                               Nov
2. Deposit Counterpart Funds (Smil.; gross)
Planned                                                              0.5        2.8      2.8        1.0        a
Actual                                                                0         1.4      2.8       1i5        1.4
3. Establish Technical Support Team (month):
Planned                                                             August
Actual                             .  .                              Nov
4. Total Road Maintenance Budget (Smil.):
Planned                                                               12        12        12        12         b
Actual                                                                12        12        12         b
5. % of Budget Allocated to Contract. Maintenance
Planned                                                               10        20        30        40        50
Actual                                                                0;        0.2       10        15c       lOc
6. Number of maintenance contracts signed:
Planned                                                               0         12        12        12         a
Actual                                                                0         14        42        25        25
B. Output indicators:
7. Establish and maintain microempresaus
Planned (M in. Total no.)                                             0         12        12        12         a
Actual                                                                0          6        12        16        24
8. Roads maintained by PPM M (km):.
Planned                                                               0        500       620       760       1100
Actual                                                                         300       600       800       1200
9. Overall maintenance by contractors (km):
Planned                                                              300       400       600       1000      1600
Actual                                                                 0       350       1100      1400      1400
10. Trunk roads rehabilitated (km):
Planned                                                               10        30        2S         -         a
Actual                                                                0          0        Is        50       67.7
C. Outcome indicators:
II. Avg. delay in counterpart funding (vs. the
quarterly target dates)-in days:
Planned                                                               0          0         0         0         a
Actual                                                                100       80        10        10        10
12. % of road network maintainable (1994-12%):
Planned                                                               20        23        26        30         a
Actual                                                                14        is        Is        15        15
13. Presentation of road fund legislation (month)
Planned                                                                        June
Actual                                                                                                      M arch
D. Impact indicators
14. Traffic growth (%)
Forecast                                                              5          5         5         5
Actual                                                                 5         5         6         7         7
15. Reduced transport costs (%):
Plannedd                                      . .                     0          0         4         2         a
Actua l                                                           I 0       1   0          0         0    12.5
a There were no planned targets for year 2000; b Not ipplicable. Adherence to targets suspended temporarily due to Hurricane Mitch
c Refers to Pre-planned maintenance. Actual expenditures higher due to Hurricane induced Repairs; d Managua - Corinto freighi tariffs
-22-



Annex 1-B
Technical Assistance, Training and Studies
List 6.TA.                                                     Person-    i.mplementaiion
ContratctActivity                   Purpose/Objective              Montb
-  .  .  . . Shrhid iComsle~~~~~~~&gted
A. Supervision:
1. Civil Works Implementation    Assistance for Design and Supervision
Planned                                                           70F         1997       2000
120L
Actual                                                           90F         1997        2000
400L
B. Technical Support:             Setup and Train "microempresas'
2. PPMM
Planned                                                           15F        1996         1998
IOL
Actual                                                            9F         1997        1998
30L
3. Maintenance Management      Design and implementation of contract
Planned                 maintenance                               15F        1996         1999
IOL
Actual                                                             2F        1997        2000
OL
4. Institutional Support        Performance monitoring, training
Planned                 program design and administration,       5OF         1996        2000
preparation of data and organizing       15L
Annual Coordination reviews, PCR
Actual                  preparation, etc.                         12F        1997        2000
OL
C. Training:
5. Fellowships and study tours
Planned                 PPMM needs                                            1996        1996
Professional training of MCT staff                   1997        1999
Actual                  PPMM needs                                           1997         1998
Professional training of MCT staff                   1997       2000
D. Studies:
6. Transport and feasibility
Planned                 Urban Transport                          4SF         1998        2000
and Corridor O-D Studies                 25L
Actual                  Urban Transport                          60F         1998        2000
and Corridor O-D Studies                 48L
TOTALS
Planned                                                           375
Actual                                                           651
F: Foreign Professional
L: Local Professional
-23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 2
Project Cost and Financing
Sje t                                               I ,bCaaeC'     otA'ta
Izapa - Leon                                63.9         72.9        14.1
Leon - Chinandega                            113.2      126.1        11.3
Subtotal                                    177.1       199.0        12.4         71
Road Maintenance Pilot (PPMM)                12.5        10.9       -13.2         89
Technical Assistance, Training and Studies  31.7         31.5         0           95
Total Project Cost                         221.3        241.3         9.0         76
Training Cost
Natio         'pi              ee    ' ' I'lp.T               Toa       Total -46ta1
Year  Sessi8ns  -pants    Cost                                       U    tSessionsCo
-Ps     Sesoons     sots      Cost       Cst       SsiosPartlcip-
1997      2        26      3,450      16         43       89,110    92,560      18         69
1998      10       85    14,569       17         37       59,843    74,412      27        119
1999     14        63    17,709       17         28       84,119   101,828      31         91
2000       7       79    14,646        2           4       17,216    31,851      9         83
Total     33       250    50,374       52        112     250,288   300,651      85        362
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement
________________________     (in  USS  millio   eapuivalent)    _____
Deseription                 iTtal    .Total                                    Share
Civil Works             21.2        0       21.2      24.85       0       24.85     17.74
Maintenance works         0        1.1       1.1                 1.07      1.07      0.95
Goods and Materials       0        0.6       0.6                0.35       0.35      0.30
PPMM training            0         0.5       0.5                0.33       0.33      0.16
Consultants               0        4.7       4.7                 4.04      4.04      3.98
Training                  0        0.3       0.3                 0.32      0.32      0.29
Total                   21.2       7.2      28.4      24.85     6.11      30.96    *23.42
Estimated and Actual Disbursements
'in US$ million eauivalent)
Dnesi&Apton      _  t57   FVJ6M2  -ItI444   iV v20n0 {i" vnno
Appraisal Estimates             4.0        14.0       5.0       2.4        0.0
Actual Disbursements             1.01       3.87     12.50      5.69       1.9
- 24 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 3
Economic Costs and Benefits
Izapa - Leon
(CS at 1 96 prices)
Ytir        Investments    Maintenance       Sings;   Time Ssvings    Total Net
Cost           COV                          Benefits
1997              80                                                           -80
1998          13,910                                                       -13,910
1999          40,994                                                       -40,994
2000                             16           77,804         1,840           79,628
2001                           -135           83,250         1,968           85,354
2002                            255           89,078         2,106          90,929
2003                            330           95,313         2,254          97,237
2004                             16          101,985         2,411          104,380
2005                            103          109,124         2,580          111,601
2006                             19          116,763         2,761          119,504
2007                          1,498          124,936         2,954          126,392
2008                            253          133,682         3,161          136,589
2009                           -135          143,039         3.382         146,556
2010                             22          153,052         3,619          156,649
2011                            567          163,766         3,872         167,071
2012                             16          175,229         4,143         179,357
2013                           -129          187,624         4,433          192,058
2014                          1,649          200,620         4,743         203,715
TIR                                                                         118%
Economic Costs and Benefits
Leon - Chinandega
(CS at 1996 prices)
Year        Investatents    MaIhtlnance      SOIngs      Time Savings    Totial Nit
Cost           COV  ._                      Brettits
1997              75
1998          15,695                                                       -15,695
1999          41,177                                                       -41,177
2000          31,906                                                       -31,906
2001                            160          111,481         3,926          115,246
2002                          -1,156         116,207         4,122         121,485
2003                          5,312          121,144         4,328          120,160
2004                          3.705          126,302         4,544          127,141
2005                            160          131,691         4,772         136,302
2006                          3,955          137,321         5,010          138,376
2007                            270          143,205         5,261         148,195
2008                          15,923         149,353         5,524          138,953
2009                           5,271         155,778         5,800          156,306
2010                          -1,156         162,493         6,090          169,738
2011                           1,563         169,511         6,394          174,342
2012                           7,524         176,847         6,714          176,037
2013                            160          184,516         7,050          191,406
2014                          -1,046         192,533         7,402         200,982
2015                          17,239         200,915         7,772          191,449
T IR      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   78%
-25-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty              Performa ce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count            Specialty                      Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
April, 1995                 1   Eng.
Appraisal/Negotiation
December, 1995              3   IF, lEng, lEc
April, 1996                 3   2 Eng, IEc
Supervision
June, 1996                  I  TTL                                  S               S
September, 1996             1  TTL                                  S               S
January, 1997               3   TTL, IEng, ISL                      S               S
April, 1997                 3   TTL, IEng, IPA                      S               S
November, 1997              1  TTL                                  S               S
May 1998                    2   lEng, IF                            S               S
August, 1998                4   TTL, IEng, IF, IPA                  S               S
February, 1999              2   TTL, IPA                            S               S
May, 1999                   1  TTL                                  S               S
June, 1999                  2   TTL, IPA                            S               S
April, 2000                 2   TTL, I Eng                          S               S
December, 2000              1  TTL                                  S               S
ICR
No Field Visit
TTL = Task Team Leader; Eng = Engineer; PA = Procurement Analyst; SL = Sector Leader
F = Financial Analyst/Accountant
(b) Staff
r    Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               24.3                        93.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                    19.8                        61.2
Supervision                              38.2                       126.4
ICR                                      3.73                        15.8
Total                                   86.03                       296.6
-26-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
13 Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM   ON  *NA
0 Sector Policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
II Physical                                OH *SUOM ON ONA
r Financial                               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Institutional Development              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
LI Environmental                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction                O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
El Gender                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
F1 Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
L Private sector development               0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
El Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
LI Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank perfbrmance                                 Rating
El Lending                                           OHS OS  OU  OHU
E Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
EL Overall                                           OHS OS  O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
El Preparation                                       OHS OS  O  U  O HU
O Government implementation perfbrmance              OHS *0S  O  U  0 HU
E Implementation agency performance                  0  HS OS  0  U  0 HU
El Overall                                           OHS OS  0  U  O HU
- 28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
I    Staff Appraisal Report N 15281 -NI
2    Development Credit Agreement 2871 NI
3    Memorandum of the President N P-6786
4     Mapas BIRF N 27723 y 27724
5    Plan Nacional de Transporte 1995
6    PNT - Diagn6stico del Transporte Acuatico 1989
7    Censos Nacionales 1995 INEC
8    Estudio de Factibilidad Tecnica Econ6mica 1993 (Louis Berger)
9    Estudio de Factibilidad Tecnica Econ6mica de Izapa - Le6n - Chinandega - Guasaule 1995
10   Estudios de Mejoras y Rehabilitaci6n Vial en Nicaragua JICA 1994
11   Feasibility Study on the Development and Strengthening of the Directorate of Maintenance
and Improvement of Road Maintenance Performance, DANIDA, Febrero de 1994
12   Mantenimiento de Vias de Microempresas Asociativas Dra. Martha Lobo Soler, Noviembre
1995
13   Estudio de Diagnostico Institucional y Reestructuraci6n MCT, Coopers & Lybrand,
Noviembre 1995
14   Convenio de Reestructuraci6n Institucional MCT. Agosto de 1995
15   Estudio del Marco Juridico y la Factibilidad Financiera para concesi6n de Proyectos Pilotos
de Mantenimiento y/o Rehabilitaci6n de la Red Vial, Louis Berger de 1995
16  Proyecto Rehabilitacion Y Mantenimiento de Carreteras - Informe Final Del Proyecto
17. Borrower's Comments on IDA's Draft of the ICR
-29-



Annex 8
Personnel Turnover, 1996 - 2000
XUnit                Title~f -            -              - 8        'Turneritl
Ministry                 Minister            2       1      2      1      1       6
Vice Minister      1       2      2      2      2        8
Sec. Gen.          I       0      0      2      2        4
Legal Affairs Div.       Division Chief      1      2       0     0      0        2
Pub. Rel. Div.           Division Chief      I      0       2      2     0        4
Intemal Audit Division   Division Chief      I      0       0     0      2        2
Dept. of Human Res.      Manager             I      0       0      0     0        0
Dept.of Env. & Tc.Cont.   Manager            I      0       0      0     2        2
Dept. of Planning        Manager             I      0       0      2     2        4
Dept. of Fin. Mgt.       Manager             I      0       0     2      0        2
DG of Nat. Water Tpt.    Director General    I      0       0      0     0        0
DG of Construction Regs.  Director General   I      0       0      0     0         0
DG of Land Transport     Director General    I      0       2      2     2        6
DG of Civil Aviation     Director General    1      2       2      0     2         6
DG of Roads              Director General    I      0       0      2     2        4
WB Projects PCU          Coordinator         I      0       0      0     0         0
Drtrt. of Microent.      Microent. Dir.      1      0       0      0     0        0
- 30 -



IBRD 27723
NICARAGOA
RQAD MAINTENANCE A NO REHADJUTATION    ::H 0 N D U k A: 5                                                                                                                                                                   15-
PROJECT
ftn Amri .m
mqh puvect "
All-wouthey mods f9rmet)             f,000 -4,500
Dry weow  MOOK                      f500-2,000
CAY05 .30.1101i 'I.
Qtoer Parts
Lattr6atimol oupod                                                                                                                                                  T-
4    Secomomy airports
miand waserwqyq
D.p~ llotrofafles
4
Somo m7'.q 1
T..g.
I'SO
..b
L                     P.
FC,qs*co
STEL           NO'ElSA                                                 pd- -1
P                  'Su                                                 'T
13'-
VM,,. E                I                                I                                                                                  d
1-       INANDEGA
C."
E                                  _'OA
C           V
P-I-                                     555-V
S.  D-                                                                                    A1Z
Sal,---  G'.m"                J                                                         L,b.".d
R                                                 ISLANDS
N.m S-d-
LPA
OC,    OC60                                                                                                                                                     4
'D                                                                                                                                                                          Bi ff                                      12
12-                              17
8"
U6.1d.
KA0WI TEAS
0       o      40      60      w       Wo
d
Y,
_R
I 1-
S- J--- d.1 S
SOIEN
IA-KA                                                 8ay    i
C-ibb..,  -,,.                                                    0
S--- J. 6.1 N.
&zS           A
Ol'AA
ICA
CPA-M
FEBRUARY 1996






CENTRAL AMERICA
ROADS MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION
PROJECT
Natural Corridor
|-   Naturol Corridor (Corredor Natural)
L- -2rrs ;                                                         -*                  National Capitals
Santo Tomd         (is                                                                          Main Ports
/                      de Costldae                                                                                    International Boundaries
) GUATEMALA
\Xgj >,    ~Guatemolo                       HONDURAS                    r 
Teguciga                             Puerto -Caribbean
i, >,f Tegucigalpa / _4~~~~~~~Cabezas                                                   S e a
EL SALVAD54                          NICARAGUA 
L. Managua          Rama
Corito                                        El aga     HBlff
L. Nicaragua
The bundares, clors denoinatins an  anyotherinrordiio
-)    COSTA .
V   S      ~~~Rl*A  wLmn-Moin
Gup, any jmnothaSan Josny tr     oCo
\<CaldS '0 ~~~Panama Canal  
O       100      200       300      400      500 10LOMETERS                                                                                 Ai  b       
}   t                  -                /   >j    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Balboa       07>           
~0           100            200             300 tCLES                                     jB  o alboa0    _
The boundaries, colors, denomineotons ond ony/ other inforrnation                                                                    P ona.a
{i shown on this nmap do not impl%y on the part of The World Bank -C                                                                                     C L M         I 
=  rop.eany judgment on the 1egol storus of any territory, or any                                                                                         COlOMBIA 
endorsement or acceptance of such boundories.



