Report No. PID5822
Project Name                     Russia-Coal Sector Adjustment Loan II (+)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Energy
Project ID                       RUPE50486
Borrower                         Government of the Russian Federation
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Economy
Moscow, Russian Federation
Contact: Mr. Igor Kozhukhovsky
Tel. 7-095-203-3025
Fax 7-095-203-7854
Environment Category             B
Date This PID Prepared           October 29, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date         November 1997
Projected Board Date             December 1997
Country and Sector Background
Restructuring the coal sector continues to be a crucial part of
the Government's program for stabilizing the Russian economy and
reducing the subsidies flowing to the sector. The coal sector has
been second only to agriculture in the magnitude of the subsidy
payments it receives. In recent years, the Government has made
significant progress on reducing the portion of GDP devoted to coal
subsidies (from lt of GDP in 1993 to an estimated 0.2w in 1997).
The World Bank has supported Russia's coal restructuring
program through the first Coal Sector Adjustment Loan (Coal SECAL
I/Loan No. 4058-RU), which was approved in mid-1996. Under Coal
SECAL I, the total budget allocation for coal subsidies in 1997 was
nearly halved in real terms relative to 1996. Allocations to coal
companies to sustain operation of inefficient mines (referred to as
"bad" subsidies) were reduced by an even greater percentage in 1997
because about one-third of the subsidies were allocated to support
the costs of restructuring, including the social safety net for
affected workers, families and communities (referred to as "good"
subsidies). In addition, coal companies divested their social
assets (for example, housing complexes, kindergartens, health
clinics) so that they could focus on their core economic activities,
and production ceased at 58 loss-making mines. Progress was also
made on demonopolizing and commercializing the industry. Parts of
the state-owned enterprise have been commercialized and federal
shares in four coal companies accounting for over 20t of coal
production are being transferred to trust managers or the Russian
Federal Property Fund, in the latter case in preparation for
privatization. A companion technical assistance project--the Coal
Sector Restructuring Implementation Assistance Project (Coal
IAP/Loan No. 4059-RU)--was also approved in June 1996 and declared



effective in July 1996, and is under implementation.
A second phase Coal Sector Adjustment Loan (Coal SECAL II) is
being proposed to deepen the achievements of the first phase of the
program. It will support continued economic stabilization and
fiscal consolidation by continuing the progress made in reducing the
total amount of coal subsidies, and in improving management of the
same to ensure delivery to intended recipients in a transparent and
equitable manner. It will also emphasize strengthening and more
effectively target the social safety net for affected workers to
ease the impact of restructuring, and it will continue
demonopolization and commercialization of the coal sector, with
particular attention to privatization of the industry.
The Country's Adjustment Program
The latest data continue to suggest that the Russian economy is
beginning to recover and inflation is under control. The annual
inflation rate estimated for 1997 is 15%, compared to an annual rate
in 1996 of 48%. In August, 1997, real GDP registered growth of
about 1/2 percent compared with August, 1996. Russia's external
current account has remained in surplus thanks to a trade surplus,
and the ruble real exchange rate was generally stable against the US
dollar. Interest rates have dropped, monetary deepening has been
substantial, and equity markets have been strong. However, there is
a large regional variation in economic performance, and a number of
regions (particularly those where the coal, defense and textile
industries are dominant) continue to suffer from depression.
Furthermore, the fiscal situation remains fragile as federal revenue
collections continue to fall far short of targets, which in turn
forces the Government to cut back on expenditures and increases the
tension of budgetary arrears and the resulting use of monetary
offsets to settle them.
Coal SECAL II is consistent with the Bank Group's overall
program to support structural reforms in Russia, which has been
implemented in 1997 through a Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL/Loan
No. 4180-RU) as the primary instrument as well as through close
coordination with the IMF's Extended Fund Facility (EFF).
Additionally, Coal SECAL II's emphasis on strengthening the social
safety net for miners, their families and mining communities is
fully consistent on a sectoral level with the Social Protection
Adjustment Loan (SPAL/Loan No. 4203-RU).
The Proposed Loan
The overall objectives of the Government's coal sector
restructuring program continue to be to reduce the impact of the
coal sector on the federal budget by supporting the decrease, and
eventual elimination, of subsidies; promote the long-term efficiency
and hence sustainability of the sector through the establishment of
a competitive, commercial industry; and cushion the impact of the
restructuring on coal miners, their families and affected communities.
Under the second phase of the program to be supported by Coal
- 2 -



Secal II, it is proposed to deepen the achievements to date with a
three-prong program directed toward: (i) continued reduction and
improved management of coal subsidies; (ii) a strengthened and more
targeted social safety net for affected workers, families and
communities; and (iii) an accelerated program of demonopolization,
commercialization and privatization of the industry. The companion
technical assistance project to Coal Secal I-Coal IAP-will continue
to be available to assist the Government in implementing the next
phase of its reform program (project closing date: December 1999);
if necessary, re-design of the project to better fit the
Government's evolving program will be considered.
It is expected that Coal SECAL II will be disbursed in three
tranches: the first at the time of loan effectiveness, expected in
the first quarter of 1998, and two floating tranches, expected in
mid/late 1998 and early 1999. The first tranche would include pre-
Board actions on subsidy management, social safety net, and
demonopolization and privatization issues. One of the floating
tranches would include further actions on subsidy management and the
social safety net; the other floating tranche would include further
action on enterprise demonopolization and privatization.
Contact Point:           Janet Koch, Task Team Leader
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
(202) 458-0385 (tel)
(202) 477-3284 (fax)
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank InfoShop week ending December 12, 1997.
- 3 -



Annex
Environment
1.      Environmental Assessment. The Bank undertook an extensive
review of the environmental problems of the coal industry in
preparing the 1994 sector report. This review concluded that the
most serious environmental problems in mining areas were linked to
the burning of coal rather than to mining activities per se. Apart
from a small number of localized issues, the main weaknesses in the
environmental performance of coal-mining activities were the
consequence of poor incentives and bad management driven by a focus
on meeting output targets, which contributed to perpetuating
inefficient mining practices. Thus, reform of incentives and
operating procedures combined with the closure of the most
inefficient mines, which tend to cause disproportionate
environmental damage, will reduce the environmental damage caused by
the industry, if the closure is conducted in an environmentally
sound manner, in line with Russian regulatory requirements.
Moreover, given that demand for coal continues to decline at a
faster rate than that for natural gas and oil products, downsizing
of the sector, accompanied by the closure of unviable mines and
reduction in coal consumption, will result in a sizable reduction of
emissions of greenhouse gases and sulfur dioxide, thereby addressing
problems of global climate change, acid rain and local pollution and
leading to significant net environmental benefits. In the future,
remaining privatized viable coal mining companies will be in a
position, given adequate market and regulatory incentives, to adopt
more environmentally benign technologies throughout the whole cycle
of coalfield development, mining, preparation/processing, handling,
and transportation, which will have further beneficial impacts on
both the global and local environment.
2.      In the course of mine closures, specific measures must be
undertaken to ensure that mine closures occur in an orderly manner
that takes account of the need to cap operating or disused shafts,
to minimize risks associated with the accumulation of gas in old
mine workings, and to deal with any problems following the flooding
of old workings. Design institutes and other organizations have the
necessary experience in preparing plans and implementing the
appropriate measures, but may require additional assistance from
international experts for planning mine closures on the basis of
realistic cost estimates and sound and efficient approaches. The
Government has recently revised its mine closure guidelines, in
particular to clarify steps and institutional responsibilities for
technical, financial and social issues. Regulations and review
procedures for environmental aspects of mine closures are well-
established. At the same time, the Government will undertake a
review of the existing regulatory framework for the coal sector;
this will be done to assess the need for adjustments and revisions
necessary to ensure that the above framework is adequate for the
restructured privatized coal sector.
3.      Environmental Rating and Conditionality.   The proposed
operation is a sector adjustment operation and as such will not
result directly in any significant negative environmental impact. If
- 4 -



any environmental impacts can be attributed to the operation,
substantial net beneficial impacts can be expected as an indirect
consequence of the intervention, both in terms of global and local
environmental issues. The operation has been rated "B" for
Environmental Assessment. Technical assistance is available under
the Coal IAP to assist federal and regional regulatory authorities
in improving the Government's capacity to oversee and regulate
environmental aspects of mine closures, in enforcing compliance with
established procedures, and in strengthening a system to manage the
environmental rehabilitation of land, water, and habitats disturbed
by past mining operations. It is expected that Coal IAP-financed
technical assistance will be made available to facilitate conduct of
the environmental audits required as a condition of the Social
tranche. Discussions are also underway to allocate part of the
technical assistance funds to address environmental aspects of
privatization in order to assist the Government to adapt its system
of environmental regulatory oversight to a post-privatization
period, and to advance preparation of pilot environmental
remediation projects at closed mine sites, which will have an
additional focus of addressing global environmental issues. The
National Greenhouse Gas Reduction Strategy Study, currently under
implementation, also aims at assessing near- and midterm trends in
energy use and at identifying possible investment projects to
address reduction of the GHG emissions, including in coal mining,
storage, processing, and transportation.
- 5-



