Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: P- 7202-RU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED SECOND COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$800 MILLION
TO THE
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
NOVEMBER30, 1997
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
(Figures are as of the end of period)
Currency Unit = Ruble (Rb)                      Rubles per US$
1991                                      169
1992                                      415
1993                                      1,247
1994                                     3,550
1995                                     4,640
1996                                     5,126
November 1997                                 5,902
Borrower's Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric system is used
Acronyms, Abbreviations and Glossary
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
Coal SECAL I   Coal Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan No. 4058-RU)
Coal LAP       Coal Sector Restructuring Implementation Assistance Project
EFF            Extended Fund Facility
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
IAC            Inter-Agency Commission for Socio-Economic Problems of Coal-Producing
Regions
MOE            Ministry of Economy
MOF            Ministry of Finance
MOFE           Ministry of Fuel and Energy
MOLSD          Ministry of Labor and Social Development
MOSP           Ministry of State Property
Vice President     :      Mr. Johannes Linn
Country Director          Mr. Michael Carter
Energy Sector Leader      Mr. David Craig
Program Team Leader:      Ms. Janet Koch



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SECOND COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Russian Federation.
Executing Agencies:  Ministries of Fuel and Energy and of Finance of the Russian Federation.
Amount:              US$ 800 million equivalent.
Terms:               Maturity of seventeen years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's
standard LIBOR-based interest rate for US Dollar single currency loans.
Commitment Fee:    0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver.
Objectives and
Description:         The proposed Second Coal Sector Adjustment Loan (Coal SECAL II)
will help the Government deepen the achievements of Coal SECAL I
(Loan No. 4058-RU) through a program directed toward: (i) separation
of state management functions and commercial activities in the industry
and improvement of sector governance; (ii) continued reduction and
improved management of coal subsidies, aiming at the eventual
elimination of coal subsidies; (iii) development of a strengthened and
more targetted social safety net for affected workers, their families and
communities; and (iv) establishment of a more efficient and sustainable
industry and promotion of an accelerated privatization program.
Benefits:            The proposed Coal SECAL  II, together with the Coal Sector
Restructuring Implementation Assistance Project (Coal LAP/Loan No.
4059-RU), sustains Bank support for the Government's coal
restructuring initiatives and builds upon the progress made since the
Government began its reform program in 1994 and since the first Bank
operation in June 1996. The proposed program extends the Bank's
support for restructuring a critical sector of the Russian economy that
continues to depend on Government subsidies.  The impetus for
restructuring is the gradual withdrawal of federal subsidies that cover
various operating and investment losses for coal enterprises. The most
immediate effect is to decrease the impact of a loss-making coal sector
on the federal budget. In tne longer term, the withdrawal of subsidies
promotes the establishment of a more efficient and sustainable coal
sector through closure of unprofitable mines, privatization of regional
coal companies, and increased reliance on competition and market
forces to establish prices and production levels. The operation supports
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



a series of programs that together forn a social safety net to mitigate the
impacts of the transition on employees of coal enterprises, their families,
and communities. Under Coal SECAL II, particular emphasis will be
placed on developing the institutional capacity to deliver these social
benefits in a transparent and equitable manner.  The program  is
augmented by Coal IAP, which has initiated capacity-building activities
in key areas, including improved measures to mitigate social impacts in
the most heavily-affected regions.
Risks:               This is a high risk operation. The continued reduction and redirection
and the strengthened management of subsidies all involve adverse
impacts on interest groups, which in turn could impact the pace of
reform, and the quality of the social aspects of the program. Similar
risks exist for the privatization component. These factors were evident
in the course of implementation of Coal SECAL 1. At the same time,
implementing the substantial structural and social changes inherent in
the Government's program will be a considerable challenge to the
Government's political will to deploy the necessary institutional
capacity.
These risks should be mitigated by the major changes in the
management of the sector now taking place, notably the liquidation of
Rosugol, which itself demonstrates the Government's considerable
resolve to push ahead with reform. They should also be contained by the
new expenditure control mechanisms now established. In addition, the
public visibility of the coal sector reform program creates considerable
pressure for its satisfactory implementation, especially as concerns its
social aspects. The time limit on the privatization tranche is aimed at
creating an incentive for speedy action. Overall progress on coal sector
restructuring during the initial phase of implementation, together with
the commitments in the Government's Policy Letter provide a reasonable
assurance that the reforms will continue.
Disbursement:        Three tranches: the first tranche of US$400 million on loan effectiveness
(expected in December 1997), and two floating tranches of US$200
million each on fulfillment of specific tranche release conditions (expected
in third quarter 1998 and first quarter 1999.)
Poverty Category:    Poverty-focused.
Rate of Return:     Not applicable.
Project ID Number:  RU-PE-50486.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THIE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
SECOND COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PART I         INTRODUCTION                                                    I
PART II        THE MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT                                       1
A.      Current Macroeconomic Situation in Russia                       1
B.      Country Assistance Strategy                                     2
C.      Coal SECAL II and its Relation to the Country Assistance Strategy  3
PART III       THE COAL SECTOR                                                 4
A.      Coal Sector Profile                                             4
B..     Distortionary Effects of Subsidies on Coal Industry Performance  5
C.      Adapting to Changing Economic Circumstances                     6
PART IV        THE GOVERNMENT'S COAL INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING                    7
PROGRAM
A.      Government's Objectives and Strategy                            7
B.      Reorganization of the Government Agencies Involved in the       9
Sector -- Completion of the Demonopolization and
Commercialization Process
C.      Mine Closures                                                   11
D.      Subsidy Management System                                       11
E.      Subsidy Levels and Allocation                                   13
F.      Social Protection Payments to Individuals                       14
G.      Support for Affected Persons and Coal Communities               15
H.      Public Participation and Social Impact Monitoring               16
I.       Privatization                                                  17
PART V         THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN                                          18
A.      Bank Involvement to Date                                        18
B.      Rationale for Further Bank Involvement                          18
C.      Loan Features                                                   19
D.      Monitoring Arrangements                                        20
E.      Poverty Category                                               21
F.      Environment                                                     21
G.      Support for Coal SECAL II: Coal LAP                            23
PART VI        BENEFITS AND RISKS                                             24
PART VII       RECOMMENDATION                                                 25



Attachments and Map
Attachment 1    Main Economic Indicators
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators
Table 2: Key Exposure Indicators
Table 3: External Financing
Table 4: Russian Federation at a Glance
Attachment 2    Status of Bank Group Operations in Russian Federation
Attachment 3    Letter of Sector Development Policy
Attachment 4    List of Conditions/Policy Matrix
Attachment 5    Social Assessment: Main Findings
Attachment 6    Timetable of Key Processing Events
Attachment 7    Documents in Project File
Map            IBRD 29202R
This report is based on missions which visited Russia in June, September-October and November
1997, comprising at various times Messrs./Mmes. Janet Koch (Program Team Leader), Igor
Artemiev, David Craig, Ashraf Ghani, Michael Haney, Vladimir Litvak, Alexander Morozov,
Friedrich Peloschek, Jeff Procak, Vadim Voronin and Cynthia Wilson. Ayse Kudat and Bulent
Ozbilgin also provided inputs to the report. Larisa Markes provided technical support in
assembling the report. David Merrick and Maurice Mould provided consulting services to the
Russian Government in support of its coal restructuring program. Peer reviewers were John
Strongman, Laszlo Lovei and Louise Fox. Michael Carter and David Craig are, respectively, the
Country Director and Energy Sector Leader, responsible for Russia in the Europe and Central
Asia Region.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Second Coal Sector Adjustment Loan (Coal SECAL II) to the Russian Federation for US$800
million to support the Government's coal sector restructuring program. The loan would be at the
Bank's standard LIBOR-based interest rate for US Dollar single currency loans, with a maturity
of seventeen years, including five years of grace.
2.    Russia's first Coal Sector Adjustment Loan (Coal SECAL I/Loan No. 4058-RU) was
approved by the Bank's Board of Directors in June 1996. It was declared effective and the first
tranche released in July 1996, and the second and final tranche was released in December 1996.
Under Coal SECAL I, the Government has made significant progress in reducing budget
subsidies to the coal industry, and has begun to redirect remaining subsidies away from
economically unjustified uses that hinder competition and financial discipline in the sector,
toward purposes that strengthen the social safety net and seek to ease the transition for miners,
their families and mining communities. Recently, the Government has also taken significant
steps to restructure the management of the sector, by separating out government responsibilities
and demonopolizing and commercializing the industry, and is now shifting its emphasis toward
privatization of the industry.
3.    Continuing to restructure the coal industry remains a crucial part of the Government's
program for reforming the Russian economy. The proposed Coal SECAL II seeks to deepen the
achievements of Coal SECAL I, and to move the industry away from state support and
increasingly toward privatization.
H. THE MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT
A.    Current Macroeconomic Situation in Russia
4.    Since 1992 the Russian economy has been undergoing a massive transformation to a
market system. Much of 1992-96 was marked by rapid inflation, shrinking output, rising
unemployment and social hardship. Average annual inflation was high for most of this period,
falling below 100 percent only in 1996. By 1996 measured GDP had fallen by 40 percent in real
terms since 1991, and it fell by 6 percent in 1996. Although unemployment did not increase as
rapidly as the decline in GDP, there has been a dramatic increase in poverty (according to survey
data, 25-35 percent of the population are living in poverty). Financial stabilization was achieved
in 1996. However, it has remained fragile because of difficulties in the area of fiscal policy.
Disappointing tax revenues have led the Government to implement a series of measures to
improve collections, but these measures have proved only partially successful.



-2-
5.     Significant if uneven progress has been made towards the objectives stipulated under
Russia's Extended Fund Facility (EFF) arrangement with the IMF. Structural reforms supported
by the EFF and the Bank's first structural adjustment loan (SALI/Loan No.4180-RU) have made
considerable headway. By October 1997, inflation stood at 0.2 percent, bringing the 12-month
increase in the price level to 12.9 percent. There are also increasing signs of economic recovery,
with small growth in real GDP from January to October 1997. The ruble has remained relatively
stable. Foreign trade has been strong in 1997, and the current account balance is likely to be in
surplus in 1997, with exports (dominated by energy resources and other raw materials) outpacing
imports by US$20 billion. The foreign trade regime has remained liberal: average statutory
import tariffs are below 15 percent. The Government hopes to complete accession to the World
Trade Organization in 1998, which would help to preserve this regime.
6.    Monetary policy in 1997 has been directed at keeping downward pressure on inflation.
Tight domestic credit policies have contributed to a build-up in net and gross international
reserves and have maintained the exchange rate within the stronger part of its band.
7.    Despite these achievements on the inflation and balance of payments fronts, the fragile
fiscal situation weakened further by the third quarter of 1997. For the January-September
period, government cash revenues amounted to Rb 174 trillion, compared with the EFF program
target of Rb 191 trillion. By sequestering expenditures, the Government managed to limit the
cash deficit in January-September to Rb 131 trillion (below the EFF program ceiling of Rb 146
trillion), but at the cost of engendering large arrears and further undermining payment discipline
in the economy. As a result, at the time of its Sixth Quarterly EFF Review in October 1997, the
Fund mission decided not to recommend its completion.
B.    Country Assistance Strategy
8.    The most recent Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the Russian Federation was
presented to the Bank's Board of Directors on June 5, 1997 (Report No. 16549-RU, dated May 6,
1997). The CAS recommended that the Bank Group be prepared to support an expanded
program of assistance to the Russian Federation on the order of US$2-3 billion annually,
provided the Government delivers on an accelerated program of structural reforms. This
program should consist of policy advice, fast-disbursing adjustment lending, and project
financing in support of high priority public and private investments. The 1997 CAS identified
fiscal consolidation, private sector development, reform of the social safety net, and agriculture
and rural development as areas of particular importance to the reform process in Russia.
9.    The economic justification for enhanced Bank adjustment lending to Russia over the
near-medium term is two-fold:
(i) Support of structural reforms. Russia has entered a new stage of transition where
broad and consistent structural reforms are essential for the resumption of growth
and sustained stabilization, both of which are necessary to help reduce poverty and
address other pressing social issues.
(ii) Contribution to fiscal adjustment and budget financing. Although Russia's trade and
current accounts consistently show a surplus, federal tax revenues have fallen to less
than 10 percent of GDP, and expenditure management is poor, despite sequestration
to contain expenditures. Under the Bank's proposed Second Structural Adjustment



-3-
Loan (SAL2), the Government would take steps to improve revenues and rationalize
expenditure management; Coal SECAL II would also support reductions in
expenditures. However, the main benefits of structural reforms for overall fiscal
management, for which revenue increases are key, will materialize only over the
medium term. Meanwhile, some measures under the Bank's proposed SAL2 and
Coal SECAL II (such as reducing arrears and moving to an accrual basis for tax
assessment under SAL2 and payment of social benefits including arrears to all
redundant workers under Coal SECAL II) are likely to increase expenditure
pressures or reduce revenues in the short term.
10.   Consequently, even with strong efforts at fiscal consolidation, the Government will
continue to have considerable financing needs for the budget in the short term. Financing these
deficits by issuing T-bills (GKOs) is expensive, and maintaining price stability will require
continued tight domestic credit, precluding any significant borrowing from commercial banks.
The Government is thus seeking financing from external, non-inflationary sources, including
multilateral institutions and the Eurobond market. As part of this financing package, World
Bank adjustment lending would provide additional non-inflationary budgetary support during the
next stage of economic transition--thus providing breathing space while structural reforms help
strengthen the Government's revenue base and reduce expenditure pressures.
C.    Coal SECAL II and its Relation to the Country Assistance Strategy
11.   Under the first phase of the Government's coal restructuring program supported by Coal
SECAL I, the final budget for coal subsidies in 1997 was nearly halved in real terms relative to
1996 (and went from 0.5 percent of GDP to 0.2 percent); budgeted subsidies mitigating the
social impact of restructuring and supporting physical mine closures were increased to nearly
one-third of total subsidies in 1997; social assets and other non-core activities were divested by
the coal companies; more than 90 loss-making mines ceased production during the period 1994-
97; employment declined by over 40 percent (390,000 persons since mid-1993); beginning in the
second half of 1996, subsidies for emergency housing and heating system maintenance and job
creation programs were disbursed directly to the regions and coal communities; RosUgol, the
national coal company, was converted into a 100 percent federally-owned joint stock company;
the shareholding structure of the industry was simplified to strengthen the regional coal
companies; and an initial demonopolization program was implemented resulting in the transfer
of federal shares in four coal companies, accounting for over 20 percent of the industry's output
in 1995, from RosUgol to independent trust managers or the Russian Federal Property Fund, in
the latter case in preparation for privatization in 1997-98.
12.   In the context of its specific sectoral focus, Coal SECAL II is fully consistent with the
broad reform areas identified by the CAS. In particular, it seeks to deepen the achievements of
Coal SECAL I in (i) fiscal consolidation, which is supported under Coal SECAL II through
continued reduction in coal subsidies; (ii) reform of the social safety net, which under Coal
SECAL II will be strengthened and more targeted so that the impact of restructuring is eased for
miners, their families and mining communities; and (iii) private sector development, which Coal
SECAL II furthers through improved sector governance and accelerated demonopolization,
commercialization and privatization of the coal industry.
13.   Coal SECAL II is consistent with the Bank Group's overall program to support structural
reforms in Russia, which has been implemented in 1997 through SALI and the proposed SAL2



-4-
as primary instruments, as well as through close coordination with the IMF's EFF. Additionally,
Coal SECAL II's emphasis on strengthening the social safety net for miners, their families and
communities is fully consistent on a sectoral level with the Social Protection Adjustment Loan
(SPAL/Loan No. 4203-RU). All outstanding actions under Coal SECAL I, as described in the
May 14, 1997 Progress Report to the Board, have been completed. The companion technical
assistance project to Coal SECAL I--Coal Sector Restructuring Implementation Assistance
Project (Coal IAP/Loan No. 4059-RU)--will continue to be available to assist the Government in
implementing the next phase of its coal reform program.
III. THE COAL SECTOR
A.    Coal Sector Profile
14.   Production and Consumption. Russia is the world's fifth largest producer and fourth
largest consumer of coal, accounting for about 5 percent of world coal production and
consumption in 1996.  As of end-1996, the Russian coal industry included 176 active
underground mines and 63 active surface mines affiliated with RosUgol.1 These RosUgol
affiliates accounted for 226 million tons out of a total of 255 million tons of coal produced in
Russia in 1996. By comparison, the Ukrainian coal industry consists of 219 mining units which
produced about 70 million tons in 1996; the United States coal industry consists of about 2200
mines which produced 964 million tons in 1996. Coal's contribution to total primary energy
supply in Russia has been falling steadily since the 1960s. However, while coal now accounts
for only about 13-18 percent of total energy supply at a national level, it is very important in
certain regions. In the Far East, for example, coal supplies more than half of all primary energy
requirements.
15.   Geographic Scope of Production. Significant volumes of coal (in excess of 10 million
tons annually) are produced by federally owned companies in seven coal basins covering
virtually every region of the country. The Kuznetsk Basin (Kuzbass) in Kemerovo Oblast is the
heart of Russia's coal industry, accounting for about one-third of annual production. Other
significant regions of production are: Eastern Siberia, the Pechora Basin in the Komi Republic,
the Donetsk Basin (Donbass) in Rostov Oblast, the Urals and several basins in the Far East. Coal
is also produced by RosTopProm (another federally-owned company that owns 11 coal-
producing entities accounting for approximately 7.6 million tons annually for household
consumption in 11 regions), by other ministries, by quasi-private companies, and by oblast
owned and operated companies.
16.   Workforce. About 518,000 persons were employed in the coal industry at the end of
June 1997. The top four employers were RostovUgol (51,516), KuznetskUgol (33,639),
KuzbassrazrezUgol (33,639), and VorkutaUgol (28,582).  The labor force has declined
substantially as the coal industry has changed and been restructured. In the four years between
mid-1993 (when coal prices were decontrolled) and mid-1997, total employment in the coal
industry has declined by 390,000 people, or more than 40 percent. Over 100,000 persons have
retired on age, years of service or disability pensions and about 28,000 have been made
redundant by administrative decision of closing mines, i.e., they have been eligible for severance
pay. A large proportion of the remaining group is attributed to persons reported as voluntary
As of July 1997, this had decreased to 150 active underground mines and 60 active surface mines.



-5-
terminations, reputedly choosing to quit their jobs because wages were unpaid. Another large
group were transferred out of the industry when local and municipal administrations took over
the social assets where they were employed, or when ancillary activities affiliated with the coal
industry were divested.
17.   Scope of Activities. Data on employment reflect a variety of occupations within the coal
industry. In addition to coal mining, mine building, and coal preparation, the industry owns and
operates machine-building plants, collective farms, construction companies, research and design
institutes, power generation facilities, investment companies, restaurants and cafeterias, and
sanatoria and vacation resorts. RosUgol itself has managed an equipment leasing operation
funded both by the state and by the lease payments made by coal companies. Ownership of most
of the major social service facilities (including housing and kindergartens) formerly owned and
operated by coal companies, has now been transferred to municipal administrations. But with the
dissolution of RosUgol, the organization of the sector will change considerably.
18.    Coal Demand and its Repercussions. Two major factors have led to the decline in coal
production and use in Russia since the 1980s. First, low cost, less environmentally disruptive
natural gas has become widely available and has displaced coal; second, coal is less able to
compete with natural gas because it is inefficiently produced in Russia (when compared to
international performance) and therefore relatively costly. The strong competitive position of
natural gas is evidenced by its role in the stationary boiler market (power and heating plants
where coal is most likely to be competitive); natural gas fuels 61 percent of this market while
coal fuels only 28 percent. The reforms of the early 1990s, as reflected in declining demand for
all forms of energy and by the removal of very large implicit subsidies on rail freight, have
helped to further erode coal markets. Nevertheless, timely measures that enable the industry to
adapt to changing economic circumstances are expected to enable from one-half to two-thirds of
existing coal capacity to remain viable. A contraction of this magnitude would be substantial,
but only a fraction of that experienced in Europe during the 1970s and 1980s.
B.    Government's Involvement in the Coal Industry
19.   Subsidies. After price liberalization and the rapid price increases of the early 1990s, the
federal government began subsidizing the coal industry. The subsidies were intended to cover
the shortfalls created when the coal industry's main customers--power stations and the steel
industry--did not pay their coal bills. Coal subsidies have also included an explicit subsidy for a
portion of the coal industry wagebill, as mandated in a labor accord known as the Tariff
Agreement. This established an implicit belief that the Government was responsible for paying
miners' wages, regardless of economic conditions in the coal industry or in other industries. The
problems inherent in this subsidy system were exacerbated by a lack of transparency in the
mechanisms to channel and distribute them. While the Inter-Agency Commission for Socio-
Economic Problems of Coal Producing Regions (IAC) was created to improve the subsidy
management system, vestiges of the old system, particularly the continued strong influence of
RosUgol, limited its success. Because of these problems, the Government has taken several
actions to improve the efficiency of state governance in the coal sector, including (i) liquidating
RosUgol and transferring its subsidy management responsibilities to the Ministry of Fuel and
Energy (MOFE) and (ii) establishing new subsidy categories and mechanisms for allocation,
transfer and use of budget funds by amending the Regulation on State Financing of Measures
Directed at Restructuring of the Coal Industry (initially adopted by the Government ou May 17,
1996 with the issuance of Government Resolution No. 598).



-6-
20.   Structure of the Coal Industry. The former coal associations (i.e., multi-mine groups of
enterprises) and most of the enterprises (individual mines, service companies, etc.) have now
been converted to joint stock companies. RosUgol, prior to its liquidation, had been transformed
into a joint stock company 100 percent owned by the state. The corporatized coal companies
have taken a first step towards privatization by giving small, non-controlling packages of shares
to the labor collective (management and employees) and to local governments. In addition, there
are some ten independent mines (accounting for about 8.5 percent of production) which are said
to have been privatized since 1991. The state's shares in the coal associations and the coal
enterprises are vested in the Ministry of State Property (MOSP). Until recently, MOSP had
delegated to RosUgol commercial management of the state's shareholding in coal companies.
Although the formal agreements have expired, it has been reported that, up to initiation of its
liquidation, RosUgol continued de facto to exercise these responsibilities on behalf of the state.
21.   Following corporatization of coal industry entities, the Government has begun a program
aimed at reducing the state's equity position in the industry. A program of trust management
was supported under the Coal SECAL I and was regarded as a prelude to privatization. Because
of a lack of progress in carrying out this program (to date, only two trust management contracts
have been concluded), the Government has adopted a more aggressive approach to reducing the
state's role in the coal industry. As a proxy for fulfilling trust management conditionality under
the Coal SECAL 1, the Government has transferred the state's interest in two coal companies to
the Russian Federal Property Fund, a government agency charged with selling off the state's
interest in commnercial enterprises. The initial sale of federal shares in these companies is
scheduled for early December 1997.
C.    Adapting to Changing Economic Circumstances
22.   Restructuring Strategy. Many of the world's economies have restructured their coal
industries in the latter half of the twentieth century to reduce the burden the industry places on
the economy and the costs of energy. While there are aspects of the problem that are specific to
Russia and other transition economies, the basic remedies are similar. Uneconomic mines have
to be closed. Mines that stay in business also need to commercialize, reduce the size of their
workforce, and ultimately privatize. Redundant workers have to be transferred to other mines or
offered some support while they search for new jobs. Overall, mine closures and redundancies
need to be managed in a socially responsible manner, so that the restructuring process remains
politically sustainable. Federal subsidies for operations and investment need to be phased out
and the remaining subsidies redirected to physical closure of mines and employment/social
programs. Ultimately, what should emerge is a competitive coal industry and governmental
agencies with authorities to regulate access to mineral resources, to protect environment, health
and safety, and to provide the social safety net.
23.   Initial Response. There has been progress on coal restructuring in four areas. First, the
Government, within the framework of its coal industry restructuring program, began to close
non-viable and unprofitable mines in 1994. Since then, production has ceased at 95 mines.
While the mines vary in their state of closure according to the need for and completion of work
to seal off water and gas to protect other mines, seal shafts, remove or rehabilitate surface
structures and waste piles, at least 42 mines have completed underground work and have fewer
than 20 employees (plus additional contractors) who are completing financial liquidation and
surface closure. Second, employment in the industry has been reduced by over 40 percent since
mid-1993. Third, effectively all of the coal industry-owned social assets (housing stock,



-7-
kindergartens, health clinics and heating systems) have been transferred to municipal
governments. Fourth, subsidies to the coal industry have been sharply reduced.
24.   Social Impacts. Three social assessments in the main coal basins of Russia have been
carried out in the course of Coal SECAL I; summary findings are in Attachment 5. Overall, coal
miners and their communities were better off with the Bank support to sector restructuring than
they would have been otherwise. Planned actions to provide social mitigation measures for
sector restructuring have been undertaken successfully, with regional variations in their
implementation and impacts. Most importantly, the Bank support to Russia's coal sector
restructuring has resulted in significantly increased access to information on benefits and
entitlements and a higher level of access to legal recourse methods for miners. In addition, Bank
support provided invaluable assistance to winterization programs in coal producing communities
and made a real difference in people's lives through support to social assets transferred to local
governments from coal companies. A number of participatory initiatives were also put in place
in some regions to facilitate community-specific interventions. However, despite these positive
developments, arrears in wages, pensions and disability payments have created social tensions.
Rosugol's control over subsidies was a major factor in accumulation of these arrears.
25.   In response to the findings of the social assessment, the Government broadened the
definition of social protection to include: (i) severance payments of redundant workers at
downsizing mines as well as those undergoing closure; (ii) wage arrears of redundant mine
workers, and (iii) wage arrears of mine workers leaving the industry on age or disability
retirement. Additionally, the government has restructured the subsidy system in such a manner
to ensure that social benefits can be directly paid to individuals. The operations of this system of
direct transfers will be monitored closely through both the social impact monitoring and
fmancial audits.
IV. THE GOVERNMIENT'S COAL INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
A.    Government's Objectives and Strategy
26.   The Government of the Russian Federation has implemented the first phase of structural
reforms in the coal sector.  The process of corporatization has been nearly completed,
privatization has commenced, the influence of the state in management of coal companies has
been reduced, state support for the coal sector has been reduced and increasingly focused on
sector restructuring, controls over allocation and delivery of state support funds are being
strengthened, workers and their families and communities are benefiting from an improved
social safety net, sector efficiency is growing and occupational injuries are declining. While the
Government has taken important initial steps in transitioning its state owned coal sector toward a
commercial industry with competitive regional coal companies and appropriate governmental
laws, regulation and institutions affecting public welfare (stewardship of public resources,
protection of the environment, health and safety, and preservation of social welfare), it
recognizes that further actions are required and has embarked on a second phase of reforms. The
principal objectives of the Government's continuing restructuring program include: (i) to
separate state management functions and commercial activities in the industry and improve
sector governance; (ii) to reduce the impact of the coal sector on the federal budget by
supporting the decrease, and eventual elimination, of subsidies; (iii) to promote the long term
efficiency, commercial viability and hence sustainability of the sector, together with its



-8-
privatization; and (iv) to cushion the impact of restructuring on coal miners, their families and
affected communities. The Government's Letter on Coal Sector Policy is set forth in Attachment
3.
27.   Medium-term Strategy. The main elements of the Government's strategy over the
medium term are:
(i)    Commercialization and Demonopolization of the Coal Sector. The Government
will complete its commercialization and demonopolization program so that coal
companies begin to compete, and so that the Government's remaining ownership
interests in the sector are clearly separated from its regulatory and social
protection roles. In this regard, RosUgol will be liquidated, and its government
functions transferred to the Ministry of Fuel and Energy and management of
federal shares in the coal industry to the Ministry of State Property. A regulatory
and institutional framework will enable the industry to operate competitively and
will provide for the protection of public interests, in terms of stewardship of
public resources, protection of the environment, health and safety, and
preservation of social welfare.
(ii)   Privatization and Investment.  By the end of 1998, the Government will
complete privatization of about 45 percent of the coal industry and will prepare a
plan to complete privatization of the remainder of the industry. In the interim,
modernization, rehabilitation and expansion will be financed by the coal
companies, and may include loans, direct private domestic and foreign
investment, and extra-budgetary sources. Any state support will be in the form
of loans, provided on a competitive basis.
(iii)   Mine Closures and Workforce Reductions.  Some 138 loss-making coal
enterprises (of which 136 are mines) are in the process of closure.
Modernization of the remaining mines will also result in reduction of the
workforce. The Government is committed to ensuring that the mine closure
program is conducted in a manner that enables environmentally sound physical
closure at minimal cost an that provides social protection benefits to all eligible
persons.
(iv)   Subsidies. Priority will be given in disbursement of subsidies to those considered
"priority" subsidies; these include subsidies paid to finance: physical mine
closures; scientific research activities aimed at mine closures, environmental
protection and worker safety; severance payments and wage arrears to workers
declared redundant; disability payments and free coal benefits paid to persons
whose eligibility is derived from a closed mine; local development and
employment programs for coal communities; and a contingency Social
Protection Reserve Fund. Priority subsidies will account for about 60 percent of
total state support to the industry in 1998. Subsidies covering production and
operating losses of coal enterprises (including the Tariff Agreement) will be
allocated according to a rule-based formula and will be reduced each year until
2000 when they will be eliminated. Improved subsidy management mechanisms
will ensure equitable distribution of benefits on a timely basis, with transparency
and accountability.



-9-
(v)    Public Participation and Social Impact Monitoring: The affected public will be
regularly informed about the restructuring program and their legal rights and
will be consulted on the decisions affecting the social safety net for affected
individuals, their families and communities. Social impact monitoring will be
used to assess the effectiveness of the social programs and to identify where
improvements are needed.
28.    Government's Near-term  Action Program, 1997-98.   For the near term, the
Government's program consists of: (i) further reductions in overall subsidy levels, with a further
shift in subsidy composition toward priority areas; (ii) reorganization of the management of the
sector, including completion of the demonopolization and commercialization process; (iii)
completion of mine closures in process and preparation of a detailed three-year mine closure
program; (iv) changes in the subsidy management system to increase transparency in and
accountability for the transactions and to ensure that affected persons receive timely payment of all
legal entitlements; (v) continuation of programs to promote public participation in the coal
restructuring program and to monitor the social impacts of the program; and (vi) an accelerated
program of coal enterprise privatization. This action program is outlined in more detail below. The
concrete measures associated with target implementation dates prior to December 11, 1997
constitute the conditions of Board presentation and first tranche release. Subsequent measures with
later target implementation dates will be conditions of the second and third tranche release, one of
which will pertain to the social aspects of the restructuring program and the other to the
privatization aspects. The conditions of Board presentation and of the second and third tranche
release are summarized in Attachment 4, Policy Matrix.
29.   The companion technical assistance project to Coal SECAL I--Coal IAP ($25 million,
approved in June 1996 and effective since July 25, 1996)--will continue to be available to assist
the Government in implementing the next phase of its reform program (project closing date:
December 31, 1999). Various activities are ongoing and planned as discussed in Chapter V,
Section G.
B.    Reorganization of the Management of the Coal Sector-Completion of the
Demonopolization and Commercialization Process
30.   The Government is moving to complete the demonopolization process, privatize the
industry, and clarify how it will protect the public's interest in a largely privatized industry.
Since 1993, the Government has taken several steps to separate the coal industry's commercial
functions from governmental responsibilities to provide stewardship of the public resources,
protect the environment, health and safety, and preserve social welfare. In mid-1993, the
Government formed the Inter-Agency Commission for Socio-Economic Problems in Coal
Producing Regions to advise the Government on coal industry restructuring and to assume
responsibility for allocating coal subsidies from RosUgol, the successor agency to the Ministry
of the Coal Industry. Beginning in 1996, coal subsidies for social assets transferred from the coal
industry and job creation programs at the community level were disbursed directly to the regions
and coal communities, while subsidies for the coal companies, which still represented most of
the subsidies, continued to be channeled through RosUgol. The Government also took the initial
steps to separate commercial functions from policy and regulatory responsibilities. RosUgol,
most of the coal producing enterprises, and enterprises providing services to the coal industry
were established as joint stock companies, with as much as 100 percent federal stock ownership.
Two coal producing enterprises are now being privatized, with over 50 percent of the shares



-10-
expected to be sold to the public and commercial interests in early December 1997, and RosUgol
is in the process of being liquidated.
31.   The management of the coal sector is currently undergoing such reorganization so that
the Government can improve control over the use of state support for the coal sector to ensure
full and timely delivery to the intended beneficiaries, provide adequate social support to affected
persons, manage the coal resource (i.e., develop and administer an effective mining law and
regulations), protect the environment, health and safety, and remove the potential for conflicts of
interest between the Government, commercial enterprises and their employees. On November
20, 1997, Presidential Decree No. 1243 and Government Resolution No. 1462 were issued to
improve sector governance--more specifically, to liquidate RosUgol and to strengthen the role of
the Ministry of Fuel and Energy in day-to-day regulation and restructuring of the coal industry
and ensure that it will effectively, rather than just nominally, be responsible for the allocation of
state support provided to the coal industry. A series of Ministerial Orders has recently been
issued concerning allocation of responsibilities for the coal sector between the First Deputy
Minister (Coal) and a new Deputy Minister and creating two new agencies under the Ministry.
The authorities of the First Deputy Minister have been redefined to focus on coal production,
including regulation of mineral rights, occupational health and safety, and environment. The
newly appointed Deputy Minister is responsible for developing and implementing the
Government's coal restructuring program and for allocating, directing and monitoring state
support funds for the sector, including the activities of the new agencies. To maintain a clear
separation between the responsibilities for operations and sector restructuring, each Deputy
Minister will report directly to the Minister.
32.   The two agencies are responsible for designing and advising on the processes affecting
mine closure and industry downsizing and its effects on individuals, their families, and
communities. One agency, the Mine Closure Agency, has been assigned responsibility for
coordinating the physical closure of the mines, and the other, the Social Protection Agency, will
oversee the programs designed to mitigate the social effects of mine closures. Charters for both
agencies have been submitted for registration, and heads of the agencies appointed.
ReformUgol, the non-commercial foundation created in 1996 to assist the Government in
implementing its coal restructuring program, will assume responsibility for the data collection
and analytic support formerly provided by RosUgol, and will use this and other information to
advise MOFE and the agencies on the restructuring process. New structural units will also be set
up in the Ministry of Finance and Ministry of State Property to enhance their abilities to serve to
the needs of the coal industry restructuring program.
33.   As for RosUgol, a shareholders' meeting to vote its liquidation, appoint a Liquidation
Commission and adopt a schedule of liquidation actions was held on November 26, 1997. This
was followed in early December by formal publication of the announcement, as required by law,
of the liquidation of RosUgol. Transfer of all responsibilities, authorities and properties of
RosUgol to MOFE and the Ministry of State Property has been initiated and will be carried out
in accordance with standard liquidation procedures. It is expected that the state would sell all
shares and stock held by RosUgol in its subsidiary or affiliated companies within the next year.
RosUgol's liquidation is expected to be complete, with final registration in the State Register, by
the end of August 1998. Completion of these actions is a condition of the Privatization tranche.



-11-
C.    Mine Closures
34.   A key element in the Government's coal restructuring program is the closure of loss-
making and non-viable mines. The Government expects to eventually close 138 coal industry
enterprises, including 136 mines. As of November 1997, 95 mines have ceased production, and
42 of these have completed all underground closing activities and have fewer than 20 employees.
The Government plans to cease production at a further 30 mines, and complete all underground
closing activities at a further 47 mines, in 1998. The Government has proposed a program of
mine closures and restructuring for 1998 which will result in the effective closure of 86 mines,
where closure includes completion of underground works, reduction of the number of mine
employees to less than 20, and completion of the legally mandated social protection program for
the mine. Satisfactory progress in implementing this program, in line with the mine closure
guidelines and with provision of an adequate social safety net for affected workers, their families
and communities, is a condition of Social tranche
35.   Although the mine closure program began in 1993, no mines have been fully liquidated,
i.e., removed from the State Register of Mines, because a legal successor to assume the
responsibilities of a closed mine for payment of social benefits has not yet been found. During
1998, the Government will take several actions to accelerate the pace of mine liquidation, reduce
the physical costs of mine closure, improve the delivery of social protection benefits and ensure
that the environment is adequately protected. Two new agencies have been established to oversee
the process, the Mine Closure Agency and the Social Protection Agency. Updated mine closure
guidelines have been adopted. One of the first tasks of the Mine Closure Agency will be to
develop a detailed three-year mine closure program; as a first step, a uniform inventory of mines
and employees affected by restructuring will be created, and associated cost estimates and
schedules for completing physical and social aspects of mine closures will be updated. Legal
successor issues will be addressed in the context of the overall review of the legal and regulatory
framework and institutional capacity of the coal sector.
36.   Environmental audits will be conducted for two underground mines (one in the Komi
Republic and one in the Donbass) and one surface mine in the Far East. The audits will review
the environmental legislation, regulations, institutional arrangements and practices pertaining to
environmental, public health and land-use aspects of mine closures, and the site specific
documentation relating to these aspects. Site inspections of all facilities and properties at the
mine site will be completed. As necessary, environmental mitigation plans will be prepared for
the audited sites, including recommendations for and cost estimates of additional measures
needed to comply with legislation and regulations. Recommendations pertaining to necessary
changes in the system and practices of management and regulatory oversight or in legal and
regulatory requirements will also be made. Completion of the audits is a condition of the Social
tranche.
D.    Subsidy Management System
37.   To enhance accountability and transparency in the management of state support to the
coal sector, the Government has taken a series of major steps to restructure the entire system
including: (i) liquidating RosUgol, which suffered from conflict of interest in managing
subsidies; (ii) transferring responsibility for managing subsidies to the Ministry of Fuel and
Energy, to be managed by a new deputy minister and two especially created agencies; (iii)
promulgating new rules for allocation, transfer, use and monitoring of funds through



-12-
classification of subsidies into "priority" and "other" categories; (iv) establishing earmarked
accounts for all categories of subsidies in the Treasury system that would ensure accountability;
(v) establishing voluntary tripartite agreements between the Ministry of Finance, regional
governments and local governments for distribution of state support directly to local
governments for social assets; and (vi) initiating selective auditing of the system by independent
auditors to provide timely feedback on potential problems and allow for introducing further
corrections. Operation of the earmarked Treasury accounts and use of tripartite agreements
commenced in October/November 1997; full operation of the system under the "revised"
Resolution No. 598 is expected in early 1998. Verification of satisfactory operation of the state
support system over a six month period is a condition of the Social tranche.
38.    The "revised" Resolution No. 598, issued in early December 1997, sets the parameters
for determining categories of allocation and priorities among categories of "priority" and "other"
subsidies (as described above). It also establishes, in conjunction with supporting instructions
issued by MOFE, eligibility criteria for recipients of subsidies to the coal sector and the
mechanisms of delivery, verification and auditing. Under the new system, budgets will be
prepared and agreed on the basis of the new subsidy categories and disbursements will be
monitored on a monthly and quarterly basis to assure that they track with pre-agreed proportions
of priority and other subsidies. For each priority subsidy category, a set of rules will establish the
responsibilities and authorities of the institutions responsible for paying affected individuals and
service providing agencies. In addition, rules for determining eligibility for payment and for
verifying that payment has been made according to those rules will be established. Finally, a
comprehensive program of training and assistance will be directed toward the employees of
recipients.
39.   Important changes in subsidy definitions and allocation rules include, inter alia: (i) the
definition of redundancy now includes persons from downsizing mines as well as mines that are
closed; (ii) restrictions are in place so that physical mine closure subsidies can only be provided
to mines that have ceased coal production permanently and such mines are not eligible for
operating subsidies; (iii) authority has been created to approve the subsidy allocation schedule
prior to budget approval and to instruct MOFE/Ministry of Finance to ensure monthly
disbursement of priority subsidies at least in accordance with percentages in the approved
allocation schedule; (iv) a rule-based formula has been adopted for allocating operating loss and
related subsidies among coal companies until such subsidies decline to zero by 2000; and (v)
elimination of investment subsidies on any basis other than a loan. The Government will give
responsibility for coal investment support to an Investment Tenders Commission under the
Ministry of Economy. All coal companies-state-controlled, trust managed or private-will have
equal access to these funds. The Government intends to introduce a repayment mechanism to
enable the federal payments and receipts system to accept interest and principal repayments.



-13-
40.   The Government has mobilized a team of management consultants, under the Coal LAP
loan, to assist in the development and implementation of the improved subsidy management
system, in particular to assist in installation of modified or new systems to ensure adequate
monitoring and financial reporting at all levels. Audits of the modified and new systems and
special audits of the subsidy flows will be carried out during the first six months of system
operation to ensure the new management system for state support is operating satisfactory.
Deficiencies identified in the course of the audits will be corrected. Completion of satisfactory
audits is a condition of the Social tranche.
E.    Subsidy Levels and Allocation
41.   Phasing out coal subsidies is an essential part of the Government's macroeconomic
stabilization program and of the strategy for establishing a profitable, market oriented coal
sector. The Government has already reduced coal subsidies substantially. Under the phase of the
restructuring program supported by Coal SECAL I, the total budget allocation for coal subsidies
declined from 0.5 percent of GDP in 1996 to 0.2 percent of GDP in 1997 and the portion
allocated to other subsidies (formerly referred to as "bad" subsidies) fell in real terms by more
than 45 percent.
42.   The 1997 budget passed by the Duma provided for Rb 6.5 trillion in state support to the
coal sector. This notwithstanding, the Chairman of the Inter-Agency Commission in May 1997
approved an allocation for the year of Rb 4.5 trillion, the reduction in response to a general
budget sequestration necessitated by chronic revenue shortfalls. Disbursement of this amount by
the Ministry of Finance was reported already in August, due in part to the fact that, in the
absence until early March of an approved Federal Budget and until late May of a detailed
Summary Schedule, Rb 1.7 had been disbursed exclusively at the discretion of RosUgol in the
first five months of the year. The persistent demand for subsidies prompted the Chairman of the
IAC on September 19, 1997 (No. ACh-P27-102) to authorize budget financing of a further Rb 2
trillion for the last four months of the year, of which Rb 1.5 trillion for the fourth quarter (a
detailed Summary Schedule for fourth quarter subsidies was approved by the Chairman on
November 12). This effectively committed the Government to honoring the original amount
approved for coal subsidies in the Federal Budget. The fourth quarter allocation commits
Government to disburse at least Rb 657 billion for "good" subsidies and no more than Rb 811
billion for remaining subsidies. In addition to coal subsidy financing, the Government has made
available Rb 185 billion to local/municipal administrations for winterization of social assets
divested by the coal industry.
43.   For 1998, the proposed targets are: at least Rb 3.45 trillion will be transferred to
"priority" subsidy categories (provided that the approved budget for state support to the coal
sector permits a total expenditure), and no more than Rb 2.25 trillion will be transferred to other
subsidy categories. In addition to coal subsidies, Government has pledged to make available at
least  Rb   400  billion  financed   out  of  federal-regional  transfers  to  local
administrations/municipalities for sustainable improvements in social assets which have been
divested by the coal industry. The budgets for priority subsidies are based on the mine closure
schedules, the estimated accumulated arrears for priority subsidies owed to individuals or
organizations that provide services to affected individuals and communities, and the rules of
eligibility and estimates of 1998 participation levels. To assure priority categories are funded
accordingly, budget shortfalls will be fully absorbed by other subsidy categories before any
priority category is reduced, and monthly disbursements will be made so as to give absolute



-14-
priority to the priority categories. Disbursement of fourth quarter 1997 subsidies and cumulative
1998 subsidies in line with agreed targets at the time of tranche review are conditions of the
Social tranche.
F.    Social Protection Payments to Individuals
44.   The Government has implemented a comprehensive social protection program by
directing the majority of priority coal subsidies to make payments to individuals and to cover the
costs of services for affected individuals, their families and communities. Pending full
implementation of the proposed subsidy management system in 1998, the Government has
established and used temporary mechanisms in 1997. Beginning in 1998, the Government will
introduce a mechanism which allows the transfer of state support funds allocated for severance
benefit payments, settlement of wage arrears and disability compensation payments directly to
individual bank accounts of recipients or to the local post office. The operation of this system of
direct transfers will be monitored closely through both the financial audits and social impact
monitoring in 1998.
45.   Redundancy Payments-Severance Payments and Wage Arrears. The Government is
committed to a comprehensive social protection program for workers made redundant through
mine closure or reduction in workforce at operating enterprises. Under Coal SECAL I, this
included the payment of severance benefits as required by law, and assistance with re-
employment where this assistance had reasonable expectations of being successful. Among
workers that were laid off at mines in the closure process or downsizing, the majority transferred to
new jobs in the coal industry. During 1996, the Government disbursed Rb 267 billion for
severance payments of workers made redundant due to coal sector restructuring. During 1997,
this figure is expected to reach Rb 878 billion, while in 1998 it is conservatively estimated by the
Government as Rb 430 billion; contingency funds of Rb 400 billion have been allocated to the
Social Protection Reserve Fund to offset possible underestimates of demand for such subsidies in
1998.
46.    Social impact monitoring conducted during 1997 indicated that wages owed in arrears
were a major issue in completing the restructuring process. The government has responded to
this finding by committing part of the state support to the coal industry to address this problem.
Beginning in 1998, in accordance with the "revised" Resolution 598, the Government will pay
wage arrears for employees declared redundant in closing or downsizing mines and for those
retired on the basis of age, years of service, or disability from closing mines. This is an average
of 5-6 months of wages and is, for the typical worker, at least as much remuneration as the
severance payment. The total figure for 1998 is estimated as Rb 650 billion.
47.   Disability Payments. In 1996, Rb 107 billion of subsidies were spent on disability
payments for workers at closing mines; for 1997, Rb 195 billion is expected to be disbursed and
for 1998, Rb 305 billion. The high number for 1998 is due to estimated arrears in disability
payments. Beginning in 1998, disability payments to former workers of mines that are closed or
are in the closure process will be processed by the Social Insurance Fund. In preparation for this,
the Social Insurance Fund has created a special coal department and initiated development of the
requisite data base to monitor the program. A Presidential Decree and Government Resolution
enabling this transfer to take place were issued in early December 1997. Under a draft law
presently being considered by the Duma, it is expected that a national program will be developed
that will subsume the current coal industry specific program.



-15-
48.   Free CoaL Coal subsidies are available for persons who are eligible to receive free coal
but who are associated with mines that have closed (i.e., persons formerly associated with the
mine who are now age dependent pensioners, disabled, widows of deceased miners, families of
miners killed while working). The allowed benefit is 6 tons of coal per year at a cost of
approximately Rb 1.2 million per eligible person/household. In recent years, the subsidy for free
coal has been relatively stable, going from Rb 256 billion in 1996, to Rb 221 billion in 1997 and
Rb 280 billion in 1998; however, it can be expected to increase further as more mines close.
While widespread problems in distributing this benefit have not been reported, growing costs are
a major concern because there is no fund to cover them. Moreover, free coal is a benefit that is
specific to the coal industry (i.e., pensioners, disabled and redundant workers from other
industries have no comparable entitlement), and it is difficult to devise an alternative that is
equitable for all affected regions. The Government intends to carry out a review of various
options through technical assistance under Coal IAP during the first half of 1998.
G.    Support for Affected Persons and Coal Communities
49.   Pre-redundancy Consultations. The Employment Service of the Ministry of Labor and
Social Development has been providing pre-redundancy consultations to employees declared
redundant by closed, closing or downsizing mines. Through June 1997, approximately 20,000
people received consultation services, with an estimated 8,000 expected to receive services in the
second half of 1997. Total subsidies allocated for this service were Rb 4 billion in 1996 and Rb
5.4 for 1997, but none of the 1997 funds have been disbursed (i.e., the Federal and Local
Employment Services (LES) have not been paid for 1997 services). Pre-redundancy counseling
as administered by the LES was considered an important program by its participants. Part of the
success can be explained by the willingness of the LES to strain its resources to provide services
that extended beyond its areas of expertise (e.g., advice on disability benefits) and to provide
coal industry employees extra services while workers from other industries waited for services.
As a result, a new pre-redundancy counseling program is being implemented as part of the
community development programs. In the new program, local administrations will coordinate
the services of the LES with those of other involved agencies (e.g., the Social Insurance Fund) to
provide redundant workers with the full package of services that experience has indicated they
need (e.g., legal and psychological advice as well as income support).
50.   Community Development and Employment Programs.  The Government made a
substantial commitment toward identifying and implementing programs that provide redundant
workers with alternative employment in coal basins under its Coal SECAL I program. In 1996,
Rb 200 billion in state support funds were distributed; in 1997, a comparable allocation was
made and some disbursements have been made. However, experience with the community
development programs to date has been mixed, with job creation initiatives, e.g., through
business incubators, working in some communities, while coal companies have tried to divert the
resources in other communities. Difficulties in the use of these funds have led to the
development of a new draft policy statement and governing regulations which establish the
contract provisions for implementing the program and address some of the issues. As for the
mechanism of providing funds to the communities, a standard (four-party) agreement defining
the basic framework has been designed and disbursement of subsidies will be through earmarked
Treasury accounts. At the same time, greater attention needs to be given to active participation
of the Local Oversight Committees and application of sound selection criteria for projects. Some
assistance in the remaining issues, e.g., in establishment of a competitive bidding procedure for
project selection, will be provided by the management consultants assisting in development of an



-16-
improved subsidy management system. During 1998, it is proposed to increase the subsidy
allocation to Rb 400 billion, of which at least Rb 100 billion would be for social assets
upgrading.
51.   Divested Social Assets. Since 1995, local and municipal administrations have assumed
responsibility for most social assets (primarily heating systems and housing) formerly owned by
the coal companies and the personnel associated with them. In late 1996, Rb 1.6 trillion were
disbursed to the local administrations for emergency repairs (winterization), a program that was
generally well received in the coal communities as this was the year in which most of the social
assets were transferred to the communities and in need of substantial repairs and upgrading. In
1997, some Rb 400 billion has been allocated for winterization, although only Rb 185 billion
have been provided through the agreed arrangement of tripartite agreements (Kemerovo/13
communities). The constrained budgetary situation in 1997 has precluded the Government's
allocating more funds to general federal-regional transfers and hence to social assets support. For
1998, the focus of the program will be on implementing sustainable improvements in social
assets (e.g., capital improvement projects to reduce long term heating energy requirements), for
which the Government has committed to making available at least Rb 400 billion.
52.   Because social assets are now largely owned by local governments, subsidies paid for
them are no longer coal subsidies but are federal-regional transfers to local and municipal
administrations. Beginning in the final quarter of 1997, the Government is using tripartite
agreements to facilitate the transfer of funds directly from the Federal Treasury through
earmarked accounts to the local governments and contractors servicing social assets. It is
expected that the funds will be provided as loans, and if they are used for the intended purposes,
they will be converted to grants, the objective being to enhance accountability and transparency.
A competitive process will be used to select coal communities and projects which will receive
the upgrading funds in 1998. As for community programs, the management consultants will
provide some assistance in establishing basic criteria and procedures.
H.    Public Participation and Social Impact Monitoring
53.   The main stakeholders in the coal sector have increased their participation significantly
with the establishment of regional commissions of the IAC in the main coal basins and Local
Oversight Committees in some fifty coal communities. In addition, limited funds have been
provided to the Association of Mining City Mayors and two main coal labor unions (Rosugleprof
and NPG) under the Coal IAP loan to assist them in improving communications with their
constituencies. The programs are directed toward providing adequate and timely information on
the Government's coal restructuring program and its implications and for enabling those affected
to voice their concerns. Some legal assistance has also been provided to workers. To date,
public information has been distributed mainly through ad hoc actions and the general press.
The Government also intends to begin a nationwide public information campaign to further the
communication about the achievements of the first phase of the coal restructuring program and
the objectives of the second phase.
54.   Three social assessments in the main coal basins of Russia have been carried out in the
course of Coal SECAL I: a baseline assessment in 1995 during preparation of the loan and two
updating assessments, one in September 1996 after first tranche release and one in May 1997
after second tranche release. A contract supporting a more continuous social impact monitoring
program through mid-1999 is about to be awarded under the Coal LAP loan. In addition, an



-17-
independent Panel of Experts, comprised of experienced Russian social scientists with good
regional contacts, has been established which provides opinions/advice on mitigating social
impacts of the Government's restructuring program. Under Coal SECAL II, social impact
monitoring will focus on regions where redundancies are expected to be the largest because of
either mine closures or downsizing in operating mines. Social impact indicators will be used to
demonstrate compliance, which means delivery of benefits and services to the individuals and
communities entitled to receive such benefits and services within the coal industry restructuring
program financed through state support. Implementation of a satisfactory social impact
monitoring program is a condition of the Social tranche.
L      Privatization
55.   Privatization of the coal companies is one of the most important policy actions for the
coal sector. The primary objectives are to create a sustainable (i.e., profitable, efficient and
environmentally sound) coal industry by exposing coal companies to the incentives and
disciplines of the market and to enable the Government to direct its limited resources to the tasks
where they create the most value (i.e., maintenance of the social safety net, stewardship of public
resources and protection of the environment). The Government recognizes that many of the coal
companies are in poor financial condition and face uncertain market conditions. Such companies
are unlikely to attract bids that are comparable to those made for oil properties and in some cases
may attract no bids at all. Companies which cannot become viable after indebtedness is paid will
be closed and fully liquidated.
56.    The 1997 Program. Under Coal SECAL I, the Government committed itself to
transferring the state's shareholdings in coal companies accounting for a total of 25 percent of
industry's 1995 production to trust managers. Because of technical difficulties, only two
companies were transferred to trust managers; the state's interest in a further two companies was
transferred to the Russian Federal Property Fund as a prelude to privatization. Together, these
four companies accounted for 21.5 percent of Russian coal production in 1995. Emphasis is now
shifting to direct privatization. Two companies, KuzbassrazrezUgol and Yuzhniy Kuzbass, are
already being privatized, with commercial sales and special auctions for 55 percent of their
shares held by December 11, 1997; public notification of the un-reserving of the remaining 25.5
percent federally-held shares was issued in late November, with plans to sell the remaining
shares (except for a possible Golden share) in the first quarter of 1998.
57.    The 1998 Program. The target by the end of 1998 is to have zero direct or indirect
federal shareholding, with the exception of a possible Golden share, in coal companies that
accounted for 115 million tons, or 45 percent, of national coal production in 1996 and a plan to
privatize or liquidate the remaining federal interests in the coal industry. Completion of these
actions are conditions of the Privatization tranche. The Government has provided an indicative
list of companies for privatization, comprising in addition to the two companies noted above, a
further eleven companies, accounting for a combined total of about 55 percent of 1996 coal
production; the companies are at various stages of preparation for privatization. The list also
includes the larger of the two trust managed companies (VostSibUgol) for which the
Government intends to try to initiate privatization actions within the coming year.
58.   Companies to be put up for privatization may be drawn from this pool. In cases where
the privatization of one company is delayed, another company with good economic prospects
may be substituted from inside or outside the pool. Where high debt burdens inhibit the potential



-18-
sale of a company that otherwise has strong fundamentals, the Government will take the
necessary steps to make the company attractive to private investors. In other cases, where it
becomes apparent during the privatization process that some of the mines within a company are
unviable, the government will liquidate them before proceeding with the next tranche of share
sales. The Government will retain the right to issue a Golden Share in any of the privatized coal
companies at the time of selling the final package of federal shares; this share will expire after
not more than 2 years.
59.   With a view to the ongoing change in the coal industry and transition to private
ownership, the Government plans to undertake a review of the legal and regulatory framework
and institutional capacity affecting the industry. The review will include: mineral rights issues,
allocation of regulatory authority/responsibilities between the federal and regional
governments/agencies, regulatory authority/responsibilities of the State Mining Inspection
Service, approvals and permitting related to coal field development plans/other coal investment
programs, health and safety, environmental aspects, mine closure issues not otherwise included
and legal successor issues (e.g., health, subsidence, financial, environmental, and social). The
review will specifically consider whether the current regulatory regime is appropriate for a coal
sector transitioning toward privatization and whether changes are needed in the institutional
framework governing the sector. Completion of the review is a condition of the Privatization
tranche.
V. THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN
A.    Bank Involvement to Date
60.   The Bank's involvement in the coal sector in the Russian Federation began in 1992 with
the First Rehabilitation Loan when the Government requested that US$ 50 million be used to
finance critical imports for the coal industry. The Government also asked the Bank to provide
advice on coal sector restructuring. The results of this sector work were published in Russian
Federation - Restructuring the Coal Industry: Putting People First (Bank Report 13187-RU,
December, 1994). On the basis of this collaborative effort, the Government prepared and
approved its Coal Sector Restructuring Program elaborated in an IAC-issued document entitled
"Main Trends for Restructuring of the Russian Coal Industry" (July, 1995). The Bank responded
by preparing and presenting to the Board for approval (in June, 1996) a Coal Sector Adjustment
Loan (Loan No. 4058-RU) to support the initial phase of implementation of the Government's
restructuring program. To further assist the Government in implementing its program, the Bank
prepared and presented to the Board together with Coal SECAL I, a companion technical
assistance project--Coal Sector Restructuring Implementation Assistance Project (Loan No.
4059-RU). The main achievements under Coal SECAL I are summarized in para. 11 above; all
outstanding actions as described in the May 1997 Progress Report to the Board have been
completed. Implementation of Coal IAP continues to be satisfactory and to provide essential
support to the Government's ongoing restructuring program.
B.    Rationale and Objectives for Further Bank Involvement
61.   Recognizing the difficulties of coal sector restructuring in any country and the particular
circumstances of Russia's economic transition, it was expected from the outset of preparing Coal
SECAL I that assistance beyond the first loan would likely be needed. The Russian Govermnent



-19-
has stated that the Bank's continued support of coal sector restructuring is one of the
prerequisites for real reform in the industry. The second phase of the Government's restructuring
program, as outlined in Chapter IV above, represents a strong reform program under which the
Government has demonstrated its commitment through substantial up-front actions. As such, the
Government's program provides a credible basis for proceeding with the proposed Second Coal
Sector Adjustment Loan. Coal SECAL II would be the third sector adjustment loan to Russia.
62.   Under Coal SECAL II, in line with the overall objectives of the Government's
continuing restructuring program, it is proposed to deepen the achievements of Coal SECAL I
through a program directed toward: (i) separation of state management functions and commercial
activities in the coal industry and improvement of sector governance; (ii) continued reduction
and improved management of coal subsidies, aiming at the eventual elimination of such
subsidies; (iii) development of a strengthened and more targeted social safety net for affected
workers, their families and communities; and (iv) establishment of a more efficient and
sustainable industry and promotion of an accelerated privatization program. The companion
technical assistance project--Coal IAP--will continue to be available to assist the Government in
implementing the next phase of its reform program (project closing date: December, 1999).
C.    Loan Features
63.   Financial Arrangements. The proposed Coal SECAL II of US$ 800 million equivalent
will be quick-disbursing and will provide balance of payments and budget support, linked to the
conditionality specified for the tranche releases. The loan will be released in three tranches: the
first tranche of US$ 400 million equivalent on loan effectiveness (expected in December 1997), and
two floating tranches, each of US$ 200 million equivalent on fulfillment of specific tranche release
conditions. The proposed loan, in the form of a single currency US dollar loan, will be made to
the Russian Federation, represented by the Ministry of Finance. The loan will have the standard
amortization term, grace period and LIBOR-based interest rate for such loans. Disbursements
will be made into a Deposit Account of MOF established in the Central Bank of the Russian
Federation for this purpose.
64.   In accordance with the Operational Directive on the Simplification of Disbursement
Rules under Structural Adjustment and Sectoral Adjustment Loans (February 8, 1996),
disbursements of the loan will not be linked to any specific purchases, and hence, there will be
no procurement requirements. Disbursements of the loan will be subject to a standard negative
list of ineligible goods and countries of origin. The Government has indicated that the
counterpart funds will be used to provide support for the coal sector reform program. Upon
notification by the Bank of tranche release for each tranche, proceeds of the loan will be
deposited by the Bank into the MOF Deposit Account at the Borrower's request. If after deposit
in this account, the proceeds are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance items imported from
non-member countries, or goods or services in the standard negative list), the Bank will require
the Government to either (i) return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes, or
(ii) refund the amount directly to the Bank, in which case the Bank will cancel an equivalent
undisbursed amount of the loan. Although routine audits of the Deposit Account will not be
required, the Bank reserves the right to require audits at any time. The expected closing date of
the proposed loan will be December 31, 1999.
65.   Tranching. Disbursement of the first tranche of US$ 400 million equivalent will occur
upon loan effectiveness, on the basis of conditions fulfilled before presentation of the loan to the



-20-
Board. These include actions pertaining to the organization of the sector, improved subsidy
management and a strengthened social safety net, and initial steps toward privatization of the
viable portion of the industry. In addition, since Bank adjustment lending is conditional on a
borrower having in place a satisfactory macroeconomic framework, the Bank will need to be
satisfied at the time of Board presentation that:
(i)   there is satisfactory implementation of the Action Plan to Increase Collection of
Taxes and Reduce Federal Budget Expenditures;
(ii)   there is significant progress toward agreement on the main elements of the 1998
macroeconomic framework, and that Bank senior management judges the
prospects for its implementation are favorable; and
(iii)  there are no unforeseen intervening unfavorable developments in the authorities'
macroeconomic management.
Information gathered during the IMF/Bank December 1997 mission will be critical in making
these determinations, and will be reported by Bank senior management at the time of Board
presentation.
66.   Disbursement of the two floating tranches, each of US$ 200 million equivalent, will be
contingent on a review, satisfactory to the Bank, of: (i) the country's macroeconomic framework;
(ii) satisfactory progress in the implementation of the coal reform program as set out in the
Government's Policy Letter; and (iii) fulfillment of the specific tranche release conditions. The
first of the two floating tranches - the Social tranche - is expected to be disbursed in the third
quarter of 1998 based on six months performance of the new subsidy management system,
verified by financial and social monitoring. The second of the floating tranches - the
Privatization tranche - is expected to be disbursed in the first quarter of 1999 after the program
for privatizing coal companies accounting for 45% of production has been completed. The Bank
has indicated that, in the event this tranche has not been disbursed by March 31, 1999, the Bank
would initiate cancellation of the loan proceeds for this tranche. Specific conditions for Board
presentation and the two floating tranches are in Attachment 4.
D.    Monitoring Arrangements
67.   Social Impact Monitoring.  As noted above, the Government is committed to a
continuing program of social monitoring to track the social impact of the coal restructuring
program. Submission to the Bank of a monitoring report for the three months preceding the
Social tranche release review, which demonstrates overall compliance with the social impact
indicators agreed during negotiations, and publication of the findings of such monitoring report
would be required before the Social tranche release review. The scope and details of the social
impact monitoring program and monitoring report were agreed during negotiations.



-21-
68.   Financial Monitorilng/Special Audits..  Development and implementation of an
improved subsidy management system is a major focus of Coal SECAL II. Monitoring of the
operation of the new agencies/mechanisms/procedures, in order to identify and correct
shortcomings early on, will be critical to the transparency, effectiveness and sustainability of the
new system. In line with this, the Government has committed to carry out a comprehensive audit
program, both for coal subsidies and federal-regional transfers in support of social assets. In the
case of coal subsidies, special audits will be carried out by internationally recruited auditors and
will start after three months of operation of the new system, covering the first six months of
operation in 1998. The auditors will coordinate with the Control and Audit Department of the
Ministry of Finance with a view to capacity building and potential cost savings. In the case of
federal-regional transfers, special audits will be carried out by the Control and Audit Department
of MOF and will commence in the second quarter of 1998 after tripartite agreements are in place
for 1998 support for social assets. Submission to the Bank of satisfactory audit reports will be
required before the Social tranche release review, where a satisfactory report is defined as one
which indicates that the subsidies/budget transfers were effectively transferred to the legitimate
final recipients and were used for the intended purposes and that the audit was carried out in
accordance with the audit terms of reference. The basic requirements of the audits and outline of
the systems to be audited were agreed during negotiations.
E.    Poverty Category
69.   The proposed Coal SECAL II supports government policies that aim to make coal sector
restructuring socially sustainable. This will be accomplished in part by strengthening the existing
social safety net to meet the needs of those most affected by restructuring: redundant coal sector
workers and their families and communities. While coal industry workers enjoy higher wages
than the majority of the national workforce, impending retrenchment industry-wide combined
with an underdeveloped safety net leave redundant coal workers vulnerable to instant poverty
upon termination of employment. The Bank's intervention supports the establishment and
financing of a minimum safety net for the unemployed and for pensioners of mines being closed,
together with the creation and introduction of mechanisms which should ensure that individual
beneficiaries receive the safety net support to which they are legally entitled. The Bank's
intervention in addition supports incremental federal financing for the maintenance and
operation of essential social assets divested by the coal industry to local and municipal
administrations, together with a system which ensures that these resources are placed at the
discretion of local governments in a timely manner to allow them to meet their current
obligations. Communities unusually dependent on the coal industry suffer from the combined
impact of reduced tax revenues generated by a contracting coal industry, which is exacerbated by
the additional burden of having to finance the maintenance and operation of essential social
assets and public utilities. The proposed Coal SECAL II is designed to ensure that restructuring
of the coal industry does not result in a significant worsening of local governments' ability to
maintain the provision of essential social services, and supports the implementation of measures
to address the longer-term needs of providing such services more reliably and efficiently. For
these reasons, Coal SECAL II will be in the category of "poverty-focused" operations.
F.    Environment
70.   Environmental Assessment. The Bank undertook an extensive review  of the
environmental problems of the coal industry in preparing the 1994 sector report. This review
concluded that the most serious environmental problems in mining areas were linked to the



-22-
burning of coal rather than to mining activities per se. Apart from a small number of localized
issues, the main weaknesses in the environmental performance of coal-mining activities were the
consequence of poor incentives and bad management driven by a focus on meeting output
targets, which contributed to perpetuating inefficient mining practices. Thus, reform of
incentives and operating procedures combined with the closure of the most inefficient mines,
which tend to cause disproportionate environmental damage, will reduce the environmental
damage caused by the industry, if the closure is conducted in an environmentally sound manner,
in line with Russian regulatory requirements. Moreover, given that demand for coal continues to
decline at a faster rate than that for natural gas and oil products, downsizing of the sector,
accompanied by the closure of unviable mines and reduction in coal consumption, will result in a
sizable reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases and sulfur dioxide, thereby addressing
problems of global climate change, acid rain and local pollution and leading to significant net
environmental benefits. In the future, remaining privatized viable coal mining companies will be
in a position, given adequate market and regulatory incentives, to adopt more environmentally
benign technologies throughout the whole cycle of coalfield development, mining,
preparation/processing, handling, and transportation, which will have further beneficial impacts
on both the global and local environment.
71.   In the course of mine closures, specific measures must be undertaken to ensure that mine
closures occur in an orderly manner that takes account of the need to cap operating or disused
shafts, to minimize risks associated with the accumulation of gas in old mine workings, and to
deal with any problems following the flooding of old workings. Design institutes and other
organizations have the necessary experience in preparing plans and implementing the appropriate
measures, but may require additional assistance from international experts for planning mine
closures on the basis of realistic cost estimates and sound and efficient approaches. The
Government has recently revised its mine closure guidelines, in particular to clarify steps and
institutional responsibilities for technical, financial and social issues. Regulations and review
procedures for environmental aspects of mine closures are well-established. At the same time,
the Government will undertake a review of the existing regulatory framework for the coal sector;
this will be done to assess the need for adjustments and revisions necessary to ensure that the
above framework is adequate for the restructured privatized coal sector.
72.   Environmental Rating. The proposed operation is a sector adjustment operation and as
such will not result directly in any significant negative environmental impact. If any
environmental impacts can be attributed to the operation, substantial net beneficial impacts can
be expected as an indirect consequence of the intervention, both in terms of global and local
environmental issues. The operation has been rated "B" for Enviromnental Assessment.
Technical assistance is available under the Coal IAP to assist federal and regional regulatory
authorities in improving the Government's capacity to oversee and regulate enviromnental
aspects of mine closures, in enforcing compliance with established procedures, and in
strengthening a system to manage the environmental rehabilitation of land, water, and habitats
disturbed by past mining operations. It is expected that Coal IAP-financed technical assistance
will be made available to facilitate conduct of the environmental audits required as a condition of
the Social tranche. Discussions are also underway to allocate part of the technical assistance
funds to address environmental aspects of privatization in order to assist the Government to
adapt its system of environmental regulatory oversight to a post-privatization period, and to
advance preparation of pilot environmental remediation projects at closed mine sites, which will
have an additional focus of addressing global environmental issues. The National Greenhouse
Gas Reduction Strategy Study, currently under implementation, also aims at assessing near- and



-23-
midterm trends in energy use and at identifying possible investment projects to address reduction
of the GHG emissions, including in coal mining, storage, processing, and transportation.
G.    Support for Coal SECAL II: Coal IAP
73.   To meet the challenge of translating its reform agenda into effective actions, the
Government requested the Bank to finance a Coal Sector Restructuring Implementation
Assistance Project; the loan was approved in June and made effective in July, 1996.
74.   The IAP design was to a large extent built on a stakeholder consultation process,
including social assessments in two coal basins (Pechora and Kuznetsk (Kuzbass)) affected by
the mine closures. The Project Implementation Unit was established in the form of a non-
commercial foundation, ReformUgol. Despite management and staffing uncertainties during the
first year of its existence, ReformUgol has become a key organization providing technical,
analytical and implementation support for the Government's coal sector restructuring program.
Its main activities to date have included:
(i)    financial and advisory support (ongoing), under cooperation agreements, to the
two main coal trade unions and Association of Coal Mining Cities to support
activities aimed at public information, legal support for the union activists,
members, and communities, training of local union and community organizers -
all related to providing adequate social protection to the miners, their families,
and communities affected by the coal sector restructuring;
(ii)   financial, implementation and supervision support for continuing assessment and
monitoring of social impacts of the coal sector restructuring, with the objective
of providing feedback and reality checks for the Government's restructuring
effort to ensure that it is more efficient and better targeted to assist those in need;
(iii)  financial, technical and implementation support for the initial phase of
transferring selected coal companies to independent trust management;
(iv)   financing and supervision, on behalf of the Government, of the first independent
special audits of selected recipients of state subsidies, as the first step on the way
to improve the subsidy management system;
(v)    financial and supervision support for the initial phase of the Government's
public information campaign; and
(vi)   analytical and technical support to the Inter-Agency Commission on Socio-
Economic Problems of Coal Mining Regions and Coal Department of the
Ministry of Economy, two principal Government policy development and policy
making bodies in the area of coal sector restructuring.
75.   To provide timely and meaningful support to comprehensive development and
implementation of the next phase of the Government's reform program, supported by Coal
SECAL II, ReformUgol needs to focus its efforts on the following: (i) technical assistance for
strengthening and transforming the system of managing state subsidies for the sector and the
state management and regulatory system for the coal sector; (ii) broader public information and
participation program; (iii) assistance in strengthening environmental management and



-24-
regulatory oversight system in the sector; (iv) continuing support for social and participatory
programs; and (v) support for the Government's privatization effort.
76.   As the Government's program is being further developed and fine-tuned, there may be a
need to review the current design of the IAP in order to redirect it towards support for priority
elements of the program.  The Government's continuing and strengthened support for
ReformUgol remains a key element to the overall success of the IAP and its objectives.
ReformUgol, itself, in order to carry out its important task of providing comprehensive support
for reforms in the coal sector, may need to be further strengthened, particularly in terms of its
technical staff and advisory consultants and in overall project management systems.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
77.   Benefits. The proposed Coal SECAL II (together with the Coal LAP) sustains Bank
support for the Government's coal restructuring initiatives and builds upon the progress made
since the Government began its reform program in 1994 and since the first Bank operation in
June 1996. The proposed program extends the Bank's support for restructuring a critical sector
of the Russian economy that continues to depend on Government subsidies. The impetus for
restructuring is the gradual withdrawal of federal subsidies that cover various operating and
investment losses for coal enterprises. The most immediate effect is to decrease the impact of a
loss making coal sector on the federal budget. Longer term, the withdrawal of subsidies
promotes the establishment of a more efficient and sustainable coal sector through closure of
unprofitable mines; privatization of regional coal companies, and increased reliance on
competition and market forces to establish prices and production levels. The Government and
Bank recognize that the transition to a more efficient industry can impose hardships on
employees of coal enterprises, their families, and communities. Therefore, the operation
supports a series of programs that together form a social safety net to mitigate these impacts.
Under Coal SECAL II, particular emphasis will be placed on developing the institutional
capacity to deliver these social benefits in a transparent and equitable manner. The program is
augmented by support provided under the Bank-financed Coal Sector Restructuring
Implementation Assistance Project, which has initiated capacity building activities in key areas,
including improved measures to mitigate social impacts in the most heavily-affected regions.
78.   Risks. This is a high risk operation. The continued reduction and redirection and the
strengthened management of subsidies all involve adverse impacts on interest groups, which in
turn could impact the pace of reform, and the quality of the social aspects of the program.
Similar risks exist for the privatization component. These factors were evident in the course of
implementation of Coal SECAL 1. At the same time, implementing the substantial structural and
social changes inherent in the Government's program will be a considerable challenge to the
Government's political will to deploy the necessary institutional capacity.
79.    These risks should be mitigated by the major changes in the management of the sector
now taking place, notably the liquidation of RosUgol, which itself demonstrates the
Government's considerable resolve to push ahead with reform. They should also be contained by
the new expenditure control mechanisms now established. In addition, the public visibility of the
coal sector reform program creates considerable pressure for its satisfactory implementation,
especially as concerns its social aspects. The time limit on the privatization tranche is aimed at
creating an incentive for speedy action. Overall progress on coal sector restructuring during the



-25-
initial phase of implementation, together with the commitments in the Government's Policy
Letter provide a reasonable assurance that the reforms will continue.
VII. RECOMMENDATION
80.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio K. Koch-Weser
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 30, 1997



I



Attachment 1
Page 1 of 7
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SECOND COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators
Actual                  Estimate           Projected
Indicator                 1993     1994      1995     1996      1997     1998      1999     2000
National accounts
(as % GDP at current market prices)
Gross domestic product                  100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Agriculturea                            7.6       6.1      6.9       6.9
Industrya                              40.5     41.2      39.3     36.8
Servicesa                              46.4      49.7     47.1     50.5
Total consumption                        69.1     69.7      73.2     74.6      76.9     78.1      78.2     78.0
Gross domestic fixed investment           ..      21.8      20.0     19.5      17.0     17.9      18.7     19.6
Government investment                      ..      6.1       5.2      4.4       4.3      4.4       4.6      4.7
Private investment                          ..    19.4      18.0     17.7      15.8     15.4      16.1     16.9
Exports (GNFS)b                          35.5     27.7      25.6     22.5      21.2     20.3      19.2     18.5
Imports (GNFS)                           31.6     22.9      22.1     19.2      18.2     18.3      18.0     18.0
Gross domestic savings                   30.9     30.3      26.8     25.4      23.1     21.9      21.8     22.0
Gross national savings'                  28.5     28.5      24.8     23.4      20.9     19.4      18.8     19.2
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                183,780  277,025  357,348  440,169  460,353  498,097  552,516  602,651
(US$ million at current prices)
Gross national product per              2,770    2,330    2,240    2,400         ..
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1996 prices)
Gross domestic product at             -8.7%   -12.6%    -4.1%    -4.9%      0.0%      4.0%     6.0%      6.0%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income                -10.1%   -12.6%     4.4%     -4.7%     0.5%      3.6%     5.7%      5.7%
Real annual per capita growth rates
(%, calculated from 1996 prices)
Gross domestic product at             -8.6%   -12.5%    -4.0%    -4.6%      0.3%      4.3%     6.3%      6.3%
market prices
Total consumption                     6.9%    -3.6%    -0.5%       1.6%     2.5%      5.3%     5.9%      5.7%
Private consumption                   5.6%    10.8%    -0.7%       9.2%     3.3%      5.3%     5.6%      5.3%
(Continued)



Attachment 1
Page 2 of 7
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators (Continued)
Actual                 Estimate          Projected
Indicator                1993     1994     1995      1996     1997     1998     1999     2000
The balance of payments
(US$m)
Exports (GNFS)b                     65,244    76,667   91,610   99,112   97,681  101,049  105,845  111,334
Merchandise FOB                   58,422    67,716   81,552   88,464   87,401   90,252   94,384   99,131
Imports (GNFS)b                    58,110    63,448   78,885   84,728   83,747   91,054   99,587  108,720
Merchandise FOB                   44,219    48,005   60,084   67,557   67,033   73,244   80,499   88,300
Resource balance                     7,134    13,219   12,725   14,384   13,935    9,996    6,258    2,614
Net current transfers                            -59      108      167      167      167       167      167
(including official current transfers)
Current account balance              5,477     9,576    6,155    5,917    4,104   -2,239  -10,232  -14,466
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct            386       637    2,017    2,158    3,158    3,300    4,300    5,300
investment
Long-term loans (net)               -10,780  -12,904  -10,479   -2,734   -1,612   -1,880   -1,170   -5,616
Other capital (net, including        8,317    -1,378    7,236  -10,202    1,157   11,037   17,482   27,141
errors and omissions)
Change in reservesd                  -3,400    4,069   -4,929    4,861   -6,807  -10,217  -10,380  -12,359
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of                 3.9%     4.8%     3.6%     3.3%      3.0%     2.0%     1.1%     0.4%
GDP at current market prices)
Real annual growth rates
(FY96 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)                ..       ..       ..       ..   2.2%       2.5%     3.0%     3.5%
Primary                                ..        ..   2.6%      2.2%      2.2%     2.5%     3.0%     3.5%
Capital goods                      -23.4%     6.4%    50.0%     2.2%      2.2%     2.5%     3.0%     3.5%
Merchandise imports (CIF)                ..       ..       ..       ..   5.0%       6.6%     6.6%     6.6%
(Continued)



Attachment 1
Page 3 of 7
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators (Continued)
Actual                 Estimate          Projected
Indicator                1993     1994      1995     1996     1997     1998      1999    2000
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)e
Current revenues                       38.6     36.7     32.7     28.8     29.7      30.4     31.5     32.4
Current expenditures                  42.6      40.7     33.2     32.5     32.8      31.3     30.7     29.8
Budgetary savings surplus (+)         -4.1      -4.1     -0.5     -3.7     -3.1      -0.9      0.8      2.6
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditures                    4.8      7.4      6.0      5.1      4.9       5.0      5.2      5.3
Overall balance (- = deficit)          -8.7    -11.3     -5.6     -8.5     -7.8      -5.7     -4.0    -2.5
Foreign financing                       3.2      1.3      2.1      2.5      3.9       3.5      2.4      2.2
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market prices)      23.9     21.2     16.9     16.3      17.0     19.1     21.3     24.4
Growth of M2 (%)                      286.6    216.5    112.6     33.1     23.6      30.3     29.1     29.8
Price indices
(1996 =100)
Merchandise export price index          ..        ..       ..   100.0      96.7     97.5      99.0    100.5
Merchandise import price index          ..        ..       ..   100.0      94.5     96.9      99.9    102.8
Merchandise terms of trade index         ..       ..       ..   100.0    102.3    100.6       99.1     97.8
Real exchange rate                    35.9      59.7     74.4    100.0    100.0    101.5    103.0    103.0
(US$/LCU)f
Consumer price index                895.3%   303.2%   188.7%    47.5%    15.1%
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator (% growth rate)        888.1%   307.3%   178.4%    45.5%    18.0%    12.0%      9.0%     7.0%
a. GDP components are estimated at factor cost.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Enlarged government (federal and local governments and extrabudgetary funds).
f "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



Attachment 1
Page 4 of 7
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SECOND COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table 2: Key Exposure Indicators
Actual e               Estimate e         Projectede
Indicator                 1993      1994      1995     1996      1997      1998     1999      2000
Total debt outstanding and             112,940  121,921   120,461   127,392  138,072  149,953   156,449   162,677
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a
Net disbursements (US$m)a                4,334     1,089    4,619      -219    2,091     3,807   -3,282    -7,213
Total debt service (TDS)                 2,333     3,674    6,303    17,932    16,433    18,821    24,737   28,792
(US$m)a
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb                                171.7    157.3    129.7    126.9    140.4    146.4    144.8    142.8
TDO/GDP                                  61.5     44.0      33.7     28.9      30.0      30.1     28.3      27.0
TDS/XGS                                   3.5      4.7       6.8     17.9      16.7      18.4     22.9      25.3
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                        0.5       1.0       0.9      0.8       1.3       2.6      3.2       3.9
Preferred creditorDS/public              11.5     13.7      13.6      9.4      12.0      15.1     23.4      18.9
DS
IBRD DS/XGS                              0.0       0.0       0.1      0.1       0.2       0.5      0.7       1.0
Share of IBRD portfolio                  0.4       0.6       1.4      2.3       4.1       5.7      7.2       8.2
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
termn capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
e. Historical data from Debt Reporting System (DRS); other data projected by country team.



Attachment 1
Page 5 of 7
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SECOND COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table 3: External Financing
(US$ millions at current prices)
Estimated                  Projection
1997           1998           1999           ZUUU
Sources                                       44,952         43,537          36,709         38,143
Non-interest current account balance         12,256          6,609           2,178         -2,128
Disbursement                                 10,372         13,779           9,044          9,241
IMF                                          3,900          4,000              0              0
Other medium- and long term                  6,135          7,091          7,749           7,830
of which IBRD                              2,016          2,052           2,170          1,811
Net short-term                                 337          2,688           1,295          1,412
Private investment                           14,489         13,575          15,707         17,588
Direct foreign investment                   3,158          3,300          4,300           5,300
Portfolio investments (net)                11,331         10,275         11,407          12,288
Debt relief                                   7,836          9,573          9,780          13,441
Uses                                          44,952         43,537         36,709          38,143
Debt service due                             16,432         18,821         24,736          28,792
of which IBRD                               217            477             767           1,107
Repayments (including IMF)                   8,281          9,972         12,326          16,454
Interest payments                            8,151          8,849         12,410          12,338
Increase in gross reserves                   10,397         13,215          7,172           9,550
Other capital flows                          18,123         11,501          4,801           -200



Attachment 1
Page 6 of 7
Table 4: Russian Federation at a Glance
Europe &   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                               Russian   Central middle-
Federation     Asa  Incorne      Development diamond-
Population mid-1996 (millions)                     147.7       479    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (USS. Atlas method)            2,400     2,180    1,750                 Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (bilions USS, at Atlas conversion factor)  354.6    1,043    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                       -0.1      0.3      1.4                                       Grs
Labor force (%, Russia: 1992-96)                     -1.1      0.5      1.8     GNP                               Groms
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                         capita                         enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of populafion)            25                        ci                             enolmn
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)                73        65       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      66        68       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              18        26       41               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)
Access to safe water (% of population)                 ..     :.         78
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                 0.2        ..       ..ai
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  94       97      104       :          Russian Federathn
Male                                                          97      105                 Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              ..        97      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985:    1995    1996
Economic ratilos
GDP (billions US$)                            ..      ..    357.3   4402
Gross domestic investmentVGDP                 ..      ..      23.2    22.1             Openness of economy
Exports of goods and servicealGDP                      ..     25.6    22.5
Gross domestic savings/GDP                             ..     26.8    25.4
Gross nabonal savings/GDP                      .       ..     248      24.5
Current account balanceiGDP                           ..       1.8      1 A
Interest payments paid/GDP                             ..      0.9      1.1:    Savings                     Investment
Total extemal debtVGDP                                 ..     33.7    28.9
Total debt service paid/exports               ..               6.8      7.2
Present value of debtdGDP                     ..              31.2
Present value of debtexports                          ..    117.3        i. Indebtedness
197545  1966-96    1995       1996  1997.05
(average annual growth)                                                       I
GDP                                  . .             -4.1     -4.9      5.1            -Russian Federation
GNP per capita                       ..             -4.0      -4.8      5.3                  Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        ..              7.0      -2.0      4.8       i  :   __           :           E :  :_
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1985      1995    1996
(% of GOP)                                                                      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                   *-       *       7.4      7.3     20
Industry                                     ..       ..      42.1    39.1      10
Manufacturing                                         .                        10
Services                                      ..      ..      50.5    53.6    *20
Private consumption                          ..       ..      59.0    63.4              91   92   93   94   95   95
General govemment consumption                 ..      ..      14.1    11.2
Imports of goods and services                 ..      ..      22.1    19.2                       GDI     GDP
197545  1986496      1995    1996
(average annual growth)                                                         Growth rates of expot and Imports (%)
Agriculture a                                 ..      ..      -8.0    -7.0
Industry a                                    ..      ..      -4.5    -4.0
Manufacturing                                                  ,.       .. ..  ./                           0
Services a                                                    -10.0    -3.8      o              ./ 
Private consumption                          ..       ..      -0.9      8.8      -.      92    92    94      95
General govemment consumption                 ..      ..       0.1   -27.3      -.10
Gross domestic investment                    ..       ..    -12.0   -21.1    -15
Imports of goods and services                      .           9.8    -1.6
Gross national product                         .              -4.5    -5.3           Exports             -        Iporta
a. Sectoral GDP are estimated at factor cost.
The diamonds show four key indicators In the country (in bold) compared with Rts income-group average. If data are misstng, the diamond will
be Incomplete.



Attachment I
Page 7 of 7
Table 4: Russian Federation at a Glance (Confinued)
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995    1996
Domestic prices                                                                  Inflation (%)
(% change)
Consumer prices                                               188.7    47.5
Implicit GDP deflator                                         178.7    454       1,
Govemrnment ffnance                                                               sw  
(% of GDP)                                                                         o
Current revenue                                                32.7    28.8               91   92   93   94   95   96
Current budget balance                         ,                -0.5    -3.7
Overall sur,us/defidt                                          -5 6                       -SG P e    CPr
TRADE
1975    1985       1995    1996
(millions USS)                                                                   Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                           81,552   88,463     1W,WW
Crude oil                                                   12,741   15,724
Natural gas                                                 13,391   15,487      er
Machinery, equipment, vehicles                               6,240    6,216      6,o_o
Total imports (cif)                                           64,198   70,021     40,000
Food                                         .        ..    13,041   11,500
Fuel and energy                                               .       188        2A
Machinery, equipment, vehicles                .       ..    15,700   14.4D00
92   92    94   CC    se
Export price index (1987=100)
Import price index (1987=100)                                                                oExports   o Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                      ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1985       1995    1998
(millions US$)                                                                   Current account balance to GDP ratlo (%)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                                    91,610   99,112     4.0
Imports of goods and servrices                          ,   78,885   84,728      4 T
Resource balance                                             12,725   14,384
3.0 
Net income                                                    -6,331   -8,171
Net current transfers                                           108      167   |o
Current account balance.                                                           -n
before offiial capital transfers                             6,502    6,380
Financing items (net)                                        -1,573  -11,241      . 0-.,                  |    ,
Changes in net reserves                                       4,929    4,861            92    93    94      e      96
Memo:.
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)           ..       ..   17,207   15,324
Conversion rate (loca'IUS$)                                   4,562    5,126
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
(millions USS)                                                                    ComposWon ftotldet,  B(mI US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                        120,461  127,392        m         f
IBRD                                                        1.524    2,509                 G     A
IDA                                                             0.       0                7100  25G  12463  0
Total debt service paid                                       6,065    7,257                                 320
IBRD                                                           57      121
IDA                                                             0        0
F
Composition of net resource flows                                                  38(|\
Capital transfers                                            -347    -463
Official creditors                                             98
Private creditors                                          -1,043
Foreign direct investment                             ,     2,017    2,158                                   E
Portfolio equity                            ,,             -1,434    6,331    |70DO
World Bank program
Commitments                                                 1,864    1,923      A -IBRD                    E-Bilaeral  I
Disbursements                                                 824    1,097      B-IDA   D0- 0t9w Mni9la    F - Pdvate
Principal repayments                                            0        0      C - IMF                    G - ShorIIten^ 
Net flows                                                     824    1.097    1                                        1
Interest payments                                              57      121
Net transfers                                                 767      976
Development Economics and Russia Country Team
Note: Estimates for the former Soviet republics are subject to more than the usual range of uncertainty.



Attachment 2
Page 1 of 3
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SECOND COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Status of Bank Group Operations in Russian Federation
IBRD Loans in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in USs Millions                   and actual               Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                      disbursements a/    Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Credit       Year               Borrower                      Purpose
No.                                                                            IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj              Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 9
Active Loans
RU-PE-8809    IBRD 36233  1993  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   OIL REHAB.                   10.00        0.00             0.00          7.51    202.07       18.32       U              S
RU-PE-8809    IBRD 36232  1993  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   OIL REHAB.                  170.00        0.00             0.00         24.17    202.07       18.32       U              S
RU-PE-8809    IBRD 36231  1993  RUSSIAN FEDERATTON                   OIL REHAB.                  158.00        0.00            41 60          5.61    202.07       18.32       U              S
RU-PE-8809    IBRD 36230  1993  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   OIL REMAB.                  272.00        0.00           142.15          2.58    202.07       18.32       U              S
RU-PE-8810    IBRD 35460  1993  GOVT OF RUSSIA                       PRIVATIZATION                90.00        0.00             0.00         26.30       6.61      -4.39        S             5
RU-PE-8822    IBRD 35320  1993  GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA                 EMPLOYMENT SERV. &           70.00        0.00            10.00         29.59      39.58       1.00       S              S
SOCIAL PROT
RU-PE-8805    IBRD 37682  1994  RUSSIAN FEDERATiON                   OIL REHAB. II                90.40        0.00             0.00          3.40    296.97    261.97         U              S
RU-PE-8805    IBRD 37681  1994  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   OIL REMAN. II                51.10        0.00             4.72          4.87    296.97    261.97         U              S
RU-PE-8805    IBRD 37680  1994  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   OIL REHAB. II                24.70        0.00             0.00          5.07    296.97    261.97         U              S
RU-PE-8805    IBRD 3768C  1994  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   OIL REHAB. II                99.60        0.00             0.00         64.95    296.97    261.97         U              S
RU-PE-8805    IBRD 3768B  1994  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   OIL REHAB. II               108.90        0.00             0.00         89.33    296.97    261.97         U              S
RU-PE-8805    IBRD 3768A  1994  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   OIL REHAB. II               125.30        0.00             0.00        115.65    296.97    261.97         U              S
RU-PE-8839    IBRD 3763A  1994  GOVT. OF RUSSIA                      ENTERPRISE SUPPORT          196.00        0.00             0.00        190.06    114.06        0.00       S              S
RU-PE-8811    IBRD 37570  1994  REP.OF RUSSIAN FED.                  AGRIC. REFORM IMPL.         240.00        0.00            30.00        187.41    170.75       29.02       U             U
RU-PE-34579   IBRD 37560  1994  REP OF RUSSIAN FED                   LAND REFORM IMPL. SU         80.00        0.00             0.00         62.51      43.51       0.00       U              S
RU-PE-8828    IBRD 3734A  1994  MOF                                  FINANCIAL                   187.62        0.00             0.00        159.38    151.07       11.89       S              S
INSTITUTIONAL DEV.
RU-PE-8808    IBRD 37060  1994  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   HIGHWAY REHAB & MAIN        300.00        0.00             0.00         90.40       -.25       0.00       HS             S
RU-PE-8806    IBRD 38850  1995  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   URBAN TRANSPORT             329.00        0.00             0.00        148.74      52.74       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-8803    IBRD 38760  1995  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   RUSSIA ENERGY EFFICY        106.50        0.00           36.50          69.67      66.88      12.35       U             U
RU-PE-40409   IBRD 38726  1995  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   EMERG. OIL SPILL MIT         29.60        0.00             0.00         23.42      24.15       0.00       S             HS
RU-PE-38572   IBRD 38530  1995  GOVT. OF RUSSIA                      TAX ADMINISTRATION           16.80        0.00             0.00         16.13      13.62       2.58       S              S
RU-PE-8827    IBRD 3850A  1995  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   HOUSING                     363.72        0.00             0.00        310.06    153.88        0.00       S              S
RU-PE-8823    IBRD 38440  1995  GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA                 PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMEN         40.00        0.00             0.00         34.44      30.69       5.73       S              S
RU-PE-8826    IBRD 38240  1995  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   MANAGEMENT AND FINAN         40.00        0.00             0.00         23.55       3.07       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-8821    IBRD 38060  1995  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   ENVIRONMENT MANAGEME        110.00        0.00            0.00          84.85      -3.53       0.00       S             S
RU-PE-45622   IBRD 40590  1996  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   COAL IAP                     25.00        0.00             0.00         22.23       1.84       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-8831    IBRD 40350  1996  GOVT. OF RUSSIA                      LEGAL REFORM PROJECT         58.00        0.00             0.00         56.05       9.88       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-38571   IBRD 40330  1996  GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA                 MEDICAL EQUIPMENT           270.00        0.00            0.00         204.26    -27.39        0.00       S             S
RU-PE-42622   IBRD 40290  1996  GOVT. OF RUSSIAN PEDERATI            CAPITAL MARKET DEV.          89.00        0.00             0.00         89.00       7.67       0.00       S             U
RU-PE-36973   IBRD 40120  1996  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   ENTP.HOUSING DIVESTI        300.00        0.00             0.00        294.90       5.41       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-35761   IBRD 40090  1996  GOVT. OF RUSSIA                      COMMUNITY SOCIAL INP        200.00        0.00             0.00        193.71       6.88       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-35764   IBRD 39900  1996  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   BRIDGE REHABILITATIO        350.00        0.00             0.00        342.19    142.54        0.00       S              S
RU-PE-8837   IRD 39610  1996  GOVT OF RUSSIA                        STANDARDS DEVELOP.           24.00        0.00             0.00         23.15       4.42       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-38573   IBRD 42030  1997  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   SOC. PROTECT. ADJ.          800.00        0.00             0.00        500.00      83.34       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-44200   IBRD 41850  1997  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                   BUREAU OF ECON.POLIC         22.60        0.00             0.00         22.60       0.00       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-46448   IBRD 41840  1997  MINISTRY OF FINANCE                  ENTERPRISE RES.SERVS         85.00        0.00             0.00         85.00         .64      0.00
RU-PE-8825    IBRD 41830  1997  GOVT. OF RUSSIA                      EDUCATION INNOVATION         71.00        0.00             0.00         71.00       0.00       0.00       S              S
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 28 November 1997



Attachment 2
Page 2 of 3
Status of Bank Group Operations in Russian Federation
IBRD Loans in the Operations Portfolio (Continued)
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                  and actual               Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                   disbursements a/    Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Credit       Year               Borrower                     Purpose
No.                                                                          IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj            Imp Prog
RU-PE-8814    IBRD 41820  1997  GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA                HEALTH REFORM PILOT          66.00       0.00             0.00         66.00        .94       0.00       S             S
RU-PE-50891   IBRD 41810  1997  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                  ELECTR. SECTOR REFOR         40.00       0.00             0.00         40.00       2.50       0 .00
RU-PE-42720   IBRD 41440  1997  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                  ST. PETERSBURG REHAB         31.00       0.00             0.00         31.00        .54       0.00       S             S
RU-PE-46496   IBRD 42340  1998  GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA                SOC. PROTECT. IMPL.          28.60       0.00             0.00         28.60       0.00       0.00
Total                                                                                        5,769.44        0.00           264.97      3,849.34  3,696.14  1,703.28
Active Loans         Closed Loana            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):               1,655.13            2,422.05            4,077.18
of which has been repaid.                   0.00                0.00                0.00
Total now held by IBPD and IDA:               5,504.46            2,422.05            7,926.51
Amount sold                                       0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                0.00                0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                             3,849.34                0.00            3,849.34
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory,
HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Infonration System (OIS) on 28 November 1997 p:\muia\PRsM\M\L2BoaSAL2MoPUTablel.co



Attachment 2
Page 3 of 3
Russian Federation
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Sep-97
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1993                   Polar Lights           26.81    0.00    0.00    0.00   26.81    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                   Vasyugan                3.38    0.00    1.50    0.00    3.38    0.00    1.50    0.00
1994                   Framlington Fund        0.00    8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.00    0.00    0.00
1994                   Russia Registry         0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1994                   RTDC                    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00
1995                   A.O. Volga             30.00   11.00    0.00   39.38   30.00   11.00    0.00   39.38
1995                   Depsona Z.A.O.          5.30    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1995                   First NIS Fund          0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1995                   Russ Tech Fnd           0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      .50    0.00    0.00
1995                   SCF                     0.00    4.53    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.05    0.00    0.00
1996                   Alpha Cement            0.00   13.49    0.00    0.00    0.00   13.49    0.00    0.00
1996                   Pioneer First           0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00
1996                   UNEXIM Bank            15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                   Aminex RUS             17.00    5.49    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.49    0.00    0.00
1997                  Intl. Bottlers          35.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                  132.49   74.01    1.50   39.38   67.69   70.03    1.50   39.38
Approvals Pending Commitrnent
Loan   Equity  Quai  Partic
1996                  ALPHA CEMENT            20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  BORSTEKLO - 11           0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  DEPSONA B LOAN           0.00    0.00    0.00    5.20
1997                  INTL. BOTTLERS           0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  NIKITAS BROKER.          7.00     .01    0.00    0.00
1997                  PLM                     25.00    0.00    0.00   15.00
1997                  PLM EASTERN              0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00
HOLD
1997                  POKROVSKIY MINE         16.00    0.00    0.00   32.30
1997                  RUSSIAN IT FUND          0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1997                   TROIKA DIALOG           0.00    0.00    2.99    0.00
1997                   ZOLOTO MINING           0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:          68.00   44.51    2.99   52.50
Generated by the Operations Infonnation System (OIS) on 28 November 1997 p:\Ruwia\'REM\W2\4BoMSAL2MoP\A2Tabl2.doc



Attachment 3
HPABITEJIbCTBO  Pagelof30
U.   POCCHIRCKO1R 4DEZXEPAIXHH
r. MOCKBA
.28  HoOI6pR 1997 r.
NK 4573n-n2
I  YaawaeMLhii rocnoAuH By4eHcott,
B  COOTBCTC=B3 C Haium1mH AOrOBOpeHHOCmmN  Hanpawo  nmCbMO  o
OITOHITCe rIpawiTwencTBa PoccHicxoC cDegepaLimt s yrOIbHOtl rpOMmulaeHROCTH B
1997-1998 rr., no=mutaHHoe B.C.3epHOMBIrpHHwIM.
IlO3BOJTbTC BHOBB BTbpa3HT6 Bam rixy6oxo nprp3HaTaabTHOCTb 3a no=pwKxy
ycHmmit HpaBmTe6cLTa no pe4opMHpoBaaiHo poccmtkcxoi  3KOHOMmXtH. Bauze
peuIcHT4 o6' yBenmqe 'i  CyMMb1 BTOpOrO 3agMa A   U4HHaHCHpOBBal CrpyiTypHOH
nIepeCrpoRiix yrO3TbH ro cexTopa cBHceimcTmyeT o BawneM rJy6o)coM noHUMaHKu
poccHzicicHx peaiJiH. IHO siBjDiCXTc BeCOMbIM BX=OM B peaRIH3aLW   HaMe'IeHHLIX t
cornacoBaHHbIX c Ba   oM Mep B yrommoifl oTpacaH.
C HBaHlllU1HMH  O)tCJIaHHRMH,
rIOpBblg 3amlO1T111mL npeglc=ae>Sim
I1paBHTeCbcTRa Pocc r      'oCl  paUOee                       A.Iy6aaic
flPE3HgEHlTY MEHAPOOAHOrO BAHKA
PEKORCTPYKU1414 1I PA3BATW5A
rocno=xfHy JKE2MCY BYJIT(EHCOHY
r.BaLuErTori, oxcpyr ICouyM6Hx, CILIA
27 i 12843=C



Attachment 3
Page 2 of 30
POCCHICKAJ 4DEJEPAIII
IIUICLMO 0 IIOJIHTHKE B YrOJMHOfR IIPOMLIIJIJIEHHOCTH
flpaBHTeJlcTBo  OCcyLeCTBHAO    iiepBbiH  aTanl  CTpyKTypHbIX  nipeo6pa3oBahlH     B  yrOJlbHOi
npoMmLIUmeHHocTH. B oTpacJIH, npaKTHiecKi, 3asepmeH rpoixecc aKIIHOHHpOBaHHS, HalqaTa AeHexcHasx
IIpHBaTH3aIIHs, coKpaiixeHo BAHIHHHe rocy.IapcTBa Ha ripoiiecc yipasieHHz  yrOJbHbIMH  KOMIaHHAIMH.
PeaAI3au    3TOfi iioJIHTHKH o6ycJIOBHJa yniyquieHae aKoHoMHqecKHx noKa3aTeneH yronbHoR oTpacai Ha
oHe yCHheHHSA CHCTeMbI COUHaJTLHOA 3auIHTI BBICBO6OXAaeMlX pa6OTHHKOB H HaCeJeHH5i maXTepCKHX
rOp00aOB H IIOCeJIKOB, 3aTpOHyrMLX nOCnegCTBHAMn pHc pyrTypYH3aiH  ylOmJHof npoMbImheHHOCTH.
C 1994 rojRa npeKpanieHa go6Lma Ha 95 oco6o y6bIToqHbIX ripeAIIpHATHAx. YaeamHbMii Bec HaH6onee
344eKTHBHoro OTKp6lToro cnoco6a aqo6LqH yrna B03pOC c 45 Ao 59%. fIpaKTHqecKH, 3aBepineH npoizecc
nepe,aaqH o6&beKToB coLjHanJbHoH cepm c 6anaHca yr31eZo6bIBaloiIuHx npegnpHsTHi B BeAeHHe MeCTHbLIX
OpraHOB BnacTH. 06uxasi IHCIieHHOCTh 3aHSTOrO B OTpaCJIH  riepcoHaiia  COKpaTJ1aCL  Ha  OJRy  TpeTb.
IIpOH3BO,nHTenhHOCTb TpyAa BLIpocCa c 1993 roga Ha 12%, a HpOH3BO2CTBeHHBEI TpaBMaTH3M CHH3HJICZ Ha
51%.
CpeAcTBa  rocyxtapcTmeHHoA   noIepAaK  yrOJlbHOH  IIpOMNlUUeHHOCTH  B  HacToHiuzee  Bpe1m
pacnipegeJuInoTcs rnacHO H IlpaBHTeJabcTBo ycHIHAO KOHTVOJIh 3a STHM UpoiLeccoM. BBeJleHa
rOCygapCTBeHHas CTaTHcTHqecKaS oTqeTHOcTh o6 HCUOJTh3OBaHHiH CpeACTB rocrio,epfzH.
OAHHM   H3  riJaBHBIX IIPHHlIHrIOB CTpyKTYPHbIX npeo6pa3OBaHHH B OTpaCIiH CTaAa KOMUJIeKCHaS
CHCTeMa coIxHaWTHOgi 3aIUHTbl yBoJiHAeMbix pa6OTHHKOB H co3AaHHe HOBbIX B03MOxHOCTeR ,IA 3aHSTOCTH B
maXTepCKHX  ropo.nax  H  nocernKax.  PecTpyKTypH3aIHz  OTpaCJIH  ripOBOfHTCS  C  y'aCTHeM  BceX
3aHHTepecoBaHHIX CTOpOH, 'TO o6ecIIe'HBaeTcS pa6oToti MeCTHblIX Ha6mogaTeJIbHmx CoBeTOB B UllaXTepCKHX
ropoxRax H nocejiKax, Ha o6JIacTHoM  YPOBHe perHOHaTHbLIMH MexBe,oMcTBeHHFIMH  KOMHCCHAMH, Ha
cpeAepajiTHoM  ypOBHe - MexBegoMcTBeHHoi4 KOMHccHeti i1o  coLiHanbHo-aKOHoMHqecKHM  npo6JieMaM
yrnexlo6blBalouwx perHOioB.
,JLn yBOnJHAeMMlX pa6OTHHKOB IluaXT H pa3pe3OB npOBOXWTCA npe,AyBOJIEHHTeAbHBIe KOHCyJIbTaIHH
CAyx6Ml 3aHITOCTH, Ha uaXTaX, o6ISBJIeHHblX K JIHKBHgaIHH, OpraHH3ylOTCS nyHKThI iopHAHleCKOH 11OM014H
pa6oTHHKaM. rocy3TapCTBo yKaCTByeT B 4)HHaHCHpOBaHHH  H   npe,npHHHmaeT cne1LHWaTHLIe mepli no
KOHTPOJIO 3a BbLiraTOl  BbIXOAHMbIX HOCO6HA BLICBo6OxAaeMbiM  B xofge peCTPYKTYPH3aiHH pa6OTHHKaM,
BO3MeleHHeM BpeAa pa6OTHHKaM JIHKBHAHpyeMLIX ulaXT H pa3pe3oB, a TaKxe 3a o6ecneqeHHeM 6ecUJaTHLIM
yrneM rIeHCHOHmpOB AeicTBymouwx H 3aKpLBaeiMbX UIaXT H pa3pe3OB.
B   1liaXTepCKHX  ropoxax  H  noceiiKax  pe3aH3yEOTCS  npOrpaMMbI  COaeeHCTBHS  3aHATOCTH
BbIcBo6oxcaeMTIM  pa6oTHHKaM,  B  qaCTHOCTH  o6ecne'Balome  AOCTyII  K  UpO4ICcCHOHaJThHOMy
KOHCyJIbTHpOBaHHIO, IpO4JeCCHOHaJibHOMy riepeo6yqeHHIO. KpoMe TOro, B iuaXTepCKHX ropoaKaX H rIOCeAKaX
yxe BHJIHm peWyTaTLI peWAH3a1HH niporpaMM co3XIaHHI  HH4paCTpyKTypLI coxIeHcTBHsA 3aHSTocT  H MmanOMy
6H3Hecy. B Tpex KpyrIHeNlunX yrneAo6bIJBaloHx perioHax - KeMepoBcKoti o6AacTH, Ty;icbcKoi o6nacTH H
POCTOBCKOUi o6AacTH  CO3,aHw  LueHTpEI, KOTOpbie IPOBOJST o6yMeHHe OCHOBaM  npeInpHHHMaTem hCTBa,
rioMoraOT B pa3pa6oTKe 6H3Hec-nunaHooB H opraHH3a4iHH co6cTBeHHoro aena. B pe3ynbTaTe 3THX yCnHDH
C03XalOTCS HOBble 11pOH3BOgCTBa H HOBbIe pa6oqHe MeCTa, ripeHmymecTBeHHO B CTpOHTeJTEHOI HHRYCTPHH H B
c4epe XwHuIHo-KoMMyHaJThHoro xo3sHcTBa.



Attachment 3
Page 3 of 30
I. UeInH  c paTerrs rocyIapCTBeHHOuI nOJIHTHKH ptCjp3MH3anuu yrojibHOH npoMumlmeHHocTH
flpHnTasx  HpaBHTew%CTBOM  11o0jHTHKa  no  pecTPYKTYPH3aiHH  yroJIbHOH  ripoMbmumeHHOcTH,
no=epxxa  H  COgeiCTBHe  KOTOPOH  oKa3aHLi  p3mOM  MexAyHapOHblIX  OpraH3aiuHi,  BKJnotiaz
MexayHapouiHm   6aHK peKOHCTpYKIIHH Hu pa3BHTH1 (MEPP), nocJie1OBaTejibHo 1pOBOHTC51 B XH3Hb,
HeCMOTpS Ha cjioxHyio coIHaJIbHo-9KoHoMHqecKyio o6cTaHoBKy B cTpaHe.
npaBHTejThCTBO  HalaAo  peaMH3auH   KOMnineKCHOHi nporpaMMbi pe43opM, HanpaBnieHHoli Ha
yrvy6AeHHe H YCKopeHHe npoiieccoB AeMoH01OJIH3auHH H yKpenrieHHe CTpyKTypUi yiipaBjieHHX OTpaCJIIO.
UejJSMH ipOrpaMMbl SABJIIOTCS:
a) 3aBepineHHe AeeMoHo0OHH3aflHH, YCKopeHHe HPHBaTH3auHH H co3AaHHe KoHKypeHTHOHi CpeAbl B
oTpacnTH C TeM, qT06bI yrOJTlHbIe KoMiaHHH B perHOHax CTanJH peHTa6eJIbHLIMH H CMOrJIH Ae CTBOBaT6 B
YCJIOBHSIX 1OJIHO KoMMep'eCKOA He3aBHCHMOCTH;
6) ieTKoe pa3geeHHe 4FYHKiIH  rocyaapcTBeHHOrO ynpaBnieHHts H KOMMepqeCKOH ;xSeTeimHOCTH B
yrOJThHOH oTpaCJ1H C TeM, lqTo6Li JIHKBHAHpOBaTh KOHI=HKT HHTepecoB, go6HTbcA 6ojEllIeH <<npo3patHOCTH>>
HC1On10J3OBaHHA 6ioAxeTHbix cpeJCTB H IOBbICHTb OTBeTcTBCHHOCTb 3a HX HCOjib3OBaHHe;
B) yKperuTeHHe rocyXapCTBeHHoro ynpaBnieHHs 1uiaHHpOBaHHeM, nepe'JHCJIeHHeM H HCIOJIb3OBaHHeM
cpeXCTB rocyAapCTBeHHOiH no0XepXKH B Te1eHHe nepexogHoro  nepHoga Ao ripeKpaijmeHHA HX BbiAeneHHS, B
oco6eHHOCTH ycHneHHe ynopa Ha couHaHnbHYIO 3aliuHTy HacenieHHS  ilaxTepCKHX ropo0oB H ioceiKOB,
3aTpoHyTbiX peCTpyKTypH3aiHefi oTpaCnH;
r) cHHxeHHe Harpy3KH, CBH3aHHOH C AOTHPOBaHHeM  y6bhTo'HbTx ripeInpHHSTH   oTpacJIH, Ha
cjexepa1mHbIri 6ioAxeT.
U. COBepmueHCTBOBaHHe ynpaBiieHAs yrOjEbHOH fp0MboumeHHOCTIO
H MeXaHH3Ma rOCygapCTBeHHOH ii oime1zxKH
OnbrT rocyAapcTBeHHoro 4HHaHCHpoBaHHS B 1996-1997 rr. noKa3aji Heo6xoAHMOCTb H3MeHeHHS
cyiuecTByioigero MeXaHH3Ma roCyIapCTBeHHOH 1OXonepXKH.
Y 4)e.epajbHbIx opraHOB HCnojiHHTeJmHOH BjiaCTH, B nepByio o0epeAb- y MHHTonaHepro He HMejiocL
AOCTaTOqH]L1X pecypcoB xnS  434eKTHBHoro ynpaneHHAS  oTpacjmio. B  pe3yAETaTe 3TOro, KOMHlaHHS
<<Pocyronb>> 4aKTHIecKH 6pana Ha ce6s 4)yHKuHH MHHTOI3Hepro B Ka&eCTBe opraHa rOCygapCTBeHHOrO
ynpaBneHHS, co3AaBaq <<KOHCDJIHKT HHTepecoB>>, o6ycnoBneHHbli KOMMepqeCKHM CTaTycoM 3TOHi KOMnaHHH.
rIpOBe,eHHaAr no nopyqeHHIO rIpaBHTenbCTBa npoBepKa HCHOJb3BaHH14 cpeaCTB rocyAapCTBeHHOI
no=epxKH yrOjibHOH oTpaCJiH BEIABHna MHOrO'HCneHHblie cjiyqaH HX HeuejieBoro HcOJIEb3OBaHHA H cna6mle
3BeHbS MexaHH3Ma ynpaBneHms 3THMH CpeACTBaMH.
Bce aTO o6yCJIOBHnO Heo6xo,IHMocTm xajibHeHfuero, ewie 6o0iee rny6oKoro pa3BHTHi pe4opM B
yr'OJbHOM CeKTOpe B HaripaBjieHHH ycHuieHHS1 POJIH rocyAapcTBa B ynpaBfleHHH 6iogxeTHbIMH cpeIcTBaMH,
BbD.eJiIeMbiMH OTpaCJIH, C OHOBpeMeHHbIM YCKOPeHHeM 11pHBaTH3aUHH pemoHaHbHblIX yrOJTHbIX KOMlaHHHA.



Attachment 3
Page 4 of 30
JIHKBHaaJIHs OAO "Pocyrom
nOBOpOTHbliM  aroM B BToM HanpaBneHHH SiBHnUcb peimeHHSI 1pe3uHeHTa POCCHi&CKOHi cDeAepauHH H
IIpaBHTeihbcTBa, llPHHATbIe B KOHIle HoI6pA  1997  roaa, B COOTBeTcTBHH  C KOTOpblMH  4YHKUHH
rOCyIapCTBeHHOrO y"pasneHHs yIOjbHOi ripOMbiiUleHHOCTbiO  COCpegOTOqHBaMOTCS B MHHTon3Hepro H
JIHKBHgHpyeTCa OAO <<Pocyroim>>.
B COOTBeTCTBHH C 3THMH peiiueHHSMH, 26 HosI6pA 1997 ro,ga npe,CTaBHTeiH rocygapcma B opraHax
ynpawieHHA OAO <cPocyronb> IIpOBsen  o6ugee co6paHHe aKUHOHepOB, Ha KOTOpOM npHHSITO peuleHHe o
iHKBH,aIaHH OAO <<Pocyromb>> H yTBep)KeH COCTaB IHKBH,afUHOHHOI KOMHCCHH H rpa#HK iHKBHXAaUHOHHb1X
MepoIpHSTHH.
Ha  3TOM  co6paHHH  TaKxe  6blJIH  IIpHHSTbl pemueHHS  o  npegnoaiaraembix  HaripaBjieHHSX
HCIIOJII3oBaHHs HmyecTBa OAO "Pocyrojib". B nepHo,R AHKBHIaWH He,BHxHMOCTb H HH4KOpMaiuHOHHO-
KOMII61OTepHbie CHCTeMbl, KOTOpbIMH  BI1aIeJ1o HJIH  KoTopbie apeHAoBano OAO  <<Pocyrou>m>, 6yayr
Oi1epaTHBHO riepeaaHLI B 1-O0JI3oBaHHe COoTBeTCTBeHHO MHHTori3Hepro H 4 O,oHa  Pe4 opMyronb". )jpyrHe
aKTHBEJ OAO <<PoCyrOnb>>, KoTOpbie OCTaHyrcSi nocne pacqeToB C Kpe,rHTOpaMH (aKLiHH, naH H np.) 6ygyT
nepeAaHb6 MHHrocHMyWeCTBY, KOTopoe nIpHMeT peimieHHe o6 HX HcIOi3I3oBaHIM, HMeS B BHUY B Ka'eCTBe
[IpHOpHTeTHOrO HanpaBneHHS HX flPOalXy K KOHUy MaH 1998 r.
rlpaBHTenbCTBo npejnoniaraeT 3aBepiuHTb ripoiuecc JIHKBHaauHH K KOHiiy aBrycTa 1998 r.
YKperuieHHe MHHHCTePCTBa TorUTHBa H 3HaeprTHKH
lIpeAycMaTpHBaeTcs CyIeCTBeHHOe rioBblmeHHe PO1  MHHTOIn3HeprO B TeKyIeM perynjIpOBaHHH H
peCTpyKTypH3&WH yFOJIbHOH IIpoMhbiinieHHOCTH, KOpeHHOe H3MeHeHHe CTpYKTYPEi H 4lyHKRHH ero
roApa3LgeieHHii, KypHpY1OIuHX yromnbHyo oTpacnb, yKperineHHe KaxRpOBOrO COCTaBa MHHHCTepCTBa C TeM,
'TO6bl OHO CTajio riiaBHb1M  pacnopHTeiem  BCeX CpeACTB rOCyAapCTBeHHOH  noAIepxKH  He TOJIbKO
iopHgH1lecKH, HO H 4,aKTH'eCKH.
);Lsi yKperuieHHs rOCy,QapCTBeHHorO ynpawneHsH peCTpyKTypH3aiUHeH OTpaCAH Ha3Ha'IeH 3aMeCTHTenjb
MHHHcTpa TOJI7HBa H zHepreTHKH PoCCHiicKoHi (DeepaUHH, HOxmHHdHHb1Hi HenOCpeX:CTBeHHO MHHHCTPY H
OTBe'1amOiHR 3a Bbipa6OTKy H peanH3MauHo pemIIeHHH no PeCTpyKryPH3agHH yrOJTbHOH npOMbI6InmeHHOCTH.
B  MHHTon3Hepro  co3Aa0oTcS  ,Ba AenapTaMeHTa: AenapTameHT  peCTpYRTYpH3auHH  yroJThHOH
npOMbEiuueHHOCTH H XAenapTaMeHT perynMPOBaHHR yrOJILHOH rIpOMbIUJJeHHOCTH.
fIBa HOBbiX rOCyIapCTBeHHMlX y=xpeaneHuH
IIpH MHHTon3Hepro co3,aalOTCA ABa HOBblIX yqpexaKeHHH. 9TH yqpe=eHHs HaqHyr )eHCTBOBaTh c
IAeKa6pA 1997 ro.a. Ilpe,uycMaTpHBaeTcs qeTKoe pa3rpaHHHeHHe 3a,Aal' H cjyHKUHH 3THX yqpezIeHHiH.
OCHOBHbIMH 3aaaqamH yqpex;AeHHs no AHKBHgai8HH y6LITO'1HbMX mIaXT SBJISIOTCA:



Attachment 3
Page 5 of 30
*  CogeHCTBHe  yrOJIbHbM  KOMrIaHHS1M  B  riOarOTOBKe  H  nepecmoTpe  npOeKTOB  H  TexHHKO-
3KOHOMHYCcKHX o6OCHoBaHHH JIHKBH,a&LHH IliaXT H pa3pe3OB;
*  nOArOTOBKa npOrpaMMII JIHKBHaWLIHH IllaXT H pa3pe3oB;
*  MOHHTOpHHr peanH3aIXHH nporpaMMbI;
*  HH4JopMaIIHOHHO-aHaJIHTHleCKOe  o6ecleIeHHe  MHHToii3Hepro  no  ynpanneHHno  Cpe,CTBaMH
rocy,aapcTBeHHOH rOJioepXKH, HarIpaIBJMemMH Ha TeXHHJeCKHe pa6oTbi no AHKBH,aLIHH.
OCHOBHElMH 3agaaaMH yqpexCeHHA 11o COUHaITHOH 3a1JHTe siBJioTcS:
*  pa3pa6oTKa npeaJIo)eHHH no OCyiLeCTBJIeHHIO H 6IOAxeTHOMy 4HHaHCHpOBaHHio MeeOprpHITHH 11o
COILHaAbHOii 3alHTe pa6oTHHKOB yrOJlbHoi rIpoMbliueHHOCTH;
*  KOHTpOJIb 3a HCHoJIHeHHeM  o6A3aTeIibCTB nojiy'aTeieA  6IoJxceTHbIx cpeJxCTB, BiLJIeJISeMELX Ha
COLHaBJHYIO 3aIUHTY B lIePHOA peCTpyKTypH3aLIHH;
*  oseHKa IIpOeKTOB nporpamm MeCTHOrO pa3BHTHS,. pa3paGoTKH peKOMeHARaLHA an MHHTonsHepro no
4IHHaHCHpOBaHHIO  TaKHX  rnpOrpaMM   (BKJIIOMalowHX       Ipe,ABaPHTeJbHble  KOHCyJIbTaTHH,
rpeaocTasnAembLe 4eaepanbHofi cnayx6of  3aHATOCTH MHHTpyIa), a TaKxKe MOHHTOpHHra 9THX
nporpaMM;
*  pa3pa6oTKa  npeaioxKeHHH   1o  4)HHaHcHpoBaHHIO  peKOHCTPYKIIHH   o6beKTOB   COIWBanbHOi
HH4lpacTpyKTypbI H KOMMyHaITEHOrO Xo3aHICTBa B IiiaXTepCKHX ropoaax H rOCeJIKaX, a TaKcxe
MOHHTOpHHr wTOrO 4HHaHCHpOBaHHI.
AM Bcex HOBblX Ha3HaMeHHH, B oco6eHHOCTH AM 3aMeCTHTeAeri MHHHCTpa H PyKOBOAHTeiieH HOBbIX
y'pexaeHHH, B03MO2HOCT6 BO3HHKHOBeHHS KOH4JIHKTa HHTepeCOB 6yAeT npeaoYBpaiueHa nyTem i1ofalH HMH
1pH Ha3Ha'eHHH, a ganee exceroaHo, aeKiapalHH 0o Xoxoaax H HMy1IeCTBe B COOTBeTCTBHH C IgeHCTByIO1IHM
3aKOHOAaTeJIhCTBOM.
(DOHII "PecbopMyroEb"
CO3JaHHBIf B 1996 rojy  niA o6ecneqeHHA peanaH3uHH nepBoro yrOALHOro 3aiiMa MBPP DoHa
<<PefopMyronb>> 6ygeT oKa3biBaTE COcer4CTBHe MHHTron3Hepro H ABYM HOBblIM y'peKAcReHHAM, a TaKOKe  pyrHM
opraHam  4JeAepaJibHOHO  HCIIOJIHHTeJIbHOri BhIaCTH   B BLInOAHeHHH HX 4yHKUHU  11o peCTPYKTYPH3aIXHH
yrOJTbHOH oTpaCnH.
)I>i    aHaJIHTHMeCKOH  H  HH4opMaaLHOHHoH   noAaepXKH  MHHTon3Hepro  H  ABYX   HOBblX
rOCyAapCTBeHHbIX y'peKaxeHHH no BOnpOCaM peCPYKTYPH3aHH OTpaCIH 4oHAy Pe4opMyronb" nepegaloTci
H3 OAO <<Pocyrom>> oTpacneBbie HH4JopMauHOHHo-KoM11oTepHMLe CHCTeMbl H ceTH.
MHHHCTepcTBo cIHHaHCOB H MHHHCTepcTBo rocyUARCTBeHHorO HMyIICTBa



Attachment 3
Page 6 of 30
B MHHNcTepcTBe 4,HHaHCOB POCCHH H MHHHcTepcTBe rocyIapCTBeHHoro HMyIeCTBa POCCHH 6ygyT
co3AaHbI HoBbie CTpyKTypHble noApa3xenieHA AmiS ycNneHlH   Bo3MoxCHocTef 9THX MHHHCTepCTB BLHOlJIHSTb
CYHKIWH, CBSI3aHHlie C pe43OpMHpoBaHHeM yrOjlbHOA oTpaCnH.
MeXaHH3M rOCyIapCTBeHHOA rionmepxxH
BBOAHTCA HOBbNH MeXaHH3M ynpaBJIeHHA Cpe,ACTBaMH rOCy.AapCTBeHHOH rOiAgep,KKH, OCHOBaHHblH Ha
iepecMOTPeHHOM   BapHaHTe  rIOCTaHoBiieHHA  rIpaBHTenbCTBa  POCCHNiCKONi  cDe,epaixHH  Ng  598  H
npeAycMaTpHBalOuHA cnleAyou]e H3MeHeHHi:
*  B Ka'IeCTBe nipHopHTeTHbIX HanpaBneHHH 4HHaHCHpOBaHHa MeporipHaTHNi no peCTPYKTYPH3aUHH
yrOJThHOA  nipoMBmuTmeHHocTH   Ha   1998  roA  BsbLei[IoTcA  cne,yiounme  HanpaBneHHA
4rHHaHcHpoBaHHA: (a) TexHWHecKHe pa6oTbl no fiHKBHaf1nH uilaxT; (6) HayqHo-TexHwlecKoe
o6ecne,IeHHe pecTpyKTYPH3aUHH yrojTbHOH rpoMbIumJeHHOCTH; (B) Mepo0pHATnH  nO COIIHaJibHOH
3aIUHTe  pa6oTHHKoB,  BbICBo6ox(XaeMbIx   B  CBA3H   C  peCTpyKTypH3aNHeA   yrOILHONi
IpOMbMIUJIeHHOCTH, tU1eHOB HX CeMer, ieHCHOHepOB H HHBaBTHJOB, pa6oTaBBuHX B yrOJIbHOA
ripOMbmu1IeHHOCTH (BbIXOflHble noco6HA H ApyrHe KOMneHCaijHOHHie BbirmaTiTbI BbicBo6oxwaeMibM
pa6OTHHKaM, 6ecnnaTHblr (naiHKOBb6ii) yrojub ,nA pa6OTHHKOB JIHKBHHpyemMbiX mIaXT H pa3pe3OB,
pacXOxBI Ha noraUieHHe 3aAoJDKeHHOCTH no 3apa6oTHoH nnaTe pa6oTHHKaM, BBICBo6oxfaeMbLM B
CBa3H JIHKBHgaiHeiHeH ELaxT H pa3pe3OB, a TaKxKe BEicBo6oxaeMbiM C He JIHKBHAHpyeMbiX 1uaXT H
pa3pe3OB B CBSI3H C COKPaUMeHHeM UlTaTOB, BbiXO,OM Ha rIeHCHIO no B03paCTy H HHBaJIHgHOCTH);
(r) 4,HHaHCHpOBaHHe nporpaMM MeCTHOrO pa3BHTHA H o6ecneqeHHa 3aHATocTH IAU IuaXTepCKHX
rOPOIOB H HLOCeCJOB, OCI1eCTBeMemoe 'epe3 cy6beKni POCCHHCKOiH DegepauHH, B TOM qHCJle
UpOrpaMM  ynpexKaloiuHx KoHCyjibTaIu1; (g) pacxoAbl no BO3MeieRHHio Bpe,a BCX1e,CTBHe
TpaBMbi HnIH npo43a6oAeBaHHR Ha JIHKBHARpyeMbiX iuaxTax H pa3pe3ax; (e) COLXHaWIbHblH
pe3epBHbIlH 4OH,i;
*  BBOAIHTCA OCHOBaHHblH  Ha MOaen1bHbEX pacqeTax fOip3iIOK  orpeAeeHHA  otbeMa Cpe,CTB
rocyIapCTBeHHoH 1ro=WepxKH no BceM nojiyqaTeiSM H HaripaBJIeHHAM  4HHaHCHPOBaHSA, B
qaCTHOCTH, BBOIRTCS  OCHOBaHHbli  Ha  HCnOJTh3OBaHHH  OAH03HaqHbIX  npaBHJI  HOpsWOK
pacnpeIej1eHHA  Cpe2CTB  Ha cenieKTHBHY1O  noxuepxKy  yrneao6blBaiouHx  npeaInpHaTHH  H
qaCTHqHoe BO3MelUeHHe paCxo.loB no HHAeKCaLIHH 3apa60THoA IliaTmI B COOTBeTCTBHH  C
OTpaCjieBElMH TapHtjHl6MH corAaiueHHSMH;
*  HCHOJTh3OBaHHe HHCTHTyTa rO3iOBHbiX fnojlyqaTeIieH CpeACTB rocy)apCTBeHHOH noDmepxKKH 6yaeT
npeKpalueHO; rJIaBHbIM pacnopAsHTenem cpeRCTB 6yaeT MHHTon3Hepro; H Ho OTAenJHLIM
HanpasneHHaM 6yjiyT onpelejieHbl HOBibie ioJIyqaTenH; TaK HanpHMep, Ha1HHaS c 1998 roaa,
no iytaTeineM  CpeICTB rOCyIapCTBeHHOH  nOaIepXKH  Jna BO3MelUeHHA Bpela   pa6oTHHKaM
JHIKBHAHpyeMbiX EuaXT 6yieT qoHg  COIHabJIHOFO cTpaxOBaHHA, C OIHOBpeMeHHOH  nepegaqefi
emy COOTBeTCTBYlOIHX o63I3aTejbcTTB no BsbIrmaTe CpeJCTB Ha BO3MeCWeHHe BpeIa;
*  6yxYT BBegeHbl MexaHH3MbI, o6emCeqNBamo4He nepeqHcneHHe mepe3 KaHaJIbI 4egepa)ibHOro
Ka3Haqe       CpegCTB Ha BbIXOAHmle noco6HA H noraueHHe 3aBjojUieHHOCTH no 3apa6oTHorN
nnaTe BbIcBo6oxcIaeMbiM pa6OTHHKaM   HenoCpegcTBeHHO Ha HX 6aHKOBCKHe cqeTa HJIH B
MeCTHbie rIOZITOBble OT,1eneHHSI;



Attachment 3
Page 7 of 30
*  CpeUCTBa  rOcygapcmBeHHol nriohepXXH, BiiaeneMbIe  Ha  HHBeCTHLIHH, npeqocTasBmioTcS
HCKJIO'qHTeRBHO Ha BO3BpaTHOH H iTiaTHOH OCHOBe; 3TH cpeaCTBa 6yAyT pacnpeAensmTcA qepe3
HHBeCTHUHOHHble KOHKypCblI, IIPOBOAHMbie KOHKypCHOH KOMHCCHeHi npH MHH3KOHOMHKH; nIPH
3TOM  MHHTon3Hepro H 41OHR <<Pe4)opMyronb>u   6yAyT oKa3bIBaTb  io=epxKxy ripH  oileHKe
HHBeCTHLIHOHHbIX rIpOeKTHLIX npexinoeHHH;
*  yrBep)aaOTC5  1IpOr1OPLtHH pacnpeAejieHHA Cpe.CTB HO HanpaBIeHHSM  #HHaHCHPOBaHHS  Ha
otqepe.IHOH 4HHaHCOBbiH ror  ,i periameHTaHH npouxecca 4HHaHCHpOBaHHA B Haqane ro,a, B
cnyqae 3aAep)KKH yTBepxKeHHS 4eAepanbHoro 6ioaxeTa;
*  BBOAHTCSI  npHHLxHrl niiaHoMepHOrO  HC11OJIHeHHS  rpadHKa,  C  TeM, '4TO6bi 1pOfOpTXHH
q3aKTHtqeCKOrO  BBL6ejieHHS  CpeACTB no HanpaBieHHSM  4IHHaHCHpOBaHHS, cKyaJBlBaiouwHecs
exKemeCsqHO HapaCTaEOIHM HTOrOM C Haqajia ro,)a, COOTBeTCTBOBaJIH 11pOIOp1UHAM,
yCTaHowieHHrn1M Ha roa;
*  npou{ecc cOpMHpOBaHHs 6fAxeTHOR 3aABKH Ha Cpe,RCTBa rOCy.apCTBeHHOi nO=epxmKH Ha
iuIaHHpyeMbLi ro r HalHHaeTcS C rpeBaPHTenbHOro XOBeZeHHS ARo ee nojiy'aTeIie KOHTpOjibHbIX
LIHcLp, oTpaKa1oiuHX B03MOKHOCTH 6io,xeTa, a He noTpe6HocTH nojiyqaTeneH;
*  UeHTpaMH3oBaHHIi pe3epBH6IH  4OHA, nOJyqaTeneM  H paCrOpSU3HTeieM  CpeRCTB  KoToporo
xBjISeTcS MHHTOII3Hepro, MOKeT HCIOJIb3OBsaTbCS TOAIBKO I   rIOKpbITHSA 3aTpaT, CBS3aHHBLIX C
aBapHHMH H CTHXHHbliMH 6eACTBH3IMH Ha yrneAO6LIBaiO1iHX npeIllpHATHAX;
*  COIHaRJhHbIH pe3epBHbIH  cPOHx, nonyqaTejiem  H pac11OPSUHTeneM  cpeaCTB KOTOPOro TaKxce
SBj1SeTCA MHHTon3Hepro, Mo;KeT HcHnO.JT3OBaT6CS TOJIhKO XJ  4)HHaHCHpOBaHHS BbEXOflHbIX
noco6HR, 3aoOjDKeHHocTH 110 3apa6oTHoi rnnaTe BMcBo6oxAaeMLiM  pa6oTHuKaM, pacXo,oB no
BO3MeiLeHHIO Bpeaa, npH'HHeHHOrO pa6oTHHKaM JIHKBHIHpyemMbiX lIIaXT H pa3pe30s, H
6ecn3aTHoro (nafKoBoro) yrnsi ,ni pa6oTHHKoB iHKBH)aHpyeMbiX uIaXT H pa3pe3OB.
JIHueBbIe Ka3HaqeRcKme cgeTa
CyiIeCTBeHHLIM  iiiaroM  B o6eciieMeHHH  iLejieBoro HC11OJb30BaHHSI CpeCTB ABHJICA nepexo, Ha
Ka3HaqeRCKypo CHCTeMy AoBeAeHHs CpeACTB rOCyAaPCTBeHHOHR nOALxepXKH A0o rioAy'aTeneri. (IaKTH'eCKH 3Ta
CHCTeMa Haqana  pa6oTaTb c  oKTS6ps  1997  roAa. J1ffl  Kawxoro  KoHe'qHoro  nony'aTenm  cpeACTB
rOCyXAapCTBeHHO4 riOX=epxKH  OTKpblT iiH1eBOH  cqeT B COoTBeTCTBYWOUieM  OT.eAeHHH  cDeAepanibHoro
Ka3HatlericTBa, nO3BOJ1SiIOUHrl BeCTH pa3)ejibHblH  yqeT ABH1KeHHM  cpeACTB nO BCeM  HanpasBjeHHSM  HX
HcnoJIb3oBaHHS.
B KOHue Hos6psx 1997 ro,a MHH4HHOM  yrBepKgeHa HOBaS HHCTPYKUHS no BeReHHIO JIHQeBMLX
CqeTOB B opraHax teAepaTTbHorO Ka3HaqefiCTBa, y'HTLIBaiOiaSA oco6eHHOCTH HOBOrO MexaHH3Ma ynpaBneHHs
Cpe)CTBaMH rOCy,apCTBeHHOi rio=epXKH yrOMJTHOH ripOMmlmueHHOCTH.
113y'eHHe HopMaTHBHOii-npaBOBOHi 6a3mL
B  KatecTBe cne,iyioiero mara no coBepmIeHCTBOBaHHio ynpaBneHHS  oTpacjibo rlpaBHT"bCTBO
H3yqHT CyI1eCTByIOU11yyO HopMaTHBHo-npaBoBylo 6a3bIl Ho B011pOCaM  HeapOHOJIb3OBaHHS, 6e3onaCHOCTH H
oxpaH6Im  TpyJa, 390pOBESi H  oKpylcaloieii cpeALi c y'eTOM  nepexoaa OTPaCJIH  K 'qaCTHOii cjopMe



Attachment 3
Page 8 of 30
co6CTBeHHocTH. Ha  OCHOBe 3TorO H3yqeHHS  rIpaBHTeJIicTBo  rioarOTOBHT  H  Ha4HeT peaJH3oBBLIBaTb
COOTBeTCTBYIOLUIIO riporpammy AeHCTBHH. rlpaBHTeji6CTBO HamepeBaeTcsi 3aBePIUHTh H3yeHHe HopMaTHBHO-
npaBOBou 6a36 B nepBoi4 nOJIOBHHe 1998 roga.
rIporpaMMbI MeCTHOrO pa3BHTHS
B  paMKax nporpaMM MeCTHOrO pa3BHTHS1  iuaXTePCKHX ropO)oB H riocenJKOB ocyIlecTBJTSeTCS
ripotecCHOHaIibHoe o6yqeHHe BbICBo6o0xaeMLIx pa6o'rHHKoB, opraHH3&uKS  HX BpeMeHHOH  3aHATOCTH,
noxuepxKa nepexoxa K CaMO3aHSTOCTH, pa3BHTHe Maaioro 6H3Heca H ripe;lrpHHHMaTenbcTBa, a TaKxe
CO,AeHCTBHe C03JIaHHIO HOBBIX pa6oMHX MeeT. Y,IaCTHe BceX 3aHHTepecOBaHHUX CTOpOH B rporpammax
MeCTHoro pa3BHTHA o6ecneIqHBaeTCA llepe3 )ieITem6HOCTb Ha6nmoaTeJrbHbIX COBeTOB B maXTePCKHX ropogax
H rIOCeJKax, perHOHaR]6HbIX MeexBegoMcTBeHHbIx KOMHCCHU  H Me)KBeAOMCTBeHHOH KOMHCCHH no couHajibHO-
9KOHoMHMeCKHM rHpo6feMaM yrJ1exo6.BaioniHx perHOHOB.
Pa6oTHHKH, yBOHjMmbie H3 yrOJTbHOH IpOMMluUIeHHOCTH, HMCIOT AOCTYrI K  lpo4)eccHoiHaBrbHoMy
KOHCYnIbTHPOBaHHIO, npo4)eccHoHaibHOMY nepeo6yqeHHIO. B Tpex KpyflHeIiiLuX yrnieXo6bIBamoa1Hx perHoHax
- KeMepOBCKOA, TynbCKOi H POCTOBCKOU1 o6nacTSx CO3JRaH6 rieHTpbU, KOTOPbIe  I1POBOQXT o6yqeHHe
OCHOBaM TIpe)IrIpHHHMaTeJ1bCTBa, IOMOraIOT B pa3pa6oTKe 6H3Hec-ImaHOB H opraHH3auHH pa6OTHHKaMH
co6CTBeHHoro xlena. Yxe co3BaHb6 HOBbIC fpOH3BOACTBa H HOBbIe pa6otlHe MeCTa, rpeHMyiueCTBeHHO B
CTpoHTejibHOAl HHIYCTPHH H B c4jepe KHIHIljHO-KoMMyHajibHOro xo3SuCTBa.
HecoBepuieHcTBo MexaHH3Ma ROBegeHHA CpeACTB, HaripasBEeMblX Ha UHHaHCHpOBaHHe riporpaMM
MeCTHOrO pa3BHTrHs, npHBenJO K TOMY, qTO B 1996 roAy 6bino aonynieHO B p3We cjlyqaeB Heieneeoe
pacxoloBaHHe CpeIcTB. BBereHHMIA B 1997 rogy MexaHH3M AOBegeHHA cpeICTB qepe3 KaHajbIm 4egepanbHoro
Ka3HaqeHcTBa rIO3BOJIHT HCrIpaBBTB Bb1LiBjieHHme He)OCTaTKH.
Ha'qHHasi c 1998 roAa, 6yreT BBMegHO B geACTBHe rIonoxeHHe 0 43HHaHCHpOBaHHH npOrpaMM
MecTHoro  pa3BHTHA, B COCTaB KOTOPOrO  BXOlHT naKeT  aOKyMeHTOB, perniaMeHTH4PYIOIUHX  flOpSUOK
pacrpejeneHHs  CpeICTB  no  rOPORaM  H  rIOCeJIKaM, 3aK8oqeHHq  aoroBopoB, onpejeneHHA sineuier
HCrIOJIb30BaHHA CpeACTB H o6beMOB 4HHaHCHpOBaHHS 110 HanpaBfleHHAM.
B COoTBeTCTBHH C HOBbIM IIOp3IAKOM, CpegCTBa Ha riporpaMMbI MeCTHoro pa3BHTHS 6yqyT
pacnpegensTcsA C yqeTOM ypOBHH BLICBO60oxeHHs C 1uaXT H pa3pe3OB, C yqeTOM CHTyaUHH Ha MeCTHOM
pbMHKe Tpyga. B  1998 rogy rporpaMMbI MeCTHOrO pa3BHTHS 6yayT peaiH3OBUIBaTCSC  B 50 111aXTepCKHX
ropoAax H nOCeJIKax, KOTopbie B HaH6ojibiueH CTei1eHH 3aTparHBaDTCA peCTpyKTypH3auHeH yrOjlbHOH
npOMLIiUneHHOCTH.
B 1998 roAy CpeLCTBa Ha i-OprpaMMbI MeCTHOrO pa3BHTHM, B qaCTH COe4eHCTBHs C03AaHH1O pa6o'Hx
MeCT, 6yIyT BbigeJIASTbCS Ha KOHKypCHOH OCHOBe Ha YCJIOBHIX CO4HHaHCHpOBaHHs C ApyrUMH HHBeCTOpaMH.
flpoeKTEI 6yayT oTo6paHBI B COOTBeTCTBHH C 3apaHee YCTaHOBJIeHHbIMH KpHTepHIMH, CpeRCTBa 6yayT
BlbTIeJnIATbCA no 4aKTy B6mIOJIHeHHS o&beMa pa6oT, HPeAYCMOTpeHHoro AOroBOpHbIMH o6A3aTeJiECTBaMH.
IporpaMMbI MeCTHorO pa3BHTHS 6yiyr peaRH3OBH3 BaTECA B YCJIOBHqX r11aCHOCTH. HHcIOpMauHm O
riOCTyrlT1eHHH CpegCTB B IHaXTepCKHe ropoma H rIOCenJKH 6ygeT pacnpOCTpaHATsCA nyrre Om6bABjieHHH giis
o6LIeCTBeHHOCTH B Cpe,4CTBaX MaCCOBOH HH43OpMauHH  isg o6ecneeqeHHA paBHOO AOCTyna K ylaCTHIO B
XOHKypcaX Bcex xKeAaioifHx.



Attachment 3
Page 9 of 30
Co,epxaHHe HpOrpaMM MeCTHOrO pa3BHTHS 6yX4eT paCuHpeHO. 1 paMKax 3THX npOrpaMM, HaqHHaS C
1998 roxAa, 6yLyT npoBoqHTEcs[ rpexjyBojIHHTejTbHue KOHCYJThbTaIUHH JJa rpa)KLIaH, BbicBo6oxQeHHbIX HnIH4
BbICBo6o)xaeMbix 13 OpraHH3aUHH no0o6brqe HnIH nepepa6oTKe yr.IA.
Oco6oe BHHMaHHe  6yjaeT yireneHo opraHH3aUH4  o6iiecTBeHHo-3HatHMMx pa6oT, HaiUeneHHbIX Ha
noaepxaHHe H yJIyqimeHHe coilHaJibHOH HH4lpaCTpyKTypbI H )KHnXJIUHHOo 4oHJa lIaXTepCKHX ropOjaOB H
iocejiKOB.  ByAeT  npo;xo0jDKeHa  pa6oTa. no  4OpMHpOBaHHIO  HH4paCTpyKTypblI manoro  6H3Heca  H
Hpe,:IpHHHMaTeJThCTBa, a TaKKe ino CogreHCTBH1O B co3XXaHHH HOBbIX pa6OtIHX MeCT.
YMaCTHe 3aHHTepeCOBaHHbX CTOPOH B *OPMHpOBaHHH H peanJH3al4HH nporpaMM MeCTHOIo pa3BHTHS
ocyinecTBniseTca qepe3 AelSTenJbHOCTb Ha6JioaaTejTbHbIx coBeTOB. B  1996 ro,ay B UiaxTepCKHx ropoxgax H
noceJIKax  .geHCTBOBajio OKoJIo 30 Ha6jiiogaTejTbHbIx COBeTOB, B 1997 rogy HX 'HcjIo gOCTHmfO 50.
rIpaBHTejTbCTBO IPOROJIXCHT oKa3aHHe rioIIepxKKH ,AeATenJIHOCTH Ha6JlloAaTejTbHBIx COBeTOB B 1998 roixy.
06beKTbi COIUHanbHOri C4epLI H KHJ1oH 4)OH, B iUaxTCPCKHX ropoxiax H nocenKax
B 1997 rogy fIpaBHTenbCTBO  ninaHHPOBanjO oKa3aTb ageKBaTHyO noroepzxy nepegaHHbix MeCTHbLIM
opraHam BjiaCTH o0beKTOB COIHKanJIHO  ctpepbl H xHnoro toHJa IuaXTepCKHX rOPOlOB H noceJIKOB. OqHaKo,
H3-3a  TpyRHOCTeR B  opMHpoBaHHHH .ROXOJIHOH qaCTH 6ioaxeTa  4,HHaHCHPOBaHHe He 6bU1O BEIIOJIHeHO B
nOJIHOM o6beMe. B CBS3H C 3THM, ciieHaiaEbHIbM peeiieHHAm rlpaBHTenicTBa H3 ter;epajEHoro 6logxceTa
BbUejeHa 6ioaxKeTHaa ccyga B pa3mepe 185 mnipg.py6. Ccyja BibiaejieHa Ha OCHOBe TpeXCTOpOHHero RoroBopa
Mexcy MHH4,HHOM, aJMHHHCTpaIIHeH cy6ieKTa POCCHiCKOii cDegepaLUHH H aAMHHHCTpaLIeH ml axTepcKoro
ropo;ra (nocenKa).
B 1998 rogy rIpaBHTejTbCTBO i-pe,aOCTaBHT 43HHaHCHpOBaHHe xiJS npoeKToB MoAIepHH3aLUHH
coijHanbHOH  c4Jepbi iiaxTepCKHx ropoxoB H rocenJKOB B o6beMe He MeHee 400 mnipa. py6neul.
CpexRCTBa Ha MORepHH3aiHio o6ibeKTOB CoiHaIbHOR ctepwl 6yqyT ripe.OCTaBjieHbLI Ha KOHKYPCHOH
OCHOBe, B cpOpMe 6iogxceTHbIx CCyJ, C HC11OJIb3OBaHHeM TpeXCTOpOHHHX coriiauieHHH, 3aKJIIo'IaeMbIX Ha
Ao6poBonbHoR OCHOBe   MeAKgy MHHC3HHOM, a,gMHHHCTpaLiHAMH  Cy6&beKTOB POCCHiCKOii 'DegepaLuHH  H
MeCTHbIMH aaMHHHCTpalHAMH. B ciiyqae q44eKTHBHorO HCOJThb3OBaHH1 6foaxeTHbIx CCyU, HX rloralieeHHe
OCY1eCTBsAeTCA 3a cMeT cpeaCTB fe,gepaJThHoro 60ogxKeTa.
nocjxenylolUe me=b
llpewpHHATblie rIpaBHTenbCTBoM  pagHKajbHbie MepLi no pe4,opMHpOBaHlIO ynpaBneHHA yroJIbHbiM
CeKTOpOM H 6io.gxceTHIIMH CpegCTBaMH, BLieiAeMbIMH Ha rio1aepxKy ero  peCTpyKTypH3aUHH, a HMeHHO:
JlHKBH,aJlHS OAO  <<Pocyronb>, paciHpeHHe IOJIHOMO'qH  H OTBeTCTBeHHOCTH MHHTorrgHepro, co3IZaHHe
RByX r'OCYapCTBeHHIX yqpexgeHHil, BHeCeHHe H3MeHeHHH B flojloxeHHe 0 4HHaHCHpOBaHHH MepOnpHATHrU
11o peCTPYKTYPH3auHH yrOMJbHOH iIpOMUiiimeHHOCTH H HHCTPYK1HIO MHH4iHHa no jIHTeBbIM CveTaM, a TaKxKe
ApyrHe  H3MeHeHHU, B  COBOKYnlHOCTH    03HaqaloT, 'ITO  HOBaA  CHCTeMa  ynpaBneHUa  CpeRCTBaMH
rOCy,apCTBeHHOIH nOAgepzKxH CMOxieT HaqaTTb 3B4eKTHBHO 4IyHKuHOHHpOBaTb, HaqHHaHa C 1 aHBapa 1998
roAa.
34XFeKTHBHOCTb  H  npO3paMHOCTb  pa6OTbl HOBOH  CHCTeMbi 6yaeT  npoBepeHa  c  IIoMouJbio
CIeuHaBjTbHOrO ayXHTa, KOTOpUiH 6ygeT ripoBeaeH 110 HToraM pa6oTEJ 3a nepBLie TPH H iueCTb MecAiieB 1998
roga. Bbi6opOpHtrnM ay,HTOM 6yAyT OXBaqeHbi noJlywaTeinH CpeCTB rocyqapCTBeHHO  rXioepUKH B OCHOBHblX



Attachment 3
Page 10 of 30
yrJiexo6LIBaloulHX perHoHax. rlocie 3TOI'O  IpaBHTeJibCTBO oLeHHT pa6oTy CHCTeMbl B CBeTe pe3yJIbTaTOB
ayAHTa H BHeCeT B Hee H3MeHeHHm, Heo6xoAHMbie  Si JIHKBHIa4HH BbLSBneHH]bIX HegOCTaTKOB.
III. 06ieM H CTpyKTypa roCynapCTBeHHOii noalepxKH
06UnHr  o61eM  rocyAapcTBeHHoH noAICepXKH yroJTbHOH oTpacJIH B 1997 rogy coKpaTHACSA (B
peanlbHOM HCqHcineHHH) no CpaBHeHHIO C 1996 r. c 0,5% Ao 0,2% BBH. RoASi <<XOpOmHX>> HanpaBJeHHH
HCHOJIb3OBaHHA 3THX CpeACTB (AmHKBHgaiHsA y6EITOIqHl6X I1aXT H pa3pe3OB H COluHabiEHaS 3aIIHTa maxTepOB)
BO3poc31a B 1997 roxy riomTH Ao OXHOU TpeTH.
cDaKTHtqeCK4ii o6&eM  Cpe;CTB, H3pacXOAOBaHHEIX  Ha  "XOpOMHe" H  "ruioxHe" HaHtpaBneHH5
rocrioIaepXKH 3a HepBbie geBSATb MecsAieB 1997 roga COCTaBHi, COOTBeTCTBeHHO, 1368 Mj1pI. py6nieul H 3643
Minpx. py6Aeii. B qeTBepTOM KBapTaie 1997 roqa rIpaBHTenbicTBo nriaHHpyeT H3pacxoAOBaTb no 3THM 9BYM
HaripaBieHHAM eiue 657 Mnpg. py6neii H 811 Mnpz. py6nIeHi, CooTBeTCTBeHHo. TaKHM o6pa3OM, oKHgaeTcs,
'TO K KOHUY 1997 r. o6I1HH o60beM BLlenieHHbIX cpegcTB COcTaBHT, cooTBeTcTBeHHo, 2C25 impA. py6neii H
4454 Mnpa. py6neul. CooTBeTCTByIOiiaSq aonS "XOpOIUHX" HapawBJieHHi COCTaBHT 31%.
cDaKTHlecKoe CHHxCeHHe o6beMa <<nLnOXHX>> AOTa1Hu (B peanWEHOM HcqHCJIeHHH) 3a 9 MecsAieB 1997
rola no CpaBHeHHIO C TeM Ke HepHOIOM 1996 roga COCTaBHAo 6o0iee 50%, no cpaBHeHHIO C n1aHOBbIM
noKa3aTeJieM 40%.
rIpaBHTeAbCTBO  orpegeIHnuo cneAymoue cpe.HecpollHbie KOHTPOJIbHU6e noKa3aTeJIH nHO3TaIHOH
OTMeHMl yrOjIHbIX Cy6CHAHH:
(a)    AO KOHua 1999 roAa cpeacTBa rocyXapcTBeHHOii nioXgepKxH 6yAyr HaripaBSTbC3S Ha
'qaCTHqHOe B03MeiueHHe CBI3aHHBIX C gO6bi'eH yrns y6LITKOB yrjieAo6blBaioi1Hx opraHH3aLIHfi H HX paCXOAEJ
nO HHAeKCaixHH 3apa6oTHoH  rTiaTbI B COOTBeTCTBHH C   OTpaCaJeBbIMH TapH4pHbIMH corIamIeHHsIMH, C
o6ecnerTeHeM paBHOMepHOro CHHxKeHHA o0beMOB BbLieJieHHS Cpe14CTB;
(6)    nocne 2002 roaa 6yqeT nOJIHOCThIO npeKparueHO BbLienIeHHe H3 cfeAeparIbHoro 6iosAKeTa
CpeACTB Ha noUAepxxy yrOjiHHOH npOMbuIUeHHOCTH.
(DOpMHpOBaHHe ofteMa rocyaapcTBeHHOH noIJaepxKH Ha 1998 H nocnieaywIouHe rogmi 6yzeT TecHo
YBA3aHo c peaH3aLaHeH rlporpaMMbI 3aKpbETHA  mIaXT H Heo6XoAHMOCTblo BbilJaTbl KoMieHcaflHH  H
noraiueHHA 3aaOAXCeHHOCTH no 3apa6OTHOH nnarTe IlaxTepaM, BELCBo6oK,aaeMblM KaK C JIHKBHPHpyeMbMX, TaK
H C AeHCTByIOnHX inaXT. rlpaBHTeJIiCTBO HOHHMaeT, WTO IaS BbIIIOJIHeHHS  roAo6HbIX coiHaniHbix
o6313aTejmc'TB, B03MO)HO, noTpe6yeTcS COKpaieHHe HeipHOPHTeTHbMX HarpaBjieHHH qpHHaHcHpOBaHHS.
B  CBS3H C 3THM, nOnJHTHKa rIpaBHTeJhbcTBa 6yAeT HaripaBnieHa Ha o6ecne'eHHe aAeKBaTHoro
4HHaHCHPOBaHHS rpHOPHTeTHblIX HaBipaBJIeHHH H COKpaiiIeHHe o6iuero 06'beMa qIHHaHCHpOBaHHS no
HeIPHOPHTeTHLIM HarpaBJeHHIM.
rIpH  pa3pa6oTKe  DPeAepanbHoro 6ioAxeTa Ha 1998 ro,  H  4OPMHPOBaHHH   niaHa-rpa43HKa
43HHaHCHpOBaHHS   MepOnpHSTHH  no pecTpyKTypH3aULHH yrOJTbHOi npoMEiurieHHOCTH  3a CqeT CpeaCTB
rocnoXaepXKH Ha 1998 rog 6yAeT yqTeHO, xITO:



Aftachment 3
Page 11 of 30
1) He MeHee 3450 Mnipa. py6. HIH 60% cpeAcTB rocyaapcTBeHHor4 rio=epXKH 6yIreT HanpanB]eHO Ha
ITPHOPHTeTHIe HanpasneHHa rOCygapCTBeHHOH nOUepxKH;
2) He 6onee 2250 minpa. py6. 6y,eT nepeqHcjieHo Ha OCTajibHbie  HaipaBjeHHA rocyapCTBeHHOH
noHAep)KKH, tTO COOTBeTCTByeT CHHxKeHHio 6oiee teM Ha 50% no CpaBHeHH1O C 1997 roIrOM (B peajibHOM
HCqHCAeHHH).
BMInOJIHeHHe  ImaHOBbIX  noKa3aTeJIeH   HHaHCHpOBaHHS  yKa3aHHbIX  BbEle  HpHOpHTeTHbMX
HanpaBneHHHi rocyapCTBeHHOHi iioXgepx)KH 6yqeT o6ecCieqHBaTbCA He TOJIbKO B [enjOM 3a roJg, HO TaK)Ke H
Ha KOHeI  KaxKAoro  KBapTaiia  1998  ro)a. KoHTpoJI  BblnOJIHeHHA  yKa3aHHbIX  Tpe6OBaHHH  6yxeT
HpOH3BOAHTCA Ha OCHOBe O42HTXHajTbHOr1 OTTeTHOCTH FOCyIapCTBeHHOrO KOMHTeTa POCCHIHCKOH cDezepaiXHH
nio cTaTHCTHKe (FocKoMcTaT).
IV. JIHKBHiauHSA y6bITOqHbIX H HenepcneKTHBHbIX iiJaxT H pa3Pe3oB
rIpaBHTeJIbCTBy H3BeCTHO 0 TOM, 'ITO CyU4eCTBYeT 3HaqHTeJTlHOe qHCJIO mlaXT, IBA IO1WHXCS OCO6O
y6blTO'qH]MH HuH HerepcneKTHBHMlMH. B cHJIY Toror HpaBHTeJIECTBOM yrBepxaeHa nnaHoBaq nporpamma
JIHKBHAa4HH TJaxT C COOTBeTCTBYIOU1HM OCYIeCTBneHHem mep CouHajibHOH 3aliHTbM.
TeKVLUas CHTYalIHSI
K HaCTOSiueMy BpeMeHH onpegeneHb6 138 oco6o y6blTO'HblX H HeriepCneKTHBHbIX OpraHH3aiiHH
yrOJIbHO  npoMbliumeHHOCTH, noxiexau1Hx iHKBHXaUHH, H3 KOTOPbIX 95 HipeKpaTHJH ao6biqy yrmA. Ha 71
iaxTe yxKe 3aKoHqeHLI TeXHHqeCKHe pa6oTm no J1HKBHaa4xHH HOR3eMHbMX BbIpa6oToK. OQHaKo HOJIHOCTbEO
npoilecc JiHKBH;IaUHH Ha 6ojiblJIHHCTBe maxT He 3aBepiiieH.
Ha 1 HIOJA 1997 r. 'Hcj1eHHOCTb 3aHATBIX B yKa3aHHbIX 138 oprlaHH3alHSIX COCTaBHjna 40 TbIC3iq
lejiOBeK. OxKHaeTcsi, TO K HaIajly 1998 roga 3Ta 'HcjieHHOCTb COCTaBHT 31000  'euIoBeK H  B TeqeHHe
1998 roma COKpaTHTC3 Ha 23000 'ejiOBeK.
B 1997 roXRy 3aTpaTbI Ha TeXHHqeCKHe pa6oTmi no IHKBHIaTiHH IluaxT COCTaBaT 471  miip,. py6inefi;
KpOMe TOrO, A,Un BbIr1JaTbI BbIXOAHbIX IIoCo6HH pa6OTHHKaM JIHKBHAHpyemMbiX u1aXT H pa3pe3OB, BKJHOioSa
onraTy JIbrOT H KoMneHcaIHHi, ipe,IyCMOTpeHHbMX pOCCHHICKHM 3aKOHogaTejibCTBOM, 6yAeT H3pacXoAOBaHO
230 Mjlpg. py6nerl.
nporpaMMa Ha 1998 roa
IlporpaMMoiH IHKBH,aI4HH oco6o y6bITOqHbIX H HenepcneKTHBHbIX luaXT H pa3pe3OB Ha 1998 roa
nIpe,YCMaTPHBaeTCA AOCTHxeHHe CYWeCTBeHHOro nporpecca B HarfpaB3IeHHH JIHKBHuaiIHH IIlaXT, B TOM 'lHCJie
ocyiwecTiieHHe MepOnpHsTHH no COLHaBJbHOH 3a11HTe BEICBo6oxIaeMbix pa6OTHHKOB. B qaCTHOCTH, K HIOHIO
1998 rozRa 6yuyr 3aKpbITbI 60 HlaxT; K KOHIy ceHTsI6ps 1998 ro.a eLwe 8 IuaxT; K KOHLY XeKa6ps 1998 roma
- eiwe 18 iuaxT. TaKHM o6pa3OM, K KOHIIY 1998 roAa 6yRyT 3aKpbiTli 86 maxT.
lUaxTa CqHTaeTCS 3aKpbLITOrH IpH BbI1OJIHeHHH ciie.yioWHx yCJIOBHH:
*  3aBepUleHbI TeXHH'eCKHe pa6oTbl Ho JIHKBHIaaHH noA3eMHbIX BEipa6OToK;



Attachment 3
Page 12 of 30
*  'qHCJO pa6OTHHKOB Ha maxTe cocTasBJaeT meHee 20 qenoBeK;
*  coilHaWibHLIe O6S3aTeJTcTBa niepeaabi ipaBorpeemHHKaM  B COOTBeTCTBHH  C pOCCHHCKHM
3aKOHOAaTenbCTBOM.
B 1998 roay 6ioaxeTHoe 4pHHaHCHpOBaHHe npOrpaMMbI JIHKBH,aaHH HeriepCneKTHBHbIX H oco6o
y6bITO'qHbx maXT H pa3pe3OB COCTaBHT 1993 Mipa. py6neA, B TOM qHcne: Ha TCXHHqeCKHe pa6oTbI 968
Mapa. py6nei; Ha Bbli3aTy BEIXO,4HLX HOCo6Hi 160 mipa. py6irIeH; Ha norameHHe 3aAoJUKeHHOCTH no
3apa6OTHOH  nnaTe BBicBo65oauaeMJbM -pa6oTHHKam, BKAIOMaA OT'qHCJIeHHSI BO BHe6lOa)KeTHble 4OHAU B
pa3mepe 40% H KOMneHca1JHO 3a HeHCH0JIb3oBaHHbIH OTHlyCK, 280 Mnpa.py6nei; pacxoaEi no BO3MelIeHHIO
pa6oTHHKaM  Bpeaa, lIpHMHHeHHOrO TPYAOBbLIM  yBeEbeM, rpO4JeCCHOHaJibHbIM  3a6oJIeBaHHeM  HnH HHblM
noBpeXAeHHeM 3lOPOBbA rIPH BbIIIOJIHeHHH HMH TpyAOBEIX o6A3aHHoCTeH, 305 mnpa. py6neii; pacxoabi no
o6ecnelzeHHIO HaHKoBLiM yrIieM Ha 6bIToBBIe HY)ALI rieHCHOHepOB 280 muipA. py6neA.
rIpH              riporpamMMLi nHKBHAa4IHH y6bTOMHbMX 1uaXT H pa3pe3OB B 1998 roay IIPHOPHTeT
6yAyT HMeTb MepOnpHSTHf nO 3aBepiueHHHo nHKBHRaaHOHHlIX pa6oT Ha rOBepXHOCTH, BKnioHaA pa6oTm no
peKYJThTHBaIHH  HapyllleHHblX  3eMenbh H  oxpaHe OKpyxKaIOLueH  CpeabL.   Ha Tpex  yrrieao6blBaiouIHx
npeanpHaTHzx 6yaeT ocyiiecTBnieHa npoBepKa BbiHOJIHeHHSA HPHPOlOOXpaHHbIX MepOnpHITHH.
PeaJxH3awHA TiporpaMMIb AHKBHJIaIHH 6yAeT KOOp;tHHHpOBaTbcA MHHTOIIsHeprO HpH COAeHCTBHH ,RByX
YHOMSHYTBIX paHee rOCyfRapCTBeHHLIX y'pexKJLeHHiI.
B aeKa6pe 1997 roaa HIpaBHTenicTBo yTBepAHT HOByIO peanHIo "OCHOBHbIX IIPHHfHriOB
JIHKBHAa4HH LaXT H pa3pe3OB yro    A bHOiO npOMuLLmeHHOCTH POCCHH", B 4teBpane 1998 roaa - iepecMOTpHT H
YTsBeP,HT THIOBoe T30 rio JIHKBHJIaUHH ImIaXT H pa3pe3OB yrOJTbHOfl ipOMbIULTeHHOCTH.
Mepbi 6o0ee nourocpo'iHor xapaxTepa
B nepBoM roJIyroaHH  1998 roaa 6yaeT C4IOpMHpOBaHa nporpamma J1HKBHAaUHH y6bITOqHblx ItaXT H
pa3pe3OB Ha 1998-2000 roabl, c HOKBapTaEbHoH pa36HBKOA Ha 1998 roa. 3ToHi nporpaMMoH, qaCTHOCTH,
npeaycMaTpHBaeTcA co3AaHHe 6a3i AaHHEIX 110 JIHKBH,HHpyeMLM IllaXTaM, BKIIOqalolEEeH HH4JopMaEio o
pa6oTHHKax 3THX fllaXT. ByaeT ocyI1ecTBfeH  nepecmoTp T90 JIHKBHga&HH maxT H pa3pe3OB, HaxoZISUHxcS
Ha HaMaJTbHOM aTane BbIlOJIHeHHA JIHKBH,aIHOHHbIX pa6OT, c IeJb1o 1pHBe,eHHA HX B COOTBeTCTBHe C HOBOH
pe,aKaIHeii "OCHOBHblIX HpUHHEH1OB JIHKBH,IaUHH IuaXT H pa3pe3OB yrOJlbHOH 1ipOMEiu1eHHOCT4 POCCHH'.
V. COHuHaHEnIe Meph!
fpaBHTeJbcTBO yaenAeT 6onbmoe BHHMaHHe nporpammam cMAr1eHHA coijH4anbHbLx HocJIeaCTBKH  B
xoae peCTpyKT"H3auHH yroJIbHOA nipoMLienHHOCTH H ocy1IeCTBHT KOMnneKC mep nO COuHaJIEHO$i 3aiwHTe
BLICBO6oOaaeMbIx pa6oTHHKoB, COaerCTBHIO 3aHITOCTH H pa3BHTH1O COLHaJ1bHOH c4JepbI B i1aXTepCKHX
rmpoaax H TIOCeJIKaX.
rlpaBHTeJThCTBo  6epeT   Ha  ce6z  o6A3aTenbcTBa  110  COIXHaJEbHOH   3aUjHTe  pa6OTHHKOB,
BEICBo6oXxAaeMbiX B CB3I3H c peCTpyKTypH3auHefl yrOJTbHOi HpOMmbUiJieHHOCTH, HHBanHAOB H 1neHCHOHepOB
yrOJIbHOH IIpOMBlIHUeHHOCTH.



Attachment 3
Page 13 of 30
rporpecc. focTHrHyThbiH 3a nocnenHee BpeMA
B  1997 roxy TeppHTOpHaW6HbIe opraHbi CJ1YX6bl 3aHSITOCTH  HPOBOAIT npegyBOJbHHTenbHbie
KOHCyJIbTaHIfH B 5 OCHOBHbiX yrnexo6iBaiouHx pernoHax POCCHH Ha DUaXTaX, o6LiSBJIeHHMIX K nHKBHgauHH.
3a nepsue geBITb MecSileB 1997 roia Ha ileH coinanbHOi 3awHTLI pa6OTHHKOB, BbICBo6xocJeHHbIx B CBS13H
c pecTpyKTypH3aiHeA yroJTbHOH rIpoMbiuuTeHHOCTH, 6usIo HanpawieHo 1044 Mipi. py6.
Pe3ynbTaTmr MOHHTOpHHra COLxHaJbHHIX IOCJIeXCTBHH, IPOBseXeHHorO B 1996 H 1997 rogax rioKa3aiH,
qTO COwIHaJbHaH  HanIAxeHHOCTh Ha ripexnpaaTHAx yrOnIbHOH iipoMMUUIeHHOCTH o6ycnoBneHa 3aepxxKaMH
no BblruaTe 3apa6OTHOii riiaTbl H MaCCOBbIMH YBOJTH6HHS1MH C XIeHCTByIOILHX rlpejUipHATHi yrOJuhHOH
upoMiLnimeHHOcTH. B CB513H C 3THM, B 1997 rogy flpaBiTenbcTBo npeDHpHHSJo AOHOAHHTeJIbHLIe MepbI B
o6nacTn  COflHaBAbHO  3aIlHTLT - qoTaIHH CTaJJH HaiipasBJU1TLCS Ha 4JHaHCHpOBBHHe 3aAjOxCeHHOCTH no
3apa6oTHofl nnaTe yBOJThHmeMbiM pa6OTHHKaM aerCTBylOTIHX H IiHKBHJHpyeMbIX TiiaXT H pa3pe3OB, IipaKTHKa
CpHHaHCHpOBaHHAI BbhIruaTbl BLTXOAHHOrO noco6Ha 3a cqeT CpegCTB rOCygapCTBeHHOii rIoXAlepXKH yrOJTbHOH
ripoMbIiumeHHOCTH 6bLma pacrpocTpaHeHa Ha aeiiCTByioDIHe iuaXT6 H pa3pe3bl. Ha WeHCTByIOTUHX maxTax H
pa3pe3aX, HaXOASIUHXCA B npotecce peCTpyKTypH3aJKHH, nepea MaCCOBbIMH YBOAbHeHHAMH TaKxKe HaqaIH
UPOBOAHTbCM HpeAYBOJTbHHTeJIEHBIe KOHCyJThTaIIHH.
B  npouecc peCTPYKTypH3ai1HH  BoBJIeqeHbi6 aAMHHHcTpaUHHu maxTepcKHX ropogoB, 11po04C0103bl,
MeCTHbIe  Ha6JUoaaTeJIhHLIe  COBeTbI. MexaHH3M  JOBefeHHs  cpeUCTB  cTaW  6o0ee  npo3paqHblM. K
HacpoCTpaHeHHIO HHpopMalHH o npaBax pa6oTHuKOB  fpH yBOJThHHeHHH 6bum  rpHBJeqeHTJ rpOc0103BI.
Kaic noKa3aA MOHHTOpHHr COijHBaLHbIX nocnegCTBi4l, paciuHpeHHe HH4)OpMauHOHHOH pa6oTbi, yCHAeHHe
KOHTPOJn  Co CTOpOHbl HpaBHTeJIiCTBa 3a HCIIoJTb3OBaHHeM 6iouxeTHuIx cpehCTB IIO3BOJIHUH YJ1YqIUHTL
cHTyaUHIO c BbiIIaTOH Bcex BHAOB KOMmieHcaLIHH H coKpaTHTb 3aAoJDKeHHOCTh Ho BIiHJIaTe BLTXOXIHI6X
noco6Hfl.
B 1997 roRy 6muiH oTMeleHbl cny'aH HeO6oCHoBaHHoro nepepaciipegeienHa cpeACTB Ho pemUeIHHIO
pyKOBOrreJiTe$i yrOJThHbIX KOMriaHHH. TaK, HanpHMep, CpeACTBa Ha COIXH&JLHIO 3aDUHTy BbICBO6oxAaeMbIx
pa6OTHHKOB paCXOpOBaJIIHC Ha "lpOBegeHHe JIeTHeH O3A0pOBHTeJlbHOIi KaMTiaHHH", B TO BpeMS, KaK pocna
3aAoWxJeHHOCTb 1o 3apa6OTHoH 1TaTe, He BbInIaqHB8AHCB BM6xoaHLie noco6Hm yBoJTEHSeMbiM pa6oTHHKaM.
rIocneayIouIHe marH
B 1998 roay rlpaBHTeJIbCTBO HamepeHO pa3BHBaTb CBOe yqaCTHe B upOrpaMMe peCTpyKTypH3auHH
yrOJIbHOi4 11pOMLUUueHHOCTH B qaCTH COLHaJmHOii 3aLgHThI BLIcBo6oKlaeMb6x pa6OTHHKOB. >JM  3TOrO yxe
npeJripHHSiT  cnegyioi4He marm.
*  KoOpAHHaUHs pa6oT no peiueHHIO COLIHaiBHLIx npo6neM, BbI3BaHHMLX peCTpyKTypH3alxHeii
yrOJTbHOM  rpOMIbnIieHHOCTH, Bo3jioXKeHa Ha MHHTOH3Hepro H co3XaaHHoe JIA 3THX ijeiTeli
rOCYPpCTBeHHOe yqpexAeHHe HpH MHHTOTSHepro.
*  YTBepXQeH HCqepblIBaiOujHi nepeqeH6 HaiIpaBJIeHHH paCXOJOBaHHA CpeDCTB Ha COJIHanbHHo
3aaIHTy, MTO  He IIO3BOAHT  OTBIeKaTb CpegcTBa rOCygapCTBeHHOfi HOXAepXKH  yrOjibHOH
rpOMblfJeHHOCTH Ha ApyrHe IleJlH.



Attachment 3
Page 14 of 30
*  rIpaBHTeJibCTBOM BBeAeH B  e[eHCTBHe MexaHH3M, rIO3BOAIS1OHii, HaqIHHlSa  C SHBapq 1998 roAa,
o6ecnenqHBaTb riepeBo, Cpe,CTB roCyXAapCTBeHHOl nOAJep)KKH  Ha BbI1laTy BbblXO,HbIX noco6Hi,
3aoj;KeHHOCTH no 3apa6OTHOH nnaTe H BO3MelUeHHS BpelAa Ha 6aHKoBcKHe cqeTa rpaxiaH -
1ionyqaTeneH CpeXcTB.
*  HIpH3HaHmI npHOpHTeTHEJMH H 6yAyT HHaHCHpOBaTECS B 1iepBooHepeAHoM nop3wKe pacxogbI Ha
CO1lHaJiEHYIO 3a=HTY pa6oTHHKoB H Ha co,gercTBHe 3aHATOCTH B IulaXTepCKHX  ropo,iax H
noceiTKax.
*  PemieH BOnpoC o ipaBoipeeMHHKe 11o o6A3aTenbcTBaM iiHKBH)HpyeMbiX waXT 1o Bo3MelueHH1O
Bpexa pa6oTHHKaM. HaqHHaH C AHBapA 1998 roiga, IDoH  Co1jHa11bHor0 cTpaxOBaHH5  6epeT Ha
ce6a o6Al3aTejibCTBa 110 Bo3MeiueHHIO Bpega pa6OTHHKaM JIHKBHAHpyeMbiX H jHKBHAmHpOBaHHbIX
mIIaXT H pa3pe3oB. PeIIIeHHeM  rIpaBHTejTEcTBa  B DoHHAe COUHaWibHOO cTpaXOBaHHS cov3aH
Ci1eLfHajbHHLIH gei1apTaMeHT, KOTOpbIH 6ygeT KOOP,HHHPOBaTb pa6oTy 110 Bo3MeUeHHfO Bpexga
pa6oTHHKaM  yrOnbHOfi npoMbiLujJeHHOCTH.  rlpoBegeHa pa6oTa 11o c6Opy HH43opMaLxHH o
rioTepneBmHx Ha JIHKBHEIHPYyeMlblX iuaxTax H pa3pe3ax. B ,AeKa6pe 1997 ro,a 6y,eT npoBe,ieH
CeMHHap 11o o6yqeHHO COTPYIRHHKOB MeCTHLIX oTaejieHHi cDOHIAa COIHaiiEbHOro CTpaxOBaHHA.
IlpaBHTeJICTBO npenripHMeT Mepwl no o6ecneqeHHio raaHKOBEIM yrnem  pa6oTHHKoB H neHCHOHepOB
Ha iHKBH,IAHpyeMbIX maxTax, H COUHabJIHO He3allHueHH6IX KaTerOpHH rpa)iiaH nocne JiHKBHgaLIHH ImIaXT.
OpraHH3oBaHa pa6oTa rio i1o;trOTo0BKe 1iporpaMMbi o6ecneqeHHA narKOBbIM yrnieM, BKJIioqaIoJiek riepecMoTp
POCCHHCKOrO 3aKOH0raTeJThTBa, a HMeHHO: YTOqHeHHe HOpM o6ecneqeHHsl ra1HKOBbEM yrIieM; yrOqHeHHe
KaTeropHH HaceiieHHA, HMeiowHX nipaBo Ha o6ecreqeHHe raiKOBMlM  yrfieM  H3 MeCTHLIx 6ioa)KeToB H
YCTaHoBjieHHe CBSI3H Me)Ky goXo0aMH rpaxAaH H HX o6ec1ieqeHHeM 1iaKOBbIM yrFIeM. rIporpaMMa 6ygeT
BKjiIO'qaTb MeponIHSTHS rio nepexo,zy Ha ApyrHe 6onee 3KOJ0orqHbIe H 3KOHoMHqHlie BHEbJ TOInUHBa TaM,
r,ae aTo 1xenecoo6pa3Ho.
11pegyBo03EHHTejJbHhe KOHCyjibTaLHH 6yXiy  IIPOBOAHTECS TeppHTopHanjbHbIMH OpraHaMH cyx6bLi
3aHS1TOCTH  B  paMKax  nporpamM  MeCTHoro  pa3BHTHAS, Aiu  TOrO, qT06bi YBa3aTb    pa6oTy  no
11peXYBOJThHHTemJHOMY KOHCYJIbTHPOBaHHIO C ApyrHMH HanpaiBeHJHAMH cogeiHCTBHA 3aHATOCTH, a TaK)e
paCmJHpHTb coxlepxKaHHe KOHCyJ1bTauHH.
HIpaBHTeAECTBO  HamepeHO  0oueHHBaTh  34eKTHBHOCTE nPOrPaMMbl COiUHaibHOR    3a11HTMb  H
CBoeBpeMeHHO KOHi4eHTPHPOBaTb YCHJIHS Ha PelIeHHH OCTPbIX COUHa8JbHbIX 1po60ieM.  nis 3TOrO  6yReT
ripo0o0iCKeH MOHHTopHHr COIjHaJTbHbIX r1OCJIeACTBH]k C HPHBjieqeHHeM 9KCnepTHOrO coBeTa. B 1998 roxy
MOHHTOPHHr CO0lHanJHbHIX iiocJieACTBHH 6yleT HpOBeqeH B 6 OCHOBHblIX yrnego6blBaouIHx perioHax POCCHH.
IlpaBHTe.nLcTBo TaKxce HamepeHo npeAripHHST6 Mepi6 no pacmCsHpeHHIo yqaCTsA 3aHHTepecoBaHHLIX
CTOpOH  B  xoje  pecTpyKTypH3aHH  yrOJIbHoia  npOMmLiimeHHOCTH. EyAeT  npoaojDKeHa    noAaepxKa
AeATejTbHOCTH rpo4JCOI03oB 11o oKa3aHHI0 IOpHRHqeCKOH rioMo0H pa6OTHHKaM yro0jTHOH ipOMbomEiueHHOCTH.
VI. TIeMOHOIOJIH3auHa H 111HBaTH3auHS
rIpaBHTenJbCTBO  CHHTaeT, xTO peCTpyKTypH3auH  yrOJIEHOi npoMbEiieHHOCTH   OCTHrJIO TaKOH
CTa,HH, Kor1Ra AanJbHeHmiHi nporpecc B HanpamBJeHHH Co3gaHHS 3KOHOMHqeCKH H c1HHaHCOBO YCTOHqHBOH
yrojumHoH oTpacJH Tpe6yeT nocjieaOBaTenJThHLIX ycHRns no nepeBoUy OTpacJTH B qaCTHlii CeKTop. C 3TOU
IleJIbIO B OTpaCJIH HaqaTa peaJIH3aUHS rpOrpaMMbi yCKopeHHOU llpHBaTH3auHH yIOJbHbMX KoM11aHHH.



Attachment 3
Page 15 of 30
Uemb rIpaBHTejibcTBa Ha 1998 ro, COCTOHT B TOM, qTO6bI Ha KOHelu roaa He MeHee 45%
o61iepOCCHHCKoro o6beMa R06blqH IpOH3BOLHROCb YFOJbHbIMH KOMIIaHHAMH, aKIXHH KOTOPbIX He Haxo)RsTcS
B 43egepanbHoH co6CTBeHHOCTH (3a HCKJUOoqeHHeM npaBa "3ofloToH aKUIHH").
IIpaBHTenbCTBO He HamepeBaeTcA HcriOJnb3oBaTb MexaHH3M AoBepHTeniHOro ynpaBnieHHis B
OTHOlUeHHH YrOJIbHbIX KOMriaHHH B CBS3H C ero HH3KOHl a4eKTHBHOCTMLO B YCJIOBHsx  reHCTBypOxeH
HopMaTHBHoH 6a3n1. BMeCTO sToro 6yxeT ocyu4eCTBjieH ripAMoH nepexO, K riOjiHOH npogaxe 3aKpeunieHHbIX B
4extepanbHoH  co6cTBeHHOCTH  aKlIUH   OJThHbix KOMnaHHHi, qTO  nom3BOGTHTC co3aTE   peOCbcKH JAu1
nosB31eHHSI 344eKTHBHLIX co6CTBeHHHKOB, nOJIYqHTb AOnOTIHHTeiibHbie HCTOqHHKH JAOXOJOB cbe[epajTbHoro
6io,xeTa.
floc.TenylouIHe imarH
rIociie  IHKBHgauHH  OAO   "Pocyro.nb",  oTBeTCTBeHHOCTb  3a  ocy4eCTBsneHHe  ynpaBneHHs
tegepaaMHoR  Qoneri axIHii B perHOHaJlbHbiX  yrOjibHbIX  KOMilaHHAX  nepeI0aHa OT OAO  "Pocyronb"
MHHrocHMyI1ecTBy POCCHH.
MHHroCHMyIeCTBOM  nPHHsT rpa4JHK  npHBaTH3aUHH  Ha 1998 rox, oTpaxaioUH4A  HaMepeHHA
fIpaBHTejibcTBa no ycKopeHHio npHBaTH3aBiH B yrOJ1bHOii npOMbiUneHHOCTH. 3THM rpa43HKOM oupeReneiHb
13 yrOjTbHbHX KOMnaHHA (Ha ,onIo KOTOpEJX B 1996 roAy HPHXOHRJOC]b OKOjiO 52%  o6iueHaIuHoHarbHoro
npOH3BoAcTBa yrns), noxnexcauHx r1pHBaTH3aLiHH B iepByio oqepeAL.
CneayeT OTMeTHTb, 'iTO B HacToAilee BpeMs yxe HMeeTCS 10 He6ojbLEHx 'acTHLIX yrojbHbHX
KOMiiaHHHl, COBOKY11Has ROJIs KOTOP6IX B o6uIeHaUHOHanbHoM npOH3BoacTBe yrns B 1996 rogy cocTaBwsna
oKonio 8,6 %.
IlpoiLecc nipAMOH 11pHBaTH3aLIHH yrO31bHbIX KOMn1aHHHi HaqancA C AByX KpYIIHbEX H llepCnIeKTHBHMlX
KoMiiaHHH "Ky36accpa3pe3yrOJb" H "IOXHbEi Ky36acc", Ha AoJnO KOTOpblIX B 1996 roxy npHxo,HAocb,
cooTBeTCTBeHHo, oKojio 10 % H 3,8% o6uleHauHoHaJlbHoro 1 pOH3BOJlCTBa yrAs. IIepBsue 55% 3aKpermeHHLIX
B 4)egepanibHOH Co6CTBeHHOCTH aKuLHf 9THX KOMiiaHHH 6yAyT B 6jIHxKa4inUee BpeMs npoAaHbi; o6bslBJ1eHo o
HaMepeHHH HpOXRaTb ocTaOmiHeCs B 4JeaepWibHOA co6CTBeHHOCTH 25,5% aKUHii B Te'eHHe nepBoro KBapTaiia
1998 ro,a.
rlpaBHTejibCTBoM  6ywyr ipegnIPHHsTbI BCe 3aKOHHLIe Mepli nO COKPagLeHHIO CpOKa aeHCTBHs
AoroBopa AOBePHTenbHOrO ynpaBweHHs 3aKperuieHHbIMH B 4,egepajibHOH Co6CTBeHHOCTH aKiIH8MH OAO
<<BocTcH6yroj>>  C Llenbio ripHBaTH3aiHH 3TOH KOMraHHH B 1998 roay.
B  COOTBeTCTBHH  C  AeUICTBy1OWIHM  3aKOHOgaTeJlbCTBOM    rOCyaapCTBeHHbie  ripe,allpHTHS1 H
KOHTpOjiHpyeMbie rOCyAapCTBOM aKIjHOHepHbEie o6uieCTBa He 6yAyT HMeTb npaBa HpUHHMaTL yqaCTHA B
AeHe)KHBIX ayKTJHoHax H KOMMepqeCKHX KOHKYPCaX no npoAaKe aKuHH yroflbHEIX KoMiaHHg.
rOCy,aapcTBO  OCTaBHT 3a Co6oH  cneiIHaJIbHoe   npaBo   ("3onoylo  aKLIHIO") B OTaeflbHbMX
npHBaTH3HpYeMbIX YrOJThHLIX KoMnaHHsX. IlpaBO "3onoToft aKIXHH" 6ygeT coxpaHsTbCs He 6onee ABYX nieT.
9ToT CpOK MOxceT 6blTb coKpaieH, ecJIH IIpaBHTeJIlCTBO y6eAHTCA B TOM, WTO Co6CTBeHHHK o6ecne'uBaeT
a44eKTHBHyio pa6oiy KOMnaHHH.



Attachment 3
Page 16 of 30
InpaBuTezILmo 4CIollr aporpaMy Ae#mzk   nPMiaTMft    OCUMMUMCs B
co6c$semc rocyzAapcTa axxpk axmwospHhvc o6ecm  yromHot npomm=erwoc, Koropas
6yACT peaMUOBuMaTz B a999 roiw a s nocBAymmm rmbL
IlpeAcceais Ilpa    sa 1cTa4
?occakcicso2                        1        r.
Z8 HOHdpH 1997 r'.
Ala;:



Attachment 3
Page 17 of 30
Government of the Russian Federation
Moscow
November28, 1997
No. 4573p-P2
Mr. James Wolfenson
President, International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Washington, D.C.
USA
Dear Mr. Wolfenson,
In keeping with our agreement I am sending you the Government of the Russian Federation's Letter of
Development Policy in the coal sector in 1997-1998, signed by V.S. Chernomyrdin.
Allow me once again to express my deepest gratitude for your support of the Government's efforts in
reforming the Russian economy. Your decision to increase the amount of the second loan to finance
structural adjustment in the coal sector is testimony to your profound understanding of the realities of
Russian life. It is a significant contribution to the realization of measures in the coal industry that have
been planned and agreed upon with the Bank.
With best wishes,
A. Chubais
First Deputy Chairman
Government of the Russian Federation



Attachment 3
Page 18 of 30
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
LETTER ON COAL SECTOR POLICY
The Government of the Russian Federation has implemented the first phase of structural reforms
in the coal sector. The process of corporatization of the sector has been essentially completed; cash
privatization has started; and the influence of the state in the management of coal companies has been
reduced. These policies have resulted in the improved economic performance of the sector, against the
backdrop of a strengthened social safety net available to the redundant workers and for the mining
communities affected by the coal sector restructuring process.
Since 1994, 95 heavily loss-making mines have ceased production. The share of opencast
mining, the most efficient method of coal production, has increased from 45 to 59%. The process of
divestiture of social assets from coal-producing enterprises to local authorities is nearing completion.
Total employment in the coal sector has decreased by one-third. Since 1993, labor productivity has
grown by 12% while the occupational injury rate has fallen by 51%.
State support funds are now being allocated in a transparent manner, and the Government has
strengthened control over the process. A system of state statistical reporting has been put in place to
reflect the use of state support funds.
A comprehensive social safety net to provide protection for redundant workers and the creation
of employment opportunities in mining communities is one of the major principles of structural reform
in the coal sector. The restructuring is being implemented with the participation of stakeholders through
the work of the Local Oversight Committees in mining communities, the regional Inter-Agency
Commissions at the oblast level, and the Inter-Agency Commission for Social and Economic Problems
of Coal Producing Regions at the federal level.
Workers made redundant at deep and surface mines have access to pre-redundancy counseling
provided by the employment service; at the mines slated for liquidation, special offices are set up to
provide legal assistance to the employees. The state participates in the financing of and takes special
measures to ensure control over the payment of severance benefits to workers made redundant in the
course of coal sector restructuring, health damage compensation to workers of liquidated deep and
surface mines, and the provision of free coal to pensioners of operating deep and surface mines and those
in the process of liquidation.
Redundant workers in mining communities are benefiting from the employment support
programs, particularly in having access to career guidance consulting services and professional retraining
opportunities. In addition, the mining communities are seeing the effects of the programs to create an
infrastructure to support employment and small-scale business activities. In the three largest coal
producing regions of Russia, i. e. Kemerovo Oblast, Tula Oblast and Rostov Oblast, centers have been
created to provide training in the fundamentals of business, and to assist in the development of business
plans and the setting up of private businesses. New production facilities and new jobs, particularly in the
construction industry and housing and utilities sector, are emerging as a result of these activities.



Attachment 3
Page 19 of 30
I. Objectives and Strategy of the State Policy of Coal Sector Restructuring
The Government policy of coal sector restructuring, which has been supported with assistance
from a number of international organizations including the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD), is being pursued consistently, despite the difficult social and economic conditions
in the country.
The Government has started the implementation of a comprehensive reform program to deepen
and accelerate the processes of sector demonopolization, and strengthen the governance structure.
The objectives of the program are as follows:
(a) completion of demonopolization, acceleration of privatization and the creation of a
competitive environment in the sector in order to enable regional coal companies to become profitable
and to operate in the conditions of complete commercial independence;
(b) clear separation of state management functions and commercial activities in the coal sector in
order to eliminate conflicts of interests, achieve greater transparency in the use of budgetary resources,
and enhance responsibility for their use;
(c) strengthening of state management in the areas of planning, allocation and utilization of state
support funds during the transition period pending the cessation of state support, with a particular
emphasis on social protection of the population in mining communities affected by coal sector
restructuring;
(d) decreasing of the burden on the federal budget connected with subsidizing of loss-making
coal enterprises.
II.   Improvement of the Management of the Coal Industry and Mechanism of State Support
Experience of state financing over the period of 1996-1997 has highlighted the need to modify
the existing mechanism of state support.
The federal bodies of executive power, primarily the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of the Russian
Federation, have not had sufficient resources to manage the industry effectively. As a result, Rosugol
was in fact assuming the responsibilities of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy as the body of state
management, creating a conflict of interest determined by the commercial status of that company.
A Government-initiated audit of the use of state support funds allocated to the coal industry has
revealed numerous instances of misappropriation and identified weaknesses in the mechanism of
management of such funds.
All this made it necessary to further develop and deepen reforms in the coal industry with a view
of strengthening the role of the state in the management of budgetary resources made available to the
industry, while at the same time accelerating privatization of regional coal companies.



Attachment 3
Page 20 of 30
Liquidation of Rosugol
A pivotal point in this process was marked by decisions made by the President and Government
of the Russian Federation at the end of November 1997, which stipulated that functions of state
management of the coal industry be concentrated at the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of the Russian
Federation, and Rosugol be liquidated.
On November 26, 1997, acting in accordance with these decisions, representatives of the state in
the managing bodies of Rosugol held a general meeting of share-holders, which voted for the liquidation
of Rosugol, and adopted the composition of the Liquidation Commission and the Schedule of
Liquidation Actions.
The general meeting also made decisions on the proposed ways to dispose of the property of
Rosugol. During the liquidation process, real estate and information and computer systems owned or
leased by Rosugol will be transferred promptly to and used by the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of the
Russian Federation and Foundation Reformugol respectively. Other assets of Rosugol remaining after
settlements with creditors (shares, stocks etc.) will be transferred to the Ministry of State Property of the
Russian Federation which will decide on their disposal, the priority being the sale of the assets by the
end of May 1998.
The Government intends to complete the liquidation process by the end of August 1998.
Strengthening the Ministry of Fuel and Energy
It is intended to considerably enhance the role of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy in day-to-day
regulation and restructuring of the coal industry; radically change the structure and functions of its
divisions responsible for the coal industry; strengthen the human resources of the Ministry so that the
Ministry will emerge, de facto as well as de jure, as the chief distributor of all state support funds.
In order to strengthen state management of coal industry restructuring, a Deputy Minister of Fuel
and Energy of the Russian Federation reporting directly to the Minister and responsible for developing
and implementing decisions on coal sector restructuring has been appointed.
Two departmnents are being created within the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Russia: the
Department of Coal Industry Restructuring and the Department of Coal Industry Regulation.
The two new agencies
Two new agencies are set up under the Ministry of Fuel and Energy. The agencies will become
operational starting as of December 1997. The objectives and functions of these agencies have been
clearly delineated.
The following represents main objectives of the agency in charge of liquidation of unprofitable
mines:
*  assisting coal companies in the preparation and revision of projects and feasibility studies to
liquidate underground and surface mines;
* developing a program to liquidate underground and surface mines;



Attachment 3
Page 21 of 30
* monitoring the implementation of the program;
* providing information and analytical support to the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of the
Russian Federation associated with the management of state support funds allocated to
finance physical work on liquidation;
The following represents main objectives of the social protection agency:
*  developing proposals on the implementation and budgetary financing of measures to ensure
social protection of coal industry workers;
*  exercising control over the implementation of obligations by recipients of budgetary
resources allocated for social protection during restructuring;
*  appraising draft community development programs; developing recommendations for the
Ministry of Fuel and Energy on financing of such programs (including pre-redundancy
counseling provided by the Federal Employment Service at the Ministry of Labor and Social
Development of the Russian Federation); and monitoring such programs;
* developing proposals on financing the rehabilitation of social assets and utilities in mining
communities, as well as monitoring such financing.
For all new appointments, especially for the Deputy Ministers and Chiefs of the new agencies,
the possibility of a conflict of interest will be prevented through the requirement that upon their
appointment, and every year thereafter, they submit declarations of income and property in accordance
with the effective legislation.
Foundation Reformugol
Foundation Reformugol, which was set up in 1996 to ensure the implementation of the First Coal
Sector Adjustment Loan of the IBRD, will assist the Ministry of Fuel and Power and the two new
agencies, as well as other bodies of federal executive power in discharging their functions in coal
industry restructuring.
To enable Foundation Reformugol to provide analytic and information support to the Ministry of
Fuel and Energy and the two new agencies on issues of coal industry restructuring, the sectoral
information and computer systems and networks of Rosugol will be transferred to the Foundation.
The Ministries of Finance and State Property
New structural units will be set up within the Ministry of Finance of Russia and the Ministry of
State Property of Russia to enhance those Ministries' capacity to perform functions related to coal
industry reform.
The mechanism of state support
A new mechanism of management of state support funds is being introduced, based on a revision
to Government Resolution 598 and incorporating the following changes:



Attachment 3
Page 22 of 30
priority categories of financing of measures to restructure the coal industry for 1998 will be:
(a) physical closure of mines; (b) scientific and research support to coal industry
restructuring; (c) measures on social protection of workers made redundant in connection
with coal industry restructuring, their family members, pensioners and disabled persons
formerly employed in the coal industry (severance benefits and other compensation
payments to redundant workers; free coal for workers of liquidated underground and surface
mines; expenditures on liquidation of wage arrears to workers made redundant in connection
with underground and surface mine closures as well as to workers made redundant from
operating underground and surface mines in connection with downsizing, old-age and
disability retirement); (d) financing of community development and employment promotion
for mining communities implemented through subjects of the Russian Federation, including
pre-redundancy counseling programs; (e) expenditures on compensation for damage
sustained as a result of injury or occupational disease at liquidated underground and surface
mines; (f) a Social Reserve Fund.
* a procedure, based on model calculations, will be introduced to determine the amounts of
state support for all recipients and categories of financing; in particular, there will be a rule-
based procedure governing the distribution of funds for selective support of coal-producing
enterprises and partial reimbursement of expenses on wage indexation in accordance with
industry Tariff Agreements;
* the use of primary recipients of state support funds will be discontinued; the Ministry of Fuel
and Energy will be the primary distributor of funds and new recipients will be designated for
individual categories; for example, starting in 1998, the Social Insurance Fund will be
designated as the recipient of state support funds for compensation to workers at liquidated
mines for health damage and, at the same time, the Fund will take over the corresponding
obligations associated with compensation payments for health damage;
*  mechanisms will be introduced to ensure that the Federal Treasury system is used to channel
funds to provide severance benefits and repay wage arrears to redundant workers directly to
such workers' bank accounts or to local post offices;
*  state support funds allocated for investment purposes will be made available only and
exclusively on a pay-back basis and subject to interest payments; such funds will be
available through investment tenders carried out by a Tenders Commission under the
Ministry of Economy, while the Ministry of Fuel and Energy and Foundation Reformugol
will provide support in the appraisal of proposed investment projects;
* proportions will be adopted governing the distribution of funds by category of financing for
the next fiscal year in order to regulate the process of financing at the beginning of the year
should the adoption of the federal budget be delayed;
*  the principle of time-bound implementation of the schedule will be introduced so that the
proportions of actual disbursements by category of financing calculated every month on an
accrual basis since the beginning of the year are consistent with the proportions adopted for
the year;



Attachment 3
Page 23 of 30
*  the process of formulation of the budgetary request for state support funds for the planned
year will start with the communication to the recipients of such funds of target numbers
reflecting available fiscal capacities rather than recipients' needs;
*  the Centralized Reserve Fund, the resources of which will be received and administered by
the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, may be used solely for the purposes of covering losses
resulting from natural and man-made disasters at coal producing enterprises;
*  the Social Reserve Fund, resources of which will also be received and administered by the
Ministry of Fuel and Energy, may be used solely for financing severance benefits, the
repayment of wage arrears to redundant workers, health damage compensation to workers of
liquidated underground and surface mines, and the provision of free coal to workers of
liquidated underground an surface mines.
Earmarked treasury accounts
An important step towards ensuring that funds are used in a manner that is appropriate is the
transition to the Treasury system of delivery of state support funds to recipients. This system actually
became operational as of October 1997. An earmarked account is opened in the name of every recipient
of state support at the corresponding branch of the Federal Treasury, so that to enable separate
accounting of cash flows by all categories of financing.
At the end of November 1997 the Ministry of Finance of Russia adopted a new instruction on the
maintenance of earmarked accounts at Federal Treasury bodies that reflects the features of the new
mechanism for the management of state support funds for the coal sector.
Review of the legislative and regulatory framework
As the next step in improving management of the coal industry, the Government will review the
existing legislative and regulatory framework pertaining to the issues of mineral rights, operational and
labor safety, health and environment, taking particular account of the sector's transition to private sector
ownership. Based on the review, the Government will prepare and start implementing a corresponding
action plan. The Government intends to complete this review during the first half of 1998.
Community development programs
As part of the community development programs in mining communities, redundant workers
have access to professional training, temporary employment opportunities support for the transition to
self-employment, development of the infrastructure for small business activities and entrepreneurship,
and the promotion of job creation. Stakeholder participation in community development programs is
ensured through the activities of Local Oversight Committees in mining communities, Regional Inter-
agency Coal Commissions, and the Inter-Agency Commission on Social and Economic Problems of Coal
Producing Regions.



Attachment 3
Page 24 of 30
Workers made redundant from the coal industry have access to career guidance and professional
retraining. In the three major coal producing regions - the Kemerovo Oblast, Tula Oblast and Rostov
Oblast, centers have been created to provide training in the fundamental principles of entrepreneurship,
and assistance in preparing business-plans and setting up of private businesses. New production facilities
and new jobs, particularly in the construction industry and utilities sector, have already been created in
mining communities.
Deficiencies in the mechanism used to deliver funds allocated to finance community
development programs had resulted in a situation whereby in 1996 in a number of cases resources were
misappropriated. These deficiencies will be addressed by the mechanism (introduced in 1997) that
enables delivery of funds through Federal Treasury channels.
Starting as of 1998, the Regulations on Financing Community Development Programs will
become effective, incorporating a package of documents governing procedure for the distribution of
funds among mining communities, the conclusion of contracts, the setting of objectives for the use of
funds and the amounts of financing by category.
In accordance with the new procedure, funding for community development programs will be
allocated with account taken of redundancies from underground and surface mines, as well as the local
employment situation. In 1998, community development programs will be implemented in the 50 mining
communities most affected by coal industry restructuring.
In 1998, funding for that part of the community development programs relating to job creation,
will be made available on a competitive basis under co-financing arrangements with other investors.
Projects will be selected in accordance with pre-determined criteria, and funds will be released after
contracted work has been completed.
Community development programs will be implemented in a way that is open and transparent.
Information on the transfers of funds to mining communities will be disseminated by public
announcements in mass media in order to ensure equal access to tenders for all those willing to
participate.
The content of community development programs will be expanded. Starting in 1998, these
programs will make available pre-redundancy counseling to individuals made redundant, or under threat
of redundancy, from coal production or processing organizations.
Special attention will be paid to the organization of public works aimed at the maintenance and
improvement of the social infrastructure and housing in mining communities. Work will continue to
create small business and entrepreneurial infrastructure, and to assist in the creation of new jobs.
Stakeholder participation in the formulation and implementation of community development
programs will be ensured through the work of Local Oversight Committees. In 1996 there were about 30
Local Oversight Committees operating in mining communities, and in 1997 their number increased to
50. The Government will continue to support the activities of the Local Oversight Committees in 1998.



Attachment 3
Page 25 of 30
Social assets and housing in mining communities
In 1997, the Government planned to provide adequate support to divested social assets and
housing in mining communities. However, financing was not made fully available due to fiscal revenue
constraints. In this connection, the Government issued a special decision to allocate a budgetary loan of
Rubles 185 billion out of the federal budget. The loan is allocated on the basis of a Tripartite Agreement
between the Ministry of Finance, the administration of the subject of the Russian Federation, and the
administration of a mining community.
In 1998, the Government will provide financing for projects to modernize social assets in mining
communities of at least Rubles 400 billion.
Funding to support the modernization of social assets will be made available on a competitive
basis in the form of budgetary loans using voluntary Tripartite Agreements between the Ministry of
Finance, administrations of subjects of the Russian Federation, and local administrations . If budgetary
loans are used efficiently, they will be repaid out of the federal budget.
Further actions
Radical actions taken by the Government to reform coal sector governance and management of
budget support to sector restructuring, namely - RosUgol liquidation, extension of the terms of reference
and responsibility of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Russia, establishment of two state agencies,
amendment of the Regulations on Financing Coal Sector Restructuring and MOF Instruction on
earmarked accounts, as well as other changes - taken together mean that the new state support
management system will be able to begin its efficient operation as of January 1, 1998.
Efficiency and transparency of the operation    of the new system will be verified through a
special audit to be conducted for the first three and six months 1998. The selective audit will cover state
support recipients in major coal-producing regions. Then, the Government will evaluate the operation of
the system, taking into account the results of the audit, and make necessary changes to eliminate
deficiencies thus identified.
m. Amount and Structure of State Support
The total amount of state support to the coal sector in 1997 decreased (in real terms) relative to
1996 from 0.5% to 0.2% GDP. At the same time, the share of "good" subsidies (closure of loss-
generating mines and social protection of workers) increased nearly to one-third in 1997.
The actual amount of funds disbursed for "good" and "bad" subsidies over the first nine months
1997 was RR 1,368 billion and RR 3,643 billion, respectively. In the fourth quarter 1997, the
Government intends to further disburse RR 657 billion and RR 811 billion , respectively. Therefore, by
the end of 1997 the total amount of funds allocated is expected to be RR 2,025 billion and RR 4,454
billion , respectively. The corresponding share of "good" subsidies will be 31%.
The actual reduction in "bad" subsidies (in real terms) during the first 9 months 1997 relative to
the same period in 1996 exceeded 50% against the planned target of 40%.
The Government has adopted the following mid-term targets for phasing out coal subsidies:



Attachment 3
Page 26 of 30
(a) till the end of 1999, state support funds will be allocated to partially compensate coal
companies for the losses related to coal production and for wage indexing under the Tariff Agreements,
while ensuring an uniform reduction of the allocations;
(b) after 2002, allocation of coal sector support funds from the federal budget will be completely
discontinued.
Budgeting of state support for 1998 and subsequent years will be closely linked with the
implementation of the Mine Closure Program and the requirement to pay compensation and settle wage
arrears to coal employees made redundant both at closing and operating mines. The Government realizes
that fulfillment of the above social obligations will probably require reduction of non-priority subsidy
categories.
Therefore, the Government's policy will be aimed at an adequate funding of priority subsidies
and reduction of the total amount of non-priority subsidies.
The preparation of the Federal Budget for 1998 and development of the Schedule for financing
coal sector restructuring activities from state support funds in 1998 will be based on the following:
1) at least, RR 3,450 billion or 60 % of state support will be allocated for the priority subsidies;
2) up to RR 2,250 billion will be allocated for other, non-priority categories, representing a
decrease of more than 50 % (in real terms) compared to 1997.
Compliance with financing targets for priority subsidies specified above will be ensured not only
over the year as a whole, but also as of the end of each quarter 1998. Compliance with the above
requirements will be monitored on the basis of official reporting of the State Committee for Statistics of
the Russian Federation (Goskomstat).
IV. Closure of Loss-Making Underground and Open-Cast Mines
The Government recognizes that there is a significant number of heavily loss-making or non-
viable mines. It has therefore adopted a planned program of mine closures, together with associated
social protection measures.
Current situation
By now, 138 heavily loss-making and non-viable mines have been identified for closure, and, of
these, 95 mines have ceased production. Of these mines, physical closure has been completed at 71
mines. However, the closure process has not been completed at the majority of mines.
As of July 1, 1997, employment at the above 138 mines was 40,000. It is expected that by early
1998 employment at these mines will be 31,000 and will decrease by 23,000 during 1998.
In 1997, the costs of the physical mine closure work will be RR 471 billion; besides, RR 230
billion will be disbursed to pay severance benefits to redundant employees at mines under closure,
including the payment of benefits and compensations required by Russian laws.



Attachment 3
Page 27 of 30
The program for 1998
The Mine Closure Program for 1998 provides for a substantial progress in the mine closure
process, including the implementation of social protection measures for redundant employees. In
particular, 60 mines will be closed by June 1998, another 8 mines will be closed by late September, and
18 mines will be further closed by the end of December 1998. In total, 86 mines will be closed by the
end of 1998.
A mine is considered closed when the following conditions are met:
* the underground work phase of the closure plan has been completed;
* the number of employees at the mine is less than 20;
* social commitments have been devolved to the legal successors as consistent with Russian
laws.
In 1998, budget finance of the Mine Closure Program will be RR 1,993 billion, including: RR
968 billion for physical closure work; RR 160 billion for severance benefit payments; RR 280 billion for
the settlement of wage arrears to redundant workers, including allocations to extra-budgetary funds in the
amount of 40% and compensations for unused vacation; RR 305 billion for disability compensation
payments relating to occupational injuries, occupational diseases or other occupational health damage;
and RE 280 billion for free coal benefits for pensioners.
Priority measures under the 1998 Mine Closure Program will include completion of the surface
work phase of the closure plan, including the restoration of disturbed land and environmental protection
activities. When physical work is completed, three mines will be subject to an enviromental audit.
T he implementation of the Mine Closure Program will be coordinated by the Ministry of Fuel
and Energy with the assistance of the two new state agencies referred to earlier.
In December 1997 the Government will approve the new version of the Mine Closure
Guidelines, and in February 1998 it will revise and approve a Standard Mine Closure Feasibility Study.
Longer term measures
In the first half 1998 a long-term Mine Closure Program for 1998-2000 will be developed, with
a quarterly breakdown for 1998. The Program stipulates, inter alia, the development of a database on
mines under closure, including information on the workforce. The Mine Closure Feasibility Study will be
revised for underground and open-cast mines which are at the initial closure stage in order to bring the
process into compliance with the new version of the Mine Closure Guidelines.
V. Social Measures
The Government places great importance on social impact mitigation programs in the course of
coal sector restructuring and will implement a package of measures to provide social protection for
redundant employees, promote employment and develop the social sphere in coal communities.



Attachment 3
Page 28 of 30
The Government undertakes to ensure social protection of employees made redundant as a result
of coal sector restructuring, as well as those incapacitated in the coal sector and retired coal sector
workers.
Recent progress
In 1997, regional employment service bodies provided pre-redundancy counseling in 5 major
coal-producing regions in Russia at mines announced for closure. During the first nine months of 1997,
RR 1,044 billion were allocated for social protection of workers made redundant as a result of coal sector
restructuring.
Social impact monitoring conducted in 1996 and 1997 indicated that social tension at coal sector
enterprises was related to delays in wage payment and large-scale downsizing of operating mines.
Therefore, in 1997 the Government took additional social protection measures: it initiated disbursement
of subsidies for the settlement of wage arrears to redundant workers at operating mines and those to be
closed; the practice of severance benefit payment from state support to the coal sector has been extended
to operating underground and open-cast mines. Operating mines undergoing restructuring have also
started providing pre-redundancy consultations prior to large-scale downsizing.
The restructuring process involves coal community administrations, trade unions and Local
Oversight Committees. The fund delivery mechanism has become more transparent. Trade unions have
been involved in disseminating information on the rights of employees made redundant. Social impact
monitoring indicated that an enhanced information campaign and more stringent governmental control
over the use of budgetary funds allowed to improve the payment of all types of compensations and
reduce severance benefit payment arrears.
In 1997, some cases of unreasonable re-allocation of funds by coal company managers were
identified. For example, resources designed for social protection of redundant workers were spent on
"the summer rehabilitation campaign", while wage arrears were growing and severance benefits were
not paid to redundant employees.
Future developments
In 1998, the Government intends to play a more active role in the coal sector restructuring
program as far as social protection of redundant workers is concerned. To this end, the following steps
have been taken:
* The Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Russia and a state agency under the MOFE specially
established for the purpose have been appointed coordinators of activities to address social
problems caused by coal sector restructuring.
* An exhaustive list of social protection subsidies has been approved, which precludes the use
of state support to the coal sector for other purposes.
* The Government has introduced a mechanism that would allow, starting from January 1998,
the transfer of state support funds allocated for severance benefit payments, settlement of
wage arrears and disability compensation payments to the individual bank accounts of
recipients.



Attachment 3
Page 29 of 30
*  Expenditures on social protection of employees and employment promotion in coal
communities have been recognized as priority expenditure categories and will be financed on
a priority basis.
*  The issue of a legal successor has been settled with respect commitments of mines under
closure to pay disability compensations to employees. Starting from January 1998, the Social
Insurance Fund will assume responsibility for disability compensation payment to workers
of underground and open-cast mines to be closed. Following a Government decision, a
special department has been established at the Social Insurance Fund to coordinate coal
sector disability compensation payments. Work has been conducted to collect information on
those injured at mines under closure. In December 1997, a training workshop will be held for
representatives of the local bodies of the Social Insurance Fund.
The Government will take measures to provide free coal benefits to employees and retired
workers of mines to be closed, as well as to socially vulnerable community members after mine closure.
Work has been organized to prepare a free coal benefit provision program, including a revision of the
Russian legislation, i.e. the specification of free coal benefit norms; the specification of categories
eligible for free coal benefits to be financed from local budgets; and the establishment of a linkage
between personal income and eligibility for free coal. The program will include actions to ensure the
conversion, as expedient, to other environmentally safe and energy efficient fuels.
Regional employment service bodies will provide pre-redundancy consultations under the
community development program, in order to link pre-redundancy counseling to other employment
promotion activities, as well as to extend the topics of the consultations.
The Government intends to evaluate the efficiency of the social protection program and provide
for a timely concentration of efforts on the solution of urgent social problems. To this end, social impact
monitoring will be continued with the assistance of the Expert Council. In 1998, social impact
monitoring will be conducted in 6 major coal-producing regions in Russia.
The Government also intends to take measures to enhance the involvement of stakeholders in
coal sector restructuring. Further support will be given to trade unions in rendering legal assistance to
coal sector workers.
VI. Demonopolization and Privatization
The Government believes that coal sector restructuring has reached the point at which further
progress towards creation of an economically viable and financially sustainable coal sector requires
consistent efforts to transfer the industry to private ownership. For this reason, it has embarked on an
accelerated privatization program for coal companies.
The Government's objective for 1998 is to ensure that at least 45% of total coal production in
Russia is in coal companies which have no federally owned shares (with the exception of the "Golden
Share").
* The Government does not intend to use the trust management mechanism due to its inefficiency
under the current regulatory framework. Instead, it will proceed directly to a full sale of coal company
shares reserved as federal property, which would allow to create prerequisites for the emergence of
efficient owners and obtain additional revenue sources for the federal budget.



Attachment 3
Page 30 of 30
Next steps
Following the RosUgol liquidation, responsibility for the management of federally owned shares
in regional coal companies has been devolved to the Ministry for State Property of Russia.
The Ministry for State Property of Russia has approved a privatization schedule for 1998 which
reflects the Government's intentions to speed up coal sector privatization. The schedule identifies 13 coal
companies (which accounted for about 52% of total coal production in Russia in 1996) to be privatized
on a priority basis.
It should be noted that at present there are already 10 small private coal companies whose
aggregate share in total coal production in Russia in 1996 was about 8.6%.
The process of direct coal company privatization has started at two large and viable companies
("Kuzbassrazrezugol" and "Yuzhny Kuzbass") which accounted for about 10% and 3.8% of total
national coal production in 1996, respectively. The first 55% of the companies' shares reserved as
federal property will be sold in the near future; it has been announced that there are plans to sell the
remaining 25.5% of federally owned shares in the first quarter 1998.
The Government will make all legal steps to ensure an early termination of the trust management
contract for federally owned shares of the OAO "Vostsibugol" in order to privatize the company in 1998.
In compliance with the effective legislation state-owned enterprises and joint stock companies
controlled by the state shall not be eligible to participate in cash auctions and commercial bidding for
the sale of coal company shares.
The state will reserve a special right (the "Golden Share") in selected privatized coal companies.
The term of the "Golden Share" shall not exceed two years. The term can be reduced if the Government
has assured itself that the owner can provide for an efficient operation of the company.
The Government will prepare a privatization action program for coal sector joint stock
companies still owned by the state, to be implemented in 1999 and subsequent years.
V.S. Chemomyrdin
Chairman, Government of the Russian Federation
November 28, 1997



Attachment 4
Page 1 of 4
A. RESTRUCTURING THE MANAGEMENT OF THE COAL SECTOR: The liquidation of RosUgol, and the transfer of subsidy
allocation and regulatory functions to a strengthened Ministry of Fuel and Energy
Program Area                Actions Taken under Coal SECAL I                      Coal SECAL II Action Program                     Condition of
Complete the separation of       . RosUgol was converted into a 100% federally-    Commence Liquidation of RosUgol: (i) a Presidential Decree and  Board
governmental and regulatory       owned joint stock company in 1996           Government Resolution on the restructuring of the management of  presentation
responsibilities (including      . However, RosUgol (i) retains effective control   the coal sector have been issued; (ii) a meeting of RosUgol
management of coal subsidies) from  of state subsidies (good and bad) to the sector;   shareholders has been held to approve the liquidation and appoint
commercial operation of the coal  (ii) remains the manager, on behalf of      the Liquidation Commission; (iii) a formal announcement of the
industry                          Government, of the Federal shares in the coal    liquidation has been published;
companies not selected for trust management   . Strengthen the Ministry of Fuel and Energy and transfer RosUgol's
under SECAL I; (iii) provides commercial   subsidy allocation and regulatory functions to the Ministry: (i)
services to coal companies; (iv) retains overall    Ministerial Orders have been issued by the Ministry of Fuel and
management control e.g. over mine closures  Energy to create two new agencies under the Ministry to manage
and investment; and (v) exercises de facto  mine closures and social protection (see Section C of the matrix);
regulatory functions.                      (ii) a Deputy Minister, reporting directly to the Minister, has been
appointed with responsibility for coal restructuring, subsidy
allocation, and the two new agencies; and (iii) the charters of the
agencies have been submitted for registration and the heads of the
agencies appointed
Complete liquidation of RosUgol, including the registration of the  Privatization
liquidation in the State Register and the sale of all shares and stock  Tranche Release
held by RosUgol in subsidiary or affiliated companies
B. MINE CLOSURES: Decommissioning of loss-making and unviable mines in an orderly and environmentally benign manner
Program Area                Actions Taken under Coal SECAL I                      Coal SECAL 11 Action Program                      Condition of
Provide for orderly closure of mines   . RosUgol allocated Rb 383 billion for the  . The Government's Mine Closure Program for 1998 has been    Board
physical costs of mine closures to its coal  prepared by the Ministry of Fuel and Energy;                  Presentation
companies in 1996; Rb 569 billion were    . State support for 1998 has been allocated consistent with the Mine
allocated for 1997 and disbursements are   Closure Program (see Section C);
expected to be Rb 471 billion by the end of the  * The Mine Closure Guidelines have been revised by the Ministry of
year;                                      Fuel and Energy and approved by the Presidium of the Inter-
. Since 1994, 136 mines and 2 ancillary      Agency Coal Commission;
enterprises have been identified for closure; 95   * A new agency has been created under the Ministry of Fuel and
mines have ceased production; and          Energy to manage mine closures (see Section A)
underground closure works have been
completed at 71 mines;
. Employment at the 138 coal enterprises was
40,000 on July 1, 1997, and is expected to fall
to 31,000 by early 1998.
* Prepare a progress report on the Mine Closure Program         Social Tranche
* Prepare a three-year Mine Closure Program                        Release
. Disburse state support for mine closures in 1998 in accordance with
the allocation (see Section C)
. Conduct Enviromnental Audits at two underground mines and one
.                  surface mine



Attachment 4
Page 2 of 4
C. COAL SUBSIDIES: Continued reduction and improved management of coal subsidies
Program Area                 Actions Taken under Coal SECAL I                                    I Action Program                    Condi
Reduce total coal subsidies and  . Total budget allocation for coal subsidies in  Satisfactory allocations of budget resources for 1998 have been  Board
improve their structure            1997 is 0.2% of GDP (estimated), down from  proposed, including: (i) at least Rb 400 billion in Federal-Regional  Presentation
0.5% in 1995-96 and 1% in 1993-94          transfers for divested social assets; (ii) at least Rb 3,450 billion for
* In 1997, budget allocation for "bad" subsidies    "priority" coal subsidy categories; and (iii) no more than Rb 2,250
(operating losses, wage agreements and     billion for "other" coal subsidy categories. Of this latter amount, the
investment) was reduced by over 50% in real  amount allocated by recipient for operating loss and tariff
terms relative to 1996 (considerably more than    agreement subsidies will be determined in accordance with a newly-
the 40% called for under Coal SECAL I)      devised rule-based formula approved by the Govemment and
. In 1997, allocations for "good" subsidies  adopted by the Ministry of Fuel and Energy.
(mine closures, social protection and
community programs) were increased to one
third of total subsidy allocations
. In the fourth quarter of 1997, disburse (i) at least Rb 657 billion of  Social Tranche
"good" subsidies; (ii) no more than Rb 811 billion for remaining  Release
coal sector subsidies; and (iii) at least Rb 185 billion in Federal-
Regional transfers for divested social assets
. Disburse 1998 subsidies in compliance with amounts and
proportions agreed as condition of Board Presentation
Reform subsidy mechanisms to     . As primary recipient, RosUgol instructed the    . The institutional changes to the management of subsidies described  Board
increase transparency and          Ministry of Finance on which final recipients    in Section A have been introduced                          Presentation
accountability                     (companies) were to receive subsidies     .,A Government Resolution (a revised version of Resolution 598)
(applies to all subsidy programs  . Social assets and community program        introducing changes to the subsidy management system (in
including social asset support)    subsidies were disbursed to regional/local  particular to define those categories of subsidies that have priority
administrations instead of coal companies   for disbursement) has been issued;
. Subsidy distribution mechanisms were not  . A Ministry of Finance instruction to the Federal Treasury has been
adequate to ensure delivery to intended final  issued defining the system of earmarked treasury accounts for final
recipients; actual use of subsidies has not been    recipients of all categories of subsidies beginning with 1998
adequately monitored                      . Consultants have been mobilized to assist in the development and
implementation of the new subsidy management system
. A Presidential Decree and a Govemment Resolution have been
issued transferring responsibility for disability payments to the
Social Insurance Fund
. Utilize mechanisms/agencies agreed, as condition of Board      Social Tranche
presentation, to channel 1998 subsidies                           Release
. Complete audits acceptable to the Bank of the operation of the new
subsidy system in the main regions receiving state support during
the first six months of operation in 1998



Attachment 4
Page 3 of 4
D. SOCIAL SAFETY NET: A strengthened and more targeted social safety net for affected workers, families and communities
Program Area                 Actions Taken under Coal SECAL I                       Coal SECAL II Action Program                       Cndition of
Payments to Individuals           . RosUgol channeled Rb 300 billion for social    , Rb 2.1 trillion have been allocated for social protection in 1998  Board
* severance pay                    protection to its coal companies in the second    . Social protection has been defined as a "priority" category for state  Presentation
* disability pensions              half of 1996; Rb 850 billion were allocated for    support (see Section C)
. free coal                        1997 and it is expected that Rb 1.3 trillion  . The definition of social protection has been broadened to include:
will have been disbursed by the end of the year   (i) severance payments of redundant workers atdownsizing mines,
However, severance arrears (according to the  as well as those undergoing closure; (ii) wage arrears of redundant
May 1997 social assessment in 3 coal basins)  mine workers; and (iii) wage arrears of mine workers leaving the
were 3-4 months                             industry on age or disability retirement
. A Social Protection Reserve Fund has been created as a contingency
to meet possible shortfalls in social protection and disability
financing
. Disburse 1998 subsidies utilizing mechanisms/agencies agreed as  Social Tranche
conditions of Board Presentation                                  Release
Support to Communities            . Coal companies divested their social assets  . The amount of social asset support required by coal regions for  Board
. Social assets (housing, heating  (including associated employees) in 1995-96  1997 and 1998 has been agreed, with emphasis on targeting small/  Presentation
systems, kindergartens, and health   . Rb 1.6 trillion were disbursed to the  medium-sized coal-dependent communities
clinics)                          regional/local administrations in late-1996 for   * Payment schedules for 1997 and 1998 have been approved, and
. Community Programs (pre-         divested social assets, mainly for emergency  mechanisms (e.g. conditional transfers/tripartite agreements) have
redundancy consultations,         repairs/winterization of housing and heating  been established to deliver federal-regional transfers to local
retraining, job creation and      systems; this helped the public to view the coal   administrations, in accordance with Part A conditions, and to
business development programs)    restructuring program positively.           finance eligible Community Support and Employment Programs
. Beginning in 1997, support for social assets
was to be handled as general federal-regional
transfers (instead of explicit coal subsidies),
but budgetary resources have not been made
available
. Rb 0.2 trillion were disbursed to the coal
regions/local administrations for community
programs during the second half of 1996; Rb
373 billion were allocated for 1997 and it is
expected that Rb 259 billion will have been
disbursed by the end of the year
. Disburse 1997-98 transfers, utilizing mechanisms/contracting    Social Tranche
_______________________________    ________________________________________  arrangements agreed  as conditions of Board  Presentation  Release



Attachment 4
Page 4 of 4
Program Area                Actions Taken under Coal SECAL I                       Coal SECAL II Action Program                      Condition_of
Social Impact Monitoring and     . Three social assessments have been completed   * Carry out satisfactory social impact monitoring program, including  Social Tranche
Public Participation               (baseline in 1995-96 and updates in September    preparation of monitoring report for quarter prior to tranche release  Release
1996 and May 1997), a contract for continuous
monitoring is about to be signed, and a Panel
of Experts has been established
The participation of main stakeholders
(miners, families and communities) affected by
the Government's coal restructuring program
has increased significantly with the
establishment of regional commissions and
Local Oversight Committees
E. PRIVATIZATION: An accelerated program of coal industry privatization
Program Area                Actions Taken under Coal SECAL I                       Coal SECAL II Action Program                      Condio f
Accelerate privatization program  . Federal shares in four coal companies,   * Holding of commercial sales and auctions for the sale of 55% of the  Board
accounting for 21.5% of Russian coal        Federal shares in two coal companies accounting for more than 13%  Presentation
production in 1995 have been transferred from  of Russian coal production in 1995 has been carried out
RosUgol either to trust managers or to the  . A list of coal companies deemed eligible for full privatization (other
Russian Federal Property Fund, the latter in  than a "Golden Share") has been approved by the Ministry of State
preparation for privatization in late 1997/early    Property
1998                                      . A plan to achieve, by end-1998, zero federal shareholding (other
Significant progress was made in consolidating   than a "Golden Share") in coal companies accounting for 45% of
the Federal shares in individual mines into the  Russian coal production in 1996, has been approved by the Ministry
charter capital of their parent companies in  of State Property
preparation for privatization             . The duration of any Golden Share in coal companies has been
limited to not more than two years
. Full implementation of plan agreed as condition of Board       Privatization
Presentation                                                  Tranche Release
. Prepare a program to privatize/liquidate the remaining federal
interests in coal companies to be implemented in 1999 and
subsequent years
* Complete a review of the regulatory framework for coal mining and
of the institutional capacity of agencies charged with regulatory
functions



Attachment 5
Page 1 of 6
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SECOND COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Social Impact Monitoring; An Update of the 1995 Social Assessment
1.    The Russian Federation's coal sector has been undergoing significant restructuring with
the assistance of the World Bank. As one of many inputs to the preparation of the support
program to Russia's coal sector reform, a team of Bank and Russian social scientists carried out
a Social Assessment (SA) in 1995. The SA provided a framework for developing measures to
help cushion some of the adverse impacts of the restructuring. Since 1995, a number of large
social surveys have been completed in the main coal regions and numerous topical qualitative
and quantitative assessments have been undertaken. The objective of this annex is (i) to assess
whether the expected beneficiaries have indeed benefitted from Bank support to Russia's coal
sector reform and (ii) to evaluate the degree to which adverse impacts of such reform on miners,
their families and communities have been cushioned.
2.    The Bank's initial support to the Government reform program was based on the
understanding that (i) subsidies to the sector would be reduced; (ii) the coal industry would be
progressively demonopolized and privatized; (iii) miners continuing their work within the sector
would benefit from regular compensation for their services; and (iv) the communities would be
protected through regular pension and disability payments, support to social asset maintenance
and operations, and through community based employment generation initiatives including job
counseling, job training and pilot projects. A special Government agency, ReformUgol, was
created and a Bank loan for the Coal Sector Restructuring Implementation Assistance Project
(Coal IAP) was put in place. The Coal LAP helped establish a participatory process for sector
restructuring whereby unions, coal city mayors, and NGOs would be supported to strengthen
stakeholders' capacity for mitigation.  The Coal LAP also aimed at creating a better
understanding of the reforms in the public at large. In addition, a social impact monitoring
mechanism (SIM) and a panel of Russian social scientists (Expert Panel) were created to monitor
mitigational efforts, identify emerging issues and formulate recommendations on how to proceed
with the restructuring.
Findings of the Social Impact Monitoring
3.    Overall, coal miners and their communities were found to be better off with the Bank
support to sector restructuring than they would have been otherwise. Planned actions to provide
social mitigation measures for sector restructuring have been undertaken successfully with
regional variations in their implementation and impacts. Most importantly, the Bank support to
Russia's coal sector restructuring has resulted in significantly increased access to information on
benefits and entitlements and a higher level of access to legal recourse methods for miners. - In
addition, Bank support provided invaluable assistance to winterization programs in coal
producing communities and made a real difference in people's lives through support to social
assets transferred from coal companies in these communities. A great deal more could have
been achieved if more or all subsidies in the system were "good" subsidies. The fact that
RosUgol controlled an overwhelming proportion of subsidies meant that only a small amount of
State support to the coal sector could be used to facilitate winterization and maintenance of
social assets transferred to local governments from coal companies. RosUgol's continued
control over subsidies also contributed to high wage arrears so that arrears in the coal sector
became substantially higher than in other sectors.



Attachment 5
Page 2 of 6
4.     Social impact monitoring during Coal SECAL I and Coal IAP implementation showed
that miners and their communities can be better cushioned against adverse impacts of coal sector
reform if (i) the remaining subsidies in the system are managed without conflict of interest
(demonopolization), directing them for severance payments, redundancy payments, job training,
counseling and placement; (i) wage arrears are minimized (privatization); (iii) support to social
assets and pilot community programs are better targeted; (iv) alternative mechanisms of dealing
with the free coal issue are identified; (v) pension and disability payments are made regularly
through the establishment of mechanisms that would allow all pensioners and the disabled to
have access to their entitlements; (vi) stakeholder participation in sector reform is strengthened
and continued; (vii) public relations activities are accelerated; and (viii) social impact monitoring
is continued.
5.    The progress achieved to date in mitigating the adverse impacts of sector reform has
been substantial but mixed, both in terms of success achieved and with respect to various coal
regions since disbursement of the Coal SECAL I in 1996. On the positive side, greater regularity
was achieved in severance payments and workers who were directly threatened by mine closures
were able to access more accurate information and seek legal recourse. Equally important, a
number of participatory initiatives were put in place in some regions to facilitate community-
specific interventions and stakeholder involvement.  However, the momentum  of these
participatory processes has diminished during the second half of 1997 and community-based
organizations such as the Local Oversight Committees have lost effectiveness because of the halt
of government funding for the social mitigation aspects of the coal sector reform program.
Arrears in wage, pension and disability payments have created social tension and delays in the
launching of an effective public relations support to the reform have made it difficult for the
public to understand several factors associated with coal sector restructuring.
6.    To facilitate evaluation of the progress of mitigation efforts, several indicators were
developed in the context of the Coal LAP. These included (i) access to information; (ii) support
for legal recourse; (iii) income restoration; (iv) maintaining standards of living; (v) ensuring
participation of mining communities and other stakeholders in implementation of the coal reform
program; and (vi) strengthening the capacity of local governments and unions to support affected
miners and their communities. The following presents a summary of the progress on each of
these indicators.
7.    Access to Information: This refers to the "right" of the miners, whether facing lay-off
or not, to have adequate information on early retirement, severance and unemployment
compensation, procedures for mine closures and legal notice. Information access improved
during the course of sector restructuring in 1996/97 but confusion about specific amounts and
types of entitlements that redundant coal employees were to receive continued. At the time they
were laid-off, about a third of the workers had sufficient information at Rostov and Vorkuta and
very few did in Tula and Kuzbass. Indeed, nearly 40 percent of the latter regions' miners had no
such information at all when they were laid off.
8.    At the time of the 1995 baseline social assessment, miners relied primarily on friends
and family for information. However, during reform implementation, miners were supported by
employment services, mine associations, and unions. The mass media has also played an
increasing role in providing relevant information to the miners. Acceleration of the public
relations activities under the Coal lAP would further contribute to this process, especially in the
next phase of coal sector restructuring.



Attachment 5
Page 3 of 6
9.     Support for Legal Recourse: This criterion refers to the enhanced ability of workers
to seek legal recourse to protect their rights under the Law, once adequately informed. There is
mixed experience regarding the availability of legal enforcements to help miners to receive their
back wages and other entitlements; in most cases, these legal channels are open but not fully
effective. The unions have increased their support to workers for legal guidance and private
lawyers are more readily available. In addition, coal miners have increasingly participated in
strikes; but, cases where striking miners resume work without receiving their wages are more
frequent. While coal miners represented half of all strikers in 1996, they were ineffective in
protecting miners' interests.
10.   Income Restoration: This involved (i) improved opportunities for job counseling, job
placement and training; (ii) removal of legal constraints to workers' geographical mobility; (iii)
ability to receive in full all back wages, severance and unemployment compensation in a timely
manner in order to avoid sharp declines in income during the early period of job search; (iv)
enhanced opportunities for self-employment and employment in pilot projects designed for
employment creation / maintenance. Improvements in job counseling and training efforts were
noted in some regions, but these have lost momentum in 1997 owing to lack of funds. The
following provides details:
(i) The Employment Service.   The Service substantially improved its training,
counseling and placement services and dealt with unemployment payment more
effectively. Employers' arrears in contributing to the unemployment fund and
declining state support to the Service as of 1997 caused loss of momentum of its
operations. The Service nevertheless continued its support to the Local Oversight
Committees and its enthusiasm for helping to cushion adverse impacts of transition.
During the sector restructuring in 1996, 20 workgroups providing services for coal
enterprises in 19 coal communities were created in Vorkuta, Kuzbass and Rostov
regions, mostly headed by officials from local Employment Services. These and
other modest initiatives of the Employment Service to make information and/or
training for small business and the self-employed were recognized by the people as
important.
(ii) Employment in Coal Industry.' The provision of Bank support to the coal sector
restructuring program has been effective. For instance, in Kuzbass 24% of workers
from closing mines found employment opportunities in other coal enterprises, utility
services and newly created jobs. Even at closing mines of TulaUgol about one
fourth of displaced workers were able to find new jobs.2 There are still vacancies in
many mines primarily because many laid-off miners are pensioners or have worked
underground for the required period and are searching for jobs at other enterprises
where the wage payment situation is better than at mines. In addition, due to wage
arrears, some laid-off miners prefer to register at the Employment Center and receive
unemployment payments instead of searching for jobs. Overall, restructuring did not
According to RosUgol, currently, 86 rmines have ceased coal production; 63 of those have
completed underground mine closure activities and 33 have completed surface mine closure
activities, including environ-mental protection measures.
The recent RosUgol data points at substantial lay-offs starting in 1993 and 1994; however, these
lay-offs are mostly offset by additional recruitment in the same period.



Attachment 5
Page 4 of 6
cause particularly difficult problems in the labor market of the majority of coal
centers as compared to other regions, except in the Northern regions and a few
single-industry communities.3
(iii)Employment in Other Industries and Labor Mobility. Coal miners have traditionally
been mobile within the sector and are succeeding in finding alternative employment
due to their basic skills and familiarity with hard physical work. Job mobility is
particularly pronounced in major urban areas and in regions such as Rostov, where
the market economy is growing at a high pace. However, many workers continue to
report difficulties in getting permits to work in major cities. In these cities, and
Moscow in particular, relocated workers find housing and subsistence far too costly
in relation to incomes generated through informal sector employment. Housing and
fear of losing one's housing entitlement continue to constrain labor mobility.
(iv) Pilot Projects. During Coal SECAL I, a pilot effort was initiated to develop
employment alternatives to coal. On the whole, these were not successful. The
organizational preparation required to put them in place was too long and some of
the early attempts were misguided. Problems included the lack of an agreed
approach, lack of training, provision of funds to a few privileged individuals during
restructuring and the lack of capacity to administer these programs within the
Ministry of Fuels and Energy. There was also a high degree of regional variability
in existing local capacity to manage the use of federal funds for community support
and employment programs and social assets operation and maintenance.
11.    Standards of Living: The maintenance of standards of living was expected to be
provided through (i) support for social assets transferred by coal companies to local
govermnents, in particular heating, water supply and sanitation, housing maintenance,
kindergartens etc.; (ii) continuous access to free coal; and (iii) ability to receive wages, pensions
and disability payments as well as other entitlements provided to coal sector employees under
the Law.
(i) Social Assets. While conditions in coal communities are admittedly difficult,
adverse impacts would have been much more drastic had the State not provided
direct cushioning to these communities through subsidies to partially fund social
assets transferred to local governments.4 These funds arrived at designated
communities, and were spent appropriately in the maintenance of social services and
assets. While this support continues the historic privileged position of coal miners,
this is justified in the medium term by (a) the importance of popular support for the
coal reform program and the program's importance for Russia, and (b) the fact that
coal unemployment in the future will have a more severe impact than it has in the
past several years. By early 1997, the benefits that accrued from government release
of funds for social assets maintenance were large and various, including maintaining
For instance, there are dying communities around Prokopievsk in Kuzbass, Novoshachtinsk and
Belaya Kalitva in Rostov, and kireevsk in Tula.
While coal miners may receive higher wages, they do not necessarily live better than other
workers due to the poor condition of infrastructure, especially housing, in coal regions. Since
1994, regional governments have not been able to make resources available for housing and
infrastructure programs, including new housing to replace homes requiring demolition.



Attachment 5
Page 5 of 6
employment. While this support will have to be phased out, continuity is important
in the short run provided that targeting mechanisms are improved and participatory
implementation arrangements are strengthened.
(ii) Provision of Free Coal. During the winter of 1996/97, most households which
needed free coal received it and no major delays were reported. Free coal has been
very important to miners in part because of its use in heating and cooking (and since
it was given to compensate for lower income levels). Even though there have not
been major problems in the distribution of free coal, there are several reasons for
minor failures to distribute free coal entitlements to communities. These include the
fact that (a) once an individual mine is closed, the regional coal company does not
take direct responsibility for the provision of free coal to the miners; (b) the level of
production in the remaining mines is inadequate to meet all current obligations for
free coal; (c) the coal produced by the existing companies is not suitable for heating
and cooking; and (d) distribution costs are high and coal companies are no longer
willing to send trucks to outlying settlements for free coal distribution. A sector-
wide review of the problem is needed and underway.
(iii) Wage Arrears. The greatest threat to the maintenance of living standards came from
large and growing arrears in wage, pension and disability payments. A major
objective of the sector reform and the Bank's support was to cushion miners who
were to be laid-off from restructured enterprises. Coal enterprises manifested
greater wage, pension and disability payments arrears, mainly due to delayed
demonopolization and their inability to receive payments from power comnpanies. It
is important to focus on (a) the payment of unpaid wages to employees that have
been declared redundant as a result of either mine closure or downsizing; and (b)
satisfactory progress on the issue for employees of companies which are being
privatized or placed under trust managers.
(iv) Severance, Pension and Disability Payments. Several large scale surveys carried out
in the context of SIM since the 1995 baseline indicate greater regularity in the
payment of full severance packages and there was also increased access to
information on eligibility for receiving severance. However, there was mixed
experience in actual receipt of such entitlements. 6 Workers continued to feel that full
and timely payments were important, but reported little trade union support with this
respect. The delays in pension payments appeared to grow, ranging in 1997 from 2
to 4 months. Disability payments were likewise delayed and there was little these
more vulnerable groups could do to further their interests.  Supporting their
association (NGO) and strengthening the social safety systems at large are
important, but not all required actions can be taken through sector reform; rather,
nation-wide reforms are needed.
12.   Participation of Stakeholders and Strengthening Institutions:  One of the most
important outcomes of Bank support to the reform related to strengthening of participatory
mechanisms, especially at the local level, and enhancing stakeholder capacity to help mitigate
For instance, existing personnel were maintained when cities took over social assets from coal
companies. This helped protect a large number of jobs.
6      In 1997, pensions were paid with 4.4 months delay in Rostov, 4.5 in Tula; an average delay of 4-5
months was generally reported. Severance arrears in 1997 were 3-4 months (primarily because
the closures had started relatively recently).



Attachment 5
Page 6 of 6
adverse social impacts of sector restructuring. The establishment of ReformUgol, Local
Oversight Committees, and the Association of Coal City Mayors were all important. Likewise,
supporting trade unions and public relations information activities were also critical. There is
need to sharpen and accelerate public relations programmes; it is also important to consider
support to the Association of Pensioners and the Association of the Disabled. Another NGO,
Association of Private Coal Enterprises, might also be established and supported through the
Coal IAP during the course of Coal SECAL I.
(i) Local Oversight Committees (LOCs). LOCs are multi-stakeholder organizations
with participation from various departments of the city administration, employment
office, local coal association and trade unions. LOCs were established at the
community level to guide subsidies directed to communities and to generate
community programs for possible funding. They were to mirror the Inter-Agency
Coal Commission and be established through support from ReformUgol. By the end
of 1996, about 25 LOCs had been created in municipalities where coal production
was an important economic activity.  Many communities were particularly
appreciative of the involvement of the local stakeholders in the formulation and
implementation of mitigation strategies to cushion coal sector restructuring. This
was viewed as an important contribution to achieving objectives relating to
"demonopolization" in that LOCs were able to break the local monopoly of coal
associations in designing and implementing such strategies. Although results were
mixed, the LOCs were gaining experience but decreasing funding and renewed
debate over whether social assets should be supported have caused a loss of
momentum.7
(ii) Trade Unions (Rosugleprof and NPG). There has been a visible strengthening of
trade union activities since the 1995 SA baseline. Both trade unions have received
support from ReformUgol and are implementing programs intended to enhance their
capacity to assist miners at the mine level. Special information, counseling and legal
support services are being developed by the Unions, and those that have been
developed appear to have benefitted miners. Under the Coal LAP, further support to
trade unions is anticipated.
(iii)Association of Coal City Mayors. In order to facilitate exchange of experience
among coal city local governments and to allow them to learn from the international
experience, an Association of Coal City Mayors was founded in late 1995 at the
initiative of ReformUgol. Funds were provided through the Coal LAP to make this
association a well functioning structure in support of sector reform. Even though the
association has provided a framework for mayors to discuss issues, it has not been as
active as expected, with little of the progress achieved on the ground attributable to
its work. However, since many of the mayors today are recently elected, a more
active role for the Association can be anticipated.
In some regions, there were reports that the Unions, who were the direct representatives of the
miners, were not regularly represented in LOCs.



Attachment 6
Page 1 of 1
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SECOND COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
(a) Time taken to prepare:            5 months
(b) Prepared by:                      Government with IBRD assistance
(c) Project identification            June 1997
(d) Appraisal/Negotiations:           November 1997
(e) Planned Board presentation:       December 1997
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:    December 1997
(g) Expected program completion:      March 1999



Attachment 7
Page 1 of 1
Documents in Project File
1. Decree of the President of the Russian Federation of November 20, 1997, No. 1243, On
Improving the Governance of the Coal Sector, and Government of the Russian Federation
Resolution No.1462 of November 20, 1997, On Improving the Governance of the Coal
Sector.
2. Letter from the Minister of Fuel and Energy of the Russian Federation, No. SK-8459 of
November 29, 1997, with an attached series of Ministerial Orders defining and creating the
new management structure for the coal sector in the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, including
approved charters for the Mine Closure Agency and Social Protection Agency.
3. Government of the Russian Federation Resolution revising Resolution No. 598 to introduce
changes to the subsidy management system and define categories receiving priority
disbursement, issued in December, 1997.
4. Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation, Instruction on earmarked Treasury accounts
for disbursement of coal subsidies beginning in 1998, issued December 1997.
5. Tripartite Agreement of November 1997, between the Ministry of Finance of the Russian
Federation, the Administration of Kemerovo Oblast, and Administrations of Mining
Communities of Kemerovo Oblast on the Allocation of a Budget Loan to the Administration
of Kemerovo Oblast for Financing in 1997 Social Assets Transferred from Coal Enterprises
to Local Mining Communities.
6. Letter of the Minister of Fuel and Energy of the Russian Federation, No. SK-8359 of
November 25, 1997, On the Realization in 1998 of the Program of Closure of Non-Viable
and Particularly Loss-Making Surface and Underground Mines.
7. Summary Schedule of Allocation to Primary and Final Recipients of State Support Funds by
Indicated Categories of their Use for 1997 Taking Into Consideration the Budget
Sequestration, Approved by the Chairman of the Inter-Agency Commission on May 29, 1997
(No. ACh-P27-45), and for 4th Quarter 1997, Approved by the Chairman of the Inter-
Agency Commission on November 12, 1997, setting out the Government's proposed
allocation of state support among subsidy categories in 1997 and in the fourth quarter of
1997, and Letter of the Minister of Fuel and Energy of the Russian Federation, No. SK-8360
of November 25, 1997, setting out the Government's proposed allocation of state support
among subsidy categories in 1998.
8. Letters of the Acting Minister of State Property of the Russian Federation, No. FG-6/7491 of
November 19, 1997, and No. FG-6/7617 of November 21, 1997, setting out the
Government's proposed program for privatizing coal companies in 1998 and early 1999.
9. Decree of the President of the Russian Federation and Government of the Russian Federation
Resolution to transfer responsibility for disability payments to the Social Insurance Fund,
both issued December, 1997.
10. Inter-Agency Commission on Social and Economic Problems of Coal-Producing Regions,
revised Mine Closure Guidelines, issued December, 1997.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29202
A,                                                                                                                                                           N,
ROOM
0 R A
SWEDEN
RIOW511:0
A,
GERMANY
FINLAND                                                                                                                                                                             MAGA
P 0 L A
SA'KtIA
IN
BELARUS"
ybk-
4
-7    !40 A U K R A, I N E
u        /1-
E
tr                                                                                              0,
vl.
TURKE Y                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C H I N  A
K A AK-,! A N
ARMENIA,)--,                                     Aral
0                  400 500 MILES
ISLAMIC REP.                                         SecF                                                                                                                                    O200 300
OFIRANI                                                                                                                                                                                         'D                   KILOMETERS
\,                                                                                                                                            M    0    N G  0    L  I A            0    20    400   60
/'-IkAQ                                           JZB                                                                         rv                                                                                                         KO
DECtMBER 1997



