Page  1
CONFORMED COPY  
LOAN NUMBER 4262 RU
Loan Agreement
(Second Coal Sector Adjustment Loan)
between
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 18, 1997 
LOAN NUMBER 4262 RU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 18, 1997, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated November 28, 1997 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
adjustment of the Borrower’s coal sector (hereinafter called the Program), declaring 
the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance 
from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and  
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in three tranches as hereinafter provided; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, is modified to read:
"'Project' means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in 
support of which the Loan is made.";
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Loan 
Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account 
specified in Section 2.02 of 
the Loan Agreement.";
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from 
the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and of 
these General 
Conditions"; 
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably  request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, 
the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan."; and  
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(b)
“Category A Proceeds” means an amount out of the proceeds of the Loan 
equivalent to $200 million to be made available subject to the provisions of Paragraph 
2.02 (d) (i) of this Agreement;  
(c) 
“Category B Proceeds” means an amount out of the proceeds of the Loan 
equivalent to $200 million to be made available subject to the provisions of Paragraph 
2.02 (d) (ii) of this Agreement; 
(d)
“IAC” means the Borrower’s Inter-Agency Commission for Socio-Economic 
Problems of Coal Producing Regions.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to eight 
hundred million Dollars ($800,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from 
the Loan Account in support of the Program. 
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first 
request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  
All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Page  3
Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, 
refund such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall 
be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account in respect of:
(i)
Category A Proceeds, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an 
exchange of 
views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based 
on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank: 
(A)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying 
out of the 
Program; 
(B)
that the actions described in Section I of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement 
have been taken; and 
(C)
that the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework is 
consistent with 
the objectives of the Program as determined on 
the basis of indicators 
agreed upon by the Borrower and the 
Bank.
(ii)
Category B Proceeds, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an 
exchange of 
views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based 
on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank: 
(A)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying 
out of the 
Program; 
(B)
that the actions described in Section II of Schedule 3 to 
this 
Agreement have been taken; and 
(C)
that the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework is 
consistent with 
the objectives of the Program as determined on 
the basis of indicators 
agreed upon by the Borrower and the 
Bank.
(e)
If, after said exchange of views, the Bank shall have given notice to the 
Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 
90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken 
actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel 
the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
Page  4
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
before December 31, 2001 which would have the effect of materially reversing the 
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
Page  5
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V 
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance, the Deputy Minister of Finance in charge 
of  international economic affairs or the Deputy Minister of Finance in charge of the 
coal sector are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Ilyinka Street 9
103009 Moscow
Russian Federation
Telex:
112008
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
By /s/ Yuli Vorontsov 
Authorized Representative
Page  6
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Michael Carter
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112              -
Alcoholic beverages
121              -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122              -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525              -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
    -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718           718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for Nuclear reactors
728
 728.43             Tobacco processing machinery
897           897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971              -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates) 
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party); 
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Page  7
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2 
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 2003
through September 15, 2014
33,335,000
And on March 15, 2015
33,295,000
_______________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 3 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
Section I: 
1.
The Borrower has taken all measures as shall be consistent with the 
privatization program for coal companies for 1998 agreed upon by the Borrower and the 
Bank. 
2.
The Borrower has taken all measures as shall be consistent with Decree of the 
President, No. 1243, dated November 20, 1997 and Resolution of the Government, No. 
1462, dated November 20, 1997 and its action plan for the improvement of the 
management system of the coal industry. 
3.
The Borrower has furnished to the Bank and published a time based action plan, 
acceptable to the Bank, for future privatization measures to be undertaken in the coal 
sector.  
4.
The Borrower has: (i)  completed a review of the existing legislative and 
regulatory framework for, and the institutional capability to regulate the coal 
industry to assess their appropriateness and adequacy as the coal industry is moving 
towards private ownership; and (ii) prepared a time-based action plan satisfactory to 
the Bank to address any shortcomings identified in such review.
Section II: 
1.
The Borrower’s actual transfers for the fourth quarter of 1997 (i) to recipients 
Page  8
of state support in the coal sector have been made in accordance with the targets 
agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank; and (ii) for divested social assets in coal 
communities have been made in accordance with targets agreed upon by the Borrower and 
the Bank. 
2.
The Bank has received a report demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Bank 
that (i) the Borrower has taken all measures as is consistent with the timetable of 
the mine closure program for 1998; and (ii) all such measures have been implemented in 
accordance with the guidelines issued by the IAC. 
3.
The Borrower’s actual transfers from the Borrower’s 1998 budget for the coal 
sector in calendar 1998: (i) to recipients of state support in the coal sector; and 
(ii) for sustainable improvements in divested social assets in coal communities, both 
have been made in accordance with the targets agreed upon by the Borrower and the 
Bank. 
4.
The Borrower has  furnished to the Bank opinions and reports, satisfactory to 
the Bank, prepared by auditors acceptable to the Bank on the state support management 
system for the coal sector for the first six months of its operation in 1998 in such 
scope and detail as has been agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank. 
5.
The Borrower has (i) carried out a social impact monitoring program of the coal 
sector in such scope and detail as the Borrower and the Bank have agreed upon; (ii) 
furnished to the Bank a monitoring report for the three months preceding the review 
referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (ii) of this Agreement demonstrating overall 
compliance with the social impact indicators, agreed upon by the Borrower and the 
Bank; and (iii) has made public the findings of such monitoring report.
6.
The Borrower has: (i) furnished to the Bank environmental audit reports in such 
scope and detail as the Borrower and the Bank have agreed upon, prepared by 
independent environmental experts acceptable to the Bank, for two underground mines 
and one surface mine; and (ii) has prepared a time based action program satisfactory 
to the Bank to address the problems, if any, identified in the audit reports.
