Page  1
CREDIT NUMBER 3991 MOZ
 
Project Agreement
 
(Beira Railway Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
COMPANHIA DOS CAMINHOS DE FERRO DA BEIRA, S.A.R.L. 
 
Dated                                                     , 2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3991 MOZ
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated                                    , 2004, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and  COMPANHIA DOS 
CAMINHOS DE FERRO DA BEIRA, S.A.R.L (CCFB); 
 
WHEREAS (A)  by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between Republic of Mozambique  (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association 
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent 
to seventy five million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 75,600,000), 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
conditions that CCFB agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a Tripartite Agreement to be entered into among the Borrower, CCFB 
and CFM, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to CCFB on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
said Tripartite Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS CCFB, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.  
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) CCFB declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Parts A and B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and 
social practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the 
Page  3
-
2
-
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the carrying out of Parts A and 
B
of the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and CCFB shall otherwise agree, CCFB shall carry out 
Parts A and B of  the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement, including the supervision, monitoring 
and reporting obligations set forth therein. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for Parts A and B of 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement, as said provisions may 
be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
Section 2.03. (a) CCFB shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land-use 
rights, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts A and B of the Project. 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, CCFB shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and CCFB, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project objectives; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with CCFB on said plan. 
Section 2.04. CCFB shall duly perform all its obligations under the Tripartite 
Agreement, the Investment and Fiscal Agreement and the Concession Agreement.  
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, CCFB shall not take or concur in any 
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the 
Tripartite  Agreement, the Investment and Fiscal Agreement and the Concession 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.05. (a) CCFB shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts A and B of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Tripartite Agreement, 
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.  
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
CCFB shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Parts A and B of the Project, 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by CCFB of its 
obligations under this Agreement, under the Tripartite  Agreement and under the 
Concession Agreement.  
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of CCFB 
 
Section 3.01. CCFB shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, engineering, environmental and social practices 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. CCFB shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
environmental, social and financial  practices. 
 
Section 3.03. CCFB shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a)  CCFB  shall establish and maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance 
with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to Parts A and B of the Project. 
(b) CCFB 
shall: 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each Fiscal 
Year (or other period agreed to by the Association), audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;    
Page  5
-
4
-
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) audited copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, for such year (or such other period agreed to by the 
Association), and (B) an opinion on such statements by said 
auditors,  in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association; and  
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon CCFB’s reporting obligations set out 
in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement, CCFB  shall prepare and furnish to 
CFM a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to CFM and the 
Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit and by the concessionaire;  
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual
 
and planned Project implementation; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to CFM not later than 30 days after the 
end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from 
the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to CFM not later than 30 days 
after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover the period not covered by the 
previous FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of  
CCFB  thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
(ii) 
the date 25 years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify CCFB  of this event. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI
 
Miscellaneous Provisions
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.   The addresses so specified are: 
Page  7
-
6
-
For the Association:
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
For COMPANHIA DOS CAMINHOS DE FERRO DA BEIRA, S.A.R.L.: 
 
Praça dos Trabalhadores 
 
Edificio da Estação Central do CFM 
Beira 
Mozambique 
 
Facsímile 
 
(25 83) 32 92 90 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CCFB, or by 
CCFB  on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be 
taken or executed by its Chairman of the Board or such other person or persons as its 
Chairman of the Board  shall designate in writing, and CCFB shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature 
of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the                                                              , as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By   
Authorized Representative 
 
COMPANHIA DOS CAMINHOS DE FERRO DA BEIRA, S.A.R.L. 
 
By  
Authorized Representative
 
