                                Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2154



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IDA-39910)

                                   ON A

                                  CREDIT

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 75.60 MILLION
                      (US$110 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                  TO THE

                       REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE

                                   FOR A

                           BEIRA RAILWAY PROJECT



                                June 27, 2012




Transport Sector
Country Department AFCS2
Africa Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2011)

              Currency Unit = New Mozambique Metical (MZN)
                SDR 1.00 = US$1.54 US$ 1.00 = MZN 26.76

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 – December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CCFB       Companhia dos Caminhos de Ferro da Beira (Beira Railway Company)
CFM        Portos e Caminhos de Ferro de Moçambique, E.P. (Mozambique Ports
           and Railways Enterprise)
DCA        Development Credit Agreement
EIB        European Investment Bank
ERR        Economic Rate of Return
GoM        Government of Mozambique
HIV/AIDS   Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
IDA        International Development Association
IFC        International Finance Corporation
ISR        Implementation Status Report
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MIGA       Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MTPA       Million Tons per Annum
NPV        Net Present Value
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PARPA      Action Plan for the Reduction of Absolute Poverty
PCN        Project Concept Note
PDO        Project Development Objectives
PIU        Project Implementation Unit
SADC       Southern Africa Development Community
SDR        Special Drawing Rights


                      Vice President:   Makhtar Diop
                    Country Director:   Laurence Clarke
                     Sector Director:   Jamal Saghir
                     Sector Manager:    Supee Teravaninthorn
                Project Team Leader:    Henry Des Longchamps
                  ICR Team Author:      Bernard Aritua
                                         REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
                                          BEIRA RAILWAY PROJECT




Data Sheet ............................................................................................................................ i
A. Basic Information............................................................................................................ i
B. Key Dates ........................................................................................................................ i
C. Ratings Summary ............................................................................................................ i
D. Sector and Theme Codes................................................................................................ ii
E. Bank Staff ....................................................................................................................... ii
F. Results Framework Analysis .......................................................................................... ii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ........................................................................ v
H. Restructuring (if any) ..................................................................................................... v
I. Disbursement Profile ..................................................................................................... vi
1.    Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2.    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................... 4
3.    Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................... 13
4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome. Rating: Significant ....................... 16
5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ...................................................... 16
6.    Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................ 18
7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ........... 20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 27
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 30
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 33
Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 36
Annex 8. Map.................................................................................................................... 37
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
Country:                  Mozambique                  Project Name:             Beira Railway Project
Project ID:               P082618                     L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-39910
ICR Date:                 06/27/2012                  ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                                GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:       SIL                         Borrower:
                                                                                MOZAMBIQUE
Original Total
                          XDR 75.60M                  Disbursed Amount:         XDR 74.21M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:           XDR 75.31M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Portos e Caminhos de Ferro de Moçambique (CFM)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                      Revised / Actual
      Process               Date                 Process            Original Date
                                                                                          Date(s)
Concept Review:           04/24/2003       Effectiveness:              03/15/2005          03/15/2005
                                                                                           03/31/2009
Appraisal:                06/21/2004       Restructuring(s):
                                                                                           12/22/2011
Approval:                 10/14/2004       Mid-term Review:                                07/14/2008
                                           Closing:                    06/30/2010          12/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                             Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                          Substantial
Bank Performance:                                     Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                 Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings             Borrower                             Ratings
                                                                                Moderately
Quality at Entry:         Unsatisfactory              Government:
                                                                                Unsatisfactory
                                                      Implementing              Moderately
Quality of Supervision:   Unsatisfactory
                                                      Agency/Agencies:          Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                          Overall Borrower          Moderately
                          Unsatisfactory
Performance:                                          Performance:              Unsatisfactory




                                                      i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                                   Rating
      Performance                                      any)
 Potential Problem Project                              Quality at Entry
                             No                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                                   (QEA):
 Problem Project at any time                            Quality of Supervision
                             Yes                                               None
(Yes/No):                                               (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                           Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Railways                                                                   100                  100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                       25                     25
Regional integration                                                         25                     25
Trade facilitation and market access                                         50                     50

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                            At ICR                                  At Approval
Vice President:              Makhtar Diop                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:            Laurence C. Clarke                       Michael Baxter
Sector Manager:              Supee Teravaninthorn                     C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
Project Team Leader:         Henry Des Longchamps Deville             Anil S. Bhandari
ICR Team Leader:             Henry Des Longchamps Deville
ICR Primary Author:          Bernard Aritua


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) make cost effective and efficient transport available for
the freight and passenger traffic in the Zambezi valley to accelerate economic growth and reduce
poverty in the sub-region; (ii) increase international traffic through the Beira Railway System;
and (iii) ensure the operational, managerial and financial sustainability of the Beira Railway
System.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



                                                       ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                  Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                       Formally
                                                   Values (from                           Achieved at
   Indicator             Baseline Value                                 Revised
                                                      approval                          Completion or
                                                                     Target Values
                                                    documents)                           Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Freight and passenger traffic develops on Sena Line (metric tons per annum)
Value
(quantitative or   0                            1,000,000                              266,000
qualitative)
Date achieved      12/13/2004                    12/31/2009                              12/15/2011
Comments           27% of the target was achieved. The line was open to coal traffic on August 8, 2011
(incl. %           after a temporary tariff agreement with the coal miners. However, the delay in
achievement)       rehabilitation has contributed to potential traffic seeking alternatives.
Indicator 2 :      International traffic from Zimbabwe on Machipanda Line, increase by 30%
Value
quantitative or    498,000                      650,000                                387,700
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/13/2004                     12/31/2009                              12/15/2011
Comments           60% achieved. The traffic on this line is mainly from granite, wheat, maize, fertilizer
(incl. %           and palm oil. The potential for increased traffic on this line is good (and evidenced by
achievement)       increase in road traffic), but poor infrastructure prevents the rail to get its share.
Indicator 3 :      Link to Malawi Railways established
Value
                                                Link to Malawi
quantitative or    No                                                                  No
                                                established
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/13/2004                   12/31/2009                             12/31/2011
Comments
                   0% achieved. Feasibility studies have been completed, but decision to rehabilitate has
(incl. %
                   been postponed as it depends on decision to rehabilitate the line in Malawi to Blantyre.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      Road link to Zambia at Moatize opened to traffic for multi-modal transport to Beira.
Value
                                                Road link
quantitative or    No road link.                                                       Road link opened.
                                                established at Tete
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/13/2004                   12/31/2009                             12/31/2011
Comments
                   100% achieved. Road link established and could potentially carry traffic from Zambia
(incl. %
                   but current demand for Sena line by the coal miners has taken priority.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :    Beira Railway system operations: reliability
                                            Track under temp
                 Track under temporary      restriction 2%
                 restriction - 10%;         Locomotives avg
Value
                 Locomotives: average km km between failures
(quantitative or                                                                       16.6%
                 between failures - 10,000; 100,000 Wagon
qualitative)
                 Wagon delays between       delays betwen
                 demand and supply - 4 days demand and supply
                                            2 days

                                                      iii
Date achieved      12/13/2004                     12/31/2009                            12/31/2011
Comments           0% achieved: the poor reliability is attributed to on-going repairs on the Sena line. The
(incl. %           Machipanda line is estimated to be 50% under restriction, with maintenance issues on
achievement)       both infrastructure and equipment responsible for the problem.
Indicator 6 :      Improve staff productivity: (net-ton kms plus pass-kms) per employee per annum.
Value                                             1.30 million traffic
                   0.35 million traffic units per                                       0.9 million traffic
(quantitative or                                  units per employee
                   employee per annum                                                   units per employee
qualitative)                                      per annum
Date achieved      12/13/2004                     12/31/2009                            12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %           69.2% achieved
achievement)
Indicator 7 :      Improve working ratio
Value
(quantitative or   100% gross                   70%                                    unknown
qualitative)
Date achieved      12/13/2004                   12/31/2009                             12/31/2011
Comments
                   0 % achieved. The line was still requiring cash injection for operation at the end of the
(incl. %
                   project.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                  Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                                   Values (from                            Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                            Revised Target
                                                     approval                             Completion or
                                                                     Values
                                                    documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Rehabilitation of Sena Line - 600 km
Value
                                                                                       Line achieved to
(quantitative      30 km re-constructed         575 km to Moatize
                                                                                       Moatize
or qualitative)
Date achieved      12/13/2011                     12/31/2009                          12/31/2011
Comments           100% achieved. First coal train left Moatize for Beira on August 8, 2011. However the
(incl. %           line was completed two years later than expected and significant investment is still
achievement)       required for its safety and reliability.
Indicator 2 :      Rehabilitation of Machipanda Line - 317 km
Value
(quantitative      0 km                         317 km                                 0 km
or qualitative)
Date achieved      12/13/2004                   12/31/2009                          12/31/2011
Comments           0% achieved. No rehabilitation and very poor (if any) maintenance during the
(incl. %           Concession period. The Machipanda line has deteriorated further and is in fact in a
achievement)       worse condition than at the start of the project.




                                                      iv
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

         Date ISR                                                         Actual Disbursements
 No.                             DO                        IP
         Archived                                                            (USD millions)
  1     12/13/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     05/17/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     11/20/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     9.06
  4     06/20/2006          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    18.09
  5     12/29/2006          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    32.30
  6     06/27/2007          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    48.77
  7     12/13/2007          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    69.55
  8     06/27/2008     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory              76.24
  9     12/23/2008     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory              85.02
 10     06/24/2009     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory              98.54
 11     12/22/2009          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   111.05
 12     06/22/2010          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   112.11
 13     03/15/2011    Moderately Unsatisfactory Moderately Unsatisfactory            113.81
 14     09/25/2011    Moderately Unsatisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              113.81
 15     01/12/2012        Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                   113.81


H. Restructuring (if any)

                            ISR Ratings at     Amount
                  Board
 Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
               Approved PDO
    Date(s)                                 Restructuring             Changes Made
                  Change     DO      IP
                                           in USD millions
                                                           Reallocation of the Credit
                                                           Proceeds between the expenditure
                                                           categories to the rail
                                                           Concessionaire. Also amended
                                                           was an increase to the percentages
  03/31/2009        N         MS     MS          89.90
                                                           of disbursement financing ratio to
                                                           100 percent and the Project closing
                                                           date was extended 18 months from
                                                           June 30, 2010 to December 31,
                                                           2011.
                                                           Reallocating the credit proceeds
                                                           again between the expenditure
                                                           categories which was made
                                                           possible by a savings on the CCFB
  12/22/2011        Y        MU      MS         113.81     category 1 and 2.A which allowed
                                                           for the purchase of new rail for
                                                           sections of the line that were not
                                                           properly appraised, full utilization
                                                           of the initial contract value for the


                                               v
                            ISR Ratings at     Amount
                  Board
 Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
               Approved PDO
    Date(s)                                 Restructuring             Changes Made
                  Change     DO      IP
                                           in USD millions
                                                           Project Implementation Unit, and
                                                           covered the Project Accounting
                                                           Section costs and technical
                                                           assistance consultancy services.
                                                           Category six, an unallocated
                                                           amount was cancelled making the
                                                           final total value of the project
                                                           SDR75.31 million.


If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving body)
enter ratings below:
                                                                 Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets
Overall (weighted) rating                                          Unsatisfactory

I. Disbursement Profile




                                                 vi
1.          Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1         Context at Appraisal

1.     The Republic of Mozambique has sustained rapid economic growth since achieving
peace in 1992. This growth is largely attributed to a transition from a state-owned economy into
a market-oriented one. The Government of Mozambique’s (GoM’s) Action Plan for the
Reduction of Absolute Poverty 2001/2005 (PARPA) emphasized economic growth, public
investment in human capital and productive infrastructure, and institutional reform to improve
the environment for private investment.

2.      Mozambique’s dependence on regional trade and investment flows is high, and regional
developments significantly influence the pace and sustainability of its own development. The
PARPA was therefore designed in the context of Mozambique’s strategic regional location. In
1999, Mozambique ratified the Southern Africa Development Community (SADC) trade
protocol, which aims to establish a free trade area in Southern Africa. Effective functioning of
the transport sector - roads, railways, airports, and seaports - in the country is critical for
maintaining the momentum of regional integration and for managing the increased inter-
dependence between Mozambique and its neighbors. This is particularly relevant within the
Maputo, Beira and Nacala corridors which are part of the development strategy for regional
integration of SADC.

3.      To address the bottlenecks hindering transport from contributing towards economic
growth, the GoM embarked on wide-ranging transport sector reforms. In the railway and port
sub-sectors, the reforms focused on involving the private sector in the management and operation
of railways and ports with a view to mobilizing private capital and improving efficiency of
operations.

4.      In the central regions of Mozambique, the Beira Railway System was the main transport
system and the line served a population of over four million. Although the Machipanda line
connecting Beira to Zimbabwe was operational, it was in poor condition and needed urgent
improvements. The Sena Railway Line, connecting Beira to Tete on the Zambezi River, was
severely damaged during the conflict of the 1980s and had been non-operational since 1983.
Poor transport connectivity of the areas located along the Zambezi River to the port of Beira
adversely affected the growth of the region and slowed regional trade and investment flows. The
rehabilitation of the Beira Railway System was therefore thought to be a priority for
Mozambique. During this period, plans were drafted to Concession the Moatize coal mines, and
the Sena Line was earmarked as the transport link between the mines and port. It was expected to
handle an annual flow of three to five million tons of coal. 1 The association between the rail
rehabilitation and the coal development was made early and documented within the Bank,
through the involvement of the International Finance Corporation (IFC).



1
    Strategic Options review, IFC 2003



                                               1
5.     The rationale for the Bank’s involvement was its long-standing association with
Mozambique and hence a good understanding of the development issues in the region. Moreover,
the Bank had supported restructuring, revitalization and privatization projects in the railway
sector in neighboring countries of Malawi, Zimbabwe and Zambia. Further, the Bank was
already supporting restructuring programs to improve the operating efficiency of three major
railway and port systems in Nacala, Beira and Maputo. 2

6.      The Beira Railway Project was prepared at a time when, despite the rapid economic
progress made by Mozambique, few private sector investors would have considered
Mozambique a favorable investment destination. The level of country risk would not have
attracted many investors to a railway system that had not been functional for over 10 years. As a
result the Bank, through its International Development Association (IDA) concessional financing,
was the only reliable partner capable and willing to support this Project.

7.    It is against this background, and in line with the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) of 2003 that the Beira Railway Project was set up.

1.2         Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
8.     The goal of the Beira Railway Project was to improve the rail system in order to support
economic growth through regional integration and connectivity of areas along the Zambezi River
and the port of Beira.

9.     The objectives of the Project were to: (a) make cost effective and efficient transport
available for the freight and passenger traffic in the Zambezi valley to accelerate economic
growth and reduce poverty in the sub-region; (b) increase international traffic through the Beira
Railway System; and (c) ensure the operational, managerial and financial sustainability of the
Beira Railway System.

10.    The key Project development indicators against which the Project would be measured
were:
• Freight and passenger traffic develops on Sena line from 0 to 1,000,000 metric tons per
    annum by the end of the Project in December 2009;
• International traffic from Zimbabwe on the Machipanda line increasing by 30 percent (from
    498,000 metric tons in December 2004 to 650,000 metric tons by the end of the Project in
    December 2009;
• Link to railways in Malawi established by the end of the Project in December 2009;
• Road link to Zambia at Moatize opened to traffic for multi-modal transport to the port of
    Beira by the end of the Project in December 2009; and
• Beira Railway system operating reliably with:
     Track under temporary restriction falling from 10 percent in December 2004 to 2 percent
       by the end of the Project in December 2009;



2
    Project Reference P042039



                                               2
         Average km between failure of locomotives from a base of 10,000 in December 2004 to
          100,000 by the end of the Project in December 2009;
         Wagon delays between demand and supply from four days to two days by the end of the
          Project in December 2009; and
         Staff productivity (net-ton km plus pass-km per employee per annum in millions) rising
          from 0.35 to 1.3 by the end of the Project in December 2009.

1.3       Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

11.       The PDOs and indicators were not revised during the Project’s life.

1.4       Main Beneficiaries

12.     The Project was expected to have a catalytic impact on growth, open the Zambezi valley
to private sector investments, reduce the transport cost of exports from the central region, restore
the livelihood of thousands of households disrupted by the prolonged war, and promote regional
integration. Although the Project beneficiaries were not explicitly identified in the Project
Appraisal Document (PAD), the document points to the following:
      •   Mozambique’s mining and agriculture sectors, whose development was directly linked to
          the improvement of heavy haul transport infrastructure and trade facilitation.
      •   The GoM, which could reasonably anticipate fiscal revenues resulting from an efficient
          transport system, particularly in regard to development of the coal mining industry. The
          GoM would also have benefited from the associated institutional strengthening leading to
          meaningful engagement with the private sector.

1.5       Original Components

13.       The Project was packaged as a Concession with three components:
      •   Component 1: Rehabilitation and operation of the 600 km Sena Railway (US$127.5
          million) – rehabilitation, maintenance and operation of the Sena railway line between
          Dondo and Moatize to enable the Sena railway line to carry all freight and passenger
          traffic on offer. IDA financed.
      •   Component 2: Improvement and operation of the 317 km Machipanda Railway Line
          including its maintenance and operation (US$25.0 million). – continue operation on the
          line and undertake rehabilitation to improve the state of infrastructure. To be financed
          fully by the Concessionaire.
      •   Component 3: Institutional strengthening (US$5.5 million) – provision of technical
          assistance, training and consultancy services to the Mozambique Ports and Railways
          Enterprise (CFM) so as to enhance its capacity to oversee implementation of the Project,
          implement its restructured functions, supervise the construction and rehabilitation works,
          facilitate independent technical and financial audits, conduct transport sector studies, and
          prepare its long term railway and ports development plans. IDA financed.

1.6       Revised Components

14.       The components were never revised during the life of the Project.

                                                   3
1.7    Other significant changes

15.     At the request of the GoM, the Project was restructured twice. The first restructuring, on
February 13, 2009, reallocated the credit proceeds between the expenditure categories to the rail
Concessionaire. Also amended was an increase to the percentages of disbursement financing
ratio to 100 percent (originally it was 100 percent foreign expenditures and 86 percent local
expenditures for Categories 1 and 3, Category 2 (b) had 100 percent of foreign and local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 86 percent of local expenditures for other items procured
locally; and Category 5 was 86 percent) and the Project closing date was extended 18 months
from June 30, 2010 to December 31, 2011. This restructuring was approved at the Country
Director level.

16.      The second restructuring, on December 30, 2011, amended the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) by reallocating the credit proceeds again between the expenditure categories,
which was made possible by a savings on the Companhia dos Caminhos de Ferro da Beira
(Beira Railway Company) (CCFB) category 1 and 2.A which allowed for the purchase of new
rail for sections of the line that were not properly appraised, full utilization of the initial contract
value for the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), and covered the Project accounting section
costs and technical assistance consultancy services. Under category six, an unallocated amount
of Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 290,000 was cancelled, making the final total value of the
Project SDR 75.31 million. This restructuring was approved at the Regional Vice President level.

17.    There were no changes made to the PDOs, components or indicators.

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

18.     Overall, the Project failed to achieve its PDOs. This can mainly be attributed to the fact
that it was set-up without a clear understanding of the fundamentals of concession agreements
and because the supervision was ineffectual. The 25 year Concession contract signed August 30,
2004 was terminated on December 7, 2011. Rehabilitation of the Sena line was expected to be
completed within four years but was delayed by over two years. Several technical issues remain,
posing latent risks to the safety of the operation of the Sena Line and to its ability to handle the
freight and passenger traffic volume expected (see Annex 2 for details). On the Machipanda line,
insufficient maintenance of both the line and rolling stock and numerous derailments since
handover to the Concessionaire left it to deteriorate further, rather than being rehabilitated as was
envisaged.

2.1    Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

19.     The Beira Railway Project was pivotal to the 2004-2007 CAS for Mozambique. The first
pillar of this CAS was to improve the investment climate, and the Beira Railway Project was
identified as a potentially transformative Project that would have a significant impact on the
economic growth aspirations of Mozambique. This was the first CAS prepared by the World
Bank as a joint effort of the IDA, IFC, and Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA).
This confirmed the strong emphasis of the CAS on strengthening the investment climate and
private sector participation.

                                                   4
20.     The PDOs were realistic and aligned to the overall aspirations of Mozambique as
captured in the PARPA and CAS. The Project was timely because it was developed more than 10
years after the conflict, during a time of unprecedented economic growth. It therefore had the
potential to genuinely catalyze investment and position Mozambique to take advantage of its
regionally strategic location. Some of the factors relating to preparation, design and quality at
entry that affected the Project are discussed below.

       a) Alternative Project Designs

21.     As shown in Table 1 which is based on the PAD, six different project design options
were considered. All options considered a concession as the point of engagement with the private
sector.
                          Table 1 – Project Design Options in the PAD
      Alternative                             Decision taken
      Alternative 1 – integrate coal          Rejected due to waiting times required to
      mines/ports/rail under single           align procurement, and political cost of
      concession                              waiting.
      Alternative 2 – two phased              Rejected due to financial commitments and
      concession; initial phase to lower      potential unacceptability to rail
      standard and subsequent phase to        concessionaires.
      level of actual freight traffic
      Alternative 3 – rehabilitate Sena line Rejected due to uncertainty of coal traffic
      to ultimate standard using concession and marginal savings.
      Alternative 4 – rehabilitate and then   Rejected due to lack of funding, uncertainty
      concession operation                    of coal traffic and latent risks due to
                                              suspicions about condition of line.
      Alternative 5 – separate concessions    Rejected due to uncertainty about
      for Sena and Machipanda Lines           attractiveness to private concessionaire.
      Alternative 6 – phased rehabilitation   This final option, which is a hybrid of 2 and
      of Sena line but single concession in   3, was chosen.
      which concessionaire is responsible
      for upgrading both Sena and
      Machipanda

22.     Central to all the alternatives seems to have been the relationship between the railway
lines, the ports and the coal mines. It therefore seems reasonable to assume that effort would
have been made to establish a clear understanding of the volumes of coal and the potential
private sector interest at the earliest opportunity. This would no doubt have influenced the nature
of the Project design. A phased approach was chosen as the preferred option. The Project
concept documents stipulated that the phased approach would take account of the expected
increase in forestry and agricultural goods, and all expected coal traffic. The rationale for such an
argument would have been credible if sufficient data was available to back-up the stipulations.
Moreover, international best practice also shows that a phased construction project usually
involves several assumptions and many such projects are plagued by financing and construction
challenges.

                                                 5
23.    At a fundamental level, the Project had the potential to be designed as a means to an end;
as an efficient logistics link targeting the major users. Hence further investigation of the
volumes of coal and the potential revenues might ultimately have influenced other decisions
regarding ownership of the assets, train operations, and network regulation.

24.      In all fairness, the concept of separating infrastructure management from train operations,
with clear generation or allocation of revenues and costs was not part of the World Bank
conceptual tools until recently. At the decision meeting 3 and the negotiations 4 for the Project,
none of these issues were discussed. This points to the clear conclusion that there was no
understanding of basic drivers for a successful rail business model. The same lack of awareness
happened at the technical level of the Project design: that is why the 25 km of line rehabilitation
between Dondo and Beira was completely overlooked, because it was “ok? from an engineering
perspective, and because it was considered part of the Machipanda line, not the Sena line. As a
result, the vital link to the Port of Beira for traffic coming from Tete/Moatize was not assured.

             b) Selection of bidders

25.      The Project design was optimistic about the potential for private sector participation in
the rail Concession, in part and self-admittedly (Project Concept Note (PCN) and PAD), because
the railway system would not develop fully without the coal development, and a link to the coal
miners. Unsurprisingly, few bidders expressed interest in the Project. Moreover, all the
shortlisted companies had limited experience in private sector construction, operation and
management of rail systems. The consortium which went on to win the Concession had
consultancy experience in Mozambique, Zimbabwe and Malawi. Nevertheless, they had no
proven experience of actually running successful rail operations.

             c) Concession design and incentive structures

26.     Concession contracts work best when underpinned by clear separation of roles between
the Principal (in this case public sector Client) and Promoter (Concessionaire). This provides the
right framework for risk sharing and incentives. 5 In the Beira Railways Concession, CCFB’s
shareholding was split between the Concessionaire with 51 percent shareholding and the GoM’s
state-owned company Portos e Caminhos de Ferro de Moçambique (Mozambique Ports and
Railways Enterprise, CFM) with 49 percent shareholding. This shareholding structure, while
having some merits, meant that the Principal had little and in some cases no leverage on major
decisions.




3
    Minutes of Decision Meeting, Beira Rail Project, June 2, 2004
4
    Agreed minutes of Negotiations, Beira Rail Project, Aug.30-Sept.02, 2004
5
    Merna A and Njiru C, Financing Infrastructure Projects. Thomas Telford, London 2002

                                                                       6
       d) Institutional arrangements

27.     The way that the Beira Railways Concession had been set up obscured the roles of the
parties. It was unclear whether the public sector shareholder (CFM) was a regulator, policy
maker, client or operator. In fact in the course of the Project, CFM played all these roles; at times
simultaneously.

28.     This complicated the negotiations over the coal tariff with the off-taker (coal mining
companies). While the private shareholder was trying to negotiate a coal tariff with the mining
companies under the stipulations of the Concession Agreement, parallel negotiations were held
between the Ministry of Mines and the same mining companies to set up mining Concession
Agreements. There was therefore no incentive for the mining companies to negotiate a fair value
for the rail access - when clearly for them the best option would have been to work towards
taking over the rail line and combining the rail and coal mining Concessions.

29.      Eventually, a combination of poor project management, poor business skills and
disputable staff management by CCFB contributed to mistrust and frustration during the coal
tariffs negotiation process and undermined the Concession.

30.    From 2009 onwards, and following several reports of delays and management issues, the
Government sent several warnings and threats to terminate the Concession. The absence of an
independent ombudsman meant that it was difficult to improve relations between the parties once
they began to deteriorate. The poor performance of the Promoter and the nature of the
Concession agreement left the Principal powerless and increasingly frustrated. This eventually
culminated in early termination of the Concession.

31.     Another institutional issue that resulted from the design of the Project was that the remit
of the Independent Engineer was limited to providing technical opinions about the work without
any real authority to instruct remedial work. Hence, the Independent Engineer’s advice, though
sound, was largely ignored by the Concessionaire and the public shareholder was powerless to
influence any action due to the nature of the Concession design.

2.2    Implementation

32.    The factors that affected the implementation are associated with management,
supervision and Concession risks.

       a) Management Issues

33.     Ensuring the quality of the rehabilitation works was one of the greatest challenges.
Although the PIU was set up to ensure delivery of Concession objectives, and because more than
65 percent of the Project’s total value was awarded to companies affiliated with the
Concessionaire, the PIU eventually acted on behalf of the Contractor. Despite all the documented
delays, the Contractor was never penalized, and all requests by CFM for the PIU to take action
against the Contractors for poor execution of the works were ignored.

                                                 7
34.     Project control was weakened by this blurred relationship between CCFB/PIU and the
Contractors, and by the Contractor’s weak planning and design capabilities. A typical example
can be found in the procurement of ballast, where relaxation of specifications (against protests by
CFM and the Independent Engineer) was granted in order to solve the Contractor’s procurement
issues. Moreover, CCFB also lacked capacity to organize the logistics required by the works as
well as co-ordinate train operations, and struggled to meet rolling stock requirements. Thus at a
managerial level, the Concessionaire lacked the competencies for the undertaking.

35.      Fundamentally, under concessions the Promoter and Construction Contractor are free to
contract with whichever company; including subsidiaries and even affiliated companies. 6 The
issue of sub-contracting in concessions is not so much the level of sub-contracting as control by
the Principal (Client). The real emphasis for any Principal (Client) in a concession agreement
should be to monitor the outcome based on clear performance indicators. 7 In the case of the
Beira Railway Project, however, this monitoring was not effective. In addition, it may be argued
that the subcontracting model adopted in this Project may have created a conflict of interest with
negative effects. For example, towards the end of the Concession, one of the sub-contractors
affiliated to the Concessionaire made claims for US$20 million, which are difficult to verify and,
although apparently unjustified, will end up as a liability for the Government under the
arbitration process. Such procurement autonomy led to difficulties on the Project. Moreover, the
affiliation between the majority shareholder in the Concessionaire and the Contractors may have
reduced the Promoter’s interest and ability to enforce the recommendations of the Independent
Engineer and the conceding authority on service standards and works quality.

             b) Supervision Issues

36.     The impact of isolated events and project management issues were exacerbated by the
lack of adequate supervision.

37.     From a project perspective, and despite the available funding, the PIU’s supervisory
capacity was limited by lack of facilitation (transport in particular) and human resources. The
best skilled engineers were prematurely sent back home by the Concessionaire, and subsequently
replaced by incompetent staff, with the approval of the PIU. Despite repeated objections by CFM
and the GoM, no action was taken to reverse these decisions.

38.    From the Government’s perspective, the reliance on CFM to provide supervision was
biased by CFM’s 49 percent shareholding in the Concession, which indirectly engaged the
Government into the internal decision-making process and made it difficult to monitor
independently the supervisory tasks. Typical of this limitation was the implementation of
Component 3 (Institutional Strengthening) which was under the control and the supervision of
CFM, who could not in effect enforce recommendations from the Independent Engineer and
corresponding corrective actions.



6
    Yescombe, E Principles of Project Finance, Elsevier Press. 2002
7
    Weber,B and Alfen,H.W Infrastructure as an Asset Class: Investment Strategy, Project Finance and PPP, Wiley Finance, 2010

                                                                      8
39.    The strained relationship between the conceding authority and the Concessionaire was
evident from the start of the Project - with disputes over construction phase delays, incomplete
construction works, poor quality of work, health and safety issues, and poor labor relations.

40.     Remarkably, all of the Bank’s supervision reports during the critical stages (2005-2010)
gave the Project an overall rating of satisfactory or moderately satisfactory. Despite the virulent
correspondence between the parties to the contract and the persistent negative reports by the
Independent Engineer regarding the rehabilitation works on the Sena Line, the Project ratings
were never revised and as a result corrective action was never taken. It is evident from the
Project documentation that the Bank supervision team did not have the requisite technical
engineering skills and competencies to make sense of the implications of the issues raised by the
Independent Engineer. Strong technical skills are critical for all major infrastructure projects but
more so for rail concessions where important decisions require a detailed understanding of how
infrastructure is designed, constructed, operated and maintained. Without this expertise the Bank
team was in many instances unable to adequately supervise the contract or identify problems
early enough. However, the discrepancies between the Bank supervision reports and the
Independent Engineer’s reports are concerning.

41.      There were 15 Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) and 36 Independent Engineer
reports during the Project implementation period. The Implementation Completion and Results
Report (ICR) review team examined each of these reports, and numerous evidence points to
significant discrepancies between the two sets of reports. An extensive comparative exercise
would be interesting; however, for the purposes of this ICR an example to highlight the key
conclusion of our examination suffices to illustrate the discrepancy. On Dec.13 2007, a Bank
mission produced an ISR 8 which concluded that: “Progress in the construction of the Sena Line
is satisfactory and the first phase (Dondo to Marromeu) is expected to be opened early 2008.?
One month later, the Independent Engineer’s report concluded that “it is now abundantly clear
that the targeted date of April 09 will not be met? 9 adding that “all these factors compounded,
are negatively impacting on Project control, monitoring and follow-up of works, productivity,
quality control etc…?. It is difficult to discern the reasons for such discrepancies, but it is clear
that the safeguards in place during implementation (ISR, Aide-Mémoires, Back-to-Office-
Reports) failed to raise at least some concerns to management level. As a result, the issues
plaguing implementation were not addressed at the Mid-Term Review, and the Client’s and
Independent Engineer’s concerns only began to be reflected by ISRs in late 2010. By then, the
Credit had already been almost fully disbursed, and there was little scope to restructure the
Project. Considering that Bank management took part in some of the supervision missions and
was generally active in this Project, what seems to have been unique was their inability to force a
course correction in the Project within its first two to three years, when it became rapidly
obvious that the expectations assigned to the Project were not going to be met.




8
    ISR #7
9
    The author’s bold format. (Engineer report n.18)

                                                       9
42.      It was only after IDA funding had been substantially disbursed and senior management
was alerted by the Client to the threat of termination of the Concession in 2009, that issues were
raised. At that point the Bank had lost its leverage. Importantly, the change of Bank supervision
and management which coincided in 2010/2011 with similar changes at sector and country level
allowed the Bank to appreciate the seriousness of the escalation of the conflict between the GoM
and the Concessionaire. This in turn led Bank management to demand for a more candid and
realistic approach on the closing of the Project and eventually the evaluation of its outcome.

          c) Identification of risks and mitigation measures

43.      The Project preparation team carried out a risk identification which gave an overall
medium rating to the Project risks and proposed some mitigation measures for the key risks
identified. Most of the risks related to the construction or political issues potentially impacting
the Project. Significantly however, while the PAD referred to traffic risks that were critical to the
success of the Concession, no further analysis seems to have been carried out. The
Concessionaire was allocated risks for freight traffic on the Sena Line and risks of fluctuating
regional traffic. The Concessionaire had no control over these risks and was therefore not suited
to manage them. Best practice is to allocate the risks to the party best able to mitigate or control
them. 10

          d) Mid-term review

44.     At the mid-term review in June 2008 11, the Project had cost overruns of US$50 million.
The construction works had significantly slowed down and delays of up to eight months were
expected. Despite this the Bank team considered the 35 percent increase to be
“understandable?. 12 Rather than addressing the incompetence of the Concessionaire as a major
bottleneck, the mid-term review report pointed to the failure in negotiations over the coal tariff -
which was a fairly recent development - and the threat of termination by the Government as the
main risk to Project progress. This was a missed opportunity to consider Project changes and re-
direction.

2.3       Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

M&E Design

45.    The indicators agreed upon during preparation of the Project were aligned with the PDOs
and development agenda of Mozambique. The expectation was that CFM would provide a point
of contact for monitoring the outcomes but that some of the data would come from the
Concessionaire. These indicators provided a concise view of Project implementation and
achievement of PDOs for a railway Project. The Project did not have any specific indicators
linked to the environment or occupational health and safety. This would have been useful



10
   Smith N.J Managing Risk in Construction Projects. Blackwell Publishing 2006
11
   Mid-Term review mission Aide-Memoire (June 2-8, 2008)
12
   Management letter from World Bank to GoM – Mid-Term review, dated July 9, 2008

                                                                 10
considering the construction, environmental and labor relations issues encountered during
Project implementation.

M&E Implementation

46.     A baseline was established for the indicators and CFM supplied the relevant data. In
addition the Independent Engineer and PIU reported regularly on the construction process.
Perhaps the main weakness of the implementation was the misalignment between the regular
Bank supervision missions and the reality of Project progress. The missions did not accurately
reflect the warning signs that the Project objectives were not going to be fulfilled until towards
the end of the Project.

47.            The annual financial audit was submitted regularly.

48.    There was a visible and documented lack of concern for issues related to Health and
Safety by the consortium. CFM and the Independent Engineer did intervene several times, to the
extreme of expelling some managers, stopping work and closing workers’ camps. These
elements, documented in the reports, could have been the base for more stringent actions by the
Bank to enforce best-practice standards or even force cancellation of contracts with contravening
contractors, but this was never done.

M&E Utilization

49.     The data required to produce the indicators was readily available. At the start of the
Project a suitable baseline was established and the indicators were tracked throughout the Project.
However, these did not seem to inform decisions on the Project until towards the end. Indeed,
CFM confirms that the M&E reports were used for Board evaluations and decisions, but these
decisions were not implemented for several reasons including lack of interest by the
Concessionaire.

2.4            Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
50.    The Project triggered a category B rating, as safeguards were identified in three areas:
Environmental, Natural Habitats and Involuntary Resettlement.

51.     For the most part, overall safeguards compliance and compliance with environmental
safeguards was rated as satisfactory and it was only in March 2011, that environmental and
health and safety violations were reported. 13
•       During the final ISR mission in December 2011 many of the issues involving construction
        waste and issues with borrow pit restoration were still outstanding.




13
     ISR #13



                                                      11
•     Additionally, occupational health and safety compliance had not been addressed. Health and
      Safety at work standards at all sites were extremely low and the work conditions were often
      hazardous.

52.   Compliance with requirements for involuntary resettlements and social safeguards
implemented by CFM was reported as satisfactory or highly satisfactory throughout the Project.

53.      In 1983, the Sena Line was closed due to the conflict and the railway line was booby
trapped with landmines. The Project could not therefore start without the whole line being de-
mined and certificates being issued. This was considered critical since it could potentially hinder
the Concessionaire from obtaining insurance policies. A de-mining program under the control of
the public sector shareholder was drawn up to provide de-mining within 15m on each side of the
671 km line. De-mining work on the entire Sena Line was completed in October 2006. De-
mining teams were deployed to work with contractors as and when required in view of residual
mines discovered. Sadly, one worker was killed by these residual mines. Five more were killed
in rail accidents.

2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

54.    In view of the take-over of the rail system by the Government after termination of the
Concession at the end of 2011, the GoM was advised to clarify the strategic vision for the rail
system. During the final ISR mission in December 2011, meetings were held with the Prime
Minister, the Minister for Planning and the Minister for Transport. All meetings underscored the
importance of the Beira Railway Project and the need to take a long term view of its potential
impact on the country's development.

55.     The GoM proposed a roadmap to take into account the legal, technical and commercial
implications of the Concession termination, and support the vision for the future development of
Beira railways system. This roadmap envisioned:
•     Sena Line carrying up to 12 million tons per annum, (mtpa) of coal business by 2015, with
      private companies operating simultaneously with CFM freight trains,
•     Machipanda line carrying up to 3 mtpa of general cargo, with significant input from
      Zimbabwe and Zambia business, and
•     Regular passenger services operated by CFM on both lines.

56.    The road map covers three major areas: institutional capacity building, business planning
and financial modeling and linkage to opportunities in neighboring countries.

57.     From the Bank’s perspective, future involvement should be aligned with this road map,
as it draws the lessons from the outcome of this particular Concession, as well as the issues
which have marred the Project throughout its implementation.




                                                12
3.      Assessment of Outcomes
     3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

58.     The PDOs are deemed relevant to the current development context of Mozambique.
Promoting sustainable and inclusive growth remains a cornerstone of Government policies. In
this regard the GoM is still keen to improve the investment climate and expand service delivery
to a greater proportion of the population. These core aspirations take on wider significance in the
context of major discoveries of minerals and the increasing drive towards regional integration.

59.    The regional dimension remains relevant to the sector in view of Mozambique’s strategic
geographical location as an entry and exit point for landlocked Zambia, Zimbabwe and Malawi.

60.    In light of discussions with the Ministers for Transport and Planning, and the Prime
Minister in the final ISR mission, the GoM is eager for the Bank to continue to assist
Mozambique. The main development challenges that Mozambique faces and the opportunities
that exploiting the mineral resources could potentially unleash are intrinsically linked to the
development of the transport infrastructure and sector institutions.

     3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

61.     The goal of the Project was to improve the rail system to support economic growth
through regional integration and connectivity of areas along the Zambezi Valley to the port of
Beira. This goal has not been achieved.

62.     The Sena line, while operational, was delivered two years late and requires significant
further work to be able to carry the current traffic safely and sustainably. Moreover, as of
December 2011, less than a third of anticipated traffic was carried on this line. While there is
potential for increased local and international traffic, the condition of the Machipanda line is
worse now than before the Project. Moreover, despite economic improvements in Zimbabwe
most of international traffic still uses the railway and port of Durban in South Africa rather than
the shorter and more direct route through Mozambique. The institutional strengthening
component of the Project was not well articulated. Hence the delivery had no significant impact
on the institutional capability of the Client. Increased institutional capacity and capability should
have enabled the GoM to manage the public-private relationships better and increase the value of
private sector participation in providing a service. The limited scope of this component has not
enhanced the ability of the GoM to act as an intelligent public sector Client.

     3.3 Efficiency

        a) Efficiency measured from outcomes

63.     The Project was inefficient in its overall use of Project funds. The PDOs were not
achieved and significant additional investment is now required to improve the quality of the
railway system. In the case of the Sena line, in order to deliver the expected standard of
infrastructure, and in the case of the Machipanda line, in order to rehabilitate it to a condition

                                                 13
where it can carry national and regional traffic. Although some limited train operations started on
the Sena line in 2011 to service populations and businesses along the Zambezi Valley, the
railway Project has not significantly improved the lives of the local population and the regional
traffic is not using the railway system as anticipated.

64.     The significant delays in execution of the construction phase and the strained relations
between the conceding authority and Concessionnaire have also led to forgone economic and
financial opportunities. The analysis at the start of the Project seemed to show that individually
and as a combination both the Sena and Machipanda Lines had positive Net Present Values and
the Economic Rate of Return forecast was 18 percent for each line. The assumptions underlying
the economic analysis were excessively optimistic. The costs attributed to the new line showed a
lack of technical engineering understanding of the details of design, construction, maintenance
and operation of rail infrastructure. Moreover, the potential revenues and economic benefits that
could accrue from constructing the rail line were exaggerated. See Annex 3 for further details.

       b) Efficiency measured at performance
65.    The Project experienced delays of over two years and cost overruns of more than US$50
million. Moreover, the Concession was prematurely terminated in September 2011.

   3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating: Unsatisfactory

66.     The Project did not achieve its objectives (PDOs) or any of the performance indicator
targets. This was mainly because of the structure of the Concession Agreement and also because
supervision was ineffectual. The rehabilitation of the Sena line was expected to be completed
within four years but was delayed by over two years. Several technical issues remain after
completion, posing latent risks to the safety of the operations on the Sena line and reducing its
ability to handle the expected level of freight and passenger volumes (see Annex 2 for details).
On the Machipanda Line, insufficient maintenance of both the line and rolling stock and
numerous derailments since handover to the Concessionaire left it to deteriorate further, rather
than being rehabilitated as was initially envisaged.

67.     The Project concept and its preparation were appropriately responsive to the development
aims of Mozambique as set out in the Action Plan for the Reduction of Absolute Poverty and
Country Assistance Strategy. But the Project design did not take account of available strategic
information related to coal production forecasts and consequently minimized its possible impact.
This was a key factor in the Project’s outcome. Thus, in the end, what was initially proposed as a
pivotal Project to catalyze private sector investment has not benefitted the GoM as envisioned.
The Zambezi valley and regional traffic still cannot use the line and the private sector coal
miners will have to seek alternative means to transport the volume of coal produced or invest
significant amounts to rehabilitate the line. Moreover, the GoM now needs to address the
consequences of the premature termination of the Concession, whether through arbitration, a
direct agreement on payments to the former Concessionaire. In either case this will be a costly
and unpleasant process, and there is a possibility of litigation.




                                                14
    3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

68.     Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development – as part of the transition
from public to private, 13,600 staff (all CFM) were retrenched. This was a precondition for the
Concession. Retrenched staff was retrained and around 6,000 found employment in new
vocations. Thirty-seven households, five businesses and five religious facilities were relocated to
make way for a 50m right of way on each side of the line. All individuals and businesses were
compensated. The Concessionaire was charged with responsibility to promote Human
Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (HIV/AIDS) awareness
during the construction phase. This was undertaken satisfactorily.

69.     Institutional Change/Strengthening – the appointment of an Independent Engineer was
useful in highlighting various technical issues that would have otherwise been missed. Because
of accumulated frustrations on all parts, the reports of the engineer were considered by the
Concessionaire to be overly critical, and did not have significant impacts on the Concessionaire’s
performance. Towards the end of the Project, accusations of partiality and non-performance
characterized the relationship between the various entities. The lesson for future projects is to
make this role more effective, possibly by linking its conclusions to a performance-related
rewards system within the Concession.

70.     A positive outcome of the experience is that the Government and the Bank are now more
aware of the need to conceive other concessions from a more commercial perspective. This
experience has also influenced the roadmap and vision for the rail sector. A key aspect is the
need to separate the role of policy maker, client and Regulator from the ownership, management
and operation of rail infrastructure. How well this distinction is articulated will affect similar
projects in the future.

71.    Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative) – the rail Concession
had a number of unintended consequences:
•   The collapse of the rail Concession has sharpened focus of the Government on the critical
    role of efficient transport systems in fulfilling national objectives. The discovery of sizeable
    deposits of coal and other minerals has confirmed the need for Government policy to enable
    integration of good rail and port infrastructure.
•   The Project has also highlighted the need for a regulatory framework (rail infrastructure
    access, tariffs, and customs) to facilitate and promote long term sustainability of the rail
    system.
•   The Project has led the Government to realize the need for upstream planning and decision
    making with regards to infrastructure management and innovative logistics solutions.
•   The Project has also highlighted a weakness in the planning and policy development process
    that was known from the start of the Project but not explored in detail. As a result of the
    Project the Government is currently undertaking a spatial analysis, with the help of the Bank
    through a Spatial Development Technical Assistance Project (P121398, FY11, US$20
    million IDA), to better understand development of the infrastructure network within a wider
    economy and the relevant regional implications.


                                                15
      3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

72.      This is a core ICR which does not require a beneficiary survey/stakeholder workshop.

4.       Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome. Rating: Significant

73.     Termination of the Concession, coupled with the fact that the public-private partnership
in such a high profile Project did not result in the anticipated objectives, could negatively affect
the credibility of the Concession approach to delivery of projects. Upon receiving the notice of
termination, the Concessionaire wrote a letter to the World Bank President in November 2011.
This hardened the positions of the parties to the agreement. Unless the parties can come to an
amicable settlement, the premature termination of the Concession seems to be heading for
arbitration and possibly lengthy and costly litigation.

74.    Besides the cost implications, this decision to terminate could have other consequences. It
might trigger a negative perception of public-private partnerships in Mozambique that could
reverberate to other sectors or even other countries in the region. The poor performance of the
Concession was widely publicized and largely condemned within the local and national
Mozambique media. Within the continent and internationally, this Concession was closely
monitored by businesses and politicians. The outcome of the Concession somewhat mirrored the
demise of a similar rail concession with the same consortium in Tanzania. The failure of this
Concession is not a good precursor for private sector involvement in the rail sector of sub-
Saharan Africa.

5.       Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1      Bank Performance. Rating: Unsatisfactory
a) Ensuring Quality at Entry. Rating: Unsatisfactory
75.     The rating at entry is based on the fact that the PDOs were consistent with the overall
country level aspirations and the performance indicators were reasonable for the railway
Project’s context. The identification of the need for the Project was therefore in harmony with
the development challenges.

76.     However, the correct identification of needs and PDOs did not translate into sound
Project design. The greatest weakness of the Project and one of the major reasons for its failure
to achieve its development objectives was the preparation and appraisal of the Concession. Most
of the difficulties experienced during the implementation can be traced to decisions taken at the
preparation and appraisal stage. The risk allocation at entry, Project design and its relationship
with the coal concession, the lack of strong performance incentives in the rail Concession, the
design of the special purpose vehicle and its shareholding, can all be traced to flawed strategic
decisions at entry.

b) Quality of Supervision. Rating: Unsatisfactory

77.    The poor quality of supervision exacerbated the problems with the Project at entry.
Despite regular supervision missions, the Bank team did not heed the early warning signals that

                                                16
the Project was in difficulty until towards the end of the Project. At this point most of the IDA
funding had been disbursed. There was therefore limited leverage to influence the Project. At the
very least, the mid-term review should have highlighted the strained relationship between the
parties to the Concession. Moreover, the persistently negative reports from the Independent
Engineer should have triggered a review and identification of issues and drawn attention of Bank
management.

78.     It doesn’t seem that the Bank management realized the need to resource the supervision
team with strong rail expertise given the investment. There was not a true technical engineering
anchor for the Project, which mostly relied on short term consultants, or the Independent
Engineer’s reports, for the assessment of technical and rail-specific aspects. Without this
expertise the Bank supervision team was unable to make sense of the technical issues or
adequately monitor the contracts and identify problems.

79.     Important questions arise from this shortcoming: If the Project was in difficulty for most
of the construction phase, why did the Bank team continue to rate it as satisfactory when it was
clear that the PDOs were not going to be achieved? If the Bank team was not competent to
recognize that the Project was in difficulty, why didn’t the country unit or sector management act
on the virulent correspondence from the Client and Concessionaire? Why didn’t they force the
issue by instructing the team to initiate a restructuring, failing which other possibilities might be
examined, even going as far as cancellation or suspension of the loan?

80.    There seemed to be a failure in the Bank’s system for monitoring the progress and taking
appropriate remedial action. The various institutional measures to safeguard Project objectives
and provide alarms to senior management (ISRs, Aide-Mémoires, Back to Office Reports) did
not seem to elicit the required scrutiny until late 2010.

c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance. Rating: Unsatisfactory

81.     There were major shortcomings in the design, preparation and supervision of the Project.
The Bank team exercised good judgment in capturing the need for the Project and its impact on
the development agenda of the Mozambique. But too many critical problems – which gravitate
around the decisions made during the very early stages of Project preparation – affected the
Project and to a large extent were exacerbated during the Project implementation by the lack of
adequate supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance. Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

a) Government Performance. Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

82.     The GoM should have taken on a more positive, assertive and active role in the Project.
This would have been especially critical in dealing with the mining and rail Concessions. The
Project documentation gives the impression that the GoM was not consistent in its actions and
correspondence, at times threatening to invoke contractual provisions, while at others seeming to
use its influence outside of the contract to get resolution. As a result of this non-assertive stance
the issue of termination dragged on for over two years.

                                                 17
b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance. Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

83.    It is difficult to separate the role played by the GoM from CFM’s role. As 49 percent
minority shareholder in a special purpose vehicle, CFM as the Implementing Agency had little
leverage in influencing the outcomes of major decisions in the Project. However, it is also
evident from correspondence and interaction with the Concessionaire that the CFM could have
played a more positive role in the circumstances. Some of the actions seem to suggest CFM was
bent on undermining the Concession with hope of taking over rail infrastructure management
and operations.

c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance. Rating: Moderately
   Unsatisfactory

84.     There were significant shortcomings in the Borrower performance. It may be argued that
the Government and Implementing Agency were in a difficult position by design. However, it is
also true that they could have played a more positive role despite the often conflicting interests to
act as regulator, policy maker, client and operator.

85.     Despite the Project’s rating for Bank and Borrower performance, it must be
acknowledged that it is now possible to take a critical view of the Project with the benefit of
hindsight and availability of details on how the Project turned out. However, at the time of
Project preparation (hardly 10 years after the end of conflicts), the context and conditions were
different. This may explain the Client’s view and contention, expressed in written comments to
this ICR (see Annex 5), that the Bank should be applauded for providing support to rail
development before the prospects for coal mining in the Tete Valley were fully made clear,
which allowed the GoM to break out of the “chicken and egg? debate between coal mining and
the development of a transport solution for coal exports from Tete. Once the IDA-financed rail
investment began, the mining investment followed. In a related study of selected railway
concessions in sub-Saharan Africa 14, evidence shows private investment in the transport sector
was weak with the sector attracting only nine percent of total private funding for infrastructure in
sub-Saharan Africa from 1990 to 2002. Even when the private sector does invest, because of the
investment climate and business parameters there is a strong disincentive to assume risk.

6.          Lessons Learned

86.    Design: the design of the Beira Concession was unusual in a number of respects that
exacerbated some of the generic challenges of rail concessions.
       •    Consider carefully the level of Government shareholdings in concessions. Though
            consideration was rightly given to the political and economic environment at the time of
            the Concession, the GoM’s 49 percent stake in the Concession created conflicting
            interests between the Government’s roles of policy maker, regulator, and client on the


14
     Economic and Sector Work led by Pierre Pozzo di Borgo, June 2006



                                                                    18
           one hand, and shareholder on the other. Besides, the fact that the Government
           shareholding was a minority one made them powerless to influence key management
           decisions.
     •     Consider effective regulatory body. This will help in limiting direct Government
           involvement in operations and focus the role of Government on regulatory control and
           policy making. In the case of Beira, no clear Government regulatory function was set up -
           or maybe not deemed necessary, as the Government had secured its own 49 percent stake.
           As a result, during disputes such as the ones regarding the coal tariff and health and
           safety, there was no regulator and no regulations to enable settlement of issues
     •     Ensure clear separation between rail operations and infrastructure management. In
           Beira, these two components were identified, but not sufficiently differentiated, and the
           Concession eventually failed to deliver on both. International experience suggests that
           although the evidence is mixed, there are significant advantages in separating train
           operations from infrastructure asset management. 15 In any case, it is at least important to
           have a conceptual separation to identify the revenues, costs, performance indicators and
           train regulation. The Beira Railway Project therefore confirms that from the design stage,
           it is prudent to clearly differentiate the rail components on: (a) train operations and (b)
           track rehabilitation and management. Ideally, these elements should be awarded
           separately.
     •     Intermodality and integration. The Beira Railway Project might have had a different
           outcome if the links between the rail and port modes were clearly seen as part of an
           efficient logistics link targeting the major users. In the case of Beira, more effort would
           have been made to establish the volumes of coal (which have turned out to be the main
           off-taker for the Sena line) and the link between Beira and Dondo would have been
           rehabilitated to complete the link to the port and the Machipanda line.

     Implementation

     •     Ensure strong technical skills on the World Bank supervision team. A major
           weakness of the Beira Railway Project was that the Bank supervision team did not have
           technical engineering skills to make sense of the issues – and only hired short term
           consultants. This is critical for all major infrastructure projects but more so for
           concessions since important decisions require a detailed understanding of how
           infrastructure is designed, constructed, operated and maintained. Without this expertise
           the Bank supervision team was unable to adequately monitor the contract and identify
           problems early enough.
     •     Due diligence and additional studies. The Bank and the Government should have
           undertaken their own due diligence, should have conducted a proper feasibility study
           (assessing economic and financial rate of returns) including an options study with various
           private sector involvement possibilities, and done a more robust market study. Also an
           economic regulatory assessment would have helped to control the development of the
           Project better.


15
  Drew, J and Nash, C.A (2011) Vertical separation of railway infrastructure – does it always make sense? Working paper 594, Institute for
Transport Studies, University of Leeds, UK



                                                                     19
       •    Project monitoring. The Project indicators used for monitoring of the Project were
            focused on the engineering aspects of the Project. In the future we would recommend
            including indicators related to the delivery of regulatory framework (procedures, train
            schedules preparation, train regulation organization and control room, etc.)

7.          Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

       (a) Borrower/implementing agencies

87.    The official comments of the Government, in Annex 5, show that the Government mostly
agrees with the findings, conclusions, and recommendations of the Beira Railway Project ICR.
The major issues that the Implementing Agency raised were the following:

       (i) Risk to development outcome: It is observed by the Government that because the rail line
           is now rehabilitated, other coal miners are investing in the mining sector and in this
           regard the eventual risk to development outcome may be moderate. The ICR noted the
           potential for increased private sector investment by the coal mining sector on the Sena
           line. However, it is well documented that the Sena line will require significant investment
           to remedy work that should have been undertaken as part of the Project, and to enable the
           rail line to safely and reliably handle the foreseen traffic. The Machipanda line is in a
           worse condition than before the Concession. The Government of Mozambique has to
           make appropriate investment provisions for the rehabilitation required to achieve a
           standard commensurate with the traffic and safety levels envisaged. Moreover, the cost of
           the premature termination and its implications has to be taken into consideration.

       (ii) Why the Concession failed and lessons learned: the Government is in agreement with
            most of the conclusions of the ICR, but emphasize that the role of the Concessionaire and
            decisions taken in the early part of the Project contributed most to its failure. A case in
            point was the inclusion in the Concession Agreement of clause 5.2.2, stipulating that
            failure to agree on a tariff with the coal miners might lead, at the discretion of the
            Conceding Authority, to termination of the Concession. According to the Implementing
            Agency and Borrower, this was done at the insistence of IFC. These issues are discussed
            extensively in Section 2 and 6 of the ICR.

       (b) IFC

88.     In 2002, IFC was asked to act as strategic advisor to the GoM on Rail-Port-Coal
developments. In 2004, IFC became the Government’s advisor in the selection of the mining
sponsors, but their role ended in Dec. 2004. Later, in June 2008, IFC was approached by the
Concessionaire CCFB and joined a World Bank mission to New Delhi to explore the possibility
of financing part of the anticipated line upgrade. IFC declined then on the ground that there was
“no take-or-pay contract for coal and uncertainty arising out of the clause 5.2.2. [of the
Concession Agreement].? 16 IFC confirms they haven’t had any involvement in the Project since.

16
     Mid-Term Review Mission, New Delhi, June 18-20, 2008.



                                                             20
   (c) European Investment Bank (EIB)

89.     In October 2008, the Ministry of Finance submitted an official financing request to the
EIB to help fund the expected project cost overrun on the Sena line as well as the major dredging
of the port of Beira. In March 2009, a sovereign loan of up to EUR 65 million to cover both
components was approved by the EIB Board. The loan was to benefit from an interest rate
subsidy of up to EUR 29 million, provided by the EU Africa Infrastructure Trust Fund to ensure
that the loan terms met HIPC conditionality. In April 2009, a sovereign loan of EUR42 million,
with an EUR18.8 million interest rate subsidy, was signed to finance the Sena line, along with an
on-lending Project Agreement between the EIB and CCFB, passing on substantially the terms
and conditions of the sovereign loan to the Concessionaire. Up to December 2010, EUR27
million of the loan was disbursed. Disbursement from the EIB loan ceased once the Government
issued notice of its intention to terminate the Concession in December 2010. During 2011, the
EIB worked with the World Bank to encourage the parties to find an amicable solution to the
dispute; but ultimately the termination took full effect. The EIB and Government are currently
negotiating the conditions of possible use of the EUR15 million balance undisbursed funds.




                                               21
                                        Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

    a) Project Costs by Component
    Component                                              Appraisal                 Actual/Latest             Percentage of
                                                           Estimate                  Estimate                  Appraisal
                                                           (US$ Million)             (US$ Million)
    Rehabilitation and operation of
                                                           123.100                   107.413                   87%
    Sena Line
    Improvement and operation of
                                                           25.000                    0
    Machipanda Line
    Institutional Strengthening                            5.500                     3.530                     64%
    Physical contingencies                                 4.400                     0
    Price contingencies                                    0.000                     0
    Sub-total                                                                        110.943
    Undisbursed                                                                      4.968
    Total project costs                                    158.000                   115.911                   73%

    b) Financing
    Source of Funds                                        Appraisal                 Actual/Latest             Percentage of
                                                           Estimate                  Estimate                  Appraisal
                                                           (US$ Million)             (US$ Million)
    International Development                              110                       115.911                   105%
    Association (IDA)
    Borrower                                               0                         0
    Foreign Private Commercial                             25.0                      0
    Sources (Identified)
    Total Financing                                        135.0                     115.911                   86%

Notes
1       The World Bank did not overspend on its drawing rights. Funding for the Machipanda line was supposed to come from the
        Concession. Less was spent on institutional strengthening than expected.
2       The financial structure and original shares in the Concession did not change during the Project. However, the structure of liabilities
        evolved significantly, as the Concession had to bring in extra funding to finance the extra cost expenditure and operational
        development. Indeed, the Concession could not self-finance its operations and its development as originally planned.




                                                                     22
            c)          Project Financing by Source of Funds (in US$ million equivalent
                        (Exchange rate effective December 31, 2011)

                                                         Appraisal Estimate
             Sources of Funds                                                                     Actual/Latest Estimate (US$ million)
                                                         (US$ million)
             IDA Loan                                    104.50                                   103.80
             Shareholders’ Equity                        19.74                                    -
             Shareholders’ Loans                         -                                        40.70
             Inter-Company Commercial
                                                         25.45                                    9.30
             debt
             Cash flow/ops                               2.78                                     -
             EIB Loan                                    -                                        34.90 17
             Total                                       152.47                                   188.70




17
  The amount disbursed by EIB, of EUR 27 million, was converted to the equivalent U.S. dollar amount of US$34.9 million as per the exchange rate on December 31,
2011, the closing date of the Project.




                                                                             23
                                Annex 2. Outputs by Component

1.      The principal objective of the Project was to improve the rail system to support economic
growth through regional integration and connectivity of areas along the Zambezi River to the
port of Beira. The Project had three components whose aim was to contribute towards this wider
goal. Overall, achieving this goal was closely linked to private sector involvement in the sector.

Component 1 – Rehabilitation and Operation of the Sena Line

2.      This was to rehabilitate, maintain and operate the Sena Line to specified standards and
within the time frame specified in the Concession Agreement. The key indicator for this
component was for the Sena Line to be progressively opened to freight and passenger traffic with
freight traffic reaching at least one million metric tons by the end of the Project. By the end of
the Project, 266,000 metric tons were transported. Moreover the project was completed two years
later than stipulated. This indicator was not achieved.

3.      After a delay of over two years, rehabilitation works for the Sena Line were completed
and the line is operational, although with notable quality issues, and except for a 44-km section
between Dona Ana and Vila Nova da Fronteira on the border with Malawi. The temporary tariff
agreement made it possible to open the line in August 2011 for the coal traffic originating at
Moatize. Following termination of the Concession, Portos e Caminhos de Ferro de Moçambique,
E.P. (Mozambique Ports and Railways Enterprise) (CFM) has continued to operate the line.
Several technical and quality issues remain in some segments, such as ballast contamination,
lack of drainage, cracked sleepers and poor track alignment. Rolling stock, including passenger
carriages, has not been rehabilitated. Moreover, important parts of the Project components, such
as rehabilitation of stations, signaling and rolling stock, have not been executed or purchased. All
of these issues, which were raised by the Independent Engineer, pose latent risks to the safety of
the operation on the Sena line and to its ability to handle the freight and passenger traffic
stipulated in the Project Development Objectives (PDOs).

4.      In view of the historical figures available at the time of project concept, the target for this
indicator was quite reasonable. Available figures show that at the time of independence in 1975,
the Sena Line carried close to 500,000 metric tons per year, and by the time it was shut down in
1983 up to 2.0 million metric tons. By the end of the Project in December 2011, 260,000 metric
tons of coal had been recorded. Significant investment is needed to improve the condition of the
physical infrastructure to accommodate the level of traffic anticipated. At the close of the Project,
the coal mining Concessionaire was anticipating a requirement to carry up to 20 million metric
tons per year. If this level of traffic becomes a reality, the investment needed will be significant.
Moreover, there is no room for freight traffic from other sectors such as agriculture, timber, and
granite which were originally anticipated to use the Sena line. The current rail system does not
provide sufficient capacity to accommodate other traffic that could potentially be redirected from
the roads. A limited provision has been made for passenger traffic, but overall this does not meet
the aspirations in the Project concept. Of course it may be argued that since the line was closed
in 1983, the fact that it is now open is a welcome development. This is true. However, against the
original PDO, an investment of over US$100 million and the performance indicator, the delivery

                                                 24
of this component was unsatisfactory. This has had an impact on wider aspirations for private
sector participation in the minerals sector, agriculture and services that are core to the current
development agenda for Mozambique.

Component 2 – Operation and Rehabilitation of the Machipanda line

5.      The aim of this component was to take over an operating line, undertake rehabilitative
works to improve the condition of the infrastructure and to bring in private sector best practice in
rail operations to enable the line to attract international and regional traffic. The key indicator
was for international traffic from Zimbabwe to increase by 30 percent. Against this aspiration,
this component did not achieve its target.

6.      Between 1999 and 2002 average freight traffic on Machipanda line was 680,000 metric
tons. A target of 650,000 metric tons by the end of the Project was therefore conservative but
understandable given the declining situation in neighboring Zimbabwe. By the end of the Project,
the traffic had declined to 387,700 metric tons. This was a high point. During much of the
Project period the traffic actually declined by more than 50 percent of the baseline.

7.      The line has not been rehabilitated as was envisaged. Insufficient maintenance and
numerous derailments on this line since handover to the Concessionaire have left it to deteriorate
further. With the economic recovery in Zimbabwe, the traffic is increasing on this corridor,
putting even more pressure on the only available rail link. The difficulties surrounding the
Concession Agreement, as well as the financial strategy of the Concessionaire, have meant that
investments and maintenance of the line have been far lower than anticipated, and the
Machipanda line has missed an opportunity to benefit from the international traffic growth and
contribute towards fulfilling a key objective of the Project. The poor condition of the
infrastructure has not led to much diverted, induced, or generated traffic. In fact, despite
economic improvements in Zimbabwe most of international traffic still uses the railway and port
to Durban in South Africa rather than the shorter and more direct route through Mozambique.
This is a missed opportunity for the rail line and for the economic growth prospects of
Mozambique.

8.    In the future, major investments will be required if the Machipanda line is to make a
meaningful contribution towards the economy of Mozambique.

Component 3 – Institutional Strengthening

9.     This component comprised technical assistance, training and consultant services to CFM
so as to enhance its capacity to oversee implementation of the Project, supervise construction
works and prepare for the long term development of rail and ports. The performance indicator for
this component was vaguely defined and immeasurable.

10.    As articulated elsewhere in the main body of the report, this component was not carefully
thought through. It essentially boiled down to hiring consultants and the Independent Engineer to
carry out specific assignments. No thought seems to have been given to developing the



                                                25
individual and institutional capability of CFM to act as an intelligent public sector client able to
productively engage with the private sector to obtain value for money.

11.     Due to the above, this component did not have any real impact on the Project. The design
of the Project did not clarify the role of CFM. Acting as operator, client, regulator and policy
maker simultaneously did not provide a framework to clarify the skills and capability needed or
indeed an institutional development trajectory. It may be argued that the intention was to provide
experienced individuals to take on key roles, thus giving CFM employees the opportunity to be
trained on the job and gain needed experience. In this respect some skills may have been gained.
However, this is clearly not a sustainable approach to institutional strengthening. Since Project
close, the operation of both rail lines has reverted to CFM and has essentially returned to a pre-
Project situation.




                                                26
                          Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Economic and Financial Analysis at Appraisal

a) Economic Analysis
1.      Separate economic analyses were conducted for rehabilitation of the Sena and
Machipanda lines. According to the analyses, the Net Present Value (NPV) for Sena was
US$194.4 million and Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was 18 percent. For the Machipanda line
the NPV was US$93.8 million and ERR was 18 percent. The main benefit anticipated for the
Machipanda line was that it would enable local traffic to gradually shift to rail, resulting in lower
costs of transport for domestic shippers and receivers. Moreover, international transit traffic was
anticipated to shift from road and ports outside Mozambique. The main economic benefit of the
Sena line was that it would open up regions insufficiently connected with the centers of
economic activity in Mozambique. Potentially impacting a population of 4.75 million, the Sena
Line was expected to improve the lives of one in four members of the country’s population.
Traffic on both lines was expected to grow significantly. In case of Sena line both coal and non-
coal traffic was expected to grow quickly; up to one million and 1.4 million metric tons by the
end of the Project for coal and non-coal traffic respectively. The Machipanda line was forecast to
handle 2.2 million tons by 2023, whereas passenger traffic was forecast to grow from zero to one
million by the end of the Project.

2.      The cost-benefit analysis accounted for: (a) the direct effects of the Project (financial
costs and benefits attributable), (b) indirect effects (such as creation of employment, shifts in
commercial activities, and birth of new activities consequent to the railway Projects), (c) external
effects (welfare changes in society attributable to the Project such as environmental and social
effects). The largest sources of economic benefits were from avoided transport costs from road
and barge transport (US$75.1 million); followed by generated economic activities relating to
production of cotton, timber, other agricultural goods and coal (US$72 million); and finally
multiplier benefits as a result of the impact of the Project on people’s livelihoods.
b) Financial Analysis
3.      Financial analysis suggested that the Concession company was expected to make overall
net profits over the life of the company; even with “conservative? assumptions for traffic growth,
fixed costs, freight rates, and revenues. With a four percent growth in traffic the rail system was
expected to carry up to 3.5 million metric tons of freight.

4.      The main risks captured by the financial model were associated with the heavy capital
infrastructure investment requirements and the financial performance of Portos e Caminhos de
Ferro de Moçambique, E.P. (Mozambique Ports and Railways Enterprise) (CFM) which was
expected to be part of the Concession. To manage these risks, the International Development
Association (IDA) funding was allocated to cover the costs of rehabilitation and the Government
of Mozambique (GoM) carried the risk of restructuring in CFM and retrenchment of excess staff.
Moreover the risk of other companies in which CFM had an equity stake was also carried by the
GoM. In theory, these measures therefore de-risked the Concession and provided a clean slate for
a financially viable Concession.



                                                 27
Critical review of Economic and Financial analysis at end of Project

5.      The financial and economic analysis of the Project at appraisal is strikingly different from
the reality of the Project. The Project was characterized by severe delays and cost overruns.
However, examination of the initial financial model reveals fundamental flaws in the initial
assumptions, extreme optimism bias and unreasonable assumptions about infrastructure
concessions.

       a) Flaws in initial assumptions and Optimism bias

6.       The significant delays in execution of the construction phase and the strained relations
between the conceding authority and Concession led to forgone economic and financial
opportunities. The analysis at the start of the Project showed that individually and as a
combination both the Sena and Machipanda Lines had positive NPVs and the Economic Rate of
Return was 18 percent for each line. The economic and financial analysis was based on overly
optimistic assumptions about the benefits that could accrue from building or rehabilitating the
rail lines. The volume of traffic that was expected to divert from the road transport and the value
of these benefits was overstated. The economic activities that would be catalyzed by the new rail
line were also exaggerated. Moreover the revenues were not based on a clear understanding of
the volumes of coal traffic which were potentially the main source of revenue. Assumptions
about the agricultural and timber traffic were also unrealistic given that these were not
sufficiently developed and expecting the rail line to increase these exponentially was a stretch.
As a result the cost-benefit analysis promised returns that were unrealistic. This phenomenon has
often been referred to as optimism bias. 18 This is a systematic tendency for people to be overly
optimistic about the outcome of planned actions. In this case the actual costs of the Project were
downplayed and the benefits were exaggerated. Taking these realities into consideration would
have significantly re-shaped the economic analysis and perhaps re-focused the Project.

7.     The above flaws in assumptions were not helped by the failure of the Project design and
execution.

       b) Assumptions about infrastructure concessions

8.     It is also clear that the financial and economic analysis was carried out without a clear
understanding of the fundamental principles that underpin infrastructure concessions.

9.     Limited or non-recourse financing of infrastructure – infrastructure concessions work
best when there are clear revenue streams for which the infrastructure is built. As a result, it is
obvious that ensuring rail operations have adequate linkages to upstream and downstream
operations is critical. Railways do not function in isolation but, to be effective, need to be closely
coordinated with upstream freight-generating operations (such as mines) as well as ports for
onward transportation. In the case of Beira, the railway Concession ended some 25 kilometers
short of the port and there was little clarity on responsibility for rehabilitating the final leg


18
     Flyvberg (2003) Megaprojects and Risk – An Anatomy of Ambition. Cambridge University Press


                                                            28
(Dondo – Beira). There should have been a clear link between the main sources of revenue, in
this case mining traffic, to the port infrastructure to make the rail line financially viable. These
difficulties can be addressed either by full vertical integration (from mine to port) up front, or
otherwise by highly sophisticated logistic arrangements to ensure efficient inter-modal transfer
of freight.

10.     Allocate risks to the party best able to manage them – Concession contracts should be
underpinned by clear separation of roles between the Principal (in this case public sector Client)
and Promoter (Concessionaire). This provides the right framework for risk sharing and
incentivization. The public sector concentrates on the policy drivers (including risk allocation,
value for money, additionality of finance, affordability, expertise required) and its role as Client
and regulator. Meanwhile, the onus is on the private sector to innovate and make available
infrastructure needed to provide the desired service. The concession is therefore self-supervising
in terms of quality and dispute resolution. This clear separation would have avoided the
possibility of Government shareholdings in concessions; particularly minority ones. The GoM
participated with a minority (49 percent) stake in the Concession. This created conflicts of
interest between the Government’s roles of policy maker, regulator, and Client on the one hand,
and shareholder on the other. A clear example is when the GoM had two simultaneous
negotiations on-going with the coal industry, one on licenses through the Ministry of Mining and
one on coal freight tariffs through the railway company CFM. Even worse, the fact that the
Government shareholding was a minority one made them powerless to influence key
management decisions.




                                                29
      Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

  a) Task Team Members

Name                          Title                                          Unit
Henry Des Longchamps          Sr. Transport Specialist                       AFTTR
José Chembeze                 Transport Specialist                           AFTTR
Bernard Aritua                Transport Specialist                           AFTTR
Pierre Graftieaux             Lead Transport Specialist                      AFTTR
C. Sanjivi Rajasingham        Sector Manager                                 AFTTR
Anil Bhandari                 Lead Transport Specialist                      AFTTR
Ajay Kumar                    Lead Transport Specialist                      AFTTR
Yash Pal Kedia                Lead Transport Specialist                      AFTTR
Subhash Seth                  Consultant                                     AFTTR
Fabio Galli                   Lead Transport Specialist                      AFTTR
Tim Hartwig                   Intern                                         AFTTR
Ntombie Siwale                Sr. Program Assistant                          AFTTR
Davies Makasa                 Transport Specialist                           AFTTR
Fang Xu                       Sr. Economist                                  AFTTR
Farida Khan                   Operations Analyst                             AFTTR
Felly Kaboyo                  Operations Analyst                             AFTTR
Ann Raynal May                Information Specialist                         AFTTR
Ivo Imparato                  Sector Leader                                  AFTUW
Boris Utria                   Country Operations Advisor                     LCC5C
Alberto Ninio                 Sr. Counsel                                    LEGAF
Luz Meza-Bartrina             Sr. Counsel                                    LEGAF
Monica Sawyer                 Country Officer                                AFCMZ
George Tharakan               Peer Reviewer (Consultant)                     ECSIE
Lou Thompson                  Peer Reviewer (Consultant)                     AFCO2
Pierre Pozzo di Borgo         Peer Reviewer (Principal Investment Officer)   CN2SI
Cecilia Briceño-Garmendia     Peer Reviewer (Sr. Infrastructure Economist)   AFTSN
Martha Lawrence               Peer Reviewer (Sr. Transport Specialist)       ECCS5
Ben Eijbergen                 Peer Reviewer (Lead Transport Specialist)      SASDT
Kristine Ivarsdotter          Sr. Social Development Specialist              AFTS1
Robert Robelus                Sr. Environmental Assessment Specialist        AFTEN
Noreen Beg                    Sr. Environmental Specialist                   AFTEN
Marius Koen                   Sr. Financial Management Specialist            AFTFM
Elvis Teodora Bernado Langa   Financial Management Specialist                AFTFM

                                           30
Jonathan Nyamukapa      Sr. Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
João Tinga              Financial Management Analyst          AFTFM
Bridie Champion         Disbursement Specialist               LOAG2
Jose Janeiro            Sr. Finance Officer                   CTRLA
Teresa McCue            Finance Analyst                       CTRLA
Slaheddine Ben-Halima   Procurement Specialist                AFTPR
Manuel J.P. Sumbana     Procurement Analyst                   SASEI
Adelia Chebeia          Program Assistant                     AFTO2
Arlete Comissário       Program Assistant                     AFTS2




                                    31
b) Staff Time and costs


                          STAFF
                          TIME
                          AND
                          COST
                          LENDING

                          FY               US$
                          FY2001

                          FY2002           46,948.78

                          FY2003           8,039.79

                          FY2004           203,450.93

                          FY2005         94,703.55
                          SUPERVISION/ICR

                          FY2005           158,302.36

                          FY2006           105,489.56

                          FY2007           123,877.35

                          FY2008           171,133.87

                          FY2009           148,064.18

                          FY2010           119,412.17

                          FY2011           210,605.72

                          FY2012           185,471.07

                          Total            1,575,499.33




                                      32
           Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.      In its official letter, number 54/GM/MTC/12, dated June 2012, the Government makes
the following comments on the draft ICR.

Development Outcome

2.     It has been stated that the risk to development outcome is significant. We believe just the
contrary.

3.      The issue of the huge coal prospects in the Moatize region was being discussed since the
1980s. But the chicken and egg situation came in very late – which should come first – the rail
link or the mine development. Each stake player was unwilling to invest unless there was
positive development on the other side.

4.      Special mention to the World Bank to have taken the bold decision to agree with the
GoM decision for the go ahead with the rehabilitation of the Sena Line as a stand-alone Project
in spite of the strong opposition from IFC, who wanted the entire Project (port, rail and mine) to
be given to one (mining) company.

5.      As soon as the rehabilitation on the line picked up, there was a flurry of activity with the
big coal miners bringing in huge investment for the development of the coal mines. Here the
credit rightly belongs to the GoM and the Bank. Let us not try to belittle the role of the Bank in
the development and implementation of the Project!

6.      The Project is having a catalytic impact on growth. It has acted as the catalyst to open the
Zambezi valley to private sector investments, restore the livelihood of thousands of households
disrupted by the prolonged war, and promote regional integration.

Why the Concession failed

 Involvement of Public Sector as a strategic partner: - Although the company, CCFB, was
  private company in Mozambique, the strategic partners/promoters were from the public
  sector. The management of the Concession company had little independence and had to refer
  most decisions to the headquarters of the shareholders, which have a slow decision process.
  However, there is one big plus point – the accounts are straight, audited in time and no
  dressing up of accounts, contrary to what happened in some of the concessions with private
  sector involvement.
 Working atmosphere in Africa: The returns are high and so are the risks. A public sector
  entity or a private entity must take necessary precautions to prevent or reduce the risks of
  investing in Africa or elsewhere, because risks exist in all parties of the World.
 Lack of integration in management: As much as possible, a shareholder should remain a
  shareholder only, an owner. It should not get involved in the management. It is a good policy
  to nurture and tap local talent. Right from the beginning, the management was in the hands
  of the strategic partners who made little effort to include Mozambicans in the management
  structure, although it was foreseen in the Project.

                                                33
 Tariff discussions with Coal miners: Looking back, Clause 5.2.2 in the Concession
  Agreement effectively meant a sword hanging over the Concessionaire’s head. The coal
  mining company had only to ensure that the negotiations failed and the door was open for the
  Concession Agreement to be terminated. It is a learning process, most probably this clause
  should have never been there or a different setting could have been structured to prevent both
  parties, the Rail Concessionaire and the Coal Mine Concessionaire, to use unfair tactics for
  promoting the contract termination.
• Incorrect coal projections: Even though it was well known about the substantial coal
  prospects on the Sena Line, the original Project was envisaged to carry only 2m tons on Sena
  Line including coal. Accordingly the prospective concessionaires were accordingly advised.
  As the line was developed, there was the stark reality that the line needed a huge upgrade.

Lessons to be learnt

•   Public Sector: An urgent review is required whether the public sector as strategic
    partner/promoter can play an effective role in public private partnership (PPP) projects,
    which requires a different mindset.
•   Local integration in management: This must be insisted as a specific requirement and
    adequate methodology shall be inserted in the Concession contracts.
•   Professional management: Ideally, the management should be outsourced to bring in
    professional and independent expertise. Shareholders should remain as shareholders only.
    The management should be professional and liable to performance.
•   Incorrect coal projections: Even though it was well known about the substantial coal
    prospects on the Sena Line, the original Project was envisaged to carry only 2m tons on Sena
    Line including coal. Accordingly the prospective concessionaires were accordingly advised.
    As the line was developed, there was the stark reality that the line needed a huge upgrade.
•   Procurement: There is invariably a conflict of interest if shareholders are involved in
    procurement and execution of works. Nevertheless in the case of CCFB, the basic idea
    behind it was that the shareholders being railway contractors and operators would have the
    highest interest in concluding the works with best quality, on time and with cost effective in
    order for them to enjoy earlier and sustainable returns during the duration of the Concession.
    The promoters have been selected through an Open Competitive Bid process. They failed
    completely.
•   Need for independent regulatory body: This has been identified and the Government of
    Mozambique (GoM) is implementing it. The process is not easy and quick, as we have seen
    in lot of countries, including developed countries.
•   Multilateral Financing Agencies need to be more proactive: Being focused on development
    aspects alone, a meaningful follow up on the financials of the company is missing in
    multilateral financing agencies. They need to be more proactive. Like the private lenders,
    they should insist on a step-in right to change management if things are not going as
    envisaged.




                                               34
      Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                     35
                           Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Bank Documents
       Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Mozambique, 2004 - 2007
       Project Appraisal Document – Beira Railways, September 23 2004
       Project Concept Document – Beira Railways Project
       Concession Agreement for Beira Railways Project
       ISRs and Aide-Mémoires - Beira Railways Project
       Midterm Review report - Beira Railways Project
       Monthly progress reports - Independent Engineer for Beira Rail Project
       Jorge M. Rebelo, Report on Beira Railway Project, May 2011
       Des Longchamps, H. Technical Review of CCFBs Concession Progress, Feb 2011
       Rehabilitation of Sena Railway line and Moatize Coal mine – Strategic Options Review –
        IFC 2003
       Economic and Sector Work led by Pierre Pozzo di Borgo, June 2006
       Mid-Term review mission Aide-Mémoire (June 2-8, 2008)
       Management letter from World Bank to GoM – Mid-Term review, dated July 9, 2008
Other
       Government of Mozambique, Action Plan for Reduction of Absolute Poverty 2001-2005
        (PARPA)
       Smith N J Managing Risk in Construction Projects Blackwell Publishing 2006
       Aritua B Risk Management for Major Public Capital Infrastructure Schemes VDM
        Verlag 2010
       Merna A and Njiru C Financing Infrastructure Projects Thomas Telford, London 2002
       Flyvbjerg B Megaprojects and Risk – An Anatomy of Ambition Cambridge University
        Press 2003
       Morris P. W. G. and Hough G. H. The Anatomy of Major Projects: A Study of the
        Reality of Project Management. Wiley, Chichester, 1987

       Drew, J and Nash, C.A (2011) Vertical separation of railway infrastructure – does it
        always make sense? Working paper 594 Institute for Transport Studies, University of
        Leeds, UKYescombe, E Principles of Project Finance, Elsevier Press. 2002
       Weber,B and Alfen,H,W Infrastructure as an Asset Class: Investment Strategy, Project
        Finance and PPP, Wiley Finance, 2010




                                               36
