Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3991 MOZ 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Beira Railway Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 16, 2004
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3991 MOZ 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF 
MOZAMBIQUE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) 
Parts A and B of the Project will be carried out by Companhia dos 
Caminhos de Ferro da Beira, S.A.R.L. (CCFB) and Part C of the Project will be carried 
out by Portos e Caminhos de Ferro de Moçambique, E.P. (CFM); all with the Borrower’s 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to CCFB and 
CFM part of the proceeds of the credit provided for in Article II of this Agreement  
(the Credit), as set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
(C) 
the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreements of even date herewith between the Association and 
CCFB (the CCFB Project Agreement) and between the Association and CFM  
(the CFM Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
May 1, 2004) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Beira Railway System” means the railway system connected to and 
serving the port of Beira and comprising the Sena and Machipanda Railway Lines (as 
such terms are hereinafter defined); 
Page  3
-
2
-
2
(b) 
“CCFB” means Companhia dos Caminhos de Ferro da Beira, S.A.R.L, a 
commercial company incorporated on July 29, 2004, and operating under the laws of the 
Borrower;   
(c) 
“CCFB Project Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Association and CCFB of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement;  
(d) 
“CFM” means Portos e Caminhos de Ferro de Moçambique, E.P., a 
public company established by Decree No. 40/94 dated on September 13, 1994 and 
operating under the laws of the Borrower; 
(e) 
“CFM Project Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Association and CFM of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement; 
(f) 
“CFM Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and CFM pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to 
the CFM Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
(g) 
“Conceding Authority” means the Borrower, as per the Concession 
Agreement (as hereinafter  defined); 
(h) 
“Concession” means to rehabilitate and the rights to operate and maintain 
the Beira Railway System, all pursuant to the provisions set forth in the Concession 
Agreement (as hereafter defined); 
(i) 
“Concession Agreement” means the Agreement dated  August 30, 2004 
between the Borrower, CFM and the Concessionaire, setting forth the rules and 
regulations governing the carrying out of the Concession, including the rights and 
obligations of the parties therein; 
(j) 
“Concessionaire” means CCFB; 
(k) 
“De-Mining Program” means the de-mining scheduled for the Beira 
Railway System agreed between the Borrower, the Concessionaire and the Association 
and referred to under paragraph C.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.   
(l) 
“EAMP” or “Environmental Audit and Management Plan” means the 
Environmental Audit and Management Plan dated June 9, 2004, for Parts A and B of the 
Project, and referred to in paragraph B.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, describing the 
environmental planning, review, approval, mitigation, monitoring, and institutional 
measures under the Project;
 
Page  4
-
3
-
3
(m) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth 
in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(n) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services and training referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(o) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of the CFM Project Agreement and CCFB Project 
Agreement; 
(p) 
“Financial Procedures Manual” means the Manual referred to in  
Section 6.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement, which details the financial management, 
administrative and procurement arrangements, organization structure (including internal 
audit functions), staffing, standard accounting forms, books, and ledgers for the 
implementation of activities under the Project and as referred to in paragraph A.2 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(q) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year, which begins on  
January 1 and ends on December 31of each year; 
(r) 
“Investment and Fiscal Agreement” means the Agreement between the 
Borrower and the Concessionaire referred to under Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
(s) 
“Machipanda Railway Line” means the railway line, part of the Beira 
Railway System, starting at the port of Beira and ending at Machipanda in the Borrower’s 
territory; 
(t) “
Metical
”
means the Recipient’s currency; 
(u) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
September 2, 2004 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.03 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation. 
(v) 
“RAP” or “Resettlement Action Plan”  mean the Resettlement Action 
Plan for Part A and B of the Project dated June 9, 2004, and referred to in paragraph B.2 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, which set out the principles and procedures governing 
land use-rights, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation, as well as administrative, 
reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as said plans 
may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Association; 
(w) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account referred to in Part A.6 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;  
Page  5
-
4
-
4
(x) 
“Sena Railway Line” means the railway line, part of the Beira Railway 
System, starting at Dondo and ending at Moatize, including two branch lines from Dona 
Ana to Vila Nova da Fronteira (where it links with the Malawi Railway System) and 
from Inhamitanga to Marromeu  in the Borrower’s territory; 
(y) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(z) 
“Tripartite Agreement” means the subsidiary loan agreement to be 
entered into among the Borrower, CFM and CCFB pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) (i) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to the Tripartite Agreement; and 
(aa) 
“VAT” means Value Added Taxes.  
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventy five million six hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 75,600,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2010 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
Page  6
-
5
-
5
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each  
May 15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 2014 and ending May 15, 2044. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2024 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
Page  7
-
6
-
6
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall 
cause: (i) CCFB to carry out Parts A and B of the Project; and (ii) CFM to carry out  
Part C of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and public utilities practices, and, in the case of 
CCFB and CFM to perform in accordance with the provisions of their respective Project 
Agreement all their obligations therein set forth, take and cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources (except for Part B 
of the Project which shall be financed by CCFB) necessary or appropriate to enable 
CCFB and CFM, respectively, to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to 
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance;  
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
cause the Project to be carried out in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 (c) 
For the purpose of carrying out: 
(i) 
Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, relend to CCFB an amount equivalent to one hundred 
and four million five hundred thousand Dollars ($104,500,000) 
or such other amount or amounts as shall be allocated to CCFB 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement and reflected under a Tripartite 
Agreement to be entered into among the Borrower, CFM and 
CCFB (the Tripartite Agreement), under terms and conditions 
Page  8
-
7
-
7
which shall have been approved by the Association, and which 
shall include repayment of principal in 25 years (including 10 
years of grace). 
(ii) 
Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, relend to CFM an amount equivalent to five million 
five hundred thousand Dollars ($5,500,000) or such other 
amount or amounts as shall be allocated to CFM in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and CFM (the CFM Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement), under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association, and which shall include repayment 
of principal in 25 years (including 10 years of grace). 
(d) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the CFM Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, the Tripartite Agreement and the Concession Agreement in such manner as 
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the CFM Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the 
Tripartite Agreement and the Concession Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall enter into an investment and fiscal 
agreement (Investment and Fiscal Agreement) with CCFB, under terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Association, which shall include, 
inter alia
,
a
mechanism for addressing the VAT on works, goods, and services, as well as custom 
duties for imported goods for Part A and B of the Project.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Investment and Fiscal 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the CFM 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Tripartite Agreement and the Concession Agreement or 
any provision thereof. 
Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval.
 
Page  9
-
8
-
8
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, or cause to be prepared, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.05. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of: (a) Parts A and B 
of the Project shall be carried out by CCFB; and Part C of the Project shall be carried out 
by CFM, pursuant to Section 2.03 of the relevant Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare project
 
financial 
statements, all in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect its operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause CFM to: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association) audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association): (A) audited copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or such other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
Page  10
-
9
-
9
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time 
to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.6 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for, or covering, the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports or statements of expenditure are 
included in any audit that the Association may have requested 
pursuant to  paragraph (b) of this Section. 
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:  
(a) 
CCFB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the CCFB 
Project Agreement. 
(b) 
CFM shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the CFM 
Project Agreement. 
(c) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that CCFB or CFM will be able to perform their corresponding 
obligations under the CCFB Project Agreement or the CFM Project Agreement, 
respectively. 
(d) 
The Concession Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
CCFB or CFM to perform any of their respective obligations under the CCFB Project 
Agreement or the CFM Project Agreement, respectively. 
Page  11
-
10
-
10
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of Section 6.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
The CFM Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Tripartite Agreement, the 
Concession Agreement and the Investment and Fiscal Agreement have become effective;  
(b) 
A financial management system, satisfactory to the Association, has been 
adopted for the Project, including the following: (i) the Financial Procedures Manual has 
been adopted; (ii) adjusted chart of accounts which is able to identify Project activities 
and disbursement categories, has been established; and (iii) the request for proposals for 
selecting a qualified and experienced external auditor for the Project has been issued; 
(c) 
A de-mining certificate has been issued, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, for 10 meters on either side of the first 180 kms of the 
Sena Line starting from Dondo; 
(d) 
The takeover of the Beira Railway System by the Concessionaire has 
been  completed; and  
(e) 
The process for hiring an independent supervision engineer with 
qualifications and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association has been 
initiated in a manner satisfactory to the Association.  
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a) 
that the CCFB Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
CCFB, and is legally binding upon CCFB in accordance with its terms; 
(b) 
that the CFM Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
CFM, and is legally binding upon CFM in accordance with its terms; 
Page  12
-
11
-
11
(c) 
that the  Tripartite  Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower, CFM and CCFB and is legally binding upon the Borrower, CFM and CCFB in 
accordance with its terms; 
(d) 
that the CFM Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and CFM and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CFM in 
accordance with its terms; and 
(e) 
that the Investment and Fiscal Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and CCFB and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CCFB 
in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  13
-
12
-
12
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Governor of Banco de Moçambique is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Governor 
 
Banco de Moçambique 
 
Maputo 
 
Republic of Mozambique 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
MOBANCO 
 
6355/7 BMMO  
(258) 1 421915 
 
Maputo 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
13
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Maputo, Republic of Mozambique, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE 
 
By 
  /s/ 
Michael 
Baxter 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
  /s/ 
Adriano 
Maleiane 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
14
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 
Category
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated (Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent
)
%
of Expenditures  
to be Financed
(1) Works, for Part A  
21,080,000 
100% of foreign expenditures 
and 86 % of local expenditures 
(2) Goods, for Part A  
 
(a) ballast and concrete 
sleepers 
 
23,890,000 
 
100% 
(b) other than ballast and   
concrete sleepers 
19,580,000 
100% of foreign expenditures, 
100% of local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) and 86 % of 
local expenditures for other 
items procured locally 
(3) Consultants’ Services 
including Audits  
 
(a) for Part A  
 
4,190,000 
 
100% of foreign expenditures 
and 86 % of local expenditures 
 
(b) for Part C 
3,300,000 
100% of foreign expenditures 
and 86 % of local expenditures 
(4) Training  
210,000 
100% 
Page  16
-
15
-
15
Category
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated (Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent
)
%
of Expenditures  
to be Financed
(5) Operating Costs 
280,000 
86% 
(6) Unallocated 
3,070,000 
 
TOTAL 75,600,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term: 
(a) 
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory 
of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b) 
“local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower 
or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided, however, 
that, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of 
which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or 
services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”;  
(c) 
“Training” includes workshops on Project activities, purchase of training 
materials, rental of training facilities, health insurance for travel abroad, per diem and 
travel costs; and 
(d) 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account 
of Project implementation, including office supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, 
communication and insurance costs, Special Account banking charges, office equipment 
maintenance, utilities, documents duplication/printing, consumables, travel cost and per 
diem for Project staff for travel linked to the implementation of the Project and salaries of 
contractual staff for the Project, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower. 
3. 
For purposes of this Agreement, it is understood between the Borrower and the 
Association that the percentage of expenditures to be financed under Category (2) (a) 
(ballast and concrete sleepers) of table set forth in paragraph A.1 of this Schedule has 
been calculated on the basis of the provisions of a Letter dated August 4, 2004, from the 
Borrower’s National Director for Infrastructures which provides for a deferral and 
subsequent write-off  of the applicable VAT for such items procured within the territory 
of the Borrower.  In the event of any change made to said letter, which has the effect of 
Page  17
-
16
-
16
applying VAT on ballast and concrete sleepers, financed under the aforementioned 
Category (2) (a), the percentage referred to above shall be decreased in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of  
SDR two million (SDR 2,000,000), may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and 
(3)(a) on account of payments made for agreed expenditures before that date but after 
January 1, 2004.  
5. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods and 
works; (b) for services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract; (c) for services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, and (d) training and operating costs, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
6. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been 
made from the Credit Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Association only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the [six-
month period] following the date of such request. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account, to be 
managed by CFM, in a commercial Bank, acceptable to the Association, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-
off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
 
Page  18
-
17
-
17
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.6 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower and the Guarantor of its intention to suspend 
in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
Page  19
-
18
-
18
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement. 
Page  20
-
19
-
19
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts, which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the  
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories. 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
Page  21
-
20
-
20
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  22
-
21
-
21
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
 
Page  23
-
22
-
22
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) make cost effective and efficient transport 
available for the freight and passenger traffic in the Zambezi valley to accelerate 
economic growth and reduce poverty in the sub-region; (ii) increase international traffic 
through the Beira Railway System; and (iii) ensure the operational, managerial and 
financial sustainability of the Beira Railway System. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Rehabilitation of the Sena Railway
Rehabilitation, maintenance and operation of the Sena Railway Line to be carried 
out by the Concessionaire under the terms of the Concession Agreement, to enable said 
railway line to support 18-ton axle loads and 60 km/h train speeds and carry all freight 
and passenger traffic on offer.  
Part B
:
Improvement of the Machipanda Railway
Improvements of the Machipanda Railway Line including its maintenance and 
operation.   
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening
Carrying out the following activities: 
(a) Training 
in, 
inter alia
,
regulations, safety inspections, contract 
monitoring, and environmental, financial and Project management. 
(b) 
Provision of independent supervision to certify and report on, 
inter alia
,
the quantity and quality of the rehabilitation works for the Sena Line, adherence to the 
agreed procurement procedures and eligibility for disbursement of funds. 
(c) 
Technical and financial audits.  
(d) 
Provision of technical advisory services to the CFM Board for the 
purposes of advising the Board and its Chairman on all financial and Project management 
related matters connected with the day-to-day operations of CFM. 
(e) Sector 
studies, 
including, 
inter alia,
 planning for new railway and port 
facilities, review of existing transport systems, and enhancement of competitiveness 
among different modes of transport. 
Page  24
-
23
-
23
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2009. 
Page  25
-
24
-
24
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic 
contractors. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
BOT Procurement
.
As per Part A of the Project, Sena Line shall be rehabilitated, 
operated and subsequently transferred to the Conceding Authority in accordance with the 
terms of the Concession Agreement  awarded to the Concessionaire on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding procedures, subject to the provisions of paragraph 3.13 
(a) of the Procurement Guidelines. The goods, works, and services required for the 
rehabilitation of the Sena Line  shall be procured in accordance with the procurement  
procedures of the Concessionaire, agreed in advance with the Association and the 
Conceding Authority.   
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
Page  26
-
25
-
25
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association 
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. Single 
Source 
Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet 
the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source 
Selection, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior approval 
of the Association. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.
 
If the Procurement Plan provides for prior review of 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants, the record of justification for 
such contracts, referred to in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines, 
shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association. All other contracts shall be subject to 
Post Review by the Association. 
 
Page  27
-
26
-
26
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
A. 
Overall Project Implementation
1. 
(a) 
CCFB shall  maintain a Project Implementation Unit, throughout 
the period of implementation of the Project, with structure, functions and responsibilities, 
and with competent staff in adequate numbers and qualifications, for the purpose of 
assisting  in the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project. 
(b) 
CFM shall employ, throughout the period required for the rehabilitation 
of the Sena Railway Line, the independent supervision engineer referred to in  
Section 6.01 (e), or a similar professional or group of professionals, always with 
qualifications and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association. 
2. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, CCFB 
and CFM shall: (a) apply the criteria, policies, requirements and procedures set out in the 
Financial Management Manual; and (b) not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or 
waived, the Financial Management Manual, or any provisions thereof, in a manner 
which, in the opinion of the Association may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project. 
B. 
Environmental Audit and Management Plan (EAMP) and Resettlement Action 
Plan (RAP) 
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, CCFB shall:  
 
(a) 
carry out Parts A and B of the Project in accordance with the 
environmental and social guidelines, rules and procedures defined in the EAMP;  
 
(b) 
not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the EAMP, or 
any provisions thereof, in a manner, which, in the opinion of the Association may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of Parts A and B of the Project; and 
(c) 
ensure that: (i) all measures necessary for the carrying out of the EAMP 
are taken in a timely manner; and (ii) the progress reports referred to in paragraphs  
D.1(b) and E.2 of this Schedule shall include adequate information on monitoring the 
measures defined in the EAMP.  
2. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, CFM shall:  
 
(a) 
for purposes of Parts A and B of the Project, carry out the RAP in 
accordance with the social guidelines, rules and procedures defined therein;  
Page  28
-
27
-
27
(b) 
not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the RAP, or any 
provisions thereof, in a manner, which, in the opinion of the Association may materially 
and adversely affect the implementation of Parts A and B of the Project; and  
(c) 
ensure that: (i) all measures necessary for the carrying out of the RAP are 
taken in a timely manner; and (ii) the progress reports referred to in paragraphs D.1 (b) 
and E.2 of this Schedule shall include adequate information on monitoring the measures 
defined in the RAP. 
C. De-Mining 
Program
1.  
The Borrower, as the Conceding Authority, shall carry out the De-mining 
Program referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association.  
D. 
Monitoring and Reporting
1. 
The Borrower, with the assistance of CFM and CCFB, pursuant to the relevant 
Project Agreement, shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, or cause to be prepared, under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about January 30 of each year, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph D.1 (a) of this Schedule, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Association, by February 28 of each year, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph D.1(b) of this 
Section, and thereafter act promptly and diligently in order to take, or cause to be taken, 
any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming identified in the 
implementation of the Project, or to implement such measures as may have been agreed 
between the Borrower and the Association in furtherance of the objectives of the Project. 
E. Midterm 
Review
1. 
The Borrower shall, with the assistance of CFM and CCFB, pursuant to the 
relevant Project Agreement, carry out, jointly with the Association, not later than  
June 30, 2007 a comprehensive midterm review aimed at: (i) documenting progress 
toward achieving the Project objectives; (ii) identifying and resolving obstacles to Project 
Page  29
-
28
-
28
implementation; (iii) adjusting, in agreement with the Association, targets and 
corresponding programs to reflect progress achieved in the implementation of the Project 
as of the date of the review; and (iv) an overall evaluation of the Project against the 
indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.   
2. 
The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks prior to the midterm review, 
referred to in paragraph E.1 above, with the assistance of CCFB and CFM, pursuant to 
the relevant Project Agreement, furnish to the Association a midterm report, in such 
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the progress 
achieved in the Project implementation.  
3. 
Promptly after completing the midterm review, the Borrower shall take, or cause 
to be taken, all measures required to fulfill the recommendations arising out of said 
review for the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, 
taking into account the Association’s comments thereon. 
Page  30
-
29
-
29
SCHEDULE 5 
Project Indicators 
 
For the purposes of this Agreement, the Project indicators to be used for 
assessing Project implementation are as follows: 
1. 
Sena Line progressively opened to freight and passenger traffic with freight 
traffic reaching at least 1.0 million tons per annum by the end of Project. 
2. 
Link to Malawi Railways established by end of the Project. 
3. 
An alternative multi-modal (road/rail) route for international traffic from Zambia to 
the port of Beira opened by end of the Project. 
4. 
International traffic from the Republic of Zimbabwe on the Machipanda line 
increased by 30% by end of the Project.   
5. 
Beira Railway system operates as a reliable, efficient, and commercially viable 
system, the indicator for this, at end of the Project, being as follows:  
(a) 
Reliability: (i) track under temporary speed restrictions decreased from 
10% to 2% (ii) locomotive failure rate decreased from an average of 10,000 kilometers 
between failures to not less than an average of 100,000 kilometers between failures; and 
(iii) time lag between wagon demand and supply decreased from 4 days to not more than 
2
days;  
(b) 
Staff productivity:  traffic units (net annual ton-kilometers plus passenger 
kilometers) per staff employed per year increased nearly four fold, from 0.35 million to 
1.3 million; and 
(c) 
Commercial viability: working ratio (cost excluding depreciation and 
interest) decreased from more than 100% to less than 70%. 
 
