Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rqezt Ng. 58311
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL NUTRITION RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1302-BR)
August 1, 1985
Population, Health and Nutrition Department - OPS
This document has a resriced disbuom aum may be used by recipients only in the perferunnce of
their fciscI dutes. Its contents may not odrwise be disdsei withut World Bank shdmmtimo.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Cruzeiro (Cr$)
EXCRANGE RATES
Appraisal Year Average (1975/76): US$1 = Cr$ 10.365
Intervening Years Average (1977-1983): US$1 = 137.37
Completion Year Average (1982183): US$1 = Cr$378.28
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - Marcb 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS
BNDE           Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico
(National Economic Development Bank (noW BNDES))
CANALE         Campanha Nacional de Alimentagao Escolas, BSB, D.F. (NaLional
Feeding Campaign for Scholars)
CAP            Compra Antecipada da Produqao (Advanced Purchase of Production)
CEAPES         Centro de Educa5ao e Alimentasao de Pre-Escolar (Center
for Education and Feeding of Pre-School Children)
CEPED          Centro de Pesquisas e Desenvolvimento, Salvador
(Bahia State Research and Development Center)
CETEB          Centro de Ensino Tecnico de Brasilia, Brasilia
CETREDE        Centro de Treinamento em Desenvolvimento Regional, Fortaleza
(Regional Economic Development Training Center)
CIDA           Companhias Integradas de Desenvolvimento Agro-pecuario
de Nordeste
COBAL          Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos, D.F.
(Brazilian Foods Company (Agriculture Ministry))
COP            Colonia de Pescadores Z-8 de Fortaleza, Ceara
EMBRATER       Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao
Rural, Brasilia
(Brazilian Rural Extension and Technical Assistance Company)
ENDEF          Estudo Nacional da Despesa Familiar (National Survey
of Food Expenditures, Consumption & Nutrition)
EPM-SP         Escola Paulista de Medicina, Sao Paulo (Sao Paulo School
of Medicine)
FESP           Funda;ao Ensino Superior Pernambuco, Recife, PE
(Pernambuco Foundation for Higher Education)
FGV            Funda;ao Getulio Vargas (Getulio Vargas Foundation)
FINEP          Financiadoras de Estudos e Projetos, Rio de Janeiro
(Funding Authority for Studies and Projects (SEPLAN))
FINSOCIAL      Social Development Fund
FIPE           Funda;ao Instituto de Pesquisa Economica (USP)
(Economic Research Foundation (of Sao Paulo University))
FOPASE         Federaqao de Orgoes para Assistencia Social e Educacional,
Rio de Janeiro
FSESP          Funda;ao Servicos de Saude Publica (Public Health Services
Foundation)
FSP            Faculdade de Saude Publica de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo
FUNAPE         Fundagao de Apoio a Pesquisa e Extensao, Joao Pessoa
IBGE           Instituto Brasileiro de Geographia e Estadistica (Brazilian
Institute for Geography and Statistics)
IJNPS          Instituto Joaquim Nabuco de Pesquisas Sociais, PernamL,uco
(Joachim Nabuco Institute of Social Research)
INAE           Instituto -Tacional de Assistencia ao Estudante, Brasilia
(National Institute for Student Assistance (now FAE))
IThis document has a restricted distribution and mnay be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INAN           Instituto Nacional de Alimentagao e Nutriqao
(National Food and Nutrition Institute (Health Ministry))
IPE            Instituto de Pesquisas Economica, Sao Paulo (Economic
Research Institute, Sao Paulo)
IPEA           Institute of Economic and Social Planning, Min. Of Planning
ITAL           (Instituto de Tecnologia de Alimentos (Sec.Agric. SaoPaulo)
Food Technology Institute (Sao Paulo State Agriculture
Secretariat))
LEA            Legiao Brasileira de Asistencia (Brazilian Legion of
Assistance)
PINS           P-rojeto Integrado de Nutri;ao (Nutrition througb the
Health System)
PRANENSE       Projeto Experimental de Produ;ao de Alimentos e Melboria
do Estado Nutricional em Areas de Baixa Renda em Sergipe
(Program for Food Production and Improvement of Nutrition
Status in Sergipe)
PROAB          Projeto de Abastecimento de Alimentos Basicos em Areas
de Baixa Renda (INAN) (Program for Supplying Necessities
(basic foods)
PROAPE         Projeto de Atendimento ao Pre-Escolar (Program to Help
Pre-school Children)
PRONAN         Programma Nacional de Alimentarao e Nutrisao (National
Food and Nutrition Program
Rede Somar     A program to improve food marketing
SEC            Secretaria de Educacao e Cultura de Pernambuco, Recife
(Secretariat of Education and Culture of Pernambuco, Recife)
SECUCE         Secretaria de Educacao e Cultura de Ceara
SEGU           Secretaria de Educagao e Cultura de Maranhao
SECUP          Secretaria de Educacao e Cultura de Piaui
SEDA           Secretaria de Educacao de Alagoas
SEDAP          Secretaria de Educacao de Paraiba
SEDER          Secretaria de Educacao de Rondonia
SEDES          Secretaria de Educaqao de Sergipe
SEP            Secretaria de Educa;ao de Pernambuco
SERG           Secretaria de Educagao do Rio Grande do Norte
SEPLAN         Secretaria de Planejamento - (Secretariat of Planning
of the Office of the President)
SOBRAN         Sociedade Brasileira de Nutritao, Rio de Janeiro (Brazilian
Society of Nutrition)
SUPLAN         Subsecretaria de Planejamento e Orcamento - Ministerio
de Agricultura (Subsecretariat of Planning and Budgeting,
Min. of Agriculture



BWAZ1
VnTRITION RESARC  AD DMM    ILOPUENT PRDJECT (L  1302-1)
PROJE9CT CUPLEIE REPOU
Table of Contents
PAGE
PREFACE              ...........................                  i
BASIC DATA SHEET           .. .............  iii
PROJECT HIGHLIGHTS AND LESSONS LEARNED            . .             vi
I.    Introduction and Summary ............... . ..........    1
II.   Project Identification, Preparation, and Appraisal          4
A.  Project Origin ........       ........................    4
B. Project Preparation, Appraisal, Negotiations
and Approval .........       .........................    5
C.  Project Targets and Goals .....        ................    7
D.  Project Description ......        .....................    9
III.  Project Implementation and Cost ................   ....    14
A.  Effectiveness and Start-up .....................    14
B.  Revisions .....................................    15
C.  Implementation avd Disbursements Schedule ......    16
D.  Reporting .....................................    16
E. Procurement ....................................    16
F.  Costs ..........       ...............................    16
G.  Financial Sources .............................    17
B.  Borrower's Performance ........................   17
IV.   Project Performance and Impact        .      .8..........    i
A.  Nutrition Interventions .......................    19
B. Development and Production of Low-cost
Nutritious Food ...............................    26
C.  Institution-Building ...........................    26
V.    Bank Performance ............. .    28
A. Project Justification and Objectives:
Bank's and Borrower's .         ........................    28
B.  Project Implementation and Operating Outcomes..    29
C.  Implications of Project Outcomes ...............    32
VI.   Conclusions........................................         33



3AZL
NUTRITIWOE RESEARCH AND          PROJECT (LN 1302-3O
PROJECT CT LRTION REPORT
TABLE:S
1. Key Indicators .......................................   36
2. Summary of Appraisal and Actual Project Expenditure
by Component Activities ............ ......... .. .....   37
3. Loan Withdrawals by Disbursement Category - Planned
and Actual ..........................................   38
4. Schedule of Disbursements ............................   39
5. Total Project Cost by Type and Purpose of Expenditure   40
6. Project Performance Ratings in Supervision Reports...   47
ANNEXES
1. Performance of P-oject Activities Phased Out
at Project Reformulation ............................   48
2. Official Government Comments on the PCR ....  .........   53
Map - IBRD 12183



NUTRITION 3ESACH AD DEYELOIUD  PROJECT (LN. 1302-Bt)
POE ClOMPLEIO  REPORT
- i -
PREFACE
A Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Brazil nutrition
project was completed in December 21, 1984, and submitted to OED. Although
the project was completed in June 1983, the completion report was not
finalized until a draft Final Report prepared by IRAN, the Executing
Agency, was received in October 1984. That report and an English translation
are filed with project documents, and copies are available from PHN
upon request. This completion report was prepared by the Population,
Health and Nutrition Department, and is based on a review of the Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 1096-BR of June 7, 1976), President's Report (No. P-1865
of June, 1976), Loan Agreement (dated October 1, 1976), LAC Information
Center project files, and the Project Unit's Final Evaluation Report.
Brazil is interested in continuing a dialogue in the sector,
and has invited the Bank to participate in a seminar to discuss the
project and the completion reports. The possibility of future Bank
assistance in the sector may be discussed at this time, considering
the current higb national priority given to nutrition. OED reviewed
the PCR and found it describes the project's implementation well, and
the project was not selected for audit by OED.
The PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments on March 28,
1985. Comments were received from the Ministry of Health stating its
general agreement with the report and are attached as Annex 2.
The Brazil Nutrition Research and Development Project was
the first free-standing nutrition project financed by the Bank. When
lending for nutrition first began, the Board felt the Bank should proceed
cautiously and with only a few projects from which it could learn.
To date, the Bank has financed only four nutrition projects. Projects
in Brazil and Indonesia have been completed, and the Project in Colombia
is expected to be completed in June 1985. These three projects initiated
in 1976 and 1977 were heavily multisectoral with agriculture, vater
supply and sanitation, and food marketing components as direct nutrition
improvement actions. The India Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project, approved
in 1930, was designed to concentrate on fewer actions; this project
is expected to be completed in about two years time. From the beginning,
nutrition projects continued to receive substantial policy level review.
As part of the review of the basic needs nutrition paper, it was decided
the Bank should improve its nutrition knowledge through country economic
and sector work. Since then, analyses of varying intensity have been



- ii -
completed for 16 countries. In late 1983, a major internal review of
nutrition projects was undertaken witbin the Bank's Population, Health
and Nutrition Department. In sunmary, this review concluded that, although
there was a need for more systematic and stronger emphasis on nutrition
in the Bank's health and population program, the Bank would no longer
be involved in complex multisectoral nutrition projects and only under
appropriate circumstances would finance more narrowly focussed free-standing
nutrition projects. Thus, the Bank has in fact learned major lessons
from its involvement in nutrition lending. An audit of this project
would be costly as it would involve substantial consultants inputs and
would not make additional contributions to the lesson-learning process.
OED has, therefore, decided that it is more cost-effective to pass-through
this nutrition project completion report, and undertake a special impact-evaluation
type study of all four nutrition projects at some future date.



- iii -
MAUL
NUTIITION RESARH AMD DEYELOP=E1D   PRDJECT (Ll. L302-fl)
PROJEC  (3PZOE RPRT
Basic Data Sheet
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal        Actual or           Actual as % of
Item                      Expectation    Current Estimate    Appraisal Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$M)    72.0              67.3                   93%
. Underrun (%)                              7%
Loan Amount (US$M)            19.0             19.0                  100%
. Disbursed (X)                           100%
Date of Project Completion  12/31/80          6/30/83                1632
Proportion Completed
by Above Date                26Z             100X
Proportion of Time Overrun                      63%
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
(US$Millions)
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981   1982   1983
Appraisal Estimate         3.2     6.2    11.2    18.0    19.0
Actual                     0.4     0.8      1.9     5.9    15.4   18.4   19.0
Actual as Z of Estimate   12%      13%      17%     33%     86%
Date of Final Disbursement:  July 25, 1983
KEY PROJECT DATES
Item                           Original Plan        Revisions      Actual
First Mention in Files                                              01103/72
Government's Application                                           02/76
Negotiations                                                        05/10/76
Board Approval                                                     06/24/76
Loan Agreement Date  (Amended 01/14/81)                             10/01/76
Effectiveness Date                                                  12/30/76
Closing Date                     12/31/80            06/30/83       06/30/83



1! >0C=SStUNS>8@ n                          SSB "888>eUe   |
I    -
C  ~ a.           Ia .8a   .Om(V             Wa ..I M
e l  tA                    iVA lg]|                       tJ>|t8v                     W|        9                
R      1.11                        '   '|        -            - '~   -        -   '~  ~       Sanior Nutrition Advisor
- _ _ _ _             _   _ w                                              Division Chief
^  9 a n f  8       " ^   i    ~     ~     ~     ~      ~     ~      i N   -   -   ~   -   ~   ~   - - -              iP r o j e c t   O f f i c e r
I           I  I                                                                                        ' '   '*    .Loan Officer
r > >     0   "    4_ 4a  4Economist
m-                                    s          _.w-.na.u'mH -                                                         Monitoring & Evaluation
food Harketing Specialist
EC Specialist
Nutrition Manageament Planning
Medical Nutrition Specialist       a
_   Tech Ast./Praj.Prep/lopleaent.
,_______________________________________________________________    Food Technologist
- _  _       _          __4Agric. Nutrition Specialist
_ _                                                                 ~ _      M~ _ Nutritioniat
-   -       _                                              Rural Credit Marketing
_   _ _ _   w   w w   wi   I" _Status a    W M
Ka  ___          N _-  K.  IRII        _                                                           Trend  k       a
31               '      a x    to 1x                                               Main Type of Problem  c        "
*8



- v -
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower:                 Federative Republic of Brazil
Executing Agency:          National Food and Nutrition Institute (INAN)
Follow-on Project Name:   None



- vi -
BRAZIL
nUTRITION RESNARCH AND DVELOPENTpl rIOJEcr (LJ 1302-BR)
PROJCr cO EPO
PROJECT HIGHLIGHTS AND LESSONS LEARNED
The Brazil Nutrition Research and Development Project, approved
in June 1976, was the first Bank-assisted project in nutrition, following
Board approval for lending in the sector (paras. 1.01-1.03, and 2.08).
Total project cost was estimated at US$72 million, including contingencies
(paras. 3.10-3.11). Financial provisions were a U0S19 million Bank
loan (Ln. 1302-BR) to cover the foreign exchange component of the projecL,
and Government counterpart financing of local costs. Actual project
cost vas US$67.3 million, a 6Z underrun.
ii.       Proiect Desizn.  The main project goal was to enhance the
Govern.,ent7s capabilities in the nutrition sector so that within 4 years
it would be able to conduct an effective nutrition program (paras. 2.13-2.16).
This would be achieved through research, training, and exper..mental
project components: (a) testing of alternative nutrition delivery systems
using existing infrastructure in agriculture, health, and education
(18Z of cost); (b) development and production of low-cost nutrition
foods far use by target groups (60Z of cost); and (c) building nutrition-related
institdtions and developing a sectoral information base (22Z of cost),
(parr.s. 2.19-2.22). Project design reflected the fact that this was
a iLrst project in a field with few precedents and experiences and,
thus, the project looked for opportunities to experiment with the most
attractive interventions. The need for flexibility during implementation
was stressed in the appraisal report.
iii.      Implementation.  Project implementation was jeopardized by
the borrower's lack of commitment toward some of the components and
by staffing constraints due to a rapidly deteriorating Brazilian economy
(paras. 3.02-3.03); implementation problems were presented to the Board
in an interim progress report in May 1980 which led to a project reformulation
in January 1981 (paras. 3.04-3.07, and Annex). At the time of the original
completion date, less than one-third of the loan had been disbursed,
mainly for direct nutrition interventions. After the project was formally
amended along lines proposed by the Borrower, performance picked up,
and the project was completed and the loan was fully disbursed within
the schedule of the Amending Agreement (para. 3.07).
iv.       Proiect Outcome.  The project did not meet a number of its
specific appraised institutional development objectives (paras. 4.23-4.29,
and para. 6.02), but made important contributions towards the development



- vii -
of the sector and in the area of Bank/Borrower relationship. Regarding
nutrition service delivery, the project exceeded its initial targets
by far. The most striking successful aspect of this project is the
extent to which its operational components have been modified and integrated
into large government programs of IMAN/MOH and the Ministries of Education
and Agriculture. In terms of nutrition beneficiaries, approximately
40.000 people, or two and one-quarter times the expected beneficiaries
at appraisal, were directly helped in the process (paras. 4.03-4.22);
also see Table 1). In terms of human resources and institutions, Brazil
is now in a much better position to tackle the malnutrition problem.
Operationally, the project has enhanced Bank and Brazilian understanding
of, firstly, the posDibility of attacking some of the most critical
nutritional problems through well-targeted interventions, and secondly,
of the risk of attempting a comprehensive program requiring complex
interventions involving a multiplicity of agencies (paras. 5.14-5.17).
V.        Lessons Learned.  Much was learned of nutrition interventions
and of the difficulties of monitoring them and evaluating their effectiveness.
There are lessons for the Bank regarding the need for insisting on the
Borrower's involvement in and responsibility for careful preparation
of the project and for the Bank's realistic appraisal of institutional
constraints in projects. There are also lessons regarding the need
to look to mistaken design assumptions or to changing conditions during
implementation for part of the explanation of the problem in project
perf-ormance, rather than placing blame exclusively on what we perceive
to be the borrower's shifts in priorities and managerial weakness (paras.
5.04-5.06).
vi.       Project achievements are especially impressive in light of
mistakes that can be seen in retrospect: the project design was too
complex and ambitious for the available technical and managerial capabilities
and the organizational set-up of the project; the research orientation
was not consistent with the borrower's priorities, and the institutional
arrangements both within and without INAN were inadequate. The first
two mistakes were corrected when the project was modified in 1980.
In part they were due to the heavy Bank involvement in project preparation
which permitted the Bank's concepts and procedural norms to outweigh
those of the borrower; this lesson was learned and the Bank played an
assistant role in the preparation of the proposals for project reformulation.
Another important lesson common to many projects and widely recognized
in the Bank, was the decision to est:blish a special project implementation
unit, which proved to be counterproductive. Its existence isolated
project activities from the rest of INAN's activities in the context
of the national nutrition program, and diluted the project impact on
INAN's institutional development; in addition, it weakened whatever
support INAN could have been giving the project unit in its dealings
with other agencies (paras. 6.02-6.09).



- viii -
vii.      In sinsry, in spite of not fully meeting many of its specific
appraised objectives, the first nutrition project did make important
contributions both towards the development of responses to nutrition
problems, in the general area of Bank/borrower relationship, and in
the need to constantly review the initial design assumptions or to look
to changing conditions during implementation for part of the explanation
of problems in project performance. The lessons have been used in other
projects and were written about in the Nutrition Review prepared by
PHN in April 1984.



IAUL
NUTRIflON RESFARCE AND DKYELOPUKET PROJECT (LN 1302-ER)
PROJECT CCPLETIOE REPORT
1. INTRODUCTION AND SUMKARY
1.01      The Brazil Nutrition Research and Development Project approved
in June 1976, was the first Bank-assisted project in the nutrition sector.
The Bank decision to lend in this sector was part of the basic needs
strategy adopted in the early '70s and was taken on "the grounds that
a well-directed nutrition investment can lower mortality and morbidity
rates, contribute to increased productivity, assist in achieving family
planning and education objectives, serve as a direct means of income
redistribution and, in general, improve the social and economic conditions
of disadvantaged portions of the population."
1.02      Following Board approval for lending in the nutrition sector,
several countries were considered. When the project was identified
late in 1972, Brazil had been experiencing rapid economic growth for
several years, but concerns with the situation of low-income groups
were mounting. As part of socially inspired policies, the Government
established a National Food and Nutrition Institute (IRAN) to coordinate
nutrition activiti?s and approved an ambitious National Food and Nutrition
Program (PRONAN I). This made Brazil a lead country in assigning official
priority and economic resources to nutrition. Also it provided an institu-
tional base and a framework for the project.
1.03      Project preparation started in February 1973, and the Board
approved the loan almost 3-1/2 years later on June 24, 1976. The processing
of the project was disrupted and delayed due to the dismissal of INAN's
president and nearly all of its staff in May 1974, and its slow reorganization
following the appointment of a new president in September 1974. Considering
the unusual features of the project, a "Preliminary Report" on the project
was presented to the Executive Directors. On July 1, 1975, the Board
gave its approval to completion of appraisal and negotiations. Following
three post-appraisal missions, negotiations took place in May 1976.
1.04      The loan agreement was signed on October 1, 1976.  Total project
cost was estimated at US$72 million, including contingencies. Financial
provisions were a US$19 million Bank loan (Ln. 1302-BR) to cover the
foreign exchange component of the project and Government counterpart
financing of local costs.
1.05      The loan became effective on December 30, 1976, and the project
was completed 6-1/2 years later in June 1983, after having experienced
a reformulation of activities in 1980, its original completion date.
The loan was fully disbursed, against actual total project cost (based
on withdrawal applications) of US$67.3 million, a slight underrun.
1.06      The main goal of the project was to enhance the Government's
capabilities in the nutrition sector so that within 4 years it would
be able to plan and deploy resources with greater precision and, as
a result, to conduct a more effective program. This goal would be achieved
through research, training and experimental project components aimed
at:



-2--
(a) testing of alternative nutrition delivery systems using
the existing infrastructure in the agriculture, health
and education sectors (18% of base cost);
(b)  the development and production of low-cost nutritious
foods for use by the target groups (60% of base cost);
and
(c) building nutrition-related institutions and developing
an information base (22Z of base cost).
1.07      This project design was very much influenced by the fact that
the project was the first one in a field where not many precedents and
experiences were available. As a consequence many alternatives were
open, but little was known about their relative effectiveness and the
necessary conditions for their successful implementation. Bank staff
developing the new nutrition sector looked for opportunities to experiment
with the most attractive interventions.
1.08      The experimental and long-term project approach was compatible
with the Brazilian situation in early 1973, when project preparation
began. At the time, Brazil's policies were framed in the context of
fast and sustained economic growth. The achievements in industrialization
and post-primary education justified sanguine expectations of more economic
expansion that, at the same time, would provide breathing space for
fine-tuning social programs and resources for their implementation.
Nevertheless by mid-1976, at the time of negotiations and Board presentation,
Brazil was already suffering the effects of the 1973 oil crisis and
the subsequent increases of oil prices. As a result of these, and a
new administration, the GOB was less willing to go along with the experimental
dimension of the project and was more interested in actions that would
-meet the immediate nutritional needs of a larger target population.
1.09      The new views of the Gover,ment were not fully articulated
at the time of negotiations and responding to the new priorities would
have required a further period of preparation, which was already in
its fourth year. Bank staff working in the project believed that a
further delay in approving the loan might result in a loss of much of the
interest built up in Brazil to the extent the project would have to be
aborted. Therefore, it was judged preferable to proceed with the project
essentially as conceived. The need for flexibility during implementation
was stressed in the appraisal report.
1.10      Implementation of the project was in fact jeopardized by the
borrower's lack of commitment toward some of the components and by the
constraints on hiring and contracting that were imposed in response
to the deterioration of the Brazilian economy. At the time of the original
completion date less than a third of the loan had been disbursed, mainly
for the implementation of the nutrition interventions. The project



-3-
was formally amended in January 1981 along lines proposed by the Borrower.
Performance picked up and the project was completed and the loan fully
disbursed within the schedule of the Amending Agreement.
1.11      As is expected in the case of a first project in a sector
with a strong research and development bent, the project did not meet
a number of its specific anpraised objectives. Despite this fact, this
first nutrition project did make important contributions both towards
the development of operational responses to nutrition problems, and
in the general area of Bank/Borrower relationship. In terms of nutrition
beneficiaries, approximately 40,000 people, or two and one-quarter times
the expected beneficiaries at appraisal, were directly helped in the
process (see Table 1). In terms of human resources and institutions,
Brazil iq now in a much better position t- tackle the malnutrition problem.
Operationally, the project has enhanced Bank and Brazilian understanding
of, firstly, the possibility of attacking some of the most critical
nutritional problems through well-targeted interventions; and secondly,
of the risk of attempting a comprehensive program requiring complex
interventions involving a multiplicity of agencies. Much was learned
about the conditions that affect the feasibility and improve the efficiency
of nutrition interventions, and of the difficulties of monitoring them
and evaluating their effectiveness. The lessons have been used in other
projects and were written about in the Nutrition Review prepared by
PEN in April, 1984.
1.12      The project also provided important lessons about the relationships
between the Bank and borrowers. There are lessons for the Bank regarding
the need for insisting on the Borrower's involvement in and responsibility
for careful preparation of the project and for the Bank's realistic
appraisal of institutional constraints in projects witb a large software
component and/or involving different levels of governuent. There are
also lessons regarding the need to look to mistaken design assumptions
or to changing conditions during implementation for part of the explanation
of the problems in project performance, rather than placing blame exclusively
on what we perceive to be the borrower's capricious shifts of priorities
or managerial weaknesses.
1.13      This report has been prepared on the basis of project documents
in Bank files, and special studies of the nutrition sector in Brazil,
and at laige prepared by Bank staff. INAN recently completed a draft
Final Report on the project which is currently being reviewed by the
otber agencies which were involved in the project. Overall INAN's report
is consistent with this PCR, although in our view INAN's draft tends
to overemphasize the conceptual differences between the Bank and the
Borrower as well as to assign more credit to the project for achieve-
ments in the Nutrition sector in Brazil.



-4-
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
A. Proiect Orijzin
2.01      In the early '70s, the aiuccess and the shortcomings of efforts to
promote economic growth by investments in the elimination of infrastructural
bottlenecks were being recognized. GNP had grown at unprecedented rates
in developing countries, but still the population in the low income
bracket had no access to essential services. The Bank decided to complement
its traditional loans for infrastructural investment with lending to
projects aiming at meeting the basic needs of the very poor.
2.02      Within this context and recognizing that "malnutrition in lov-
income countries is a problem of substantial proportions, with significant
and wide-ranging developmental consequences" the Policy Guidelines
for Bank Nutrition Activities were adopted.
2.03      At the time, most countries had little data on either food
consumption or spending patterns of households with malnourished members,
or even on nutritional status. Despite substantial public institutional
feeding programs, particularly school feeding programs, there had been
little evaluation of their benefits and the programs seldom were directed
to the most vulnerable segments of the population. Rather than limiting
itself to research to fill these data gaps or, conversely, moving ahead
with full-scale operational projects in the face of scanty information,
the Board decided that the Bank should finance certain high priority
experimental actions and their evaluation. At the same time, the Bank
vould support training and longer-term analyses aimed at more sophisticated
operations. In short, a learning-by-doing strategy was adopted.
2.04      In October 1972, a Bank reconnaissance mission visited Brazil
identifying it as a possible pilot country for a first nutrition project,
to be developed particularly in the Northeast, an area of poor nutritional
status. Brazil was attractive as it had a large and sophisticated food
industry, a good data base, technical competence, and Government interest
giving high priority to nutrition. It also had a large, established
school feeding program, and raw materials used in processed foods.
Brazil had a recognized, widespread malnutrition problem, and nutrition
was placed among the national development objectives, substantiated
by the creation of INAN to implement a National Nutrition Program (PRONAN).
At this time, the Ministry of Health and the prospective President of
INAN expressed interest in Bank support, as it would be a key element
for a successful program, and lend public support to the importance
of nutrition in development.



-5-
B. Proiect Preparation. Appraisal. NeRotiations and Approval
2.05      During preparation, it was recognized that the implementation
of a project involving many institutions would require a strong central
coordinating agency. INAN with its broad mandate which was expanding
rapidly under ambitious leadership, was the obvious choice as the executing
agency for the nutrition project.
2.06      Between February and July 1973, three preparation missions
involving 77 staff-days (sd) were in Brazil. In August 1973, a Preparation/
Appraisal mission spent 216 sd in Brazil making an in-depth study and
field examination of the already defined project components. All components
needed further preparation, and a second-stage appraisal was recommended
in eight months. However, appraisal had in fact to be delayed until
November 1974, because early in that year INAN's first president and
all the original staff were dismissed. The person that was initially
appointed to reorganize INAN and prepare PRONAN II and continue with
project preparation was not confirmed, and a new president took over
only in late 1974. During this period preparation proceeded with the
help of three Bank missions (45 sd) and of consultants (66 sd) who were
hired by the Bank to assist in finalizing project components. However,
because INAN's then skeletal staff was fully involved in the preparation
of PRONAN II, consultants worked without adequate involvement of the
executing agency.
2.07      At appraisal, by the end of 1974, the project concept was
fairly well defined, and total cost was estimated at US$85.6 million and
the loan at US$25 million. The project identified 4 components:
(1) nutrition planning and programming information (survey and studies);
(2) alternative nutrition delivery systems (three methods through agriculture,
health, and schools); (3) development and commercialization of nutritious
foods; and (4) institution building for INAN. Despite INAR's inadequate
contribution to preparation and loss of credibility, after the removal
of the original personnel, the Bank concluded that a viable INAN with
a strong project unit remained the preferred choice for an implementing
agency, and the solution was to -ain assurances during negotiations
that INAN would be strengthened. The appraisal mission noted that the
project was not completely prepared, and it was agreed that certain
components would have a further preparatory phase.
2.08      The project was subject to an intense review by the Bank,
including the presentation of a Preliminary Report to the Board in June
1975, for consideration before inviting Brazil for Loan negotiations.
Throughout the project processing Executive Directors and staff commented
on the feasibility, practicality, and rationale for justifying the project
and Bank involvement with free-standing nutrition projects. Opinions
were divided with some commending the Bank for getting involved in the
sector, its willingness to take risks, and for recognizing the need



-6-
for testing and developing nutrition interventions, while others taking
the position that it was not the role of the Bank to lend for nutrition,
or criticizing aspects of the project design. In May 1975, the Loan
Committee proposed a reduction in the loan from US$25 million to US$20
million and that the loan be disbursed against all project components,
including FINEP's financing of feasibility studies and BNDE loans to
the food industry. The component for the development and commercialization
of low cost nutritious food was subject to major changes. In March
1976, the Government requested the food forti.ication sub-component
be dropped, reducing the project cost by US$10 million, and almost all
of which was foreign exchange. To maintain the size of the loan, the
Bank decided to increase the BNDE sub-component of loans to the food
industry. In response to concerns about INAN's weakness, the project
was modified so that implementing agencies would have more autonomy.
Considf:ing unforeseen complications, the appraisal report stated the
need for future flexibility during implementation: "As the project constitutes
the first of its kind for Brazil, the Bank, and the nutrition field,
there inevitably will be unidentified constraints and, perhaps, unanticipated
opportunities. Accordingly, appropriate flexibility should be permitted
to allow for possible desired changes in both component contenit and
proj'tct administration."
2.09      After further preparation, still with substantial use of consultants
and minimal participation of INAN, negotiations were held on May 10-13,
1976, three-and-a-half years after project identification. In the interim
the impact of the oil crisis had been hitting the Brazilian economy
with increasing force. The buoyant growth and the rapid expansion of
the public sector in the early '70s had given way to anti-inflationary
policies, budgetary cuts, staffing and salary freezes. At the same
time, the political "apertura" (opening) had permitted the expression
of concerns for the risks of excessive dependence upon multinational
corporations and had added a new urgency to programs with immediate
social impact.
2.10      In the observations made by the Brazilian delegation during
negotiations some of these changes were reflected, but did not result
in major modifications in the draft Loan and Project Agreements. The
Bank's negotiating team understood that Brazilian concerns had been
accomodated by excluding large producers from the agricultural and industrial
loans provided for in the project, but implementation experience showed
that the conceptual difference remained (see para. 3.04(b) below).
2.11      The Loan was approved by the Board on June 24, 1976, and the
Loan Agreement was signed on October 1, 1976. Total project cost was
estimated at US$72 million, including contingencies. Financial provisions
were a US$19 million Bank loan (Ln. 1302-BR) to cover the foreign exchange
component of the project and Government counterpart financing of local
costs.



-7--
C. Proiect Targets and Goals
2.12      The Appraisal Report described the role of the project in
the borrower's short and long-term development program, and the project
objectives and justification in the following terms:
2.13      "The principal short run benefit of the proposed project is
that it provides a framework for a more effective use of the significant
investment the Government has committed to nutrition programs. Thus
while small in relation to the overall program, under which expenditures
of US$1.3 billion equivalent are expected over four years, the Bank's
contribution helps provide the means through which effective design
and implementation standards would be established. As a result of the
project, necessary information would be collected and acted upon, staff
trained, institutions strengthened, and products developed and produced
in quantities to meet the needs of the program. (In the case of the
latter, the project would reduce Brazil's current dependence on processed
food imports.) In addition to financial support, Bank participation
would help bring a disciplined approach to the coordination, execution
and evaluation of the project, which will be much needed if the probless
confronting the implementation of a nutrition program are to be surmounted."
(SAR, para. 6.02).
2.14      "The longer-range development benefits of the project flow
from the impact of an effective, comprehensive nutrition program addresaed
to Brazil's needs and problems. The nutrition multi-sectoral problem
conceivably would include, inter alia. adjustments to agricultural and
other policies as they relate to prices of specific foods consumed by
the poor, food production oriented activities emphasizing the small
farmer, reduction of food losses, marketing of low-cost processed foods
including fortified food staples, broad use of nutrition-rich foods
not currently available in forms appropriate for human consumption,
and institutional feeding and other direct nutritional assistance.
Obtaining the adequate mix of principal components in such a program
and relative emphasis to be given to each element are precisely what
the project aims to better establish in the context of the Brazilian
malnutrition problems." (SAR, para. 6.03).
2.15      "While the basic objective of the project is to provide the
knowledge, conditions, and products necessary for a subsequent national
nutrition program, several immediate benefits would accrue.  Among them:
(a) the health and performance - both short and long-run
-- would be improved for approximately 110,000 young
children and relatedly, pregnant and lactating women
from low-income families who would benefit directly from
food supplementation and/or other nutrition services;



-8-
(b)  school attendance, performance and subsequently productivity
would be increased for an estimated 4 to 5 million older
children who would consume through school feeding programs
nutritious products, the development and production of
which would be made possible by this project;
tc)  the productivity of a substantial, but indeterminate,
portion of the low-income labor force (and their families)
would increase through consumption of fortified food
staples and other low-cost processed nutritious foods,
the marketing of which would be made possible by product
development and testing and incentives to the food industries;
(d)  increased food production, lower food losses, increased
on-farm consumption and related increased productivity
would take place among families of 3,000 small farmers
in Sergipe in Northeast Brazil, and an organizational
infrastructure would be established to provide extension
and credit to bring nutrition improvement;
(e)  the productivity and well-being of an indeterminate portion
of the low-income population would be enhanced from improved
diets made possible by the modification of agricultural
policies which would be expected to incorporate consideration
of nutritional implications (i.e. the SUPLAN component
- the Government having accepted that food prices are
a key determinant to nutritional status); and
(f)  small and medium-sized industries, traditionally hindered
by difficult access to term financing (particularly foreign
exchange), would be given the opportunity to carry out
needed capital investments to improve production facilities
and increase productivity. An estimated 2,000 new jots
would be created (based on an average estimated ost
of US$15,000 equivalent per job)." (SAR, para. 6.04).
2.16      "An added benefit of the project would be that the Bank -
by participating in a project with so wide a range of activities and
in a country as diverse as Brazil -- would gain useful experience for
similar activities elsewhere in the world. Thus, the Brazilian project
would contribute to meeting the needs of other countries. Within Brazil,
the project would serve as the basis for subsequent appropriate Bank
development projects in both rural and urban sectors." (SAR, para. 6.06).



-9-
2.17      "Since the project is an innovative, multi-sectoral effort,
it carries considerable risks. The capacity of INAN to perform the
coordinating function will depend upon staff development and administrative
changes, envisaged in the project, and upon INAN's continued recognition
and support by the Government. The evaluation of work envisaged under
the project is another area of considerable risk. Such a large-scale
evaluation of nutritional activities has never been undertaken. The
project aims at developing the evaluation capacity of INAN with the
assistance of universities and other independent agencies. Evaluation
activities would be supported closely in an anticipated intensive work
program for project supervision." (SAR, para. 6.08).
D. Proiect Description
2.18      The project at appraisal consisted of the activities described
below (paras. 2.19-2.21) under headings that indicate their objectives
in the overall project approach. When the project was amended, an intervention
through retail marketing was added (para. 2.22).
Testing of Alternative Delivery Systems to Improve Nutrition Status.
2.19      With a budget of US$11.1 million (18% of base cost) this included
a series of field tests designed to generate for future planning purposes,
knowledge concerning effective means of reaching target groups with
appropriate food, nutrition education, and other nutrition services,
through existing infrastructure in three different sectors.
(a)  PRAMENSE- Tests of Nutrition Intervention through the
Agricultural Extension Asency.   The agricultural extension agency EMBRATER
would be tested as a vehicle for improving nutrition of target groups.
The tests would involve families of 3,000 low-income farmers, with holdings
generally below 50ha in 12 municipios in the state of Sergipe, and would
identify cost-effective mixes of agricultural and social extension by
careful control and analysis of various extension combinations. The
participants would receive varying combinations and intensities of both
agricultural and social extension. The objective of agricultural extension
would be to increase output through better farm planning, the application
of improved agricultural practices, improved on-farm processing and
preservation, and access to the necessary agricultural inputs and credit.
Social extension would primarily concentrate on education concerning
the proper nutritional use of existing family resources and the use
of increased production and increased income in nutritionally beneficial
ways. A total of 30 health miniposts would be opened to provide basic
health and nutrition services. By the end of the fourth year, it was
estimated, a total of 36,000 persons would be covered by health and nutri-
tion services.   The tests would be supported by provision of supplemental
agricultural credit estimated at US$1.5 million, to be given by the
Bank of Brazil to participating farmers. A tatal of 90 extensionists
would be trained, 30 respectively for agricultural, social and health
extension. A special project unit within the agricultural extension



-10-
agency in Sergipe, ANCARSE, would manage the component. The evaluation
of activities would be carried out by the Institute of Nutrition in
Recife, and the School of Agriculture in Vicosa of the University of
Minas Gerais. ANCARSE was to draw up the detailed plan of operations
and methodology for evaluation which would take six months after signing
the Loan agreement, and implementation would last three years;
(b) PINS-Nutritional Intervention through the Health and
Commercial Delivery SXstem (PINS).   This would test, in the state of
Pernambuco, the efficiency of health and, relatedly, the commercial
delivery systems as vehicles for nutrition intervention, the managerial
capability of the Government's health system to carry out such programs,
and the community's response to the programs. The project would study
the benefits from adding nutritioD services to existing health units.
Interventions would: monitor children's nutritional status; provide
education in now to improve a malnourished condition; and provide specific
nutrients (iron tablets, mass doses of vitamin A). This would benefit
34,000 children under 6 years of age, and 10,000 pregnant and lactating
women considered as being at high nntritional risk. Food would be provided
to about 45% of Lhis group.
- Ihis component was to also provide for studying the nutritional
effectiveness and extending the outreach of the maternal and child health
programs of ISESP in areas of Zona da Hata (sugar plantations). It
would finance and evaluate the impact of adding in existing FSESP centers,
nutrition services such as nutrition education to 12,000 beneficiaries
(rural mothe:-s and children to be compared to a control group without
services), about half of whom would receive food supplements; and
(c) PROAPE-Nutrition Intervention through the School Feeding
System (PROAPE).   The test would determine the nutritional impact and
efficiency of feeding pre-schoolers by taking advantage of the existing
transport, storage, and other facilities of large ongoing school lunch
programs. The component would use 48 existing kindergarten centers
known as CEAPES (Centers for Education and Feeding of Pre-School ChildreD).
Approximately 4,800 pre-scboolers from the age 24 months to 5 years
would be brought by mothers to the school lunch program and fed, and
the mothers would receive nutrition education. The project would test
whether the concept could be expanded successfully under normal administrative
conditions, especially to poor rural areas. Evaluation of the nutrition
impact would include a control group outside the CEAPES, and baseline
studies. The School of Public Healtb was to devise the baseline nutrition
surveys and conduct evaluation of nutritional intervention through the
various school feeding programs. Included in the evaluation would be
a determination of the effect of the nutritional difference on the educational,
health, and sociological profiles of the pre-schoolers. The effect
of the program on the benefits derived from the investment in the education
system would be measured.



-1l-
Development of Low-Cost Nutritious Foods
2.20      With a budget of USS37.7 million (602 of base cost) the objective
of this component was to make possible the development, teating, and
industrial-scale production of low-cost nutritious foods for use in
institutional feeding programs and the commercial marlket. It included
the following activities:
(a)  Establishment of a Food Advisory Board.   The President
of IRAN would establish such a Board whose members would be, among others,
nutrition specialists and representatives of agencies responsible for
food delivery programs, and financing agencies. The Board would advise
INAN on the specific types, cost range, nutritive value and other specifications
for foods to be: (i) developed; (ii) tested; (iii) eligible for BNDE
credits; and (iv) eligible for purchase by IRAN for institutional feeding
programs. The Board would review food specifications annually and adjust
them, as necessary, in consultation with the Bank;
(b)  Product Development.   The project would support development
of nutritious products through Government centers of food technology.
Special attention would be directed to developing or improving on existing
technologies for food processing and preservation at village and farm
levels. Through ITAL, the project would finance the construction of
a pilot plant including blending and auxiliary equipment for producing
blended foods, a pilot scale extrusion cooker, packing equipment, a
storage testing facility, housing for experimental laboratory animals,
and a cereal testing laboratory. The project would also establish a
group of 12 experienced technicians to plan, manage, and carry out the
development of 10-15 new low-cost nutritious products. Included would
also be work on fortification of processed food staples such as wheat
flour, corn meal, salt, and sugar, and develop, test, and train to make
fortified foods available to the poor on a large scale;
Cc)  Feasibility Studies.   Once products have been developed
by ITAL, ten detailed engineering and commercial marketing studies would
be funded through FINEP (US$750,000), and eight commercial market tests
of products (approximately US$2 million). FINEP would also finance
about 20 studies on the development of production of low-cost nutritious
foods, fortified foods, and fortificants in agro-industrial cooperatives
of small producers. (US$1 million); and
(d) B1qDE Loans to the Food Industry. Brazil contemplated
the production of low-cost nutritious foods for institutional feeding
and to be sold in the commercial market, and reduce the dependence on
foreign donated foods. BNDE would lend about $30 million to industries
for this program. Loans would be for up to 10 years at 3% interest,
18 months grace, monetary correction to account for inflation, and certain
tax concessions. INAN would select and review subprojects from a technical
viewpoint and be satisfied with production costs and sale prices to
the ultimate consumer. Disbursement against this component would be



-12-
contingent upon the publication of the specifications by INAN and satisfactory
arrangements esfablished to monitor and enforce appropriate pricing.
Building Nutrition-Related Institutions and Developing an Informatien
Base
2.21      With a budget of US$16.5 million (22% of base cost) this included:
(a)  Nutrition SuLvvX.  Carrying out a survey of representative
nationwide sample to provide the Government with basic data necessary for
planning nutrition policies and intervention programs. It was to be
managed by IBGE, and this survey was to comprise a sub-sample of an exist-
ing food and consumption survey performed by IBGE. Data collection
was to take about nine months and data processing and analysis three months;
(b) Establishment of a Nutrition Status Surveillance Unit. This
was to be established in IBGE, consisting of four professional and support
staff, responsible for regular biennial follow-up food consumption and
nutrition survey, the first to be undertaken in 1979. Survey findings
would provide INAN with the basic nutrition data necessary to carry
out its planning and evaluation responsibilities;
(c) Nutrition Policy Research and Planning Studies Related to
Agriculture. The aim of these studies was to provide the Ministry of
Agriculture with information on the nutritional consequences of its
policies and programs so this information could be taken into account
in future policy decisions. IRAN would enter into an agreement with
SUPLAN to ensure the studies and data generated were pertinent to and
available for the formulation and implementation of national nutrition
programs. In its annual report to the Social Development Council, INAN
would reflect the effect of national agricultural policies on nutrition.
These objectives would be achieved through:
(i) establishment of a nutrition unit in the Ministry of Agriculture's
Secretariat of Planning (SUPLAN) which would project food supplies for
different socio-economic groups, review and analyze nutritional implication
of alternative food/agricultural production strategies for these groups,
assure findings are considered in formulation of agricultural plans,
and coordinate the research program below; and
(ii) a research program concerned with nutritional implications of
agricultural policies, to be carried out by universities and other research
groups;
(d) Training Programs. Given the substantial number of trained
personnel needed to implement a national nutrition program, the project
would develop capabilities of INAN staff and otLer federal and state agencies
to meet the needs of a national program, and improve the quality and expand
the capacity of Brazilian educational institutions to provide nutrition
courses. In addition, it would provide multi-disciplinary short-term



-13-
instruction in nutrition planning and administration for approximately
470 persons and specialized courses and graduate level training for
approximately 70 persons. It would also strengthen training in food
marketing and food technology at national, state, and regional levels.
This component would be the responsibility of a training coordinator
in INAN. The component would also provide for a survey of existing
trained personnel, and the capacity and current capability of training
institutions. The manpower requirements over the next decade would
be estimated and the expansion of facilities and staff for training
needed for bridging the gap worked out. The survey was to take 6 months,
and would also be organized by the training coordinator, and would be
assisted by a National Advisory Council on Manpower Needs and Training
established by INAN. The Council would be a permanent body that would
review on a periodic basis the estimate of manpower needs in nutrition
and the status and adequacy of nutrition training institutions. The reviews
from the Council would provide INAN with a continuing basis 'or planning
and managing training programs and for developing the institutions capable
of meeting the needs. Completion of the survey would be a precondition
to implementing the component; and
Se) Ortanizational SuDport to INAN for proiect management.
monitoring. and evaluation Planning. This component financed.
(i) the cost of a special project unit, a Planning Office in IRAN,
and technical assistance to meet the short- and medium-term manpower
requirements of INAN, including the use of consultants. Monitoring
and evaluation for project activities had been assigned high priority,
and was built into all project components, in addition to overall monitoring
and evaluation to be undertaken by IRAN; and
(ii) a special fund to be managed by the project unit to strengthen
evaluation activities in the different project components and undertake
special studies and other innovative activities not anticipated at the
time of project preparation.
Rede Somar - low cost retail marketing
2.22      When the original project was reformulated in late 1980 (see
paras. 3.05 and 3.06 below), the nutrition delivery programs were expanded,
and a fourth alternative, Rede Somar, a food marketing distribution
system was added. This program was implemented by COBAL which already
managed similar programs in other areas of the country. The project
covered its expansion in the Northeast. The Rede Somar Supply System,
operated through Service Centers in selected urban and rural areas and
provided wholesale distribution, and purchasing, technical, and managerial
support services to small independent retailers and voluntary groups,
with the aim of lowering consumer prices. The food supply system was
considered to keep the original goals of the project by reaching the
poorer elements of society with nutritious food in a cost-effective
menner, providing significant nutrition benefits to these groups.



-14-
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST
A. Effectiveness and Start-uD
3.01      The only special condition for effectiveness considered before
negotiations was a request regarding the issuance of a Presidential
decree authorizing special organizational status and salaries for INAN.
The condition was dropped on the basis of assurances given by the Brazilian
delegation at negotiations that the decree had already been issued.
In fact the decree was never issued. The loan was declared effective
on December 30, 1976, three months after the signing of the Loan Agreement.
3.02      By then Brazil was suffering the full impact of the oil crisis
of 1973, and was implementing strong anti-inflationary policies with
very stringent measures of fiscal austerity, including budgetary cuts
and salary and hiring freezes in the public sector. The austerity that
substituted for the expansionary mood affected project start-up in three
mutually reinforcing ways: (i) it reinforced the borrower's reservations
regarding the experimental, long-term project concept and its preference
for activities with i,mediatc nutrition impact; (ii) the restrictive
fiscal policies limited the Executing Entities' and INAN's ability to
hire additional staff and consultants; and (iii) the general new financial
regulations came in conflict with the lending policies spelled-out in
the Project Agreement for the credit line that would use 38% of the
Bank Loan (while the GOB regulations provided for partial cost-of-living
correction, the Bank insisted in positive interest rates in real terms).
3.03      The result of all these factors was a slow start-up of the
project and that progress was almost exclusively made in the nutrition
delivery components. Initially, the Bank paid greater attention to
the question of INAN's legal status and ability to overcome its general
shortage of qualified personnel, but later other aspects of the problems
affecting project implementation were recognized.
3.04      An interim progress report presented to the Board in May 1980
identified three problems as causes of delays in implementation (Sec
M80-372, May 9, 1980):
(a) organizational. -- "From the outset, the administrative
weakness of IAN, including its lack of sufficient authority to operate
effectively and its inability to attrart and retain qualified professionals,
had been identified as the principal constya- t to implementation of
the project."



-15-
(b) conceptual. -- "While the basic concept of the project
had been agreed with INAN, a difference in emphasis emerged between
the Bank and the Brazilian Government at the time of negotiations.
This concerned the extent to which the project should focus primarily
on experimental research and development in specified areas as opposed
to attempting to meet the immediate nutritional reeds of a larger target
population. To meet the Government's objective would have required
a further period of preparation, wbich was already in its third year,
and it was, therefore, judged preferable to proceed with the project
as conceived at that time." "Certain groups within the Government,
concerned with the emphasis on experimental research and development,
continued to perceive the project to a certain extent more as a 'Bank
project' than a 'Brazilian project', although they were in principle
in agreement with its broad objectives." "In order to correct this
situation, INAN has reviewed the various components and submitted new
proposals to the Bank... and we plan to renegotiate with the view to
reaching agreement on a restructured project." and
(c) interest rate problem. -- Out of the Bank Loan, 38Z was
to be used by the National Development Bank (UNDE) as a credit line
to finance production of low-cost nutritious foods through small and
medium scale enterprises. "BNDE and INAN, however, could not conclude
their negotiations on how funds from this line of credit would be loaned
because of the difference between the Bank and the Brazilian Government
on the interest rate to be charged." "The Government has requested this
component be cancelled and the amount of US$7.2 million be reallocated."
B. Revisions
3.05      After little progress was made in the first two years of implemen-
tation, in August 1978, the president of INAN made the first comprehensive
proposal for restructuring the proiect. The Bank acknowledged the need
for a reallocation of fur-s for mcst project activities during the Problem
Projects Review o October ;I, 1978.  Nevertheless, actions were delayed
because of hopes that the interest rate problem might be resolved.
These hopes never materialized and the project was formally amended
more than two years later on Januarv 14, 1981, largely reducing the
original emphasis on research and limiting the scope of the remainder
of the project to nutrition delivery programs.
3.06      Responding to the current priorities of the Borrower the three
nutrition field interventions originally appraised were extended beyond
their initial experimental scope and a new activity to support the implemen-
tation in Recife of interventions through the commercial food delivery
system was added to the project. As a result of the revisions almost all
of the loan was disbursed for the3e activities with a direct impact on the
population, while the activities aiming at the ceve apment and production
of low-cost foods were practically eliminated and those aiming at insti-
tution-building and development of an information base received less
than a fifth of the funds budgeted for them at appr6isal (see Table 2).



-16-
C. Implementation and Disbursements Schedules
3.07      Given the substantial revision of the project, it makes little
sense to attempt a detailed comparison between the appraisal and actual
schedules. At the time of the original completion date 30Z of the loan
had been disbursed. However nutrition intervention activities had been
implemented at or beyond the level planned at appraisal (see Table 2),
while the rest were behind schedule or had not been started. After
its revision, the project was completed and the loan was fully disbursed
within the schedule of the Amending Agreement (see Table 4).
D.  Reporting
3.08      Although a format for bi-annual reporting was prepared for
each component, INAN had difficulty maintaining a flow of consistent
information on progress, and reporting suffered from a lack of continuity
of staff. Because of the research orientation of the project, the detailed
monitoring and evaluation of research activities was delegated to the
University of Sao Paulo, and several good reports were prepared using
the data collected, although some of the quality of the data is sometimes
questionable. Some workers were not properly trained, and did not realize
the importance of taking accurate measurements. Training was provided
to improve the quality of data, and accuracy improved. Numerous reports
were produced, but it is hard to follow progress on a systematic form.
E. Procurement
3.09      In reviewing project files, there appeared to be no problems
in procurement, and performance was satisfactory. In supervision reports,
procurement always received a rating of "1" (see table 6).
F. Costs'
3.10      Based on withdrawal applications (table 4), total actual project
cost is US$67.3 million, slightly under the appraisal estimate of US$72
million, including contingencies. Table 2, summarizes the distribution
of total project cost by component activities as reported by INAN.
Most of the expenditures (94.52 of actual total expenditures) were made
in the nutrition delivery programs. They were evenly divided between
the programs for testing three alternative delivery systems originally
lDuring implementation, inflation was very high and the exchange rate
was subject to controlled adjustments that not always allowed it to
reflect the price situation. As noted on the basic data sheet, the
exchange rate at appraisal was US$1=Cr9.4, and by completion, it was
US$l=Cr378.3 or 40 times that of appraisal. Such rapid depreciation
of the Cruzeiro could not have been anticipated at appraisal, and considering
all changes in project content, it is not meaningful to compare appraised
and actual project cost in Cruzeiros.



-17-
appraised (which took 47.7% of actual expenditures as opposed to 17.9%
estimated at appraisal) and the Rede Somar component, added in 1981.
As a consequence of the cancellation of the BNDE loans, actual expenditures
for tL- development of the food industry amounted to only 1.8% of total
expenditures, instead of an appraisal estimate of 60.5%. Finally, only
3.7% of the expenditures were made in activities for institutional and
data base development, less than a fifth of the 21.6Z estimated at appraisal.
The loan agreement provided for five expenditure categories of which
one (BEDE loans) was not used.
3.11      As shown in Table 3, actual withdrawals by disbursement categories
closely parallel the distribution included in the Amending Agreement
of January 1981. Eighty four percent of the Loan was withdrawn under
Disbursement Category "3" representing a mixture of items, including:
(a) incremental salary and operating expenses; (b) food; (c) marketing
and feasibility studies; (d) civil works; Ce) equipment; and (f) vehicles.
G.  Financial Sources
3.12      The Government contributed 72% of project expenditures, much
in agreement with the estimate at appraisal. This meant a relatively
small financial Bank contribution to a project of large scope requiring
substantial contribution in staff time (see basic data sheet). This
was an additional sore point: throughout the project INAN and other
executing agencies tended to resent that the Bank, with such a small
contribution, placed great demands on their time to meet Bank regulations.
H. Borrower's Performance
3.13      The National Food and Nutrition Research Institute (INAN)
was responsible for contracting, coordinating and supervising the various
federal and state agencies and research centers that were to be directly
in charge of implementing the project components.
3.14      A Project Unit was to 1-- established at INAN both to perform
INAN's coordinating role in the project and, together with INAN Planning
Office, was to receive a large part of the planned institution-building
assistance and help INAN to evolve into the focal point for policy-oriented
analysis and source of policy and program recommendations.
3.15      The project unit was proposed at appraisal to bave 8 professional
staff; Coordinator, Deputy Coord.nator, Finance Officer, Planning Officer,
Agricultural Economist, Sociologist, Nutritionist, and Training Specialist.
Approving the biring of these staff was very difficult when Brazil faced
hiring freezes and budget cuts, in addition to the difficulties in obtaining
speciali_ed personnel to accept a position at INAN's salaries. By June
1977, only two of the 8 positions had been filled. By mid 1978, the



-18-
Project Coordinator had been hired away by the Bank2 and the unit was
reported to be in worse shape than ever. The Project Unit continued
having staff constraints resulting in heavy workloads, and overall low
morale. In addition, because of its special status and the general
perception of the project as a World Bank project, the unit was kept
isolated from the rest of INAN.
3.16      The Bank put much of the blame of project delays on the performance
of IRAN and the constraints faced by the project unit. In turn, INAN
claims the project did not respond to their nutrition program priorities.
In retrospect, one can fault both for bureaucratic rigidity and for not
recognizing their differences openly and not working out solutions promptly
-- the Bank for its lack of flexibility and delays in recognizing Brazil's
changing needs, and INAN for not openly expressing its concerns, constraints
and limitations that inhibited project implementation. If greater flexibility
had existed by both parties, the project might have been reformulated
earlier, and much time, effort, and goodwill might have been saved.
3.17      At any rate in reference to borrower's performance there is no
doubt that the borrower during most of the project was at fault regarding
its obligation of staffing the project unit and the Planning Office
at IRAN. And this hampered project coordination and monitoring and
the 'itll realization of the institution-building project potential.
In fact, contrary to what had been assured to the Bank during negotiations
the borrower failed to give INAN the special organizational status that
would have allowed the higher salaries needed to attract staff of the
required caliber.
3.18      Credit is well deserved by the Brazilian managers and staff
in charge of the field implPmentation of the nutrition delivery components
who were very dedicated and competent.
IV. PROJECT PERFORMANCE AKD 14PACT3
4.01      The main goal of the project was to enhance the government's
capabilities in the nutrition sector so that within four years it would
be able to plan and deploy resources with greater precision and, as
a result, to conduct a mole effective program. This goal would be achieved
through research, training and experimental project components aimed
2Following an agreement made before the person was appointed as Project
Coordinator.
3This chapter draws heavily from the section on Brazil of the review
of the World Bank nutrition projects written by nutritionist Joanne
Leslie and the PRN's Nutrition Review of April 1984.



-19-
at:
(a) testing of alternative nutrition delivery systems using
the existing infrastructure in the agriculture, health
and education sectors;
(b) the development and production of low-cost nutritious
foods for the use by the target groups; and
(c) building nutrition-related institutions and developing
an information base.
4.02      Throughout most of its first phase (1977-80) the project suffered
from management, disbursement, and evaluation problems, aud during 1980
there vere doubts that it could reach completion. However, performance
picked up after the project was modified in response to the borrower's
current priorities. The project was formally amended in January 1981
with the addition of Rede Somar, a major marketing component aiming
at nutrition interventions through retail marketing. Performance and
impact of the project as implemented is discussed in the following sections.
The components that were eliminated or substantially reduced are discussed
in greater detail in the Annex.
A. Nutrition Interventions
4.03      The original project's components involving field testing
of nutrition interventions and Rede Somar were all implemented, largely
according to plan, and the number of beneficiaries exceeded original
targets. (Sfe Table 1). The main weaknesses - in management and evaluation
- arose from INAN's inability to fulfill its coordination role. In
spite of the project's difficulties, the experimental components were
sufficiently well received that all have been integrated (in the same
form, or in forms that were modified based on evaluations) into large-scale
government programs.
4.04      A major objective for including the experimental nutrition inter-
vention components (at least, as perceived by the Bank appraisal team) was
to acquire information through their evaluation to enable the Brazilian
government to design and conduct a more effective national nutrition program.
However, INAN's weak performance and limited interest in research activities
considerably undermined the evaluation efforts. The result has been
that, while large data bases exist for all three of the original nutrition
intervention programs, weaknesses of experimental design and inadequate
support for data analysis have limited what has been learned to date.
PRAMENSE - Nutrition intervention through rural extension
4.05      The objective of this component was to test the effectiveness
of combined agricultural, health and nutrition extension services, together
with a special credit scheme (CAP) designed to stimulate improved food
prod.ction and consumption as an indirect means to improve nutritional



-20-
status among 3,000 low-income farm households in the State of Sergipe.
Almost 7,000 households (or 25,000 people) directly received some combination
of services, at a cost (in US$ equivalent) equal to 2.2 times the original
budget for this component.
4.06      Despite an elaborate data collection and evaluation plan designed
by a team from the Federal University of Vicosa, with technical assistance
from a Bank monitoring and evaluation expert and later collaboration on
analysis with FIPE, it has uot yet been possible to establish any statistically
significant evidence of direct impact of PRAMENSE on agricultural output,
food consumption or nutrition status. In retrospect this lack of positive
findings is not surprising given that:
(1) Climatic changes caused a prolonged drought that prevented
expected results from materializing;
(2) The major inputs such as rural credit and construction
of mini-health posts could only be expected to have an
indirect and partial effect on the dependent (nutrition
status) variables.
(3) For ethical and political reasons, Brazilian researchers
were unwilling to gather data on a control group receiving
no project inputs; and
(4) The four treatment areas compared, which were supposed to
differ only in terms of intensity of program inputs, also
also differed significantly in terms of land quality, rainfall,
and administration of agricultural and social services.
4.07      Although detailed suggestions have been made by Bank staff
members as to bow it migbt be possible to acquire more information from
existing data about the impact of PRAMENSE, particularly on health and
nutrition status, no such analysis has yet been done. This lack of
impact evaluation results is certainly a source of disappointment, but
several successes and useful lessons have emerged from the operational
experience of PRAMENSE:
(1) The credit scheme developed has been more successful
than any previous program in reaching the lowest income
farmers and share croppers who normally have no access
to rural credit and now the CAP scheme introduced in
the project has been replicated throughout the Northeast
as part of the POLONORDESTE and PROCAP programs;
(2) Thirty health posts have been constructed by local health
associations formed under the project demonstrating that,
even in the poorest rural communities, it is possible
to mobilize substantial community resources to improve
health care;



-21-
(3) The agricultural extension services successfully promoted
for the first time among small farmers a significant
increase in the use of credit, chemical fertilizers,
on-farm storage, improved seeds and animal traction for
ploughing; and
(4) This component has contributed to a better understanding
of the situation of small farmers and share croppers
in the "agreste" and "sertao" regions of the northeast,
particularly their problem of access to land and the
critical importance of animal production as part of their
survival strategy.
4.08      As of 1982, INAN terminated its support for PRAHENSE and most
activities of the project were integrated into the POLONORDESTE rural
development program, wbich comprises 46 separate projects and covers
50X of the geographic area of the Northeast. All POLONORDESTE projects
include health and nutrition extension services as vell as small farmer
oriented agricultural credit, research and extension activities, which
is in part due to the successful experience in combining the two in
PRAMENSE.
4.09      A study of the experience under the PRAMENSE program was among
the considerations that contributed to the Bank's understanding of the
underlying problems of access to land.4  (A decision has since been
made to include the purchase and redistribution of land in rural development
projects in Brazil). Both the CAP credit and the extension concepts
have been institutionalized in the operations of the agricultural extension
agency.
PINS - Integrated health services and food supplementation
4.10      Although this component, as described in the appraisal report,
was designed to test the capacity of the health system to provide nutrition
education and specific micro nutrients (Vitamin A and Iron) as well
as to compare the relative effectiveness of the health system and COBAL
supermarkets as channels for the distribution of subsidized food to
low-income families, early during implementation it was decided to simplify
the component focussing on the effectiveness of the supermarket distribution
channel, and within this, on a comparison of four different subsidy
levels: Model A - 60% subsidy; Model B - 45% subsidy plus required monthly
visit to health facilities, Model C - 45% subsidy; Model D - 30% subsidy.
4.11      The PINS component, which was implemented in Recife, benefited
from excellent local supervision of both operational and evaluation
activities, and it is for this component that the strongest evidence
*udith Tendler, "Evaluation of Nutrition Research and Development
Project- PRAMENSE Component (Sergipe)," September 1979.



-22-
of a positive impact on nutritional status exists. A 1982 evaluation5
compared the growth of children of different age groups over the first
two years of the project by subsidy level and by several anthropometric
indicators of nutritional status: percent of median weight-for-age,
percent of median weight-for-height, and percent of median height-for-age.
To circumvent the lack of control group (which had been rejected for
ethical and political reasons, as in the PRAMENSE evaluation) baseline
levels of malnutrition in each 12-month age group were used to predict
expected levels after two years of program participation. It was found
that for all subsidy groups observed levels of severe malnutrition (less
than 75% normal weight-for-age) were significantlv lower than expected
levels. The evaluation did not control for socio-economic factors,
and perhaps more importantly did not control for the self-selection
effect; nonetheless, the finding of a reduction in malnutrition is consistent
across age groups and by all of the anthropometric indicators, and this,
taken in light of a reduction in buying power of the general population
provides strong evidence that the intervention had a significant, positive
effect on the nutritional status of the intended beneficiaries. Additional
evaluations are in progress, but results are not yet available.
4.12      In addition to providing evidence of a positive impacL on nutritional
status, evaluations of the PINS component provided much valuable information
for planning future targeted consumer subsidy programs. The most important
lessons learned from the operational experience of PINS were:
(1) Had a broader range of basic foods been subsidized (even
at a lower level), and had retailers been allowed to sell
the subsidized foods in smaller units, and had they been
allowed to sell on credit, the volume of food purchases
per family under the program would probably have been
greater.
(2) The dropout rate was significantly affected by the subsidy
level, and also by the requirement of a monthly medical
examination; after 12 months the dropout rates were: Model
A - 26X; Model B - 632; Model C - 46?; and Model D - 75?.
(3) The paperwvrk and other administrative burdens would have
been reduced anjd the public acceptance of the program
.nct eased had the c.upon system been eliminated and the
p rof am targeted to geographic areas with high percentages
v .-.- far i Iies, and had many local small retail shops
been used fir distrAbution of the food rather than requiring
-pac.rig ioi:seLolds to use the few, often distant,
v --t.es  a '- lva, "Avaliacao Antropometrica do PINS."



-23-
4.13      INAN credits the experience gained in the first years of the
implementation of this component for the design of the Basic Food Supply
Project for Low Income Areas (PROAB), which was launched in Recife.
in February 1979, and which had expanded to the states of Piaui, Alagoas,
Rio Grande do Norte and Paraiba by the end of 1981. Essentially, PROAB
is a food subsidy program geographically targeted for the poorest neighbor-
hoods. COBAL, the Brazilian Food marketing Company, contracts with
selected retailers to sell 10 to 12 basic items at subsidized prices,
witb the retailers receiving a fixed administrative fee. As a result,
consumers can now buy basic goods in small quantities at neighborhood
stores at lower prices. Plans for expansion into rural areas include
working mainly with cooperatives.  According to an ACC/SCN report, food
prices have decreased 15% for retail stores and 14% for consumers.6
PROAPE - Early childhood education and supplementary feeding
4.14      The PROAPE component, which provides education and supplementary
feeding to children 4-6 years old through the regular school system,
was originally intended to be implemented in rural areas of the state
of Sao Paulo. But at negotiations it was agreed that PROAPE would be
implemented in Recife and Carauru in the State of P5rnambuco in order
to concentrate project components in the Nortneast.   The original number
of intended beneficiaries was only 4,800 children, but by the end of
]981, PROAPE was reaching 50,000 children in four states. During 1982
it was expanded to 11 states with approximately 90,000 beneficiaries,
and subsequently was being implemented nationwide. Although this expansion
was originally financed by INAN with project funds, as of the project
closing date, the Ministry of Education (NEC) and State governments
were funding and administering all PROAPE programs except those in Pernambuco
and Alagoas, where INAN continues to fund the project in order to conduct
further evaluations. Preliminary evaluation results from Alagoas, for
example, suggest that PROAPE delivers supplementary feeding to preschool
age children for approximately 40Z of the cost of other programs targeted
to the same age grout, e.g. LBA and INAE preschools and kindergartens.
4.15      PROAPE's rapid rate of expansion reflects the fact that the
program has been popular among both participants and implementors.
In fact, a major success of PROAPE has been the extent to which it has
successfully stimulated community participation and contribution, thus
simultaneously lowering costs and creating stronger links between families
and the local schools.
6A'berto Carvalho ia Siiv^. "Efforts and Resources to Address Malnutrition
in Brazil; Government Programs and the UN System." A Consultancy Report
prepared for the ACC Sub',oumitee on Nutrition, July 1982, P. 34.
'he project continued to f.Lznce studies of a more tightly controlled
experience with CEAPE, PROAPE's prolotype. in Sao Paulo.



-24-
4.16      PROAPE had the dual objectives of improving the nutritional
status of participating low-income children and of enhancing their school
participation rates and scholastic achievement.  Unfortunately, responsibility
for evaluation of this component has been fragmented, and therefore,
conclusions about the extent to which PROAPE achieved either of these
objectives must be drawn from a variety of sources. Attempts to determine
the impact of PROAPE on anthropometric indicators of child nutritional
status under operational conditions in Pernambuco showed no significant
evidence of an improvement in nutritional status. However, a careful
evaluation of the CEAPE program (the prototype for PROAPE) in the municipio
of Leme in the State of Sao Paulo showed that notwithstanding relatively
low energy supplementation (250 to 300 calories compared with 500 calories
in PROAPE) and far from ideal operating conditions, the level of malnutrition
fell from 52% to 46% among participating children during a period in
which malnuurition increased slightly from 44% to 47X among non-participants.
School performance scores were better and repetition rates were lower
among CEAPE children (Benicio et al, 1981). Therefore a better designed
or more carefully executed evaluation in Pernambuco, including a control
group, might also have revealed a positive effect on child nutritional
status. However, there were several reasons for explaining that PROAPE
might have a small measurable impact (and therefore difficult to measure
under operational conditions) on anthropometric indicators of nutritional
status:
1. Growth rates are slower and malnutrition is usually less
severe among 4-6 year old children than among younger preschool
age children, and therefore it may take longer to produce
a measurable impact on growth;
2. Additional food consumed may be used primarily for increased
activity (also important to child development) rather than
increased growth; and
3. To the extent that the supplement replaced breakfast, which
was sometimes reported, it was an income transfer to the
families rather than an improvement in the children's dietary
::ntake.
4.17      Even if the impact on nutritional status was marginbl, the
food seems to have been important in motivating the mothers and children,
who then experienced social and educational benefits. Participation
in the Pernambuco program declined 30% when food supplements were temporarily
unavailable in some schools.
4..8      Similar to the findings of the project financed evaluations
of the CEAPE progiam in Sao Patlo, evaluations of the impact of PROAPE
on s-bool part; ;. -at.no and performance tended to show positive results.
The pprcer:ag- '-f fcrmer PROAPE participants who passed in the first
an- se.-ni ewea;E zf f:ementarv scbool was 74% compared with only 60%
._ the c t;ca  g7t_     n   er7  s of academic performance, children with
two years expoEure i  FROAPE ;VTfrformed consistently better than control
7roups, altitoL4h a;x-xg f.rst !r2Aers those in the more intensive Model



-25-
A8 performed on average only 5Z better than a control group while those
in the less intensive Model B performed 21% better; among second graders
those in Model A had average scores 15Z above a control group while
those in Model B had average scores only 2Z above. Psychometric tests
given to PROAPE participants showed statistically significant improvement
over a six-month period but, since there waa no control group for this
evaluation, it is not possible to know how much of the improvement to
attribute to the program and how much to maturation.
Rede Somar - low cost retail food marketinx
4.19      At the time of the renegotiation of the project loan, the
Bank agreed to put all of the money that had been originally intended
for loans to the industry component into the expansion of Rede Somar-
a marketing program initiated in 1978 in which COBAL acts as a wholesaler
for certain basic foods, which it sells to affiliated small and medium
private retailers. Essentially, the aim of the program is to improve
the efficiency of small retailers by providing them with regular supplies
of merchandise at attractive prices and technical/operational assistance,
including information on possible financing channels. Affiliated retailers
agree to sell the products at specified prices, usually with a 10 margin
to the retailers, passing the benefits on to the consumer. In general,
CORAL claims the consumer saves 20Z to 252 in basic foods prices.
4.20      Preliminary evidence obtained during the supervision missions
and reported in a paper prepared for UNICEF suggests that Rede Somar
has created a competitive situation among other food retailers in the
Northeast and that, as a result, prices for basic food items have been
reduced by an average of lOZ. The paper goes on to say: "It is estimated
that, among direct consumer beneficiaries of Rede Somar, a 10X price
decrease could generate increases in per capita consumption of up to
100 calories per day among families in the four lowest income brackets. Not
only does this progr m appear to be nutritionally effective, but it
is also affordable."
4.21      Unfortunately, there are no direct data available yet on the
impact of this program on household food availability or on anthropometric
indicators of nutritional status, but evaluations looking at these outcomes
are underway.
4.22      Funding under the project allowed Rede Somar to expand to seven
states in the Northeast. The program has also since been included in three
other Bank projects. The Government of Colombia, after studying Rede Somar,
has asked for and received Bank assistance in setting up a similar program.
8kodel A provided food 6 days a week, 220 days a year while Model B
provided food 3 days a week, 130 days a year.
9Emmerich Schebeck, "Targeted Consumer Food Subsidies Versus Targeted
Food Marketing Interventions: Myth and Reality," September 1982.



-26-
B. Development and Production of low-cost, nutritious foods
4.23      Only one subcomponent, out of what was to have been a US$38
million activity to develop and test technologies for production of
low-cost nutritious processed foods, was successfully implemented.
Approximately 75Z of the funds for this component were to have been
used by BNDE 18s a credit line to small and medium-scale food technology
enterprises.    However, there were several problems, vhich jointly
contributed to make implementation of this component impossible:
1. IRAN was concerned that t    credit might aid the
multinationals in Brazil;
2. INAN became opposed to use processed foods since its revised
policy was to use natural foods as this would provide a
market for small farmers; and
3. BNDE wanted to provide a substantial interest subsidy to
the producers of low-cost nutritious foods in the Northeast,
while the Bank insisted on a policy of positive, reai interest
rates for such credits.
4.24      The one successful food technology subcomponent has been the
development of an intermediate scale technology for processing cassava
flour implemented by CEPED in the State of Bahia. There was considerable
delay in getting this activity underway, but it has developed a technology
that is sufficiently successful to have been replicated by 40 cooperatives
or small firms at their own expense.
C. Institution-Building
4.25      The institution-building record of the Brazil project .0 mixed.
Staff training, technical assistance, and support for evaluation of
project components and other special studies were assigned to INAN. Tbe
main objective -- to enhance the capability of INAN -- was not fully
achieved.  Although INAN has survived as a political entity under cautious
leadership, it does not have much clout within the government. T.ae
lack of government committment to INAN is reflected, in part, in the
failure to raise it to the strtus of a foundation, which in turn suakes
it more difficult for INAN to offer sufficierLtly competitive salaries
or the institutional leadership and scientific prestige to attract highly
qualified nutritionists and economists. Yet the development of a large-scale
national nutrition program must be credited to INAN. In June 1983,
it was given additional major responsibilities in relation to the new
integrated women's health program.
'OFor a more extensive discussion see paras. 3-7 of the Annex.
l'This despite the fact that dur ing negotiatious the Bank responded
to borrower-s appreherSion regarding multirationals by agreeing to maLe
only small and mediur-size enterprises eligible for loans.
c-



-27-
4.26      A second institution-building effort was the establishment
of a nutrition status surveillance unit by IBGE (the Brazilian Institute
of Geography and Statistics). The new unit was to undeLtake a national
nutrition survey as a follow-up to a survey of 55,000 families by IBGE
in 1974-75 that gathered extensive socioeconomic, demographic, food
consunption and anthropometric data. Political sensitivity to IBGE's
earlier findings (for example, approximately 50 percent of urban families
and 43 percent of rural families in the Northeast received less than
90 percent of average energy requirements) coupled with the feeling
that there was no need for further documenting the existence of a nutrition
problem, prevented the nutrition survey from being started. However,
a ten-person nutrition unit was established in (and funded by) IBGE
to analyze data from the 1974-75 survey (para. 1, Annex).
4.27      Project funds were used to finance studies of the IBGE data
by an special unit established in FINEP (a research management agency
that reports to the Secretariat of Planning), to support an internationally
important study of infant feeding practices in Sao Paulo, and 40 other
studies by university groups.
4.28      The third institution-building objective was to establish
a nutrition unit and a research program on the nutritional implications
of agricultural policies in the planning section of the Secretariat
of the Ministry of Agriculture (SUPLAN). This nutrition unit was disbanded
early on after a change of Administration, but many of the proposed
studies of nutritional consequences of agricultural policies were subsequently
contracted by INAN to the University of Sao Paulo's Institute for Economic
Research (FIPE) (para. 2, Annex).
4.29      The project's principal contribution to institution-building
has been focusing interest on nutrition-related activities at both national
and local levels and in manpower development. The Bank's May 1982 evaluation
concluded that as a result of the project, Brazil today has more trained
people and better equipped institutions to deal with nutrition. "Top
flight agricultural planners, economists, and other social scientists,
sparked by project funds, are devoting substantial portions of their
careers to nutrition-related topics. And this is reflected in the programs
of their institutions". In 1983 a psrmanent policy-oriented nutrition
research program jointly administered by FINEP, INAN, and the Nutritional
Science Council was established, with a budget of approximately US$370,000.



-28-
V. BANR PERFORMANCE
5.01      Bank performance vas very much influenced by the fact that this
project was the first in a field where not many precedents and experiences
were available. As a consequence many alternatives were open, but little
was known about their relative effectiveness and the necessary conditions
for their successful implementatioa. Bank staff developing the nev nutrition
sector looked for opportunities to test and develop the most attractive
interventions. At the beginning of the project cycle they were adamant
on taking a long-term approach, where the potential of an intervention
to contribute to general learning and institutional development in the
sector weighed heavily. At a later stage, when implementation difficulties
became more evident, intermediate evaluations vere completed, and other
nutrition projects were already under way, the Bank became more willing
to accomodate borrower's concern to expand the coverage of the field nutrition
interventions to meet immediate nutritional needs.
A. Proiect Justification and Objectives: Bank's and Borrower's
5.02      Early in 1973, at the time of project identification, Brazil's
policies were framed in the context of fast and sustained economic growth.
The achievements in industrialization and post-primary education justified
sanguine expectations of more economic expansion.  At th   same time, the
extreme deprivation of a large section of the population   had become a
subject of general concern and a growing consensus developed that Brazil
should and could address this problem. Malnutrition had been recognized
as an important component of the problem and INAN had been established
to formulate and coordinate multi-sectoras  actions to improve national
nutritional status.  Therefore, at that  .mnt Brazil's priorities in nutrition
matched the BankWs primary objective, to learn of cost-effective interventions
in nutrition, which was duly represented in the highly experimental project
presented to the Executive Directors in July 1, 1975.
5.03      Nevertheless by mid 1976, at the time of negotiations and Board
presentation, Brazil was already suffering the effects of the 1973 oil
crisis and the subsequent increases of oil prices. As a result, a new
Administration of the GOB was less willing to go along with a Research
and Development project with a long-term pay-off and was more interested
in actions with immediate consequential impact. Also it became apparent
that the grandiose plans of the first president of IXAN had been abandoned
after the shake-up in May 1974. On the Bank's side, experience with other
basic needs prAz ams and with integrated rural development projects vas
becoming available. This experience further highlighted the difficulties
of implementing programs requiring complex monitoring and evaluation and,
12In 1972 the share of household income of the lowest 40% of households
was only 7%, the worst among low and middle-iTcome developing countries.
As a result, Brazilians in this income bracket have an income equivalent
to that of people in the same bracket in countries with half the Brazilian
average per capita income.



-29-
in the view of some staff, already had provided answers to questions that
some of the project components identified in 1973 were meant to explore.
However, despite some Bank staff's strong criticisms, the views of the
project's supporters prevailed and the project was submitted to the Board
maintaining essentially the original experimental emphasis and complexity.
The fear that further delaying approval after more than three years of
preparation might kill the project weighed heavily in this decision. Also,
it was expected that Brazil second thoughts and Bank staff's suggestions
could be accomodated during implementation.
Project Content and SchedulinR
5.04      The project content has been criticized as being over ambitious
(in its complexity and experimental orientation and for the inclusion of
the BNDE loans component). The problems encountered during early implemen-
tation and the fact that the revision of the project made nearing the original
closing date included cancelling activities that involved about one half
of the original budget, showed that the project as envisioned in 1973 had
become over ambitious by 1976, given the deterioration of the borrower's
economic and financial situation and INAN's implementing capacity (see
para. 3.04(b)). Nevertheless, at the time of negotiations, signals from
the borrower were not sufficiently straightforward, and this together with
the consideration mentioned in para. 5.03 explain the decisions made at
that time. But it seems harder to justify the inclusion of the BNDE component.
As indicated in para. 2.08 the size of this component amounting to 48Z
of baset project cost, was determined after appraisal partly to reach a
targe: loan size and to meet required foreign exchange costs.    This issue
is f,irther discussed in paras. 6 and 7 of the Annex.
B. Project Izplementation and _peratina Outcomes
5.05      Preparation Requirements:  Following the restructuring of INAN
and the appointment of its new President in September 1974, most of INAN's
limited human resources were absorbed with the preparation of the Second
National Nutrition Plan (PRONAN II). As a result, the project preparation
was finalized to a large extent by Bank staff and consultants who, although
they worked closely with teams in other institutions, had minimal interaction
with INAN's personnel. This contributed to the perception of the project
as a Bank and not a Brazilian/INAN product. It is an open question whether
13Conflicting recollections regarding the inclusion of this component were
reflected in comments of several Bank staff members who were involved in
the project. Contemporary documents in the file are not conclusive, but
a detailed account of what occurred since the appraisal mission of November
1974 through loan approval is given in a letter sent on November 1, 1977
to the Chief of the Nutrition Division by a member of the appraisal mission,
and at that time, Cbief of the Nutrition Unit.



-30-
it would have been better to insist on greater Brazilian participation
in project preparation, including the establishment of e strong preparation
team at INAN, even at the expense of further delays in approving the loan,
or if that would have aborted the project.
5.06      Borrower's Implementation Capacity:  Because of the generally
satisfactory Brazilian record of project implementation, at appraisal the
Bank was confident of finalizing the upgrading of INAN and completing the
detailed preparation of some of the components during implementation.
The loan provided technical assistance for these purposes. Nevertheless,
not meeting previously agreed covenants for resolving the well-identified
needs for institutional reorganization and strengthening compounded the
high risks inherent in such an innovative and experimental project. This
course was even less advisable in view of the general freeze imposed on
salaries and staffing in the public sector and the weak status of INAN.
On the other hand, as the following section suggests, during implementation
the Bank may have overestimated the borrover's implementation capacity.
5.07      Bank Supervision:  The gap that by the time of the approval of
the loan had emerged between the hopes and ideas expressed in the design
of the project and the economic realities confronted by Brazil (see para. 5.03)
widened during the first year of implementation. But, whereas Brazil adapted
to the changes of the situation by launching large scale nutrition interventions,
the Bank was still pursuing the research and development objectives defined
in the initial identification of the project.
5.08      Throughout the project Bank documents put the blame for project
implementation shortcomings on GOB's insufficient commitment to nutrition,
to the project, andlor on INAN's institutional weaknesses. Whereas evidence
suggests that Brazil remained strongly committed to the idea of improving
nutrition; in fact the allocation of public funds to nutrition increased
over the period in spite of drastic cuts of the national budget in early
1979 and late 1980. In addition, implementation of some of the project
components was problem-free and INAN successfully carried out activities
that were not part of the project. This evidence invites a search for
alternative or at least additional explanations.
5.09      Bank staff seem to have underestimated the difficulty of coordinating
or maintaining s consensus with the borrower as to what the project is
or should be. Already at the time of appraisal, it was apparent that certain
components of the nutrition project were perceived differently by the Bank
and the Brazilians. The deterioration of the Brazilian economy during
implementation diminished even further Brazili s willingness to _nvest in
high risk experiments and even less in their analysis, and increesed its
interest in actions with direct impact on the nutrition status of the
population. For the same reason Brazil was more constrained in increasing
numbers or salaries of staff, in freeing personnel fox training, cr in
accepting that project loans through ENDE ba given under exceptional conditions.
5.10      Had the Bank staff been more sens,tive to tbcse factors, less
time, effort and goodwill might have been wasted in pressuring the borrow-ir
to do what it did not want or could not do any more, and the project might



-31-
have been modified much earlier. In fact, the loan agreement was amended
on January 14, 1981, whereas the first comprehensive proposal for project
medification had been made by the borrower more than two years earlier,
in August 1978. In relation to continuous Bank allegations of lack of
commitment and managerial weaknesses, it is interesting to note that after
the project was modified the supervision mission's BTO stated: "The long
outstanding issue of the status of INAN has not been resolved by Government
but (this) does not impair project implementation. Rate of disbursement
has risen sharply after project reformulation." The Bank could even send
a letter to the president of IRAN "to emphasize how much this (supervision)
mission was impressed with INAN's commitment to the reformulated project. Your
achievements in implementing Phase Two of this project have by far surpassed
our earlier expectations."
5.11      Trying to overcome what it perceived mainly as local staff quantitative
and qualitative limitations, the Bank provided technical assistance in
the designs of activities and studies through its supervision missions
and the use of consultants. The designs, however, were sometimes unrealistic
in light of the resources available for follow-up and of the different
priorities of the implementing agencies, especially in relation to monitoring
and evaluation.
5.12      In terms of supervision performance by Bank staff, there was
substantial input by a variety of specialists (see Basic Data Sheet).
Total staff time spent on the project was 606 staff weeks, e--t of which
361 staff-weeks vere for supervision, or an average of 50 staff-weeks per
year for the 7 years of implementation. Total project preparation time
was 4.7 staff-years. In terms of continuity of staff involved in the project,
the present Nutrition Adviser participated in the first reconnaissance
mission in 1972, and in the last supervision mission in 1983, maintaining
a constant relationship with the project.
5.13      Workint Relationship.  On tbe surface, the working relationship
between the Bank and the borrower remained good throughout the project.
Nevertheless, one may hypothesize that communications between the President
of I Njand Bank staff were not as open and candid as perceived by Bank
staff.    It is difficult to imagine bow relations could have been that
140ne example is provided by loan negotiations when the borrower voiced
for the first time some objections to the project design. At the time,
Bank staff believed that these objections had been accomodated through
modification of the project (e.g. limiting project loans to low- and
medium-size enterprises), but - as recognized in the interim progress report
to the Board of Nay 1980 - that w-as not the case.



-32-
good in view of the Bank's increasingly putting the blame on INAN's management
for the implementation problems, and INAN's President's disagreement with
what he perceived as the Bank's prioritary concern with the st fus of the
Project Unit to the detriment of an overall solution for INAN.
C. Implications of Proiect Outcomes
5.14      Regarding internal Bank working relationships, this first nutrition
project encountered special difficulties. There was much pressure and
apprehension by Bank managers. Nutrition did not have an appropriate footing
in the Bank. The place for the nutrition sector was a constant organizational
issue, and was in three departments throughout the life of the project.
5.15      The project made a significant contrLbution to develop Brazilian
operational knowledge regarding various forms of nutrition interventions.
The project contributed to a better understanding of factors influencing
cost, targeting, local participation, necessary training and support of
field staff and, to a limited extent, impact of the tested interventions.
Thus, the project has eased the process of expanding the interventions
from the experimental to a scale commensurate with the magnitude of the
nutrition problem in Braz:l.
5.16      The Bank has oeen able to refine its nutrition strategy and to
identify more cost-effective and less risky second-generation nutrition
projects and components as well as meaningful ways of dealing with nutrition
issues in economic, agriculture and health sector work and subsequent policy
dialogues.
5.17      Brazil and the Bank would benefit from additional efforts to
evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the project operational components through
both a thorough analysis of the data gathered during the project implementation
and the completion of impact oriented studies. Most of the necessary designs
for this work have been developed as part of the project. In view of doubts
regarding the quality of the existing data, the Bank has advisyg the borrover
to commission an overview study of the potential for analysis.
15INAN's President ended his letter replying to the observations and
recommendations of a Bank mission with the following comment: "I should
like to add that in relative terms I am less concerned with the problem
of staffing the Project Unit than with the institution's situation as a
whole, in view of the important social goals assigned to it."
16Draft terms of reference for this study were included in the letter sent
on Nay 13, 1983, to the President of INAN following the last supervision
mission.



-33-
VI. CONCLUSIONS
6.01      The project, as described at appraisal, was oriented toward research,
training and testing various experiments on a wide front. It was expected
to provide the Government with basic information, institutional and manpower
capabilities and adequate quantities of certain high-priority inexpensive
food products. It was planned that within 4 years the GOB would be able
to nlan and deploy resources with greater precision and, as a result, to
conduct a more effective program.
6.02      The final outcome of the project i  already known.17  rew of
the specific objectives at appraisal have been met: no information base
as appraised has been developed, insufficient information is available
on the effectiveness of the alternative delivery systems that were tested,
no inexpensive food products have been developed, and the training activities
in the project reached a much smaller number than appraised although some
of the needs were satisfied with resources from other sources. In the
most important area of institutional development, INAN has not grown into
a competent and influential agency capable of planning, coordinating, monitor-
ing and evaluating nutrition programs; no unit exists in the Ministry of
Agriculture with the responsibility of assessing the nutrition implications
of agricultural policies, and little was done to support Government centers
of food technology.
6.03      On the other hand, the direct developmental impact of the operational
components, which was considered a by-product at time of appraisal, exceeded
the initial targets by far. In fact the most strikingly successful aspect
of this project is the extent to which its operational components have
been modified and integrated into large government programs of the INANIMO!
and the Ministries of Education and Agriculture.
6.04      Also the Brazilian awareness and capacity to deal with nutrition
problems have been enhanced by the insights provided by the nutrition-oriented
analyses of the Households Survey (ENDEF) and the studies spurred by the
project; the human resources capabilities developed through the fellowships,
the formal training and the learning-by-doing opportunities provided by
project activities; and the technical assistance of and policy dialogue
with consultants and Bank staff, over the ten years between project
identification and completion.
6.05      These achievements are especially impressive in light of mistakes
that can be seen in retrospect: the project design was too complex and
ambitious for the available technical and managerial capabilities and the
17The only exception might be the results of evaluation studies of the
impact of the nutrition interventions carried out during the project. Although
careful designs exist for these studies and the borrower has on several
occasions agreed to their implementation, the record of the last two years
leaves very little room for hope that they will ever be completed.



-34-
organizational set-up of the project; the research orientation was not
consistent with the borrowers priorities, and the institutional arrangements
both within and without INAN were inadequate.
6.06      The first two mistakes were corrected when the project was modified
in 1980. In part they were due to the heavy Bank involvemetit in project
preparation vhich permitted the Bank's concepts and procedural norms to
outweigh those of the borrower. The lesson was learned anc' the Bank played
an assistant role in the preparation of the proposals for project reformulation
in 1980.
6.07       With respect to the institutional arrangements, questions can
be raised regarding the role assigned to INAN and the establishment of
the Project Unit. Already Bank's reviews have given enough recognition
to the problems associated with a federal government body, under a sectoral
ministry, executing a project and supervising programs that were implemented
by other ministries and by state and local agencies. But more needs to
be said about the Project Unit.
6.08      The decision to establish a special Project Unit in IRAN appears
in retrospect to be counterproductive. Its existence isolated the project
activities from the rest of INAN's activities in the context of PRONAN
and diluted the prcject impact on INAN's institutional development; it
weakened whatever support INAN could have been giving the Project Unit
in its dealings with other agencies.
6.09      The lesson that a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) staffed without
following general regulations should not be used as a device for circumventing
institutional weaknesses and bureaucratic red tape with the hope of obtaining
short-term gains in project efficiency is now widely recognized in the
Bank. Establishing such a PIU can be justified where prompt provision
of services or goods at a low cost is the main expected outcome of a project.
But where institutional development is a central objective, the disruption
of regular procedures and salary scales generates jealousies and unrest
in all the entities that are expected to coliaborate with the PIU. Normally
these problems are more intense inside the main sectoral agency to which
the PIU is adscribed and where most of the institutional development should
take place. As a result the long-term institutional development goals
are not achieved and the project is boycotted or at best ignored.
6.10      In summary, in spite of not fully meeting many of its specific
appraised objectives this first nutrition project did make important
contributions both towards the development of responses to nutrition problems,
and in the general area of Bank/borrowers relationship. In terms of nutrition
beneficiaries, approximately 40,000 people, or two and one-quarter times
the expected beneficiaries at appraisal were directly helped in the process
(see Table 1). In terms of human resources and institutions, Brazil is
now in a much better position to tackle the malnutrition problem. Operationally,
the project has enhanced Bank and Brazilian understanding of, firstly,
the possibility of attacking some of the most critical nutritional problems
through simplar. and well-targeted interventions; and secondly, of the
risk of attempting a comprehensive program requiring complex interventions



-35-
involving a multiplicity of agencies. Much was ledrned about the conditions
that affect the feasibility and improve the efficiency of nutrition
interventions, and of the difficulties of monitoring them and evaluating
their effectiveness. The lessons have been used in other projects and
were written about in the Nutrition Review prepared by PHN in April, 1984.
6.11      The project also provided important lessons about the relationships
between the Bank and borrowers. There are lessons for the Bank regarding
the need for insisting on the Borrower's full p.rticipation in and responsibil-
ity for the careful preparation of the project and for the Bank's realistic
appraisal of institutional constraints in projects with a large software
component. There are also lessons regarding the need to constantly review
the initial design assumptions or to look to chaging conditions during
implementation for part of the explanation of problems in project performance,
rather than placing blame mainly on what we perceive to be the borrower's
capricious shifts of priorities or managerial weaknesses. In short, Bank
staff have been given the opportunity to recognize the element of truth
in the mottos of the InterAmerican Development Foundation "They (the recipients
of external support) know how" and of an Argentine private voluntary organization
"Al tiempo de la gente -- At the people's pace".



-36-
3AM                                   TAWZ 1
WUMTIK W!SAXE AND 1EVE[LIHR1 PBDUBC
Pw, - (CHLE=lw rzW
Key Wdicators
Acbieveoo
Ob_ectives           ThraDgh
Initial                                Yaxi]M
(Appraisal)  12/31/79 (a) - 12/31/80 (a)   CoverEge
PIn
No. of Beneficiary Fmilies               10,000        6,287         5,620 (b)  10,000
Operational C06t per Family/Year            -           0.10          0.04
(11$DOO) (c)
Food Cost per FamilyfYear                   -           0.12          0.13         -
(,BO)
Total Project Cost per Faly/Year           0.11         0.22          0.17        0.33 (d) (e)
:(SOOO)
No. of Idividl (Cui1d) Beoefi iaries      4,800       18,400        22,298      23,000 (f)
Operation1  Cost per ChildYear              -          0.033         0.038         -
's11S000) (c)
Food Cost per Child/Year                    -          0.024         0.024         -
(1$000)
Total Project Cost per Cbild/Year         0.068        0.057         0.062       0.047 (d)
(1000) (c)
No. of Beneficiary Families               3,000        5,58D         6,827       7,000 (g)
Total Project Cost per Fanly/Year          0.61         0.51          0.38       0A68 (d)
(US$000)
(a) SCECE: June 1982 Supervision Report.
(b) Temiiat  after 1980.
(c) Iuxluder administration peration, training and evaluation.
(d) Estimted average cost oe project life.
(e) IRN PCR of Oct. 1984 states thgt in Aust 1981, PI6 still benefited 7,500 fnilies.
Total coverage is estimated at 33,400 fanilies ovex five years.
(So:rce fixr earlier years: Perh 1982 BI.)
(f) SOURC: 111s PCR, Oct. 1984.
(g) SM: RewiEw of World Bk Natrition projects in Brazil, Indonesia, Cola anid Iniia;
Jome Leslie, May 1983; (Draft Report).



- 37 -
NPAZIL                                 TAKE 2
NlITtFII RE;KE  AM DEVEL1MEI PXUC
PlJE cmaizxn  w
Sumry of Appraised and Actual Project    mdikute by CompDnt Activities
Appraisal Fathoate    Actual icpwditures (a)
US$ MillimL    Z of                      % of
Base Cost  Base Cost  US$ Millii  Total Cost
1. NU1II  DLVW PlMEll 
(A) Testing Alternative Delivery Systms
PRl14M  - Rural lxteion  Service                 6.3       10.2%          15.2        22.3%
PROAPE - Scbool Feeding Progin                   1.1        1.8&           6.3         9.2Z
PINS - Health & Cacmmrcial Deliv. Systems        3.(        5.9Z          11.1        16.2Z
9ubtotal                          11.0       17.9%          32.6        47.7Z
(B) TqrOUEnt of Food Supply Syst-'i
Bede Somar (b)                                   -          -             32.0        46.aZ
IOTAL (1)                          11.0       17.9%          64.6        94.5Z
=                                _                        e=
2. EEaEW     CF 1HE POWD DliUSI
R & D of Food Teclnology                             4.8        7.5%           0.9         1.3%
FINE - Feasability Studies                           3.0        4.8&           0.4         0.5Z
MME Loans to Food Processing Industries             30.0       46.2Z                       -
T(1*LL (2)                         37.8       60.5%           1.3         1.8Z
3. nl'fTUTI(RiaL AND DATA BA5E IEVEJIDPH1f
INWN - Project Amoini tration/Training               6.9       11.0Z           2.2         3.2Z
IBG - Nutritigm Research                             2.7        4.42           0.1         0.22
SMFIAN - Agricultural Policy Studies                 3.8        6.2%           0.2         0.3%
TotAL (2)                          13.4       21.6Z           2.5         3.7Z
=    _                     e   ==
DuOAL BASE C06T                       62.2      100.OZ
Cotigncies                            9.7
TOUAL PFJ=   C06T                      71.9                      68.4       100.0%
(a) SOURCE: IRN fincial inforuaticn provided in August 1984. Total project cost differ slightly
fron Beak records of disburs-n-ts. Total project cost reported by ANA  is
USS68.4 million, slightly h'gker than estimates based on witbdrawals of US$67.3 millimn (Table 5).
(b) This cspooent replaced N   :mansw uhen the project ms refonz1lated in 198D.



-38-
Sam.                         ThE  3
lllTNM RmVAmZ Am rWDI P1aE  
PIDDJC  MIM=  IDIR
loan WitMrml by Dibwuset Catgory - PIed and Actual
Tnitial       heed         Actul (a)
l        Z    US$ 14    z    US xM    Z
1. los by 1I to Food Processirg Iu&st ries   7.20    3       -                    -
2. 'rw  to  811 Fazuers                      OA        2:   2.60    14Z    2.91    15%
3. Civil %)iks, Ma*etiog and Feaability StUxies,
Food, Vehicles, and EqWipintIbcromotal
Salary and otr Operating Ekpess            7.00    37%  15.75    8=   15.90    SC
4. Felloeshipe                                1.70     9X   0.26     11    0.13   0.5%
5. CkAtants' Service                          1.40     7Z   0.14     1%    0.08   0.5%
6. Ukillocated                                1.30    71   0.25      1      -      -
LDuAL I=  In                 19.00   1O00   19.00   100X   19.00   100M
(a) SUM  : Witdrmea application  (== frcm Djsb.sem Officer; hgust 5, 193).



- 39 -
BRAZIL                       TABLE 4
NUTRITION REBEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Schedule of Disbursements (US$ Thousand)
ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
ESTIMATES           AS Z OF ESTIMATES AT
YEAR &   ACTUAL TOTAL                 AMENDMENT                ANENDNENT
QUARTER   DISBURSEMENTS  APPRAISAL   JAN. 1981    APPRAISAL  JAN. 1981
1977             75.3    1,700.0                        4.4
2              75.3    1,700.0                         4.4
3             337.1    2,200.0                        15.3
4             383.6    3,200.0                        12.0
1978
1             482.8    3,700.0                        13.1
2             609.0    4,200.0                        12.1
3             706.3    5,200.0                        13.6
4             838.6    6,200.0                        13.5
1979
1           1,272.9    7,200.0                        17.7
2           1,419.0    8,200.0                       17.3
3           1,815.9    9,700.0                        18.7
4           1,948.5   11,200.0                        17.4
1980
1           2,214.7   12,700.0                       17.4
2           2,323.1   14,700.0                       15.8
3           2,318.0   16,700.0                        14.3
4           5,851.6   18,000.0                       32.5
1981
1           6,187.2   19,000.0       8,123.0         32.6        76.2
2          13,770.0                  9,960.0                    138.3
3          13,982.4                 12,682.0                    110.3
4          15,356.3                 15,088.0                    101.8
1982
1          17,000.0                 17,454.0                     97.4
2          17,860.0                 18,454.0                     98.7
3          18,420.0                 18,774.0                     98.1
4          18,420.0                 19,000.0                     96.9
1983
1          18,790.0                                              98.9
2          18,890.0                                              99.4
3          19,OOC.0                                             100.0



SRAIIL -  INUIITION 0E0EM      ANhtD KYELOHENT PMG ;T
PIOJECT COMPLETION IPUGT
3101A 1302-111
TOTAL POOJECT CtOST 1V IY   Ml EIPENITtJIE
,,... yI*~uStS~t . 2t*St*S*flCt     ........... ... C  ............28988... 
Votal              Total                                                    Vital
Withdniaal  Euchaige Rate                                                                                             EiPditteIs Reported             Espendituras       Ealpditifii                 laa,rWuttnat                   eaidsrl eet
Application Applicati       USIIsCrl       Catelary  fu/4                        Deictiption of  tee                             (Cr9)                 3US$)       per Cateqory       per Catelory           ICrSI               I11)          per tatear
(Cr93              (US$3
s1 5       1132.46264        2        co      IPE 3C%avte of categary froe 5 to 2)                            430,U.20             13,251.34                                                13,459.2              1235.51"
4U          VT         IC  73230          4       Co      IPE Conweltant                                               18,159,48LU 11        1127,474.84                                              7,945,117.U4          34,001.21
i            I                           5        co   Conltant   Fee                                                                           2,400.00                                                                    n,,40.00
!   I                       S        co   Cmoultant - fraym!                                                                         492.19                                                                      0in.19
l t       197 38940         4        to   Consultuat IFE                                                   3,09,530.93           1l5,I97.55                                              1,1177,44l.5           5,965.07
17           35        10i.71189         4        co   Conelt'nts o 1                                                      100,50.00              4913.4                                                 26,812.80            2U3.U
72           71         52Z11500         5        co   Consultaut, (343'                                                1,011,233.33           19,403.N                                                 242,495."            4,454.93
*             1I.15         5        co   Coeualt nts (33                                                     80,554.00            4,296.21                                                 19,332.94           1,031.09
            4             15.95         5        to   Consultants (43                                                      2,424.00            3,913.73                                                 14,I 174             $939.30
24           23         57.319000        5        co   Consoltants '51                                                    121,I00.00            2,122.32                                                 29,232.00             50S. l
5          14.'2441         5        c    Ct7sonutnts t51                                                     70,71.X              4,562.25                                                  18,312.24         91,84.94
10           10         16.15XO          5        co  CtonsltuIts  4                                                      444,400.00           81,51.15                                                 253,232.00 X,325.44
3            3           11.9311         5        to   CenulttuU  19)                                                     152,E23.50           10,233.25                                                 34,1.64            sz,454.4&
2            2          13.62914         J        co   1Wt Ceeoruta9 1                                                     13,123.41            2,430.21                                                  7,949.42            951.25
i9           19         48.31911         5        co   ConsuItaati  I33                                                   100,X0.00             2, 0.l3                                                   24,292.00            504.32
Sel  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9145811
ooriA Cosrs rap casurars                                                                         2a,064,727.55       5208,019.78
24           25         57.3900o          4        .o   Fellowship fiir ticket)                                              3,138.72              101.25                                                  5,818.12             361.25
20           20           -               I       l.   Ftuoehlp 111) Air travel                                                                11,464.00                                                                    01,444.80
21           22           -               4       It   Felleoelp 33 per die.                                                                   03,003.00                                                                    51,003.00
24           25         57.39000          4       fe   Fellauthip lper deal                                                 4,092.00               10.15                                                  4 ,092.00             10  15
17           17          0.00000         4        It   Fellowslh  (per diil                                                                    U4,500.00                                                                    14,500.00
29           21        i4.1890            4        3,  Fhellmez    IIW 1D i                                              04,94.49               1,9077                                                   11,849.49         81,047.34
11           12           -               4       fe   Fllemhsl outside   aul (per din  enlyl                                                 n$ ,3.00                                                         8.00         n2,3o.0o
I2           11                          A        it   FlIlo"hp outasie Brazil  por in" oulyl                                                  12,360.00                                                       0.00         02,34o.00
it           11          0.00000         4         it   Fellowship travel (Air ticket)                                                           1440.00 X40.00
14           11           -               4       Is   F*letuips bAr ticuets 121                                                               14,04.O                                                                      14,045.40
55           3            -               4       lo   Icholarlp reiljreuet                                                                      3490.00                                                                            00
TOTAL COSTS FOR FELLOWBIPSISDIOLMS1IM  A1 FEES.   incledal  travel                                        127,fl7.21        120,940.77                                               520,337.34
44           41        I7138940          2        la      INAE lAlaeteso                                              154,230,911.42         17i1,353.51                                             S8,407.144.34         21. 921tl
4I           4         4182.63200         2       In      IAE, AIimentoa  PRAPI                                        14,8590.n              IO 80,780.30                                            5,N45120.53           11,496.51
42 a          43        266.45700          2        la     IRAN1 (Alzeeetosl                                            38,542,956.17         8144,724 l8                                              14,453,923.41         54,995.45
U4           44        482.43290          2       lo     Il, Alastos POWE                                              17,955 ,337.13        1112,24.u                                               13,424,146.3           49,253.83
43           41        197.38944          2       la    IUE1NEt Alitettoe  PAWE                                       139,23,171.71          1705,3191.46                                            41,449,14.05          22,297.24
431           43          244.457          2        l3   IAE-IIC (Aflujte  reimuarenasti Application 43                              0                   0                                             I,44i,l3.00          I31,479.9T
l1AL 0916S FOR FP000                                                                     434,1 t,945.16    11,844,504.11                                                1689051.44
13           14         25.97101          4       hr      ClEB                                                             24,717.12              91.74                                                    5,932.27             221.42
is          1          21.57391         4        hr      CCEBI                                                          S17,880              20,224.07                                                 13,9i1.35           4,153.71                         *t
15           Is         2i.57191          4       hr    CUTED                                                             992,364.00           34,122.72                                                238,143.3            1,334.29 
13           14         25.91109         4        hr      1 8                                                           1,005,971.00           31,734.24                                                241,431.03           9,294.22                         1
15           15         2e 57391          4       hr       MI                                                           4,212,833.40          147,434.3                                               1,011(0I, 02          35,314.'73
,._.............     ...... ..... _
TOTAL COSTS FOR HVIM RESOUICI                                                               4,813,50.84         1242,049.16                                                 5F8097.44
..S. aa . ................. Ca C.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   U,2 ....,Z..-.Ca .... xz..88.439 ............. Ca . 328.383 ..........S.Sas:...SSSS-.5.S=:.S.  :-::S SSSS.SS.......S..
/a  COt coeseltautl Flu  elloushipochalaredhaplfsetl FOt lood3 Nli huan resources: Opt operational costil ICi rural creditl flu  trainitg:l Ii travell VEi vefaclee



- 41 - 
U ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ " B  -  -w
aW~~~~~~~~:a
a                    .-W- -  En n E ---   dcnc
4-:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;
I          -  -  ~~-----                 -_--    sa          r;         Gl_X
X _ 
IQ  a
Z -Z-                  - 
a  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~                          I22E5i-Rs--iessE2s!5og-
jP   ..            ..   . .   . .  . .
-   -    -    -    -    -   -    -   -    -    -   -    -   -   -   -    -    -    -    -    -    -   -   -   -  -  g ;-  - -    ---   - _   _  -  - -
I           331: ~.a            . =  MSC                                      -rF
I !I
l    -a  I                                                                                  _
12  b~~~~~~~~~~~1
bc I
| _         2.3 r_ Zg                       - ;    S 8    S          -:                   i _
5~    e                                 -               t-         s -
-fr 3  I                           c-c -   -  ----c- -  -3         --   -s  -
3- - - - - - - - - S      - -  -            -nO  -- - ----- -         - ---  - -
.^   I      ;         Sao-      -S  SZ---Z3.0-cc --=                          a
Y~~~-                                                                                             0;     -  ;e
g !    ..                                                                                            0 j| 
~ 'e a , '-                                                                               Uo
i        C                _-   
S   S         N                 -, S  ,_nX$iR=-        E.
3        0  o   --   -o.X8So  bo oooRRo s2gooo8oo aXo8oo>Jogo   -  
i        -                  hi                   j5                                        _
_ *                                                 _r   v__ ssr  s_ro __r_r_w 
r=    C   -_  __r~ _SG__rw_aa2--                          t _    - _ -i
:   -   U
:    S  : 



056716 - WiflOlN MEiC NO XYRWEET PM ECr
NWITCT CIuris Iut
uL0M  1302-NI1
TOT PL POECT COST IT TYPE MD EZER"MITE
Total              Total                                                 fetal
lIthdrida       Elichine Rate                                                                                    Epoellstvrn Repatd            EapalWlwtr        EapdltoritgnI bderIm'                   t              hiurst
0plicalito  Ipplicatiu   US$ltCfl   "CAIC y  ta /j                           Oeulpt:o o lIo  t(esill                                            (IIS1       pr (aitwy         per fatqery           (Cri5               (151        w   Cateo
(till             (lUll
5           5          11.12441         3       op     (ETEI                                                       4,,162.1 267,U1I.6                                                        1,7,23.4             64,211.60
40          39        142.23230         2       op     (EATEr                                                     335, ,4u7.49         M52,34.16                                             13,670,64.U         nlIll.U
4           41        191.3,140         2       op    E(IATER                                                      7,45,507.61          13,741.35                                             ,NI,m.U              15,104.33
13          14         23.710           3       op     (EUATER                                                     3,65  24.26          I333.02                                                   5113.Un 3n,33.n3
39        31 1        132.4620          2       op     [MATER                                                     22,011, .lO         *1IU,141.27                                           13,391,439.3          63,42.34
I           3          20.71614         3       o       (tIATU                                                     3,9714270.0          191,6".37                                                 3,165.12         41,007.15
10          9          22.73226        3        op     (ATED                                                      5,7A 29,544.12        25,4.65                                              1175,090.71          ",4i".72
n1          29         70.164           2       op     (lAMTER  lCot"ory ctlang  Ure  3 to 2'                      ,140,902.5S          124,M55.3                                            2,097,317.1          29,900.6
Ii         1          41.31911         1       op    E(NEATER, Braslia                                           1,110,146.04          112,174.3                                            2,23,335.05          4,3.45
3           3           14.9311         1       op     (EUNt                                                       1,27,050.33           5,169.04    145,1,952.72          2,14,157.04         3 sil,m.n         82,5.57
19          19         41.31911        3        op     EMP, ho Pole                                                  121,11.10           12,311.14                                             14,23.26            3,922
4           i          20.711i14        3       oP      1   IUs  Poals                                               437,61.u            21,126.91 R                                            1,0   J3            5,673.46
1            11.75         3       op      [PR, She Palo                                                3711,14.1i          20,194.93 v7,577.lu                                                        4, 1
IS         5I          ZS.5n131         3       op      Pn, She Pels                                                 923,531.4           32,320.30                                             721,2y 7            7,736.
to          1          22.13226         3       op    E(I, le Pale o56,552.n2                                                           23,1 .21                                              126,^37.          152,33.17
r.          fl         52.11500         3       op    E( h. As Paslo                                                 03,279.70            7,73n.27                                                6,n7.13           1,157.13
I           6          117.9211         3       op     1N, Sho Peale                                                 227,961.00         112,714.40       3,519,45.70        150,130.27          54,712.32          3,251.6
32          35        101.1133          2       so     FEP                                                         9,474,125.14          93,147.11                                           3,ee,433.ss          3s,3 .92
36          36        111..34301       :        op     REV                                                         I,552,5O.15           71,j11.1e                                           3,25" .12            29,1n.24                       '
39         33J        132.46U20         2       op     YElP                                                        1,794,551.01          13,547.61                                             441,51145.7         5,t47.46
19          19         0.31911         3        op     FE, Persmake                                               10,474,j45.3         21,7e.                                                2,513,914.U          52,17.34
15          1          23.57391         3       op     FEP, RocUs                                                 16,310,321.64        572,929.00                                            3,9n,97.1           17,su.
30          SO         76.1 00          3       oP     FEW, blcis                                                 14,723,4.93           in,34n4.02                                           5, ,75.              73,47n.13
5           5          16. 72441        3       op     FE, heifo                                                     657,06.5            3t,n32.24                                              17,174.12          n,u3.
22          21         52.11504         3       op    FPI, Recife                                                 le0,l0,55l.I1         I93,V962.                                             2,426,052.3         46,3s.9e
1i               1    63.3405           3       op     FES?,K lcUs                                                9,47i,211.06          217,143.05                                           2,274,311,s          52,174.32
7           I             11.75         3       op     FESP, Rctaf                                                 2,241,942.5          119,570.29                                             533S,06.31 3n.5965
23          r.         54.21397         3       op     FEW?,  ele                                                    63,3.7             11,21m.51                                               H4,1     92,711.64
*           3          20.71114         3       op    FPEE, bles                                                   2,160,627.02         142,914.03                                             710,f.             34,29.37
3           3           14.9311         3       op     FEW, Retile                                                   270,132.04          11e,091                                                64,31.7e          04,3s42
27          27         61.E4tl1         3       op     fEP, bcIfe                                                 13,7130,41.U          222,131.41                                           37,3007.3S           S9,4U1.22
4           4             15."          3       op    FPR, Ree                                                       437,103.61          ",454.17                                               l1,0"6.U          06,s9.25
o           9          22.13224        3        op     FEIP, Reice                                                7,103,262.67          312,474.9n                                           1,7644r1.01         814,994.0
                     1.1299e          3       op     FEY, leifU                                                  3,613,240.91        0201,79.21                                                404,7.12          43,431.53
24          25         57.3900          3       op     PP, lRecals                                                l1"1171.4i            194,917.27                                            2,61,401.15           ,7M.14
29          29         70.16000         2       op     Flip, RdteiC lcaooy choafsd  roe 3 to 2?                    1,467,312.29          2@,921.f                                               352, M.I1          5,021.22
4           4             15.95         3       op    FYP, Ia  Paolo                                                l29,057.19           21,9171.5                                               45,13.9           12,174.5
I3          14         23.97109         3       op     FESP, SI: Paolo                                              ,251,9.07           202,524.21                                            1,260,47.4l         6,133.3
5           5          16.12441         3       op    F1S1, Sao Pals                                                 201,219.51          12,031.49    130,90,640.21    13,116,01i.64             4,m.61           02,1n.52 
24          25         5739000          3       op     Fl                                                            442,m91.             7,711.1i                                              146,31S.5           1152.50                     
27          27         61.14041         3       op     Pv                                                            116,497.00           I,'                                                    27, 239.3           440.4I
32          35        0l.811K9          2       op     FNY                                                           440,13.20            4,321.01                                              167,2s.             1,44.21
30         s3         14.Ism            I       do     FN, lIo is J.                                                 331,56.0             4,353.35                                              125,97.47           I,6u4.41
JO  .: easolta,I  tsl FEs  FelIomshp/ oloulln         ssa  PlD *od  U: N luaA resources: 0P1  aperatasuel costs: Rti nesl credit: fit lraineol; Its treoell VlE  vehicles



BUZIL - NUTRliTION KUCH ALdI IYEWLWEIT PRO ICt
PIW oE twealc       M
(LOAN 1202-131
TOTAL  ROlJECT COST 1 TME AND EUPENIITUi
Total .t9l         Total
litiUr^al    coute late                                                                                               Esp.ditvrn  bpwtid               zpenlitereo    Etpuuditresn                    tuaiorsut                   bicoerut
pplacatlen Application   USOIsCtl           attegory  a4/Wj                      Okscriutieo of flee                              ICr09                 lust)       p.r Catelory      per Catery              ((iSP               to)           p   Categoy
levi)               603s
23           23         54.2339?          J 3      P                de, ae EJa ro                                        10,71,313.93           19,145.9                                                 23,15.               4,743.01
19           19         413t911           3       op      F&r,  1e t  JAme                                                  30,4lre                620.0u ,                                                7,20M.00             149.1
29           29         10.2Io4           2       op      FlY, hRo t  Janero  (Cateiory chugSit fre.  to 2)                71,094.00             5,35.52        2,114,547.90         844,110.72            0,24.56           I,3.52
:2           S5        101.71fl           2        e       I4,0,35.N                                                                           11,22.2                                                 1,4,111.61            I1,326.11
19           19         411.3111          3       op      FlAP, Rio                                                     1,427,441.Z            29,542.12                                                342,U1.74            7,190.11
;   lb     P1A055           3        op      FIP, Rio                                                      1,250,12.69            21,712.33                                                 I,SoI.W              470.V
27           27         4.14001           3        op     FIND, Ro Os J.                                                3,3U,534.75             54,190.1                                                 H10,24.34           23,053.74
22           21         52.11530          3        op     FIN, Rho of J.                                                 1,491,593.55           23,155.51                                                29,62.45             4,Ul.32
10           9          22. 1322          3       op      FINED, Ro io Joctrio                                          S34 055.               20,426.42                                                 175,245.23         01,502.Yt
is           is         23.53911         3        Op      FIND. Rio de Jutaro                                              74,325.54            27,7 1. "      l4,34443.33         137t,52.02           I 5,4al.13           6,671.74
24           25         5.3,000 3o                  op    FIFE                                                           1,110,039.40           99,342.04       1,110,339.40         019,342.4           266,449.44           4,642.0
19           29         41.31911          3       op      FOPAS, Rio                                                    4,103,169.04            $4,930.57       4,103,169.64         t34,930.5?          94,904.1!t           ,133.34
I            1          20.1414S          3        op     FSP, Sao  d41                                                    20tU163.U4           10,0,"0.12                                                49,791.12           2,400.o3
1           29 41 .31911                3        op      FYP  Sa o                                                       7,32t 4.70o 6,194.54                                                            171,35.53           1, 3.9
7            7             11.75          3       op      FSP. Sao Paulh                                                   239,6l3.53           122,140.                                                  57,511.57           3,067.3
11           11         25.97:09          3        oP     FSP, SaPau10lo                                                  259,63.04             9,7.20                                                    62,3I3.I3           2,3".5
15           15         21.53391         J        op      FUP, Seo fulo                                                    33,594.64            11,174.00                                                  0O,2.71            2,101.95
14           16        S41.5055           3       op      F, uso Peal.                                                     400U41.47             2,101.21                                                 94,150.3            2,20.I39
10           1          22.13224          3       op      FS, Sao Pf0lo                                                   494,.05              21,734.26                                                 111,57.53           150,214.22
4                       17.1129940        3       opo     FY, Use Patlo                                                    19 5,123.0o         6102.5                                                     4,9.66              2,611.11
27           27         41.141            3        op     FSP, Sao Palo                                                    14,30.9 to            3,243.43       2,421,554.4          415,601.55           46, UlK               15 4.2
24           25         51.390            S        op    FPLE                                                           3,111,714.95            54,569.00                                                1l5I,1.fl           13   4.54
39          3t         132.4024           2       op      FlUUE                                                            I 9. 144.6           01,495.11                                                 75,295.14 n           5643
14           9          n2.2,12           3       oP      FUWWE                                                         1,2203154.91            53.475.04                                                M, 231.20          *122,1.01
36           36        111.3I61          2       op      FlWE                                                          l S15,34a56.S           12,011.31                                                511, 4614&           4,519.37
30           30          1415000          3        op     FWtEA, Joao P.s,.                                                127,711.63           1OU79.35                                                 314,533.47           4,13t.44
I1           19         01.31911          1       at      FUNAE, Joao Pumsua                                            3           , 10 74r1,94.05                                                      300, 05.141         It5.57
1             14       43.54055          3       oP      FlWE. Jute  Paseu                                             1,221,427.41           2,052U.4                                                  293,242.35           4,72.43
27           27         41,14041          J       op    fPUAS, Iotm P nso                                                  202,473.43            3,274.13                                                 41, W3.62             75.79
15           I5         21.51391          3       op      FlWE, Joa P.soa                                               5,5"2,265.21          203,3071.69t121,51.6                                                           4999.5
2?           21         12.11500          3        oP     FUlA, jlo PlWi                                                   1,234.12             17,235.67                                                215,575.3            4,1.5
I1           14         25.97109          3       e       Fo PlUME, Joa  sinsei                                            1,50.                31,417.5                                                 19,202.13            7,554.
:9           2          701600            '        op     FlUAE, J2a  luomo  lat.elgry chUgnd Irao 1to 21                  404,942.44            5,771170      19,354,134.04          95,110              97,1I6.1            1,38.22
2?           27         4 .1lOt1          !        op    1ties, Pernhalbbo                                                 754,444.10           12.203.01         154,644.0          112,203.0           111,114.56           2, 23.74
15           12        251.41000          2        op     [ME                                                         174,033,411.20          092.249.60      174,03,41.20          042249.6          66,134,422.00         243.054.16,
24           25         57. 3000          3        op      11AM                                                         2,340,142.17            40, 733;4                                                561,102.29           9,1"3.20 
40           39        142.23730          2        op      1MM                                                            375,012.49            615I.49                                                  312,531.S5          n2,317.95
32           35        101.71811          2        Op      11M                                                           9,533,774.4           9137:6.4                                                3,422,334.29          35,616.14
8            I          20u.1161          3        op      I1A                                                             473,525.91           32,512.14                                                141,64.2             7,12.91
44           04       U43.6323520                  op     1uA                                                           13,92,414.31           121,173.74                                              5 5,451.44            10,972.02 
II           II         43.50535                 ao        2 I26                                                        2,97,4319.43            55,043.37                                                575,397.51          13,215.21 o
a            4             IM5U5Io FE: l  oa                                                                                24*2u5.oo     : fOS                                                          14A2 bi  c              m.n a
M '0   onsl:tdol: FE.; mel%l/tCthe   *i1 FOi looJ Us" haiA resorcest t:i  epetitional cisl it OC   uril credit; 16i training; If7: travel; YE: *phs:let



BuIIL - EJIRITIDIN  ESEACH ANID KXELOEII PO ECT
PROJECT CWLEIIOII IEORI
ILOM  1302-IRI
TOTAL PROJECT COST IV TYPE AID IIPEIIDPITUE
Total             Tetal                                                  Total
SIttdraual  Ercku4lt Rate                                                                                        EpuoditarEl ReportUd Eopwdtve                   ElCptadttO                   R:llio,reuot              bRlelust
Application Application   US8IsCrI       Catlcity qV*/j                      Oseraptaon of  tle                             ICrll               IUSJI       per Cataqory      por Catgory           leCfil             I112          Per Catqtv
icd)              MIT)
3          Jo s       132.46264         2       op      2w                                                         4,633,71.57          650,030.0N                                            2,52M,1.20          119,830.4P
S           5           6.72t441        3        o      1511                                                         535,6I4.75          41,U67.S7                                              240,564.34        111    .31
11          40        1 0.17100         2       oP      IMN                                                        5,831,016.5 0        12S,UO.74                                             1,114,149.07         11,271.UI
36          36        211.34611         2       op      IIMU                                                       5,675,230.77          50,963.04                                           2,156,U7.U9          129,367.0
36          3         1111.3481         3       op      286                                                        1,200,551.14          10,711.96                                              456,212.0           4,097.14
3           3           24.9311         3       op      IAN                                                          465,47.71           32,10.43                                               111,755.45 U7,414.74
42 a         43        26U.45700         2       op      11  211ISII                                               10,920,163.30         I40,715.11                                            4,24,9605            25,574U2
10          1          22.73224         3       oP      2NF , lIrcelia                                             1,239,746.21          34,535.11                                             2n7,s21.u49       813,M3.43
7           7             11.73         3       op      286,  r.slia                                                 903,614.27          88,29.87                                               212,367.9          22,5.2
123         i          28.37311         3       oP      1888, Irasilla                                             1,228,404.30         1122,84.36                                              774,117.1U         27,116.25
17          19         48.31911         3       op    I286. tIia,lia                                               2,507,S25.21          51,903.38                                              601,02.06          12,46.11
22          21         52.11500         3       oP      [MAN, Iroailia                                             2,53,054.20           49,60.462',33.4l                                                          22,9211.51
27          27          2.I404l         3       op      141, Brasila                                               6,71,742.76          289,341.82                                            1,422,11.2           26,242.04
sO          3O         7.150X           3       op      186A, Basilia                                             18,362,280.65          0,113.27                                             3,171,4i.4           41,72.04
13          14         25.97109         3       OF      2N",  aiia                                                 2, 118   .5           6194.t98                                               I7I, 9.17          24,59S.10
&           6           1. 12S94        3       op      IIIAN, Iradili                                             1, 1257 ,5.77         64,3112.44                                             277,t03.63        85,419.45
2           2          11  21114        2       DP      INAU Petioronl                                               IU  fY0.21         Ul1.1           1 U       .l      tl2 022               IIUU11057
32          213614                      2       o        88Peo.245952                                                                    34,233.62A    11,945,818.26    12,255,902.22           222,536.46         0,286.27
32          n3        10121198          2        P      InE                                                        2,496,400.3           24,543.00                                              94                 1,326.3                         b
36          36        III.34181         2       eF      l9E                                                        3,636,341.54          32,657.4U                                           12,32,131.67          122,09.l3
39         31         132.46260         2       op      IPE                                                        3,733,46. 8U 121,15.46                                                     1,4112,717.24       210,710.32
32          35        101.18128         2       OP      IPE (Fomndatanl                                            3,253,747.20          31237.64                                             1,236,423.94         225.3
27          27         612.84042                DP    2UE,  Sa Paulo                                               1,412,97.02           23,964.70                                               5n3 ,76.00        5,752.53
1           26         43.54055         3       op      IE, Sto Paulo                                                732,964.6          126,34.07                                               175,911.52         4,00.23
3o          30        7M. 5900          3       oP    I2E, Sao PaUIO                                              12,349,6.85            17,723.04                                             5122,85.74           6,134.76
11          1            .48,3111       3       Op    2In,5    Paela                                               2,4,19U.21            33,965.34                                              393,337.11          13,2I.X0
24          23         57.3100          3       oP      2PE. Sao P4ule                                             2,5l,Oll.S0           25,76S.23                                              396,242.33          6,904.39
22          21         52.11500         3       oP      IPE2 S1  Paulo                                             1,214,12.40           24,63.39                                               303154.74           5,921.11
2           297        70.1000          2       op      IFE, So Paulo ICatoryl chugud Iroe I to 21                   913,293.74          14,013.59      22,244,145.38       1277,216.07         235,6.58            3,3 63. 2
3           3           14,9311         3        oP     IC                                                           324,637.70          21,876.33                                               78,393.86         85,250.32
5           5          16.72441         3       oP      SEC                                                         6IU,041.74           39,765.03                                              159,611.22         1,431.61
4           4             25.95         3       op      SEC                                                          690,157.89          43,270.09                                              265,637.89        115,314.12
22          221        5.22500          3       op      SEC                                                        2,410,197.14          51,240.25                                             640,92.32 22,2.56
12          1          48.31911         3       oP     SEC, Pernambuco                                            15,240,46.167         315,4122.                                            3,U71,697.60          75,690.71
26          26         43.54053         3       oP      SEC,  eronagaco                                            2,69,472.46           6,8125.23                                             645,953.25          2,3.7
7           7             11.75         3       oP      SEC, Icil.                                                   972,681.42          51,87.34                                               233,443.54         12,450.32 
25          2S         28.5732          3       eop    UC, RetciE                                                  4,300,40.3S          154,504.06                                            1,032,117.50        36,220.9 
20          9          22.73226         3       op     SEC, Recife                                                 3,155,248.71         133,100.13                                             757,2D5.77          3,3111.94                   u
13          14         25.97109         3       op     SEC, Rcic                                                   1,fe.1                64,2U1.37                                             400,53.72           15,424.1 
6           6          27. V299         3       op      SEC, Reci2                                                 2,17,646.27          176,184.05      33,759,909.2  1120,15                   330,67.40         51242.21
47         4U         512.10919         2       Op      SECUtE                                                    17,472,040.00         130,030.42                                             3,255,00.40 US,422.74
40          39        242.23230         2       op     SECICE, Ceara                                              71,10e,300.00 X      554,085.22      96210,80.40          4314,11S.54     21,947,344.00        210,552t.34
40          39        142.23230         2       oP      Slew, Rarilho                                              3,132,80.00          826,942.84       3,832,0X.00          26,941.14     12,56,120.00         110,237.90                    g  u   -
St ... c........ St . . ..... St ....S. .... S. S. . ......
/A  Cosn caiioltoatig  FES I,In;~coa,,, F,O,  t0 oods U:g human reocurColl DPI oeerat,oneo  cost,; RIC  form] cra4:t;  4,1 traia:08: TI; traveli YE: ve8,ic2ea



UAIII -  IIU7RIIOI ISEAIICH A1N  EIIVWI         PRO ECt
PRO2ECT  OlWLE1ION 1EP01
(LOU 13024*1
Tal1 PROJaty COT 1yITOE 11M10 EIPfDTlAE
Tcutl              Total                                                   Total
IlltRdriul  Etchas Nlte                                                                                             te,edlites reported            Eopa0ilter.e      Ezpeoditern                  hbivuore. t                bid  urnt
Apliecter Applicatlon   USNIotCr         Catlgy a-W.&                        kberiptl. of Item                                ICr0l                IUSI)    p;v  Ctelwy          per taterery           ICrt)               (USf)        pcr tot#up
"s-afss_t.. -.W as 44-satasp ass s es  aSs s s   .... x-asessoaate.ss$$ sse       s an a .*aaantls$|gss 88*8828_g 8.3 gas camel282 BanSs                                    lS   l      st        SlZ- l A-ameates ate                               see
tO          J9        142.21l30          2       GP      SEClF,  lagi                                                1 155,159.9U 121.51                    1,159.96 .7          4  1226.5          419,22t.18         83,400.09
47           45       561.009,9          2       e       KMA                                                          0,733,m.6            625,tl1.30                                              1,577,391.97          2,71e.6t
46          44        402.tJ2S0          ;       rp      SEtO  Udeitstraton, Alagous                                 12,036,37. 00         124,931.9                                               45713,322."           9,416.12
40          S9        142.23230          2       op      SE116, Alopas                                                5,203,414.55         137,146.87       2,053,583.24          17,091.16        2,007,720.13        314,115.12
40           37       107.23230          2       op      SNIP  Paraiba                                                1,970,52.00            13,854.53       1,970,52.00         1(3,154.53          746,113.56         05,264.72
41          40        IN.77t00           2       DP ee         , RoodPnw                                              9,263,022.L2         85E2t7.07         9,U3,022.2          555,267.07       3,5tS,541.67          21,101.49
42           41        197.38140         2        op     KIlO                                                         7,499,464.00           37,967.92       7,194,44.00         6371,97. 9        247,1m91.32          14,423.48
36           3         II i.34N2         2        op     SEP                                                         19,552,374.02          175,395.72                                             129,902.33           16,726.37
32          3J        101.1718           2        OF     SEP                                                          6,732,01.71           66,U 73.31                                             2,557,111.3          25,145.31
40           39        142.23230         2       op       !'r                                                        11,260,030.23         079,166.4l                                              4,211,111.49        030,063.26
0            39       142.23230          2        OF     IV                                                             212,329.3            01,914.61                                               203,415.36            727.50
39         3CB S       32.62610          2       AP      SI?                                                         14,667,549.30        11100,10.73                                              5,I5,192.7f             ,134.10
41           45       501.6399           2        Op     WE                                                         36,417,954.95          053,151.02                                             57,137,112.21         ",M205.9
I            a6           . 2.71614      3        op    5E, Peru&AucO                                                2,371,477.08          224,622.75                                               570,634.50         27,555.
30           !0        76.15000          3        op     SP, Pwnaouco                                                351722,225.47         469,103.42                                             13,574,445.67        170,259.30
24           23        57.3000           3        Op     SEP  Pnea3oC                                                 8,632,567.01          250,053.00                                             2,06,774.10          36,012.63
23           21         14.21397         3        op     S, F rudauocg                                                  753,'75." 9          13,1117.U                                               20,930.05           3,33S .03
27          27         41.14041          3       of      Sol  nlct                                                    9,017,10.120m         146,132.71    425,444,561.t1    Il2,12,221.94         1,l7C504.h            15,21.15
40           39        142.23230         2        ap     SER, Rio koide lwo                                           7 7,279,00.0O        154,344.9        7,729,60.00          354,344.         2,931,241.00         m20,652.06
27           27        42.14041          3       op      SOiS, lAo do J.                                                744,057.41           22,044.33         ?44,857.48        022,044.63          i,765.10            2,699.76
13           15        21.57391          3       op    52L.0, Iracllia                                               4,504,000.00          257,626.32       4,504,00.00         1157,26.31        2,0100,i9.00         37,630.32
22           21        52.11509          3        oF   Copying eacAino                                                  52, 052. 5           11l,I.62                                               139,492.62          2,U0.47
31                        -              3        op   IterPatt anat l Ce qrmno  leltsritio   Fn                                               noo00.00                                                                    1300.8
34           33                          3        op   lnterwitenal Congress rolostrolt,n lit                                                   150.00                                                                     15C.W0
2            2          13.2M4           I       go   Operatlional Ceal                                               12,35,373.47              ,U.3         2,939,426.06       0222,206.9           325,76.63         023,902.22
30           30        76.25000          3       op   leis  adjutueot                                                  266,400.001           11,752.11                                             153,232.001          (3,125.44I
24           25        57.31000          3       op   less ajustumrt                                                   112l,O0.00o          12,122.32                                                1229,232.002          -509.36
42           41       297.31940          2       Op   Ins adjusotbt                                                     111,000.002            2092.19                                                (6,340.002           -34.
40           39        142.23230         2        op  lIes adjoestunt                                               223,229,419.111        1127,674.562                                           (6, 0o, 05. 2)      2IU,5Jl.U45
22           21    2   52. O100          3       op   less adeestunl                                                 (1,4tO,233.331         (19,403. t142,695.97                                                        14,6U.931
32          3J         101..7611         2        op   Iess Odjustunt                                                   17C,3O.002             -69!.6                                                121,622.10)           12U3.UIo
39         Ie S        I32.4620          2        op   loei  adjustoect                                                1430,633.201          13,251.361                                             (413,659.622        (1,235.512
15       27.57391           3       op   lee; adjustuut                                                 11,07,912.071          (311,075.371   /21 56,127 .1)    11200,0U.111           (2tI,210.901        11,13.091
T0TAL OEIlATOIOli COSIS                       5,217,56,614.50    151,219,505.15  5,127,35,44.50   ;57,21,U55.2 5                                                  015,24o,693.60
2            2             3.62984       J        rc   Rural Credit                                                   1,034,22.00            75,379.76                                               241,224.96        111,211.;1
37           37        110.22661         I        re   Rural Credit                                                 313,551,276.00      05,243,914.95                                            145,73,56U.        110 2,32,671. 
3            3           14.9311         2        rc   Rural Credit                                                  14,069,214.00         991,327.39                                              3,305,62.30        0221,4124.
9            10           25.515         2       rc   Rural Credit                                                   90,261,125.50       3,534,435.65                                              3,559,093.22         39,40.23                        i
25           24        57.390m0          2       rc   Rsral Credit                                                  2U65,3,m.00          4,62U1,07.11                                            63,729,2.76          110,2,457.70
27           27        61.14041          2        rc   Rural Crfit                                                   43,1oa1386.00          709,554.63                                            10,531,29174         170.29?.9 I
10           I         22.7322t          2       rc   Rual CreW,t                                                     ;7U 021.00             62,191.21                                               IU725.04           39,09.313
.. _ _ _ ~..... ... . --_
TOTAL COSTS FM  MMAL CtEIII                                                             602,U3,310.50   013 345,41.6                                                12,131264.4m2m
'age                                                         ....a.a...tg FE.... *.........,*. .   .........ar.shi *g(s O *2 ra so--- er*-***0,ue*t*   Colts; AC: rural :'edts 76* *o*zng*T*:tr.,.1   WEs ehcle_,*
/I  CO: tCslluDtlt; FEI IduhcshlrhetXtFO: loc4 NIRi hxuar rsourcuil 1  opevetioaal costs;, PC: ral 1: editl T6s  ruiningi TRi travel: 4E:  rthicin



WilL - NUTRITION 3 3 N7 0     GM KW Mli         [C TI
PROJECt tColtIT    lE71T
(LOAN 1302-111
tOT.L PIOJECT COST STITlE AND EIPENITUlE
Tatil             Totil                                               Tital
lAtui awl  (ichitje rate                                                                                    'ipedidtrn u elted          Elguitiirn         Enrueditver               blaaerveet                bivasest
Aoi c.t,oA  Ap;hiatia   011C.rC        Ciategory Q .1                     hxraptail of ltter                           (CrO)              (IlSJ       Wr  ateylory     p r Catery           (Ctril            IW)          1pr VatoeW
IClE)             IUD)
22           1        52.11330        4       t       EIN                                                     1,224,vi4.14         23,5.17                                              293,92.04          5.4.322
1i         21         41.4041         I       to      w                                                         Ui,24.&I            7,157.53                                            30,229.91          3,711 i4
A           75        57.3900         4       1      CEM                                                        771,Hl2.45         13,44.3                                              1,3M.59            3,27.2
10         la         73.15M          4       4      CelmI                                                       29,252.00            384.1I                                             11,115.73           145.97
1           .9        48 mlul         4       t4    CU ,  41,4v4w                                               M,049.79            I1,9)1.5a                                           117,931.5          2,47.U
1           29       45 19611         4       tt      CITED, ranilli                                             11,029.17            22M.27                                              2,U47.17            54.19
17         22         5 7.1300        4       t'    FEW                                                          91,2.              1,i82.74                                             21,5U.5i            451.1
4           124       43.54sus        4       to    IVAN                                                        2M,024.40             ,522.9                                              3,lu.30          1,345.52
17          27        41 4041         4       t       [NM                                                       234,337.73          3,7M.39                                              54,241.0i           909.43
24          25        57.390          6        I      IVN                                                       M22,343.95          4,397 X                                              40,52.E           1,m.3
32          35       t@o.7lN9         3       t       IN                                                      1,354,334.31          23,317.17                                           514,37.57          5,63.l2
fl          23        12.11500        4       to      lm                                                        1232,330.34         4,24                                                 71,319.40         1,532.12
V           40       I47t100          3       to      30lJ                                                    w,37,345.02          0,2)  .                                              S3,99.70           3,17.44
$4          44       432.32           3       to    I3VA1                                                     3,501,503.92         37,24:.2                                           3,S33,212.4          2,742.42
,          30         7t 153000       4  1       1    1                       Im,93m.4u                                            2,9..05                                              4o90,541.50        4,44.73
iI         is 1      132 14266        2       t1    IVA  Chap of categry Iree 4 to 21                         1,13,7.5             1U,4.53                                              4,111.11           S3 .74
4           14        427011          3       4       IN  Ita,e,l                                               402,39".19          9,4.70                                              144,471.11         2,322.4
36 1       1.i:11i        4       to      iVA, kesilia                                            1,107,315.50         22,912.72                                            2s,7M.47           5,500.43
V           19       342.23230        3       t1;    MMEE                                                     3,250,00.00          01,733.44                                            475,00.0           3,39.43
47          43       581.10799        2       to     SEItE. Car. Itraiall)                                      44,000.00          01,100.02                                            115,5M.4            I3.U
40          39       141.23730        3       to     Slap                                                       111,000.00         11,202.24                                              U,9.0              454.11
40          i9       242.23230        3       to     Km                                                         273,575.00         11,23.44                                             1N,M.5               M.1
44         4U4       42.4230          3       to      1E, Ali7Gn                                                  2,235.40              u4.63                                               111.31              1.14
47          45      5331.3199         2       to     SEi, hllgr  Itralliegl                                      20,00.00              134.3S                                             3,413.50             4.3
40          v        142.23230        3       t,     KW                                                         310,00O.00           1,245.54                                            4U,40.00            43.9
it          40       149.77400        3       t      ESM, bDlad                                                30,"o0.30            U05.54                                              41,02.00            241.52
:9          39       U4.319 1         4       to   Imi aijaltt                                                  470,000.001          3,441.701                                          436,000.00)         -331.13
TOTAL CTS OF T13136                                                                 17,122,99.44        279,664.53                                           Q2,53.51
2           2         13.42914        3       tr   INN travel                                                    34,433.0           8,204.42                                             3,312.02         $1,493.2
34,43.4            ,20.42                                               ,4th
2           2         13.42934        3       vw   Ydiele,                                                     1,302,122.50        5s,534.49                                            32,509.4         3,9.
TOTAL CUTS  V1EvUlltES                                                               1,232,122.50       M5,534.49                                           M2, 32
4,443,442,UI.12      47,231,M3.23  4,43,442,fl5.12   147,232,3S.D                            39.0 eallm       39.3 aitt.
40          39       142.23230        4       co  (VI Cuesultat (Ctent ulyin  reuhvwuoitl                     2,HI1,530.93        11I9,9.37        2,02,530.9         339,494.17
42         43        1,17.38940       2       ap   IVA IAliieAtas .     PA M)01  eAdgItIiea  caste ripwrtN    4,737,534.09        334,333.32       4,3,45              34,133.2                                                        a 
42          431      19.31940         3       to  IM   lcute *Iylee reierali"tl                                2,554,45.92        1122,942.21      2.554.54.2         312,942.21
TOTAS. FIECT COST                      ,4175,53,593.06    60,293,1127.40  4,475,53,593.04   $47,211,127.SE
,-  CD: coseeltant,; FE:  leu        eln ar      lne; FDa fdl *e  eaum  reourarl 1'P: xatiuoal coost;l NCe  rual credit: T1: tranin; 11T: truml: Y: vehicla



-47 -
3gAW                                      TAKE 6
WJr TQI RI A   MBAX  AID IRtVEU f  PM-
P C En BE=
Prolect Performance Ratings in Supervision Reports
YEAR:    1977          1978         1979     1980  1981       1982      1983
rim              MJm:   6  10          3  10        6  11      4      6       3   7       6
Status                                  1   2        2   3       3   3       3      1       1   1        1
Tred                                    1 2    2 2                1 2    1   1    11                     2
Wn Type of Problem                      M   N        H   M       M   F       F      M      x   H         N
Proble Project (Y/N)                    N   N        N   Y       Y   Y       Y      1       N   N        N
Tuli1mptation Status
Disburseents                                                     3   3       3      1       1   1        1
Estiuted Cost                                                    2   2       1      1       1   1        1
Anticipated Coiletion                                             2   2      3      1       1   1        1
(9pLiance with lam Cmdit                                         2   2       1      1      1   1         1
Project Fmmcs                                                     1   2      3      2       1   1        2
r=Wzent Pedommnce                                                 2   2      2      2       2   2        2
Prmmmmct Prcgress                                                 1  1   1   1    1  1                   1
Perfoirre of Oisultats                                            1   1      1      1       1   1       -
Reporting                                                        2  2        2      2       2   2        2
D!wlpent Tupt
-       I~~~~~~~~~ct~~~
Epected Benefits                                                 2   2       2      1       1   1        1
Institution  idizg                                              2   2       2      1       1   1        2
WN - Bete:  April 1980 asod June 1981, there was a cambin; mpeiion and project reformulation misson,
but Iere  s no Form 550 prepared. Also in February 1983, there was a mission to Brazil in i
mvervisiw responsibilities vere tnsferred to a nay Division in PM, ax1 there was no FoE 590 prepad.



-48-
ANNEX 1
BRAZIL
NUTRITION RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LN 1302-BR)
Proiect Completion Renort
Performance of Proiect Activities Phased Out at Proiect Reformulation
DEVELOPMENT OF AN INFORMATION BASE.
1.        Para. 2.16 (a-b) -- National Nutrition Survey/Development of
Information Base. Cumbersome administrative procedures and inadequate
comiunication by participating institutions initially inhibited implemen-
tation of the nutrition survey and nutrition surveillance unit. The nutrition
survey was never started as there Was a general feeling in INAN of no need
to further document the existence of a nutrition problem. Although there
vere delays in IEGE releasing existing survey data, possibly because of
the sensitivity of the information it contained, (for example approximately
50% of urban families and 43% of rural families in the Northeast received
less than 90% of average energy requirements), partial analysis of the
National Food Consumption Survey (ENDEF) was done as a result of the project
by FIPE (Fundacao Institute de Pesquisas Economicas). Regarding the survey,
in December 1979, INAN reported it would definitely not take place as they
felt it was very expensive and there were more pressing uses for scarce
INAN funds. FINEP sponsored a research study under this component and
was published in a book titled "Malnutrition in Brazil - An Analysis of
the ENDEF for the Northeast", Vozes, 1983.
2.        Para. 2.16 (c) -- Nutrition Policy Research and Planning Studies
Related to Agriculture. This component was to establish a nutrition unit
in the Ministry of Agriculture and conduct a research program for nutritional
implications of agricultural ?olicies. Early in 1978, INAN concluded it
would not be possible to recruit high criiber staff for such a unit, and
it was agreed that FIPE would be contracted to do the research. FIPE was
to provide: (1) an overview of the nutrition problem with particular reference
to inadequate food consumption by larger segments of the population; and
(2) an assessment of the effectiveness and costs of a wide range of policy
options and special programs including agricultural policies aimed at improving
the nutritional status of specific segments of the population. The Bank
realized it was not an ideal arrangement to have FIPE implement this as
it would not strengthen the analytical capacity of an agency with the Government,
and it would not encourage commitment of policy makers towards uutrition
priorities. Later in a progress report it was stated that a reassessment
of Ministry of Agriculture priorities did not permit these studies to take
place. he Ministry of Agriculture abolished SUPLAN which was the unit
to undertake these studies (SPN report of June 27, 1979, concluding that
this first component was overbudgeted and would reallocate funds). The



-49-                         ANNEX 1
Page 2
component, however, made an important contribution towards increasing awareness
of including nutritional considerations in agriculture; Later FIPE/USP
published the results of its study "Agricultural Policies Oriented Toward
Nutrition" in a book titled The Food Problem in Brazil--The Importance
of Technolonical Inbalances, Paz e Terra, 1983.
DEVELOPMENT AND COMMERCIALIZATION OF NUTRITIOUS FOODS.
3.        Para. 2.15 (a) -- BNDE and Food Advisory Board.  The Food Advisory
Board was to oversee BENDE projects and review proposals for financing small
industry projects such as fortified basic baby foods, soy fortified aanioc
flour, etc., and for techniques for improvement of packaging [para. 2.08(a)].
A list of proposed food specifications were drafted by an expert group
of consultants. IRAN apparently felt Brazil already had an adequate supply
of products available in the market by competent Brazilian companies, and
that no further activities were needed by technological research institutes.
There were long delays in establishing this Board, it met irregularly,
and INAN appeared to be reluctant to forward results of meetings to the
Bank.
4.        Para. 2.15 (b) -- Product Development.  The general objective
of this component was to provide development of nutritious processed products
for low-income beneficiaries through Government centers of food technology.
This component had a slow start, and there were delays in their financing.
Early in 1977 the Bank agreed that this component be used to finance small
community product development projects. INAN merits great credit for the
benefits and stimulus is obtained from pursuing community oriented approaches
for processing and storage of food at the village level, something that
had previously been neglected in Brazil. Proposals were prepared for an
appropriate technology for small-scale processing and conservation of cassava
(CEPEC) in Sao Felipe, Bahia, one on conservation of inland fishery products
(UFPb/NUPPA) at Boquerao, Paraiba, and a village level maize-processing
plant at Rio Tinto. Substantial progress was made on the studies, and
it was recognized this was a difficult component to implement requiring
the start-ap of different activities in distinct areas. In addition, all
three were affected by the severe droughts in the Northeast.
(i) Cassava Proiect.   A community plant management model and marketing
studies were prepared using intermediate technology. This project was
successful and continued on its own after having raised the income of its
members by 302 in the first year. It provided important information regarding
the benefits of small agro-industry to immediately increase benefits to
a small rural population and its use in modernizing the rural sector.
Today, the plant is a small, well-operated cooperative (INAN guarantees
purchase of its entire production), and has acquired land for the associated
farmers with profits. The project combined all the necessary ingredients
to render successful a usually difficult agroindustries project - accessible
low-priced raw mwterials, access to working capital, managerial capacity,
and a guarantted mqrker penetration.  As a result, some 40 other manually-
operated flour uil.a. became mechanized with producers acquiring equipment
observed in use at the plant.



-50-                              ANNEX 1
Page 3
(ii) In-land Fisheries Proiect. The inland fisheries processing model
became fully operational in Feb. 1980, and 17% of fishermen were using
the pilot plant facilities for freezing, salting, drying, and marketing
their catch, and families in adjacent comunities began buying varieties
of fish not previously consumed. Intermediaries were also purchasing the
higher-quality fish and selling to retailers in Campina Grande at inflated
prices. Efforts were made to formulate a system for management and marketing
to reduce retail pricing, but the project was later cancelled, mainly due
to changing environment caused by the drought.
(iii) Maize Proiect. Performance on the maize plan was reported to
be less than satisfactory in April 1980. This was mainly due to the drought
as it was impossible to use local raw materials, and the plant simply processed
and packed grains from the south-central region.
In addition, the implementation of these projects provided important information
regarding the benefits of small agro-industries to a rural population,
and demonstrated some of the constraints in successfully implementing a
community project to transfer technology. Although in April 1980, IKAN
reported they were suspending indefinitely these projects due to lack of
counterpart funds, the cassava project did continue as mentioned above.
5.        Para. 2.15 (c) -- Feasibility Studies.  This component was to
originally finance marketing and engineering studies for the production
of foods. It was later agreed the project would suDport the development
of prototype small scale industrial plans for processing of locally produced
food or small scale fishing enterprises instead of developing fortified
foods to produce at a large scale (became community product development
discussed in para. 3.08 above). The November 1979 Supervision mission
reported this component to date remained inactive.
6.        Para. 2.15(d) -Loans to the Food Industry.  This was the largest
project component in terms of funds allocated for its execution (48.2%
of project base cost), and was included in the project principally to meet
a target loan amount and foreign exchange requirements. The bottleneck
in its implementation was the Bank's position requiring full monetary correction
for any loan made; other problems were that BNDE was not staffed or oriented
to promote and develop the criteria for food industries eligible for a
nutrition credit line, that US$30 million was a small amount compared to
BNDE's total lending program, and that BNDE claimed it had no agreements
with INAN to use full monetary correction, particularly to go through so
much trouble with the Bank to receive a small portion in reimbursement.
It was acknowledged in discussions preceeding Board presentation that this
component was messy and was included partly to increase total project cygt
and the Bank had to disburse against it even if difficult to supervise.
The alternative of dropping the component and raising the disbursement
rate to 50X was considered but rejected as it meant it would change the
18Memo from L. Christoffersen on yellow Cover Issues dated 1arch 15,
1976.



-51-
ANNEX 1
Page 4
integrated concept of the project.19 Then the motives for the component
were suspected by the Brazilians thinking it was designed to benefit
multinationals, and there was also resistance to it because it would mean
lover disbursements for other project activities. IRAN maintained a resistance
towards sophisticated distribution programs as stated by the UNICEF program
officer in Brazil "the IRAN atmosphere tends to get a bit strained when
large companies and comiercial products get into the picture. Knowing
the position of INAN, it is a waste of time approaching them with a product
and then try to identify a program to suit the product." (UNIC1F letter
dated August 7, 1978). Consequent to this controvery, the Brazilians proposed
in January 1976 these loans be made to small and medium industries through
BNDE, and the component was kept as such.
7.         INAN and BNDE had great difficulty and delays in agreeing on
a contract. The relatively small amount of money disbursed and large amount
of 'red tape' and special conditions involved in using Bank funds made
BEDE have little interest in participating in the component. When a law
was passed in Brazil in 1978 limiting monetary correction to 202 for BIDE
loans, it became impossible to carry out the component with the Bank insisting
on full correction. INAN requested cancellation of this component and
transfer of the amount to the PRAMNSE component; the Bank denied the request
believing the monetary correction situation would soon be solved. When
full monetary correction was finally approved in March 1979, it was believed
some progress could then be made, and Brazil cancelled its request to cancel
the component. This, however, proved to be temporary and funds from this
component were finally reallocated to the Rede Somar component proposed
in the reformulation in 1980.
TRAINI MG PBOGRAMS.
8.        Para. 2.16 (d) -  Traininst.  A diagnosis of training requirements
was prepared (CENDRO/CEPED) identifying the training needs of INAN staff
and of the nutrition sector to enable Brazil to program and implement PRONAN
projects. The training program which included upgrading and training of
personnel for implementation of PRONAN projects, seminars for the exchange
of experiences among PRONAN projects, and technical and financial assistance
to graduate and post-graduate courses in nutrition was overestimated.
One complication was the difficulty INAN had in the legal justification
of the hiring of consultants. In addition, Brazil preferred to use other
sources of finance for its training activities. It was recognized by INAN
early in implementation that this component only needed a fraction of the
resources allocated to it (August 1978). INAN did provide some short tisining
courses and seminars in nutrition planning to officials from each of the
Northeastern states, but chose not to make use of funds for various schools
and universities to do nutrition training as they felt short courses were
more appropriate and practical to meet short-term needs rather than permanent
nutrition training. Two courses were offered in Fortaleza for 51 technicians
from federal agencies of the Northeast. One seminar was offered for 60
19Letter from S. Venkitaravan.n dated Iovember 1st, 1977.



-52-                            ANNEX 1
Page 5
high-level technicians with decision-making power in agriculture, health,
and development.
ASSISTANCE TO INAN FOR PROJECT SUPPORT.
9.        Para. 2.16 (e-i) -- NonitorinR and Evaluation.  This was an important
feature of the project, and a complex system was prepared to follow the
operational tests for delivery of nutrition services, including the preparation
of a seminar for monitoring and evaluation. This was to provide a basis
for reliable judgments on the comparative nutritional impact and cost-
effectiveness of the tested delivery systems. The evaluation was to provide
answers to questions such as: (a) how do nutrition results by age and
sex groups and costs of achieving these results through food interventions
via health facilities compare with respect to specific quantifies of foods,
mandatory vs. food distribution at a subsidized price through a marketing
scheme; (b) how do nutrition improvements compare across groups receiving
food interventions in rural areas to those non-food interventions by assisting
small farm families in Sergipe; (c) how do nutrition results differ among
comparable pre-school groups and the costs of achieving such results through
rural and urban in-school feeding interventions compared with the take-home
interventions through the health system; and (d) how do costs and nutrition
effects compare between using traditional foods and using especially processed
foods for children age 0-2 and pregnant and lactating mothers. To date,
one of this component's main shortfall is that it has not provided conclusive
analysis that would permit a comparison of alternative costs and benefits
of nutrition interventions, although it has laid the groundwork for it.
The November 1979 Supervision summary reported that a number of operational,
monitoring, and reporting problems stemmed from INAN's inadequate
decentralization of component management responsibilities to participating
institutions.
10.       Para. 2.16 (e-ii) -  Proiect Evaluation and Special Studies.
A special fund had been set up to strengthen evaluation in project components
and to undertake studies and other innovative activities not anticipated in
the project. A contract was signed by IPE/University of Sao Paulo and INAN
for the global evaluation of the project. (Letter of July 16, 1979). The
Bank commented that it was fundamental for these evaluations to try to
evaluate a change in nutrition stsaus. INAN, however, was not as interested
as the Bank in obtaining accurate results on the evaluation of each of
these alternatives, and there were 'any delays in presenting reports and
contracting for evaluations of data collected.   There was some disagreement
about IPE performing evaluations, as IRAN felt their planning office should
perform this, but the Bank insisted on external evaluation by a qualified
entity. To date, there is still potential to evaluate much of the data
collected and this was requested during the last supervision mission.
Studies were performed in addition to the ones mentioned in the first component:
"Social Sciences in Nutrition", and "Influence of Feeding Practices in
Nutrition". Also, using the results of the monitoring of the alternative
nutrition delivery programs, many theses have been carried out using the
data and contributing to an objective of the project tt, develop a better
comprehension of the Brazil nutrition problem.



ANNEX 2
ATTACHMENT 1
- 53 -
E-1132/85   May 9, 1985
Portuguese (Brazil)
OED         JVS:ak
Incoming telex from Brazil dated May 5, 1985
To: Mr. Yukinori Watanabe
Director, OED
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Reference your letter of March 28 enclosing the draft PCR on the "Brazil -
Nutrition Research and Development Project (Loan 1302-BR)," I would inform you
that this Secretariat has no comments on the matter. Technical comments will
be forwarded to you by the Ministry of Health/INAN, the executing agency.
Regards,
Gilberto Coutinho Paranhos Velloso
Secretary, SUBIN/SEPLAN/PR



54                            ANNEX 2
ATTACHMENT 2
E-14/86     July 8, 1985
Portuguese (Brazil)
PHN
DRJB:cc
M I N I S T R Y    O F   H E A L T H
Brasilia
June 14, 1985
Our ref: CCM No. 584/GM
Mr. Stephen N. Denning
Chief, Div. III, PHN Dept.
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Denning:
Below are a number of observations ou the Brazil/IBRD Nutrition and
Development Project (PNBB). which I make after consulting with the INAN
technical staff responsible for project execution and after perusing the
Project Completion Report (PCR/IBRD):
L.        I understand and agree with a good many of the criticisms made in
the PCR/IBRD regarding INAN's previously limited ability to influence the
formulation of national policies enough to secure priorities for the food and
nutrition sector and for the actions taken in it. Let me also say on this
score that I am gratified at the evidence of the concern and effort IBRD has
put, these la:;t years, into reinforcing INAN as a component in Brazil's
governmental structure.
2.        I also understand and agree with the statements made in the PCR/IBRD
regarding the positive aspects of PNBB, in particular the fact that, through
the process of learning by doing, it has provided experience that can be
replicated in the design and implementation of other projects.
3.        I am pleased to be able to inform you that the Brazilian Government
is currently making radical changes in its national policy, according the
highest priority to the "social sector" and, within it, to nutrition. As a
consequence, the Ministry of Health budget has been increased significantly
with a view to generalizing the coverage of the Nutrition in Health Project
(PNS), approximately US$300 miilion having been allocated to the distribLtion
of basic foodstuffs to pregnant and nursing women and infants through health
posts during the second half of 1985.



55 -                  ANNEX 2
ATTACHMENT 2
Page 2
4.        The strengthening of INAN therefore becomes an urgent matter if this
new PNS, now named PSA (Food Supplements Program), is to become a reality. As
far as personnel resources are concerned, an immediate increase in both
qualitative and quantitative terms is planned, by expanding the staff at
technician level and by offering more realistic salaries which it is hoped
will attract and retain highly competent professionals. It is important to
note that this decision is a matter not of any external commitment, as was the
case at the time of the PNBB Loan Agreement. but of Federal Government
determination to remedy the precarious nutritional status of the poorest
segments of the population.
5.        Given this new scenario, it seems to me that the experience
accumulated by INAN up to now, particularly through the controlled testing of
PNBB operations, will prove most valuable in the design and successful
implementation of the new activities. Therefore, I think it advisable to
carry the analysis of the PNBB experiment further and so would adopt the
proposal made by t:ie previous management of rNAN, namely that a workshop
should be held, with participation by representatives of IBRD, INAN/MS and
other agencies involved in executing PNBB. It is my view that such a workshop
should avoid the kind of academic stance that favors theory rather than
practicalities; instead, taking past experience as its starting point, it
should look toward the futture, examining options and approaches of immediate,
practical benefit. In the circumstances, I shall await word from you
reaffirming IBRD's interest in seeing such a workshop take place; at the same
time, I should be glad of your suggestions for an agenda (and suitable dates).
6.        If, as a result either of the workshop or some other situation, a
proposal were to be put forward for the institution of a new line of technical
and financial cooperation between IBRD and this Ministry, with the
intervention of INAN, it would be very well received. It could serve as a
means of supporting programr already under way and assigned real priority
ranking by the Government (not, it appears, the case with PNBB); at the same
time, through humar. resources development, it could seek to strengthen DNAN's
formal structure, not by creating a Special IBRD Project Group, but acting
directly on each of the existing Secretariats.
I believe these remarks fully clarify the questions still left over
from the 1983 Loan Agreement, while at the same time delineating new
possibilities of technical and financial cooperation. I look forward to your
reply, with every hope of a positive outcome where relations between IBRD and
this Ministry are concerned.
Cordially yours,
ss/
Carlos Sant'Anna
Minister of Health



t S v ~~~~E N E Z U _f L_ A0  
Co L 0 Mi                 , I A                      1A       "V A G VUIANA                              r
I     }      M^TOAVISTOA   y   .  ?' .
qL f'2 )/}   /                          .'.k      '       ~.
;AIRORAI~~A                                     A' /eI        1ic'       c  eOnA
8RAZIL                                                 PAOIBI
NUTRITIDON RAR A N                          | 
BRAZIL                           I~~~~~~MAANA
DEVElOPMENT  PROJECT                 --P M I N A S                                                       j; R A 1 5     "' ;'R' *A
p      , 1    5T! W MJ?pmO.d hTIMNT~M~lt#:;~.                                                            1         ->. Jr__
NAs. ,wgihis.  Iw..                           I                  I1  X _
O   TIF kAI.F..   N0                              >.              /    SAO  PAUt.O                ..        z .ew._.._ i
*   !N.uI cads                                   4N                             A
""' * f - ~~~~~~~~i .                                         ,          -  ,;. 4. . , :,,fE*_
SwF .~..............                                                             ..                ..................  .................................  v  s   $VD p  t AR A  s  .~' .'3
NDONIAPIZ lAuD ON 4100                            ....,                                                     T
p   I                                                                    
4   ~~~ -  3W 4.4 3W 3W          AJ                           BRALMCO-L.
*4~~a,n4              I                     .. -4..    ~      ~           . .4.
Sere 6w..w                           ee                                              'iURjJJY  r,..
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   hi
'4.                        M~~CIhl~~3          99                                                        _______________IO



