DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use              FILE  COpy
Report No-693a-BR
PRELIMINARY REPORT
ON A
PROPOSED NUTRITION PROJECT IN BRAZIL
May 23, 1975
Population and Nutrition
Projects Department
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CUP .NY g&IVdlENTS
US-1.00             Cr$7.975
Cr$1.00             US$0.13
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Kilogram (kg.)              2.20 pounds
1 Hectare (ha.)       =       2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABIL       Associaqb Brasileira das Ind4strias de Alimentagio
(Brazilian Association of Food Industries)
ANCARSE    Associac,ao Nacional de Credito e Assistencia Rural-Sergipe
(National Association for Rural Credit and Assistance of Sergipe)
BDE        Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econ6mico
(National Economic Development Banh:)
CEAPES     Centro de Educacao e Alimentaggo de Pre-Escolar
(Center for Education and Feeding of Pre-School Children)
CNA        Comissao Nacional de Alimentacao
(National Food Commission)
CNAE       Canpanha Nacional de AliAentagao Escolar
(National School Food Campaign)
CPMI       Coordinaqco de Protegao Materno-Infantil
(Maternal-Child Protection Program)
ENERAPA    Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Brazilian Enterprise for Agricultural Research)
ERKATER   Enpresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e Estengao Rural
(Brazilian Enterprise for rechnical Assistance and Rural Extension)
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organization
FINEP      Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos
(Agency for Funding Studies and Projects)
IBGE       Instituto Brasileiro de Geographia e Estattstica
(Brazilian Institute for Geography and Statistics)
INAN       Instituto Nacional de Alimentagao e Nutrigao
(National Food and Nutrition Institute)
IPEA       Instituto de Planejamento Economico e Social
(Institute of Economic and Social Planning)
ITAL       Instituto de Tecnologia de Alimentos
(Institute of Food Technology)
LBA        Legiao Brasileira de Assistencia
(Brazilian Legion of Assistance)
PRONAN     Programma Nacional de Alimentagqo e Nutrigao
(National Food and Nutrition Program)
PAHO       Pan American Health Organization
SAPRO      Setor de Alimentos Proteicos
(Section on Protein Foods of ABIA)
SESP       Fundagao Servigos de Saude Publica
(Public Health Services Foundation)
SUDIEN     Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for Northeast Development)
SUPLAN    &Sbsecretaria de Planejamento e Orgamento - Ministerio de Agricultura
(Subsecretariat of Planning and Budgeting - Ministry of Agriculture)
UNICEF    United Nations Children's Fund
USAID      United States Agency for International Development



PRELIMINARY REPORT ON A PROPOSED NUTRITION PROJECT IN BRAZIL
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY      ............................. ................    i-iii
I.  INTRODUCTION  ........................................   1
II.  BACKGROUND ON BRAZILIAN NUTRITION  ................. ..    1
A.  Nutritional Needs  ..     ..........................
B.  Causes of Malnutrition  ..      .......................    3
C.  Actions to Counter Malnutrition  ............... .    5
III.  THE PROJECT  ........................                   8
A.  Project Description  ..... ...................8 
B.  Detailed  Features    ..............................  9
IV.  IMPLEMENTATION AND ORGANIZATION  ................. ....   17
V.  COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS   .....   19
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION  ......    .........................   23
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS  .......................       ..   25
ANNEXES
1. Nutrition Intervention Through the Rural Extension
Agency
2. Organizational Charts:
Chart 1 - Health and Nutrition Organization Relationships
Chart 2 - Contractual Agreements between Participating
Entities
3. Estimated total Project Cost by Type of Expenditure
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil in November 1974. The mission consisted of: Mr. A. Berg, PNP (Chief),
Mr. S. Venkitaramanan, PNP (Deputy Chief), Mr. G. Kaddar (LAC), Mr. S.
Reutlinger (DED), Dr. J. Wray (Medical Specialist, Consultant), Mr. E.
Thomson (Agriculture and Nutrition Administration Specialist, Consultant),
and Ms. E. Johnson-Sirleaf (LAC, Loan Officer). A post-appraisal mission
consisting of Messrs. Berg, Venkitaramanan and Thomson completed a visit to
Brazil in February 1975.






PRELIMINARY REPORT ON A PROPOSED NUTRITION PROJECT IN BRAZIL
SUMMARY
i.        Malnutrition in Brazil is widespread and is especially serious in
the Northeast where the infant mortality rate -- largely nutrition-related --
is among the highest in Latin America. The Government recognizes the gravity
of this problem and has taken certain direct actions to alleviate it. It also
intends to develop a comprehensive national nutrition plan and to provide
substantial resources for an integrated national nutrition program. As in
most countries, however, the basic prerequisites for planning an effective,
comprehensive national program do not now exist. The Government of Brazil
lacks sufficient knowledge of the nature, extent, and causes of malnutrition,
the trained manpower and the institutions capable of implementing large-scale
programs, and knowledge concerning the relative effectiveness of alternate
forms of delivering nutrition services. The latter applies especially in
low-income communities to the nutritionally vulnerable pre-school aged children
and, relatedly, to pregnant and lactating women, who constitute the target
group for this project. In addition, appropriate low-cost processed nutritious
foods are not currently produced in Brazil to meet the needs of the population
including the target group through either institutional or commercial channels.
ii.       Accordingly, the primary purpose of the proposed project is to pro-
vide Brazil with the basic information, institutional and manpower capabilities,
and adequate quantities of certain high-priority inexpensive food products
so that within 4 years it will be able to mount an effective national nutrition
program. Toward this end, the proposed project would consist of:
(a) the development of an information base generated by:
(i) a nutrition and food consumption survey and the
establishment of a monitoring system to provide
periodic surveillance of nutrition conditions,
(ii) the assessment of the nutritional implications of
agricultural policies;
(b) a testing of the relative effectiveness of alternative delivery
systems to improve the nutritional status of the target group
through:
(i) the rural extension service,
(ii) the school feeding infrastructure,
(iii) urban and rural health delivery systems,
(iv) the commercial market;



- ii -
(c) development and commercialization of nutritious foods for use
by the target group through:
(i) a research and development program for low-cost processed
foods,
(ii)  engineering and marketing feasibility studies for indus-
trial-scale production of such foods and investment
capital necessary to commence production on a large
scale,
(iii) a program of fortifying food staples; and
(d) training and technical assistance.
iii.      As a result of the project, the Government of Brazil would:  (a) know
the magnitude and implications of the nutrition problem and the relationship
of nutrition status to agricultural policies; (b) have a cadre of trained
officials and strengthened institutions equipped to plan for and implement
a national program; (c) know the relative effectiveness of several delivery
systems and have the practical experience provided by the testing of such
systems; and (d) have available, for institutional and commercial markets,
locally-produced low-cost nutritious products and fortified food staples.
During the last year of the project, a national nutrition plan would be
developed, based on the above.
iv.       In the process of carrying out the tests for the long-range purposes
stated, approximately 57,000 children and women would benefit directly from
various forms of nutritional assistance. An additional 12 million people
would benefit from the fortification program proposed in the project.
v.        The total cost of the proposed 4-year project would be US$61.8
million. The Bank loan would cover 32%, or US$20 million, approximately
equal to the estimated foreign exchange component. The balance would be
provided by the Government.
vi.       For the proposed project. the Bank loan would help finance the
construction and equipping of pilot food processing plants and laboratories;
the import of vitamins and minerals and equipment for fortification research,
development and, testing; the purchase of vehicles; technical assistance
through consultants and fellowships; operating costs for tests and surveys
including the cost of data processing, additive staff salaries, and food
utilized in the tests; credit to food processing companies; credit to small
landholders participating in the rural extension test; evaluation of the
project components; and training of staff in the National Food and Nutrition
Institute (INAN) and other entities associated with the proposed project.
vii.      In addition to providing the foundation for the development of an
efficient, comprehensive nutrition program, direct nutritional benefits would
accrue to many during the project period as noted in paragraph iv above. The



- iii -
long-term benefits of the project, which would be realized after the imple-
mentation of an efficient, comprehensive nutrition program, would be a gener-
ally improved health status for the population as a whole and increased pro-
ductivity by persons benefitting from the program.
viii.     Subject to the assurances described in Section VII, the proposed
project is suitable for Bank financing.






PRELIMINARY REPORT ON A PROPOSED NUTRITION PROJECT IN BRAZIL
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      At the conclusion of the Board discussion of the nutrition policy
paper held November 27, 1973, the President announced that in keeping with
the President's Memorandum on Board Procedures (R72-45) 1/, the Executive
Directors should have an opportunity to discuss initial nutrition projects
after appraisal but before negotiations. Accordingly, this paper brings
together, in summary form, the background and content of a proposed nutrition
project loan requested by the Government of Brazil.
1.02      The Executive Directors noted during the Board discussion that
many Bank member countries were beginning to recognize the importance of the
malnutrition problem and its implications to national development, and that
certain countries were attempting to develop national nutrition policies
and programs. Brazil is one such country. In November 1972, the Government
established the National Food and Nutrition Institute (INAN), with the
intent of providing a coordinating body at the national level with responsi-
bility for formulating and overseeing a comprehensive national nutrition
program. INAN was one of the first such national bodies organized to pro-
vide a focus for nutrition activities.
1.03      In response to requests from the Government for assistance with the
development of nutrition programs, a reconnaissance mission from the Bank
visited Brazil in February 1973. Subsequent Bank missions assisted INAN and
other public agencies with project preparation. However, growing difficulties
within INAN, which led in May 1974 to the removal of the institution's leader-
ship and nearly all of its staff, seriously interrupted the pace of prepara-
tion and appraisal. A new President of INAN, who took office in September
1974, resumed the preparation work and an appraisal mission visited Brazil
in November 1974. Although the mission found certain components ready for
appraisal at that time, gaps in information and differences in approach
existed in respect to some of the components. A post-appraisal mission
visited Brazil in February 1975 and brought to a final stage the process of
appraising the project.
II. BACKGROUND ON BRAZILIAN NUTRITION
A. Nutritional Needs
2.01      Data on nutritional status, food consumption patterns and consumer
budget expenditures in Brazil are meagre, geographically spotty, of uneven
1/   R72-45 provides that the Executive Directors shall have a chance for
special preliminary review of projects with "unique or unusual features."



- 2 -
quality and usually dated. Nonetheless, from the existing data and observational
reporting, certain broad conclusions can be made about malnutrition in Brazil --
enough to provide general direction until the surveys to be sponsored by the
proposed project can provide more precise data.
2.02      Although the daily per capita availability of food in Brazil from
1960 to 1968 was estimated at 2,900 calories and 63 grams of protein (compared
to recommended daily allowances of 2,700 calories and 56 grams of protein for
an adult male), all indications are that more than half the population have
caloric and protein deficiencies. The Getulio Vargas Foundation reported
that in 1961-62, 61% of the urban and 63% of the rural population in the
Northeast were deficient in calories and protein and that a significant
portion of the population (from 25% to 47%) in other areas of Brazil also
consumed less than the minimum requirements. A 1971 study by the Bank of
Northeast reported that the average daily intake of the urban population in
the Northeast was 1,857 calories, 69% of the recommended allowance. Other
studies indicate seriously low intake levels among landless laborers, e.g.,
families of sugar plantation workers.
2.03      Malnutrition affects especially pre-school age children, reducing
optimum physical and mental development and resistance to infectious diseases,
and contributes to high infant mortality, which in Brazil is about 75 per
1,000 and in the Northeast officially reported at 137 per 1,000. This com-
pares to 20 per 1,000 in North America. A study undertaken by the Pan
American Health Organization (PAHO) in 1973 reported that nutritional defi--
ciency and immaturity (i.e., less than 2,500 grams of weight at birth, a
problem usually related to the malnutrition of the mothers) were underlying
or important associated causes of 60% of the infant mortality in Recife and
20-40% in other Brazilian areas studied, compared to 10% in North America.
The Recife rate was the highest of the areas studied in the Western Hemisphere.
Of the survivors, eight spot surveys in the Northeast show that from 51% to
85% of the children studied are suffering from malnutrition, with more than
one-fifth falling below 70% of the normal body weight for their age. Although,
like infant mortality, malnutrition among the survivors is most serious in the
Northeast, it is also prevalent in other parts of the country, especially the
Southwest. In a study just completed in Sao Paulo, for example, 30% of all the
children showed anthropometric signs of malnutrition; 48% of the children
from, families with per capita incomes of under US$300 per year had such signs.
Of a randpm sample of children under two years of age admitted to Sao Paulo
hospitals, 73% were below normal for height and weight; 45% were below 70%
of the norm. Even though no special studies have been undertaken in Brazil,
it is reasonable to assume from studies elsewhere that the combined high
degree of second-and third-degree malnutrition 1/ in the early childhood
1!   Second-degree malnutrition refers to body weight 60-75% of the estab-
lished norm; third-degree malnutrition includes any child below 60%
weight of the norm.



- 3 -
years is one of the causes of poor performance later in school and high rates
of school absenteeism and dropout in Brazil. 1/
2.04      Iron deficiency anemia and vitamin A deficiency, as evaluated by
low blood values, are found in approximately 20-30% of the children in most
of the places where observations have been made. Iron deficiency anemia (af-
fecting all ages in Brazil, as was reported in a 1965 survey) is responsible for
lethargy and fatigue, experienced especially during physical exertion, and a
high susceptibility to infection. Pregnant women are especially vulnerable
to anemia. A higher incidence of maternal deaths, stillbirths and premature
births has been observed among anemic women. Vitamin A deficiency affects
growth, the severity of other nutritional diseases and vision. Vitamin A
deficiency is the major cause of blindness in low-income countries.
2.05      One would expect these deficiencies to exacerbate the protein-calorie
malnutrition, although most of the studies were not planned to analyze this
combination of deficiencies in the same individual. Endemic goiter, resulting
from iodine deficiency, has also been reported as a severe health problem
in parts of the country, although no data are available from the past decade.
There also are indications that fluoride, riboflavin and vitamin C deficiencies
may be significant.
B. Causes of Malnutrition
2.06      As in most countries, Brazilian agricultural policies in the past
have seldom consciously taken into account the nutritional needs of specific
age and income segments of the population. Brazilian agriculture has grown at
an average of 6.5% over the last five crop years, with much of the increase
attributed to the Government's drive to increase export crops. In some
instances the emphasis on production of certain export crops has had the
effect of displacing basic food crops for domestic consumption and such sub-
stitution may not have had, at least in the short term, a positive impact on
the nutritional status of the poor. Beans, which are a major protein source
for low-income families, dropped in per capita annual availability from 62.5
pounds in 1971 to 47.1 pounds in 1974. Bean prices during this period
increased from US$.25 to US$.70 per pound.
2.07      Government agricultural services have concentrated attention on
large mechanized farms, emphasizing export crops. Small farmers in the
Northeast, for example, generally have had limited, if any, access to agri-
cultural credit and rural extension, although basic food crops constitute the
main production of these farms. Similarly, funds for agricultural production
research have not been deployed in a manner to increase crop production by
small farm owners, sharecroppers and tenant farmers. The lack of on-farm
1/   UNESCO data show that for every 1,000 Brazilian children entering school,
644 drop out before completing the fourth grade and of the remaining
students, 200 repeat at least one grade. In the Northeast this situation
is worse, with only 19% of beginning students completing the fourth grade.



-4-
storage facilities and access to larger storage facilities has had the effect
of forcing the rural poor to sell products at low prices during harvest season
and to buy them back later at higher prices for family consumption. Moreover,
basic social and institutional patterns including concentration of land
ownership, a sharecropping system, marketing deficiencies and an inadequate
social infrastructure, serve as underlying constraints to improvement in the
nutritional condition.
2.08      In urban areas, problems of inadequate food intake are exacerbated
by infections derived from unsanitary conditions and inadequate personal
hygiene. In the low-income Encruzilhada section of Recife, where sanitary
conditions are highly inadequate, infant mortality (90 per 1,000 live births)
and the death rate of children under 5 years of age (29 per 1,000 population)
are the highest reported for an urban area in the Western Hemisphere.
2.09      Breastfeeding is declining in Brazil, as in many countries in the
world. A common urban practice in Northeast Brazil is for mothers to wean
their children at five or six weeks and substitute manioc gruel (which con-
tains almost no protein) for breast milk. Mothers are reluctant to feed
children fruits or vegetables; meat and eggs are considered noxious. Heavily
promoted commercial milk-based baby formulas are often used, but because of
income limitations, the product is frequently over-diluted, and served un-
hygienically.  Infant diarrhea often results, leading to malabsorption, mal-
nutrition and increased severity of otherwise minor childhood infections--
all factors contributing to the high infant mortality rate. In Recife, 73%
of the children who died during their first year had been breast fed less
than one month. At the age of about one year, children are fed the adult
diet without any added precaution such as pureeing the foods. Among the
poor, there apparently is little understanding about the types of foods and
the amounts to be fed or basic practices of hygiene in child feeding.
2.10      Although Brazil has a large and sophisticated food industry, only
modest attention to date has been directed to developing and marketing low-
cost nutritious products for the poor, in part because profitability from
producing such foods was unclear. Similarly, the several food technology
institutes in Brazil have not given priority attention to the needs of low-
income consumers. The cost of manufactured baby foods ranges from US$1.34
to US$3.33 equivalent per kilo--beyond the reach of the poor. A few products
employing new technologies and non-conventional sources of protein that
would lower the cost have been and are being developed in Brazil, but none
as yet are produced on a large scale.
2.11      Grain products, such as wheat flour and corn meal, lose some of
their important nutrients during processing. Whereas fortification of the
processed grain with vitamins and minerals is now standard practice in many
industrialized countries, in Brazil it is not. Brazil has a program to
fortify salt with iodine, but the performance is not fully effective. The
Health Ministry reports that approximately 50% of the salt used for human
consumption is fortified.



-5-
C. Actions to Counter Malnutrition
Government Agencies
2.12      Past sporadic attempts have been made to counteract malnutrition
among young children in Brazil, but these generally have been isolated, short-
term efforts. Brazilian nutrition experts report that the nutritional impact
of these activities has been limited. They ascribe the unsatisfactory results
to the lack of (a) a nutrition policy based on precise knowledge of the quali-
tative and quantitative aspects of malnutrition, (b) clear identification of
the causes of malnutrition toward which intervening measures can be directed,
(c) large-scale intervention programs, (d) coordination among existing prog-
rams, (e) continuity, and (f) Government commitment to spend the substantial
funds a national nutrition program re.quires.
2.13      As early as 1945, an interministerial committee known as the
National Food Commission (CNA) was established in Brazil to serve as a focal
point for nutrition. The CNA conducted several nutritional surveys and
studies. To the extent nutrition activities aimed at young children took
place in Brazil during the period of the CNA's existence (1945-1971), they
were mostly of a small pilot nature, lacking a policy context. Several
separate nutrition programs were established, but mostly were aimed at target
groups other than those addressed by this proposed project. The Ministry
of Education, for example, in the early 1960s developed the National School
Food Campaign (CNAE) which now provides food to 12 million students through
100,000 schools. For this program, much of the food (worth approximately
US$273 million) was donated under the U.S. PL-480 program. These donations
are being concluded at the end of FY 75 and the Government has taken steps
to continue the program through commercial purchases. Pre-school aged children
are not reached by this program. The Health Ministry has had since 1940 some
form of its current Maternal Child Protection Program (CPMI), which attempts
to include basic nutrition services, as part of a general maternal-child health
program. CPMI, however, concentrates on curative rather than preventative
health and has had a history of financial and administrative difficulties.
2.14      The Public Health Services Foundation (SESP), a semi-autonomous
Federal agency which comes under the Health Ministry, has 126 medical units
located mostly in small cities in the Northeast which distribute some foods;
until recently these also were mostly foreign donations. The rural extension
agency (EMBRATER), attached to the Ministry of Agriculture, also includes
a social extension wing of approximately 800 extensionists who provide basic
health and nutrition education services, primarily to the less-privileged
portions of the rural population. In the past year, a relationship has been
established between the work and aims of the social extensionists and the
agricultural extensionists of the same organization. Several other philan-
thropic organizations are involved in nutrition programs in Brazil, but
their contributions are modest due to limitations of funds and staff. The
strongest such entity is the Brazilian Legion of Assistance (LBA), which
traditionally is headed by the wife of the President of the Republic. This



- 6 -
agency concentrates on medical services to mothers and children during the
first months of life. With the exception of EMBRATER, none of the programs
of the above agencies have been evaluated in terms of their nutritional
impact.
Nutrition Research and Training Institutions
2.15      Universities and schools in several states offer nutrition training
and/or research programs which in some cases also have test projects serving
adjacent communities. A field project in the satellite city of Sobradinho,
for example, gives the nutrition program at the University of Brasilia a
focus for research in nutritional rehabilitation, nutrition education and
protein-calorie relationships. The Institute of Nutrition in Recife (asso-
ciated with the Federal University of Pernambuco) is involved in training and
research, including the testing of nutritional rehabilitation centers in
adjacent sugar cane growing areas. The Institute recently established a
division of food technology with assistance from the Government of Switzerland
and the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO).
2.16      The School of Hygiene and Public Health in Sao Paulo offers a
regular course in nutrition and also a two-month nutrition course for
physicians from other Latin American countries, with the assistance of PAHO.
The staff of the School of Medicine in Ribeirao Preto has conducted a variety
of biochemical and food technology research programs. The largest of several
food technology institutes in Brazil is ITAL, the Food Technology Institute
in Campinas, which-has not, until recently, given major attention to the
nutrition problem. Budget expenditure and food consumption surveys have been
conducted by the Getulio Vargas Foundation and the Brazilian Institute of
Geography and Statistics (IBGE).
2.17      The above activities have not been pursued with a national nutrition
policy focus or in a coordinated fashion, similar to the situation in many
countries. From the industrial sector, the Brazilian Association of Food
Industries (ABIA), in 1968 established a Section on Protein Foods (SAPRO),
designed primarily to coordinate efforts and promote the production of low-
cost nutritious foods by food companies. Although SAPRO provides to the
Government a focal point for communication with industry, little of the early
promise has materialized.
International 4nd Foreign Agencies
2.18      For more than a decade international agencies have provided services
to one or another of the Brazilian entities involved in nutrition.  The con-
tribution of the UN agencies is largely limited by budgetary constraints
and the size and nature of the programs may vary significantly from year to
year. The World Food Program provided approximately 4% of the foods used in
the National School Food Campaign. The Pan American Health Organization/
World Health Organization provides training, technical assistance and some
funding for research. The United Nations Development Programme currently



sponsors eight agricultural projects that indirectly relate to nutrition, and
FAO provides technical experts in a variety of food and agriculture-related
fields. The United Nations Children's Fund has sponsored nutrition education
activities, training for several Brazilian agencies, and evaluation of their
programs.
2.19      The U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) has the
largest bilateral nutrition program, with major emphasis until recently on
supplying commodities to institutional feeding programs. USAID also has been
active in training and technical assistance, especially as it relates to the
development of new foods. Special emphasis has been given to fortification
of manioc flour with soy and the local development of fish protein concentrates.
The Ford Foundation also finances a nutrition training program. These external
inputs have been useful but not utilized to their full effectiveness due to
the lack of a strong centralized agency.
Establishment of INANI
2.20      Increased Government concern about the malnutrition problem, and
awareness by certain top officials of the inadequacies and lack of focus and
coordination of existing programs, led to the establishment in November 1972
of the National Food and Nutrition Institute (INAN). INAN is an autonomous
federal agency (autarquia), under the Ministry of Health, with responsibili-
ties for assisting the Government in formulating national nutrition policies
and preparing, supervising and coordinating a national nutrition program.
Its official mandate is the National Food and Nutrition Program (PRONAN),
which was promulgated in March 1973.  Based on this order, INAN's activities
were to be directed to a target group consisting of children from low-income
families (pre-school and primary-school age), and pregnant and lactating women.
PRONAN states that program execution will be undertaken by established agencies
with INAN responsible for "planning, guidance, coordination, supervision and
evaluation." INAN's budget for the first year was to be US$100 million equiv-
alent, and US$150 million equivalent for the second year.
2.21      INAN's first president, however, developed and attempted to imple-
ment a broad-based, family-wide feeding program, accompanied by an extensive
promotion of INAN. Rather than coordinating other agencies, INAN's opera-
tional efforts had the effect of creating conflict and of exacerbating an
already difficult situation. Additionally, allegations of financial impro-
priety were raised against INAN's leadership and formal hearings led to the
dismissal of INAN's president and three top aides.
2.22      In early 1974, the new Government reappraised the direction of
INAN's development and in May issued a new decree restating the original
objectives and providing tighter control by the Ministry of Health. A new
president was appointed in August 1974.



-8-
2.23      Today, INAN, which had grown to a staff of 450 in its first year,
is virtually a shell. Only three or four professionals remain. INAN's new
president recognizes that current regulations limiting compensation restrict
freedom in hiring persons of high competence in the public health and nutri-
tion fields. Top officials of the Ministry of Health and the Administrative
Reform Commission have studied the problem and will recommend a change in
INAN's constitution to permit greater flexibility, particularly in regard to
salaries. In the interim, a contractual arrangement (convenio), entered into
with the Institute of Economic and Social Planning (IPEA), has recently pro-
vided INAN with funds to contract higher salaried personnel for its immediate
tasks, including the preparation of a plan of operation.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Description
3.01      The proposed project would provide the Government with the basic
information, institutional and manpower capabilities, and adequate quantities
of certain high-priority inexpensive food products so that within 4 years it
would be able to mount an effective program aimed principally at countering
malnutrition among pre-school age children and pregnant and lactating women.
The proposed project would consist of:
(a) the development of an information base comprised of:
(i) a nutrition and food consumption survey and the establishment
of a monitoring system to provide periodic surveillance of
nutrition conditions,
(ii) assessment of the nutritional implications of agricultural
policies;
(b) the testing of the relative effectiveness of alternative delivery
systems to improve the nutritional status of the target group
through:
(i) the rural extension service,
(ii) the school feeding infrastructure,
(iii) urban and rural health delivery systems,
(iv) the commercial market;



(c)  the development and commercialization of nutritious foods for
use by the target groups through:
(i)  a research and development program for low-cost processed
foods,
(ii)  engineering and marketing feasibility studies for
industrial-scale production of such foods and investment
capital necessary to commence production on a large scale,
(iii)  a program of fortifying food staples; and
(d) training and technical assistance.
By the end of the project period, the Government would have formulated, in
consultation with the Bank, a national nutrition program, detailing compo-
nents and estimated costs.
B. Detailed Features
Nutrition Survey and Monitoring System
3.02      The proposed project includes a nutrition survey of a nation-wide
sample of 14,000 families, to provide the Government with basic data necessary
for planning nutrition policies and intervention programs. The survey would
include information on intra-family food distribution, weaning practices,
attitudes toward foods, history of family illnesses and deaths, history of
pregnancies, anthropometric measurements of height, weight and arm circum-
ference, and iron and vitamin A levels. The survey would be managed on behalf
of INAN by IBGE, an experienced official survey organization. At present,
IBGE is conducting a general family budget and food consumption survey, cover-
ing 55,000 families. The 14,000 families to be surveyed in the proposed
project would comprise a sub-sample of the current survey. (For the clinical
measurements, a smaller sub-sample would be selected.) INAN would enter into
an agreement with IBGE under which staff employed in the IBGE's ongoing survey
would, upon its completion, be trained to conduct the nutrition survey. Con-
sultants would be hired for technical advisory assignments. Design of the
survey would be discussed during negotiations and finalized within three
months of loan signing.
3.03      The project would establish a new monitoring unit in the IBGE, con-
sisting of four professionals and support staff. This unit would undertake
a continuing and detailed surveillance of nutrition status, using the results
of the food consumption and nutrition surveys, as well as other surveys being
conducted in Brazil (including the World Bank/SUDENE rural development survey
in the Northeast). The unit also would liaise with SUPLAN (see para. 3.04)
concerning agricultural data. In addition, the monitoring unit would be in



- 10 -
charge of regular biennial follow-ups of the food consumption and nutrition
surveys; the first is to be undertaken in 1978 through a partial sampling of
the families covered by the original surveys. The second set of data should
be ready for compilation and analysis in 1979.
Nutrition Policy Research and Planning Studies Related to Agriculture
3.04      The proposed project would include:  (a) establishment of a nutrition
planning unit in the Subsecretariat of Planning of the Ministry of Agriculture
(SUPLAN); and (b) a research program, concerned with the nutritional implica-
tions of agricultural policies, to be carried out by universities and other
research groups. The aim of the nutrition planning unit in SUPLAN is to
provide the Ministry of Agriculture with information on the nutritional
consequences of its policies and programs so that this information can be
taken into account in future policy decisions. (INAN would enter into an
agreement with SUPLAN to ensure that the studies and data generated are per-
tinent to and available for the formulation and implementation of national
nutrition programs.) The functions of the unit would be: (a) to project food
supplies for different socio-economic groups, and review and analyze the
nutritional implications of alternative food/agricultural production strate-
gies for these groups; and (b) to coordinate the research program so that it
would provide data and information for the above analysis. 1/ Directions and
selection of specific studies for the research program 2/ would be made by
a committee to be established under the chairmanship of the Subsecretary of
Planning in the Ministry of Agriculture, with representatives from INAN, The
Brazilian Enterprige for Agricultural Research (EMBRAPA) and IPEA. Agreement
would be sought during negotiations on prior Bank approval of studies which
would exceed US$50,000 equivalent in cost. The nutrition planning unit in
SUPLAN would serve as secretariat to the committee. The project component
includes provision for short-term and long-term consultants, workshops and
seminars, research costs and costs of incremental staff.
Tests of Alternative Nutrition Delivery Systems
3.05      The proposed project would include a series of tests designed to
generate for future planning purposes knowledge concerning the most effective
means of reaching target groups with appropriate food, nutrition education and
other nutrition services, and under what circumstances such delivery systems
would be.effective. INAN, assisted by a committee of technical experts, would
coordinate the design and evaluation of the tests so that a basis of common
7!   The surveys being carried out by IBGE would also provide information
needed for this analysis.
2/   The studies would include topics such as:  (a) the effect of agricul-
tural price policies on the level of production of basic food crops
compared to otlher agricultural commodities; (b) the nutritional impli-
cations of the deployment of the agriculture production research budget;
and (c) the nutritional consequences of shifting from sharecropping
tenancy arrangements to agricultural production employing wage laborers.



- 11 -
measurement is established. The common measurement bases for evaluation of
the several delivery system tests would be discussed during negotiations and
finalized within three months of loan signing. In addition to providing
information, the tests of alternative delivery systems would help those
agencies which would have responsibilities in the subsequent national nutri-
tion program to gain operational experience in servicing the target groups.
Test of Nutrition Intervention
through the Rural Extension Agency
3.06      The potential effectiveness of EMBRATER would be tested as a vehi-
cle for improving nutrition of target groups. The test would involve fam-
ilies of 3,000 low-income farmers, with holdings generally below 50 ha., in
twelve counties in the Northeastern State of Sergipe. The participants
would be divided into three groups; one group (A) being exposed to agricultural
extension alone; another group (B) to social extension alone; and a third
group (C) to both agricultural and social extension. The objective of agri-
cultural extension would be to increase output through better farm planning,
the application of improved agricultural practices, access to the necessary
agricultural inputs and credit. Social extension would primarily concentrate
on education concerning the proper nutritional use of existing family re-
sources (e.g., extension of the breast-feeding period, improved sanitation
and improved intra-family food distribution) and, for group (C), also on the
use of increased production and increased income (made possible by the agri-
cultural advances) in nutritionally beneficial ways. In groups (B) and (C),
a total of 30 health miniposts would be opened to provide basic health and
nutrition services. The working hypothesis that would be tested in the study
is that there would be greater nutritional improvement from the synergistic
effect of the combined extension activities than from agricultural or social
extension alone or in a control group of similar families who have had no
exposure to either form of extension. Information generated from the test
would be used by EMBRATER and other relevant agencies in planning the deployment
of resources for future rural development projects.
3.07      The test would be supported by the provision of supplemental agri-
cultural credit, estimated at US$1.5 million, 1/ to be given by the Bank of
Brazil to participating farmers. EMBRATER and the National Association for
Rural Credit and Assistance of Sergipe (ANCARSE), its affiliate in Sergipe,
would entgr into an agreement with the Bank of Brazil, to ensure that the
demands for credit from farmers participating in this program would be met
on terms and conditions generally applicable to small farmers in the Northeast.
These terms are highly subsidized -- with interest rates of 0-7% without mone-
tary correction. (In this case the subsidized terms are considered acceptable,
since the recipients are low-income farmers and the credit would be closely
supervised to prevent misuse of resources.) Operationally, the component
would involve the employment and training of 50 additional agricultural
extensionists, 50 additional social extensionists and 30 additional health
1/   ANCARSE believes a larger amount would be required, and this will be
studied as part of further preparation by expert consultants to that
agency.



- 12 -
orienters.  A special project unit within ANCARSE will manage the component
and carry out an initial socio-economic and agricultural survey of the
participating farmers. The evaluation will be designed and carried out by
the Institute of Nutrition at Recife and the Rural University of Vicosa. The
project would provide for technical assistance by consultants to ANCARSE.
3.08      The component would consist of two stages.  In stage one, ANCARSE
would draw up a detailed plan of project operations, including the methodology
for evaluation. The preparation stage of the plan of operations is expected
to be completed within six months of the signing of the Loan Agreement. Sub-
ject to approval of this plan by the Bank, the project would be implemented
as stage two. Annex 1 contains additional details on the proposed project
component. 1/
Test of Nutrition Intervention
through the School Feeding System
3.09      The proposed project would include a test to determine the nutri-
tional impact and efficiency of feeding pre-schoolers by taking advantage of
the existing transport, storage and other facilities of ongoing school lunch
programs. Two methods of feeding would be tested among children of low-
income families in both urban and rural sections of the State of Sao Paulo.
The normal channels of the State Department of Education would operate the
program. The School of Public Health in Sao Paulo would be in charge of the
test design and evaluation.
3.10      The component involves:  the establishment and evaluation of 48
kindergarten-type centers known as CEAPES (Centers for Education and Feeding
of Pre-School Children) in school feeding locations. Approximately 4,800
pre-schoolers from the age of 12 months to 5 years would be brought by mothers
to the school lunch program centers and fed. Nutrition education would be
provided to the mothers. This test would build on a closely controlled small-
er experiment of the same type currently underway. The project would test
whether the concept can be expanded successfully under normal administrative
conditions, especially in poor areas in the interior of the State. Evaluation
of nutritional impact would include a control group outside the CEAPES.
A second approach would be the testing of "take home" foods as a method of
delivering needed nutrients to pre-school children, a system under which older
brothers or sisters take food home to younger siblings. This sub-component
would test the effectiveness of the "take home" method: (a) with periodic
1/   Because of the complex nature of this c.mponent, greater detail is pro-
vided in this preliminary presentation than for other components.



- 13 -
home visits over three years by trained home visitors who would provide nutri-
tion education to the mothers; (b) with periodic visits for one year; and
(c) without such visits. A total of approximately 4,700 children and
mothers would benefit. Evaluation also would include a control group, not
receiving services.
3.11      Costs of the component include the operational costs for CEAPES
and the take-home tests, including food, transportation and supervision,
and the researchers' salaries and other costs related to the evaluation of the
nutritional impact on the children. Included in the evaluation would be a
determination of the effect of the nutritional difference on the educational,
health and sociological profiles of the pre-schoolers.
Tests of Nutritional Intervention through
the Health and Commercial Delivery Systems
3.12      The proposed project would test the efficiency of health and, re-
latedly, commercial delivery systems as vehicles for nutrition intervention,
the managerial capability of the health system to carry out such programs,
and the community's response to the program in the Northeastern State of
Pernambuco. In an ongoing maternal and child health program in the low-income
Encruzilhada area of Recife, the project would test the cost and effectiveness
of additive nutrition services to existing health units. More specifically,
the project provides for distribution of supplementary foods to approximately
24,000 children under 6 years of age and to pregnant and lactating women con-
sidered as being at high nutritional risk, and nutrition education to women,
including motivation for extending the period of breastfeeding to at least
three months. Two food delivery systems would be tested: distribution through
the health system, and distribution through the normal commercial food chan-
nels. In the case of the latter, the health staff would provide to target
groups coupons that would serve as a consumer subsidy. A project group working
in the State University of Pernambuco would design and evaluate the proposed
test, which would also include a control group not receiving the nutrition
services.
3.13      The proposed project also provides for studying the nutritional
effectiveness and extending the outreach into rural areas of typical maternal
and child health programs currently operated by SESP in small cities in the
sugar plantation areas of Zona da Mata in Southern Pernambuco. The project
would finance and evaluate the impact of feeding and of nutrition education
(including efforts to extend breast-feeding to six months) to 6,000 benefici-
aries in existing SES? centers. In addition, the project would finance the
hiring and training of a newly established group of health/nutrition extension-
ists who would travel through the Zona da Mata to provide nutrition education
and food supplements, and to identify and forward to 12 SESP centers for
treatment serious cases of malnutrition. An estimated 9,000 rural mothers
and children would benefit (and be compared to a control group without services).
The research design and evaluation of the Zona da Mata tests would also be
under the direction of the State University of Pernambuco.



- 14 -
3.14      Although the maternal child health program of the Ministry of Health
is not included for financing under the proposed project (because it is already
in progress), the testing of the effectiveness of official CPMI centers as
vehicles for delivering nutrition services would be coordinated by INAN and
the results measured against those of the other tests discussed in this paper.
Development of Low-Cost Nutritious Foods
3.15      The proposed project would make possible the development, testing
and industrial-scale production of low-cost nutritious foods for use in
institutional feeding programs and the commercial market. To this end, the
proposed project would finance at ITAL the construction of a pilot plant
including blending and auxiliary equipment for producing blended foods, a
pilot scale extrusion cooker, and packing and packaging equipment. The
project would also finance a storage testing facility, housing for experimental
laboratory animals, and a cereals testing laboratory. The equipment described
here would be required for any basic research and development program in "new
foods". The project also would support a group of twelve experienced techni-
cians (of whom seven are additional to the existing staff) to plan, manage
and carry out the development of 10-15 new low-cost nutritious products,
interim technical assistance in the form of two foreign technicians for periods
up to one year and twelve short-term foreign consultants, and training for two
Brazilian technicians abroad. A Food Advisory Board would be established under
the chairmanship of the President of INAN and include nutrition specialists
and representatives of industry, ITAL, agencies responsible for food delivery
programs, e.g., CNAE and CPMI, and financing agencies such as the Agency for
Funding Studies and Projects concerned with Economic Development (FINEP) and
the National Economic Development Bank (BNDE). The Board would advise ITAL
on the types and specifications of foods to be developed and monitor the
development work.
3.16      Feasibility Studies:  Once products have been developed (by ITAL or
industry), detailed engineering and commercial marketing studies would be
funded by the proposed project through FINEP. This organization, which reports
to the Planning Secretariat, intends to help make possible 10 detailed engineer-
ing studies (costing approximately US$75,000 equivalent each) and 8 commercial
market tests of products (costing approximately US$200-250,000 equivalent each),
determined in conjunction with the Food Advisory Board. 1/ Funding would be
provided to selected companies by FINEP as either grants or loans. When FINEP
involvement is necessary to stimulate private industrial interest, studies
would be financed fully by FINEP. In a case where private interest has been
established, FINEP would finance a study to determine the feasibility of the
venture, and the company would pay retroactively for the study if it enters
1/   The number of activities estimated for FINEP and BNDE assumes (based on
Bank discussions with those institutions and the food industry) that in
addition to the products emerging from the project-financed research
work at ITAL, other product project proposals - some already at an
advanced stage -- will be presented for financing.



- 15 -
into production of the product. In such instances, payment would be through
a five-year loan, with a two-year grace period, at 6-8% interest with monetary
correction. Standard procedures accepted by the Planning Secretariat have
been established for requesting, funding, and contracting FINEP studies, and
these procedures would be followed in the case of this proposed project.
3.17      Loans to the Food Industry:  As part of this project, industrial-
scale production of low-cost nutritious foods would be aided by loans from
BNDE. The loans would be significant because profitability of such foods
has not been proven and production at prices the target groups can afford
involves considerable risk and may not otherwise occur without subsidies
to private food companies. Selection of the organizations to receive BNDE
loans for this purpose would be based on (a) criteria to be agreed upon with
the Bank during negotiations and (b) with the endorsement of the products by
the Food Advisory Board. Loans under the program can cover up to 80% parti-
cipation in a project, can be for up to 15 years (with an 18-month grace
period) and would carry a 3-6% interest rate with monetary correction. Loans
are expected to range from US$1 million equivalent (for extruder cooker plants
to produce blended cereal food products) to US$2.5 million equivalent (for
substitute milk products). An estimated 10 BNDE projects amounting to US$16
million equivalent would be undertaken, with an estimated 70% financed by
BNDE. Except for the special criteria and the screening through the Food
Advisory Board, loan applications, decisions and disbursements under this
program would be handled according to standard BNDE procedures.
3.18      FINEP and BNDE assistance for development of low-cost foods would
start in the first year of the project, when it would be devoted to foods
already being developed by industry and ITAL. (One example is VITAL, a soy-
based milk substitute, which is in the final stage of testing.) The immediate
market for these products will be the existing institutional feeding agencies,
which are now planning substantial commercial imports to replace the phase-out
of PL-480, and the normal commercial market. The institutional demand is
expected to grow somewhat with the needs caused by the implementation of the
project and then expand rapidly once the national program is established. This
component is designed to help provide Brazil with the capacity to meet the
increased demand for low-cost processed foods and the demand for related loan
funds, which is expected to increase dramatically once large institutional and
commercial markets are demonstrated to exist.
Food Fortification
3.19      Several specific nutrition problems could be attacked directly if
selected foods could be fortified with the nutrients now lacking in the diets
of low-income persons. The proposed project would include a component designed
to test and develop the capacity for fortification of food staples to meet
specific nutrient deficiencies, as would be reflected in the results of the
nutrition survey. Technology exists, and in many countries is used, to fortify
wheat and corn flours with beneficial levels of micronutrients without altering



- 16 -
the taste, color, texture or other properties of the flours in any way. For-
tification of sugar with vitamin A is now required by law in two other Latin
American countries. The technology for the fortification of salt with iron
is far advanced elsewhere but will require local development work before
proceeding on a large scale. The proposed project would provide for:
(a) vitamins and minerals in the form of a premix and the equipment
needed to add the premix to wheat flour in 13 mills serving
states in the Northeast (fortification will start in the third
project year; 600,000 tons of flour per year will be fortified,
benefitting approximately 8 million people in the Northeast);
(b) the two largest corn dry milling plants in Brazil to be supplied
with equipment as well as the vitamin-mineral premix for the
fortification of corn flour which would start in the third year
of the project (the estimated 59,400 tons of corn flour to be
fortified is expected to reach about 1 million persons, largely
in the rural East and South);
(c) the equipment and vitamin A supply required to fortify 50,000
tons of sugar in 2 mills in the Northeast (approximately 1
million people would benefit); and
(d) the equipment and iron (ferrous sulphate anhydrous and the use
of phosphoric acid as a stabilizer) required to fortify 40,000
tons of salt (implementation, which would reach 10 million
people in the Northeast, would be contingent on successful
laboratory and clinical testing of iron-fortified salt under
Brazilian conditions).
The inclusion of (c) and (d) assume the nutrition surveys would verify pre-
liminary conclusions of widespread iron deficiency anemia and vitamin A
deficiency (see para. 2.04).
3.20      This portion of the project would be administered by INAN, but the
testing, installation of equipment, training of staff for the food processing
mills and evaluation of the nutritional impact would be organized by ITAL.
As these steps, which are prerequisites to a fortification program, are ex-
pected to take up to two years, large-scale fortification of staples will not
take place until the third year. All costs for the period of the proposed
component would be included in the project. It is the Government's intention
to carry forth and expanid the fortification activities (and, where appropriate,
require fortification by law) once the testE are successfully completed. Because
additional costs are involved in fortification, food processing companies are
reluctant to fortify foods voluntarily. Accordingly, during the project period,
premixed fortificants would be made available on a grant basis. By the end of
the project period INAN would have (a) developed specific financing proposals
for securing participation of food processing companies. e.g., either through
government subsidy, through requiring processors to assume the extra cost



- 17 -
(generally less than 1% of the product cost), or through permitting companies
to pass the cost on to the consumer, and (b) made arrangements for introducing
and implementing legislation requiring fortification of appropriate food staples
in appropriate areas.
Training and Technical Assistance
3.21      Training under the proposed project would provide multi-disciplinary
short-term nutrition planning instruction averaging three months for approxi-
mately 200 persons at three major centers in Brazil -- the universities of
Brasilia, Sao Paulo and Pernambuco -- supplemented, as appropriate, by graduate-
level instruction abroad for approximately 5 persons. Participants would be
selected from INAN and other relevant federal and state agencies such as the
Ministries of Health, Agriculture and Education. The program, which covers
four years, would be administered by INAN and would be coordinated by INAN
with other training programs supported by UNICEF, the Ford Foundation and
USAID.
3.22      Technical assistance that would be provided by the proposed project
would meet the short- and medium-term manpower requirements of INAN. Included
would be a total of 15 short-term consultants with an average of four months'
service and three long-term consultants with an average of one year of service.
Job descriptions have been discussed and details regarding the criteria for
recruitment of participants in both activities are being prepared by INAN on
the basis of broad guidelines agreed upon with Bank staff.
IV. IM2LEMENTATION AND ORGANIZATION
Implementation
4.01      INAN would be in charge of organizing the project and assuring
coordination among the various agencies that would implement individual por-
tions of the project. The Government has agreed to strengthen INAN so that
it can attract qualified staff and fulfill its role effectively. Within INAN
a special project unit would be created to administer the project. This unit
would be under the leadership of a project coordinator whose qualification
would be acceptable to the Bank. In addition to the coordinator, the project
unit would include a finance officer, a planning officer, an agricultural
economist, a sociologist, a nutritionist and supporting staff. At the con-
clusion of the project period, the functions and staff of the project unit
would be merged with the appropriate departments of INAN. Creation of an
effective organizational structure for INAN and the project unit, including
the appointment of a project coordinator, would be a pre-condition of loan
negotiations.
Organizational Relationships
4.02      One possible way of organizing the project would have been to create
within INAN the capability of carrying out all aspects of the project, e.g., the



- 18 -
testing of delivery systems, conducting of surveys, provision of credit, etc.
The attractiveness of the simplicity of this approach is outweighed by:
(a) the costs of duplicating facilities and staff; (b) the time required for
creating the operational capability, and (c) jurisdictional disputes with
existing agencies, as was demonstrated in INAN's initial efforts in 1972-73
to become an operational agency.  A better alternative approach is to
draw upon manpower, facilities and expertise of existing agencies now engaged
in nutrition-related activities. The consequences of such an approach --
which is being proposed here -- is that 12 agencies would be included in
project implementation. This, by definition, presents a major task of coor-
dination. However, by strengthening INAN's staff capability to meet these
needs and by defining clearly the contractual arrangements between INAN and
the other agencies, the problems can be successfully managed. INAN,
as reorganized, therefore would act as coordinating agency for the other
entities related to the project. The responsibility for implementation of
the various components rests with organizations enumerated below:
Implementing               Ministry in
Component                                Agency                   Charge/State
1.  Nutrition Survey                   IBGE                 Planning Secretariat
2.  Agriculture-                       SUPIAN               Ministry of Agriculture
Related Studies                    (Ministry of
Agriculture)
3.  Test of Nutrition Inter-           EMBRATER and         Ministry of Agriculture
vention through the Rural          ANCARSE              State of Sergipe (Agri-
Extension Agency                   Bank of Brazil       culture)
4.  Nutrition Intervention          1. State University    Ministry of Health
through Health and Commer-          of Pernambuco       State of Pernambuco
cial Systems                    2. SESP                 (Health)
5.  Nutrition Intervention             School of Public    State of Sao Paulo
for Pre-Schoolers through          Health               (Education)
the School Lunch Program           (Sao Paulo)
6.  Development and Production of    ITAL                   State of Sao Paulo
Low-Cost Nutritious Foods                               (Agriculture)
FINEP                Planning Secretariat
BNDE
7.  Fortification of Foods             INAN                 Ministry of Health
ITAL                 State of Sao Paulo
(Agriculture)
S.  Training                           INAN                 Ministry of Health
Technical Assistance



- 19 -
The organizational relationships of the participating agencies are noted in
Chart 1 in Annex 2.
Contractual Arrangements with
other Implementing Agencies
4.03      Within three months of loan signing, INAN would enter into appro-
priate contractual agreements with IBGE, EMBRATER, SUPLAN, ITAL, SESP, BNDE
and FINEP and the State Governments of Sao Paulo, Sergipe and Pernambuco. An
appropriate contractual agreement also would have been reached between
EMBRATER and Bank of Brazil. (See Chart 2, Annex 2.) Evidence of satisfac-
tory agreements would be a condition of disbursement of the proceeds of the
loan allocated to the components involving each of these entities.
V. COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
Costs
5.01      Total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at US$61.8
million equivalent. Cost estimates by expenditure categories and relative
percentages are given in Annex 3.
5.02      The cost estimates are up-dated to the level of November 1974 and
assume a price escalation of 12% per annum for 1975, and 10% for 1976, and
8% for 1977-79 with respect to non-construction categories. The construction
cost estimates include a price escalation of 16% for 1975, 14% per annum for
1976 and 12% for 1977-79. The costs of food, vitamins, minerals, and operating
vehicles were estimated by the governmental agencies and reviewed by the
appraisal mission.
Project Financing
5.03      The total cost of the project would be financed by an IBRD loan of
US$20 million (32%) and a contribution of US$41.8 million equivalent (68%)
by the Government of Brazil 1/ (see Tables 1 and 2 attached.) The Bank loan
would be approximately equal to the foreign exchange component of the project.
1/   This includes an estimated US$4.8 million from borrowers receiving BNDE
loans.



- 20 -
Brazil
Table 1. Estimated Prolect Cost by Component
Cr $000 /1                           US $000 Equivalent
a  of
Project Components                                              Local        Foreign        Total         Local        Foreign       Total       Total
A.  Nutrition Planning and Proaraning
1. Nutrition Survey                                        21,255.8         139.6      21,395.4       2,665.3          17.5     2,682.8        4
2. Food and Nlutrition Policy Research                     36,797.4         980.9      37,778.3       4,614.1         123.0     4,737.1         8
B. Testing Alternative Nutrition Delivery Systems
1. Agricultural Extension Services                        51,721.1        1,717.0      53,438.1       6,485.4         215.3     6,700.7       11
2. Health and Commercial Delivery Systems                 20,468.6       15,721.9      36,190.5       2,566.6      1,971.4      4,538.0         8
3. School Feeding Programs                                 23,931.4       1,540.8      25,472.2       3,000.8         193.2     3,194.0         5
C.  Development & Commercialization of Nutritious Foods
1. Research and Development Program in ITAL               35,476.0       10,436.1      45,912.1       4,448.4      1,308.6      5,757.0         9
2. Commercialization of Foods                            111,650.0       31,900.0    143,550.0       14,000.0      4,000.0    18,000.0        29
3. Food Fortification Program                               3,526.5      81,909.6      85,436.1         442.2    10,270.8    10,713.0         17
D. Training and Technical Assistance
1. Training Programs                                      27,841.5        4,919.8      32,761.3       3,491.1         616.9     4,108.0         7
2. Technical Assistance                                     1.279.2       9.790.1      11.069.3         160.4      1.227.6      1.388.0         2
TOTAL ESTIMATED PROJECT COST                                                159 055.8    493,003.3       41,874. 3      9.          61.818.6      100
I/ As of May 1975, US $1.00 - Cr $7.975.



- 21 -
Brazil
Table 2. Financing of Project
Source (US $000 Equivalent)
Total               IBRD  Loan         Government Contribution
Project Components                                Project Cost         Amount         %          Amount        2
A. Nutrition Planning and Programming
1. Nutrition Survey                              2,682.8             500.8      18.7        2,182.0    81.3
2. Food and Nutrition Policy Research            4,737.1             884.3      18.7        3,852.8    81.3
B. Testing Alternative Nutrition
Delivery Systems
1. Agricultural Extension Service                6,700.7           1,014.0      15.1        5,686.7    84.9
2. Health & Commercial Delivery Systems          4,538.0             847.1      18.7        3,690.9    81.3
3. School Feeding Programs                       3,194.0             596.3      18.7         2,597.7    81.3
C. Development & Commercialization of
Nutritious Foods
1. Research & Development Program in ITAL        5,757.0           1,074.8      18.7        4,682.2    81.3
2. Commercialization of Foods/I                 18,000.0          4,000.0       22.2       14,000.0    77.8
3. Food Fortification Program                   10,713.0          10,056.6      93.9           656.4     6.1
D. Training and Technical Assistance
1. Training Programs                             4,108.0             766.9      18.7        3,341.1    81.3
2. Technical Assistance                          1.38B.0             259.2      18.7        1.128.8    81.3
TOTAL ESTIMATED PROJECT COST                         61,818.6         20.000.0      32.3        41,818.6    67.7
1/ This represents the total cost of commercialization. It includes FINEP's financing of studies (US $2 million),
loans by BNDE estimated at US $11.2 million and contributions by companies borrowing from BNDE (US $4.8 million).



- 22 -
Disbursements
5.04      The loan would meet 32% of the total project costs.  Disbursement
would be made on the following basis:
(a) 100% of the CIF cost of imported vitamins and minerals;
(b) 30% of expenditures incurred on loans and financial
assistance by BNDE and FINEP for commercial production
of foods; and
(c) 19% of all other expenditures of the project.
INAN will set up a revolving fund to facilitate the flow of resources to the
various agencies implementing the project. Rules of operation of the revolving
fund will be formulated in consultation with the Bank.
5.05      Suitable audit arrangements would be agreed upon during negotiations.
Undisbursed funds would be available for reallocation to other components or
activities related to the project, contingent on Bank approval.
Procurement
5.06      All supply contracts for furniture, equipment, vitamins and minerals
(excluding small value contracts below US$50,000 equivalent) would be awarded
in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for international competitive bidding.
Local manufacturers of furniture, equipment, vitamins and minerals would be
allowed a preference margin of 15% or the existing rate of import duty, which-
ever is lower. To the extent practical, items would be grouped to form size-
able bid packages and to permit bulk procurement. Numerous small contracts
aggregating an estimated US$500,000 equivalent for items which cannot be
purchased in bulk will be purchased through contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Bank.
5.07      The procurement of food, costing US$2.7 million (or 4.4% of the
project) does not lend itself to bulk purchases. Various types of food would
be purchased at various places for use in individual programs at different
times over the four-year project period. Because Brazilian Government agencies
are experienced in food purchasing for institutional and other uses, the Bank
would rely on their established procurement procedures which are satisfactory.
5.08      Construction to be executed under the proposed project would cost
an estimated US$550,000 including contingencies. The well-developed nature
of the Brazilian building industry makes it unlikely that foreign building
contractors would be attracted. Therefore, the contracts would be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
local procedures satisfactory to the Bank.



- 23 -
5.09      About 70 vehicles of four-wheel drive and small motor car types,
estimated to cost about US$400,000, are to be purchased over the first two
years. Suitable vehicles are available from major international firms with
manufacturing facilities in Brazil or other international manufacturers
represented by local agents and prices are competitive. It is essential that
local service and spare parts facilities be readily available. Procurement
of the vehicles would therefore be made on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally and in accordance with Government procedures satisfactory
to the Bank.
5.10      Procurement with respect to financing by local loans and assistance
by the Bank of Brazil, FINEP and BNDE will follow normal commercial channels.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$20 million for
a term of 25 years including a five-year grace period, providing an understand-
ing is reached regarding conditions listed in Section VII.
6.02      There are two basic justifications for Brazil investing to improve
the nutritional standards of its population. First, malnutrition is one of the
main determinants of health, and health is by now regarded as an important
objective on its own -- distinct from the general goal of improving economic
welfare. The second reason for singling out health and nutrition is their
impact on human capital formation with its implications for future earnings
of individuals and the rate of growth in the gross national product. 1/
6.03      The Government has been concerned with the problem of malnutrition
in Brazil, but attempts to mitigate it have been frustrated largely by in-
adequate data and a lack of proven delivery systems to permit the design
and implementation of a sound, comprehensive nutrition program. Since 1972,
Bank staff have encouraged the efforts of the Brazilian Government to prepare
for a full-scale national attack on malnutrition. Although initial efforts
to organize INAN as a coordinating institution experienced difficulties, the
Government is now committed to proceed with the reorganization of INAN, and
has reaffirmed its commitment to a major investment to alleviate malnutrition.
6.04      The principal benefit of this project to Brazil is that it should,
within four years, provide the basis for the design of a practical, action-
oriented program to combat malnutrition. In addition to financial support,
Bank participation would bring a disciplined approach to the coordination,
execution and evaluation of the project, which will be much needed if the
problems confronting the implementation of a nutrition program are to be
surmounted. An added benefit of the project would be that the Bank -- by
1/   See Nutrition Policy Paper, November 27, 1973 (pp. 3-6).



- 24 -
participating in a project with so wide a range of activities and in a
country as diverse as Brazil -- would gain useful experience for its acti-
vities elsewhere in the world.
6.05      The longer-range benefits of the project, which would flow from an
efficient, comprehensive nutrition program, would be a significant improve-
ment in the health status of the population and higher productivity among
persons in the lower income groups of the country which would have a favorable
impact on economic growth.
6.06      The above benefits are not suited to the calculation of a conven-
tional rate of economic return. However, it is clear that the benefits that
would accrue from an efficient, comprehensive national nutrition program --
towards which this project is a necessary first step -- would be of signifi-
cant value to the development of Brazil, a country in which perhaps half of
the population suffers from some form of nutritional deficiency.
6.07      Although the basic objective of the project is to provide the
knowledge, conditions, and products necessary for a subsequent national
nutrition program, several side benefits would accrue. Among them:
(a)  approximately 57,000 children and pregnant and lactating women
would benefit directly from food supplementation and other
nutrition services;
(b)  approximately 12 million people would receive vitamins and
minerals, now deficient in Brazilian diets, through the
fortification of food staples;
(c)  an organizational infrastructure would be established to
provide extension and credit to bring nutrition improve-
ment to the lowest income strata of small farmers in
Sergipe in Northeast Brazil; and
(d)  the development of agricultural policies would formally
incorporate consideration of the nutritional implications
of those policies.
6.08      The nutrition policy guidelines presented to the Board November 17,
1973, noted that "Given the inadequate planning and frequent absence of hard
data, one strategy would be for the Bank to concentrate efforts over the next
two to three years on long-range sector analyses and on helping low-income
countries to develop a nutrition planning capability. Another would be to
move firmly ahead with project activity, in the absence of the desired detailed
understanding of the problem and the relative attractions of alternate inter-
vention actions. (Even if efforts turned out later not to be the most cost/
effective, they nonetheless may be worth doing because of the existing levels
of malnutrition.)"  The intermediate approach proposed -- and the one incor-
porated in this project -- is the financing of certain evident operational
components, while at the same time financing data gathering and a longer-term
analysis for more sophisticated subsequent projects.



- 25 -
6.09      The proposed Brazil project, moreover, is in keeping with the policy
guidelines' projection that initial nutrition projects in most countries would
commonly have three general categories of components:
"(a) Activities which are ready for large-scale implementation
and which would be expected to rate high on a priority list
emerging from long-term study.
(b) Pilot field tests designed to generate necessary cost!
effectiveness information about activities which are
not ready for national implementation without a better
understanding of results and costs.
(c) Data gathering, including consumer expenditure surveys,
food consumption surveys, r%utritional status surveys,
and studies on nutritional implications of food and agri-
cultural policies. Such data collection is designed to
provide the basis for developing a national food and
nutrition policy and for future programs and projects.
In the process of all of the above, efforts would be
made to develop or strengthen the institutional infra-
structure required for a national nutrition program."
This, in essence, is the composition of the proposed Brazil nutrition project.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement would be sought with the Government
on the following principal points:
(a)  The preparation, in consultation with the Bank, of a
national nutrition plan by the end of the project
period (para. 4.01);
(b)  The design of the nutrition survey (IBGE) to be finalized
within three months of loan signing (para. 3.02);
(c)  Prior Bank approval for studies under the SUPLAN component
costing more than US$50,000 equivalent (para. 3.04);
(d)  The common measurement bases, designed by INAN for the
evaluation of the several delivery system tests, to be
finalized within three months of loan signing (para.
3.05);
(e) The criteria for the selection of projects to receive
BNDE loans (para. 3.17);



- 26 -
(f) The ascertainment of appropriate contractual agreements
to be reached between INAN and IBGE, EMBRATER, SUPLAN,
ITAL, SESP, BNDE, FINEP and the State Governments of
Sao Paulo, Sergipe and Pernambuco, and between EMBRATER
and the Bank of Brazil within three months of loan signing
as conditions of disbursement of respective portions of
the proceeds of the loan (para. 4.03);
(g) The setting up of a revolving fund in INAN with appropriate
operating procedures (para. 5.04); and
(h) The provision of suitable audit arrangements (para. 5.05).
7.02      As a pre-condition of loan negotiations the following would be
completed:
(a)  The establishment of an effective INAN organizational structure,
including an appropriate project unit, on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.01); and
(b) The designation of a suitably qualified project unit
coordinator acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.01).



Annex 1
Page 1
Nutrition Intervention Through the Rural Extension Agency
Introduction
1.        An unusual component of the proposed project is an experimental
scheme for increasing the output of nutritionally desirable foods by low-income
farmers and in the process improving the nutritional levels of their families.
This component of the project would be implemented in the Northeastern State
of Sergipe by the state branch (ANCARSE) of the rural extension agency
(EMBRATER).
2.        Nutrition interventions have been traditionally identified with
programs of food supplementation. This has led to the sometimes justified
criticism that feeding programs do not have an impact on behavior patterns
and, even if they do, the impact cannot be sustained inasmuch as supplementary
food from external sources may not continue to be available. Other efforts
for improving nutrition have concentrated on food production programs. Doubts,
however, have been expressed whether increased food production, of itself, is
sufficient to meet nutritional needs, especially of certain low-income segments
of the society. Similarly, efforts at improving food consumption through
nutrition education programs alone appear to have had limited impact.
ObJectives
3.        The proposed project seeks to integrate nutrition education efforts
and agricultural production efforts via extension and evaluate their effective-
ness -- both in conjunction and separately -- in upgrading the nutritional
status of a low-income population, in particular the project target group
members of small-farm families. The source of nutritional improvement is
expected to be: (a) increased consumption of on-farm production of corn and
beans and (b) the use of increased purchasing power (arising from increased
agricultural production of cotton, corn, beans and other crops) in nutrition-
ally beneficial ways. It is expected that with the modest range of proposed
inputs (such as improved farming practices and availability of appropriate
seed varieties), an assumed increase of about 30% per hectare production
would be realized. In the areas of Sergipe where the project component would
be carried out, existing agricultural technology packages appear satisfactory
as a starting point for the proposed activities. Both the extension and
cooperative structures are sufficiently organized and motivated to help small
farmers, given the assistance to be provided under the project.
4.        A total of 3,000 small farmers with individual holdings of generally
up to about 50 ha. would be identified in twelve municipalities.



Annex 1
Page 2
5.        The twelve municipalities will be divided into three equal groups:
Group                 Group                  Group
A                     B                      C
Type of      Agricultural         Social (nutrition        Agricultural and
extension    extension work       education and            social extension
health) extension       work
work
Staffing     25 additional        25 additional            25 additional social
agricultural         social                  extensionists and 25
extensionists        extensionists           additional agricultural
extensionists
Health Miniposts                         30 miniposts with 30 health aides
Funding
6.        It has been assumed that the participating farmers will require an
annual amount of up to US$1,000 1/ of agricultural credit. This credit would
be provided by the Bank of Brazil to farmers in groups (A) and (C) on terms
and conditions generally prevailing for agricultural credit in the Northeast.
7.        The total cost of the component is tentatively estimated at US$4
million equivalent, excluding credit. Credit is provisionally estimated at
US$1.5 million equivalent.
Phase of Implementation
8.        It is proposed that the component be implemented in two stages:
(a)  the preparation stage, and
(b)  implementation, contingent upon the Bank's approval of
a plan of operations, which would be drawn up during
the preparation stage.
1/   ANCARSE has proposed US$2,000 equivalent, the appropriateness of which
will be studied as part of additional preparation by expert consultants
to that agency. The total credit now listed at US$1.5 million would
increase correspondingly.



Annex 1
Page 3
Preparation Stage 1/
9.        The preparation stage would involve:
(a) selection of suitable municipalities;
(b) a survey of the socio-economic status of low-income
farmers with generally less than 50 ha.;
(c) identification of 3,000 farmers with holdings generally
less than 50 ha.;
(d) drawing up an appropriate plan of operations for agricultural
and social extensions in the selected municipalities, and
finalization of the methodology of evaluation;
(e) recruitment and training of the agricultural and social
extensionists and health orienters needed in the second
stage; and
(f) a baseline survey of the nutritional status of selected farmers'
families.
Plan of Operation
10.       Under the guidance of EMBRATER, ANCARSE would draw up the plan of
operations within an initial period of six months. In this work it would be
provided technical assistance by the Rural University of Vicosa, as well
as by suitable consultants selected by EMBRATER, and approved by the Bank.
The plan of operations and methodology of evaluation would be approved by
the Bank before EMBRATER and ANCARSE proceed further with the implementa-
tion of the components.
11.       The plan of operations would include, among other things, details
regarding the availability of the recommended foods at reasonable prices,
in particular the availability of suitable nutritious foods, agricultural
supplies and marketing facilities.
Evaluation
12.       For purposes of control, a group of municipalities outside the pro-
ject area with similar agro-economic and social characteristics would be
identified. Baseline surveys of the nutritional status of the vulnerable
target groups among the small farm families in municipality groups (A), (B)
1/   Details of the preparation stage have been discussed with ANCARSE,
which has requested consultant assistance.



Annex 1
Page 4
and (C), as well as a similar sample in the control group, would be under-
taken within the preparatory stage. By the end of the project, there would be
another evaluation of the nutritional status of the vulnerable target groups.
The determination of nutritional status would be made through anthropometric
measurements -- weight, height and arm circumference tests, simple enough to
be handled by the social extensionists of the project, with some training.
13.       The tests would attempt to discriminate between the improvements in
the nutritional status of groups (A), (B), and (C) and to identify the factors
responsible. The hypothesis being tested is that there is a positive and
synergistic relationship between agricultural and social extension efforts
on the one hand, and nutritional improvements on the other. This means that
group (C) should show significantly larger improvements in nutritional status
as compared to groups (A) and (B), as well as the control group.  An evaluation
of the agricultural production impact, which takes into consideration both
farm and institutional performance of the project, 0.11 be undertaken simultan-
eously with the test of improvement of the nutritional status. The data
collection would be so organized that the improvements in nutritional status
and production of different groups of farms can be readily analyzed.
Operational Implications of the EMBRATER Component
14.       Manpower Needs:  The component proposes the recruitment and training
of 50 agricultural extensionists, 50 social extensionists, and 30 health aides.
The first two categories will be available largely from the Rural University
of Vicosa, as well as from the Institute of Nutrition at Recife and others.
Health aides are expected to have had a minimum of 4 years of schooling. Their
further training would be provided by the State Health Department as well as
by SESP.
15.       Organization:  The component would be administered by:
(a) a national coordinator with supporting staff in EMBRATER;
(b) a state coordinator heading a special unit; and
(c) 3 regional coordinators.
16.       Flow; of Funds:  INAN would provide the full cost of the project
directly to ANCARSE, simultaneously informing EMBRATER.  INANT would operate
through the creation of a revolving fund for A*JCARSE. The fund would main-
tain a sufficient supply of capital to meet requirements for three months.
Each month kNCARSE will provide INAN with the necessary statements of expend-
iture and claim reimbursement.



Annex 1
Page 5
17.       Coordination with Other Agencies:  INAN, EMBRATER and ANCARSE would
ensure that in both the preparation and implementation of the project all
concerned agencies, including the Bank of Brazil, EMBRAPA, the Rural Univer-
sity of Vicosa, the Institute of Nutrition at Recife, and the State Govern-
ment, are associated. There would be a committee for coordination in the
State under the chairmanship of the Secretary of Agriculture and including
the State Secretary of Planning and representatives of the various relevant
agencies. The ANCARSE project unit coordinator would serve as secretary of
the coordination committee.
18.       Procurement of Equipment and Supplies:  The proposed project involves
the procurement of vehicles, furniture, office equipment, and vitamins and
minerals for the health miniposts. Procurement would be arranged by the spe-
cial unit in charge of project implementation within ANCARSE in accordance
with the rules accepted for the project as a whole. Concerned experts of the
State Government would be associated with the evaluation of procurement of
tenders for vitamins, minerals and equipment for the health miniposts.
19.       Monitoring and Evaluation:  The special project unit in ANCARSE,
under the supervision of the Rural University of Vicosa, would monitor project
development and progress. Evaluation of improvement in nutritional status
would be designed by the Institute of Nutrition at Recife in consultation with
IBGE, which is to undertake the national nutrition survey, and by the Rural
University of Vicosa. The Institute of Nutrition at Recife would have a
special staff to handle this aspect of the project. The methodology of eval-
uation would be drawn up by the Institute and approved by a committee of ex-
perts including representatives of IBGE, SESP and the Rural University of
Vicosa. Results of evaluation would be placed before the committee for recom-
mendations.
20.       Evaluation of the agricultural impact would be undertaken in terms
of production inputs including credit and family net income. It would be
designed to take into account the performance of the extension and credit
agencies. The cost and efficiency of these operations would be evaluated as
part of the test.



O,T'll(:F t
ThiE
PRE2IDO;T
IfINISTRY OF        MINISTRY OF         STY OF |ISTRY O
PLANNING         L  FINANCE          EATH             AGRCLT REAG
t3UPLA1j
; H    3                            A        |                      |              \      CSTITE OF I!A  STATE OF  I|
SERGIPE   PACO    SAO PAULO
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rt
STATE
| ANCAR~SE |UNIVERSITY                                               iC
OF PERNAMJCO
EENCRUZILHA,DA
iGROUP
STATE SECRETARY
OF EDUCATION
SCHOOL OF
PUBLIC HEA1,Th



Annex 2
Chart 2
Brazil
_Mntractual Agreements Between Participating Entities
(Numbers refer to appropriate paragraphs in the text)
a~~~~~~~~~O
,1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z
'.3~~~~~~~~~9
0
0~~~~~~~
i '.3^Jns UoztsXnN                   |g                                              -
g < I-E V>
<1~~ '0is3l



Annex 3
Brazil
Estimated Total Project Cost by Type of Expenditure
Cr $000 /1                                 US $000 Equivalent               % of
Local         Foreign           Total           Local         Foreign         Total    Total
1. Civil Works
1.1 Construction                                   3,576.0          397.2         3,973.2            448.4          49.8         498.2       0.8
1.2 Furniture & Equipment                          2.992.5        1.303.9         4.196.4            362.7         163.5         526.2       0.9
Subtotal - 1                            6,468.5        1,701.1         8,169.6            811.1         213.3       i              1.7
2. Non-Construction
2.1 Vehicles                                       2,410.9          602.9         3,013.8            302.i          75.6         377.9       0.6
2.2 Special Equipment                              2,901.4        1,113.3         4,014.7            363.8         139.6         503.4       0.8
2.3 Food for Distribution Tests                    9,412.9       12,153.1        21,566.0         1,180.3        1,523.9       2,704.2        4.4
2.4 Vitamins and Minerals                            -           53,604.8        53,604.8            -           6,721.6       6,721.6      10.9
2.5 Technical Assistance
2.51 Advisors/Consultants                     5,927.0        12,911.5       lS,838.5            743.2        1,619.0       2,362.2       3.8
2.52 Fellowships                              6,268.3         4,107.1       10,375.4            786.0          515.0       1,301.0       2.1
2.53 Contracts with Universities
and other groups                      2480.2             -            24180.2          3.032.0          -           3.032.0       4.9
Subtotal - 2.5                     36.375.5        17,018.6       53,394.1          4,561.2       2,134.0        6.695.2      10.8
2.6 Salary Support for Incr. Staff                59,159.3          -            59,159.3         7,418.1          -           7,418.1      12.0
2.7 Other Operating Costs (Incr.)
2.71 Per diem and Travel Allowance            9,227.9           -            9,227.9          1,157.1          -           1,157.1       1.9
2.72 Vehicle Maintenance                      6,667.9           -            6,667.9            836.1          -             836.1       1.3
2.73 Data Processing & Printing               3,706.8           -            3,706.8            464.8         -              464.8       0.8
2.74 Seminars, Workshops, Sp.Studies          7, 777. 2         -            7,777.2            975.2         -              975.2       1.6
2.75 Other (Office Supplies & M'tnce,
Publicity Materials)                    6.969.3       _-               6.969.3            873.9         -             873.9        1.4
Subtotal - 2.7                     34349.1            -           3449.11                            -           4,3071        7.0
Subtotal - 2                         144,609.1        84,492.7      229.101.8         18.132.8       10,594.7      28,727.5      46.5
3. Local Loans and Assistance
3.1 Bank of Brazil/2                              11,962.5           -           11,962.5         1,500.0          -           1,500.0        2.4
3.2 FINEP                                        15,950.0            -           15,950.0         2,000.0          -           2,000.0       3.2
3.3 BNDE/3                                       95,700.0        31.900.0       127,600.0        12,000.0       4,000.0       16,000.0      25.9
Subtotal - 3                         123.612.5        31,900.0      155,512.5         15;500.0       4,000.0       19,500.0      31.5
Base Cost Estimate                                  274,690.1      118,093.8       392,783.9         34,443.9      14,808.0      49,251.9       79.7
4. Contingencies
4.1 Physical  (67)                                15,106.2        8,62.0        23,727.2          1,894.2       1,081.0       2,975.2       4.8
4.2 Price    (18%)                               44.151.2        32.341.0        76.492.2         5P536.2        4,U55.3       9,591.5      15.5
Subtotal - 4                          59.257.4        40.962.       100.219.4          7.430.4        5.136.3      12.566.7      20.3
TOTAL ESTIMATED PROJECT COST                        333.947,5                          1 49.03.61.81896                                        100.0
/1 As of May 1975.
/2 See footnote 1/ page 11.
/3 This amount represents the total cost of the project, 70% of which is expected to be lent by BNDE.



