FILE        COPY                              Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1865-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
NUTRITION RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 7, 1976
TIbs document hss a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their offlicls duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 21, 1976)
Currency Unit     = Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1              = Cr$10.55
Cr$1              = US$.095
Cr$1,000             US$95.00
Cr$1,000,000      = US$95,000--
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNDE         Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico
(National Economic Development Bank)
CEAPES       Centro de Educacao c Alimentacao de Pre-Eacolar
(Center for Education and Feeding of Pre-School Children)
EMERATER     Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e Extencao Rural
(Brazilian Enterprise for Technical Assistance and Rural
Extension)
EMATERSE     Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extencao Rural-Sergipe
(Enterprise for Technical Assistance and Rural Extension of
Sergipe)
FINEP        Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos
(Agency for Funding Studies and Projects)
IBGE         Instituto Brasileiro de Geographia e Estatistica
(Brazilian Institute for Geography and Statistics)
INAN         Instituto Nacional de Alimentacao e Nutricao
(National Food and Nutrition Institute)
IPEA         Instituto de Planejamento Economico e Social
(Institute of Economic and Social Planning)
ITAL         Instituto de Tecnologia de Alimentos
(Institute of Food Technology)
PRONAN       Programma Nacional de Alimentacao e Nutricao
(National Food and Nutrition Program)
SESP         Fundacao Servicos de Saude Publica
(Public Health Services Foundation)
SUPLAN       Subsecretaria de Planejamento e Orcamento - Ministerio de
Agricultura
(Subsecretariat of Planning and Budgeting - Ministry of
Agriculture)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE EXUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A NUTRITION RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMET PROJECT
1.        I subrit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$19 million to
help finance a nutrition research and development project. The loan would
have a term of 18 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 8.85%
per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil," (812-BR), dated
July 7, 1975, was distributed to the Executive Directors on July 21, 1975.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        During 1967-74, the combination of excellent domestic economic
management and a buoyant world economic environment produced a period of high
and sustained income growth, strong balance-of-payments performanoe and grad-
ually decelerating inflation. Brazills average annual rate of growth of
about 10% over this period resulted in a 60% increase in per capita income, a
130% increase in manufacturing output and a 380% increase in the value of
exports. However, international economic events in 1974 and 1975 have forced
at least a-temporary slowdown in the pace of economic growth. With the sharp
deterioration of the country's terms of trade and the disruption of the world
capital market, the balance of payments is proving to be a severe constraint
on Brazil's growth. As a result, the pace of growth has dropped sharply,
into the 4-5% range during 1975/76.
4.'       The fourfold increase in the price of crude oil (adding some US$2
billion to the import bill), the steep rise in the price of most imported raw
materials, as well as the hardening of terms of external financial credits,
made management of the external sector difficult in 1974/75. These factors
caught Brazil at the time when its economy was overheated and growth of import
demand was very high, because after a prolonged period of rapid growth some
key industrial sectors were approaching capacity levels of output. The cur-
rent account deficit, which averaged Just US$1 billion in 1969-73 or 2% of
GDP, widened to about US$7 billion or 7% of GDP in 1974, reflecting the size-
able differential between import growth (about 100%) and export growth
(roughly 30%) and the increasing level of interest payments on debt. The bulk
of the deficit was financed by a large increase in the inflow of extermal
financial credits of considerably shorter maturity than was generally availa-
ble during 1971-73.
1/ This section is reprinted from the President's Report on the COPEL Power
Distribution project for Brazil (No. P-1774-BR), dated April 28, 1976.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
The Government attempted to narrow the balance-of-payments current
account deficit in 1975. It was successful in keeping imports somewhat below
the level in 1974 in nominal terms by maintaining a balanced budget, continu-
ing the crawling peg exchange rate policy and introducing direct import con-
trols. This implied a substantial reduction in the real level of imports and
was accompanied by a decline in the rate of GDP growth to 4%. Export growth
of about 9% was somewhat disappointing, largely due to the frost in southern
Brazil in July 1975, which adversely affected production of some key crops,
including coffee and sugar, and a slowdown in manufactured export growth as
a consequence of the recession in the consuming countries. Nevertheless,
because of import restraint, the trade deficit declined from US$4.7 billion
in 1974 to US$3.5 billion in 1975. However, improvement in the trade account
was virtually offset by a large increase in interest payments reflecting the
growth of the external debt and higher Eurodollar interest rates.
6.        The Government monitored the balance-of-payments situation very
closely and in the second half of 1975 adopted several new measures designed
to produce a further contraction of imports in 1976. The new measures estab-
lished advance import deposit requirements on approximately 40% of merchan-
dise imports, further increased import duties, increased gasoline prices 25%
and continued restriction of public sector imports. In addition, as a longer
term measure, the Government has given the state petroleum monopoly, PETROBRAS,
permission to undertake service contracts with foreign oil companies. It is
clear, however, that despite these measures, 1976 will be another difficult
year for balance-of-payments management as prospects are for a relatively
small gain in exports and as a result, economic growth can again be expected
to be in the 4p range.
7.        Adverse developments during 1975/76 reflect the fact that in recent
years, Brazil has become more closely integrated into the world economy and
its growth has become more dependent upon and vulnerable to changes in the
world economic situation. The slowdown in the rate of growth of the world
economy has, with some lag, had an adverse impact on prices of Brazil's pri-
mary exports and on the rate of growth of its exports of manufactures and,
through the balance of payments, on the overall growth of the economy. It
now appears that world economic conditions will not permit Brazil to grow
during 1975-80 at the 10% pace attained in the preceding years. However,
despite the reduced pace of growth in 1975/76, a growth path averaging 6%
per annum is still feasible for 1975-80 as a whole. It is estimated that to
attain such a growth path, the average annual net inflow of medium- and long-
term capital (that is, capital other than direct investments and financial
credits) required for the 1975-80 period will be substantial, about US$1.8
billion or three times the average for the 1970-74 period.
8.        At the end of 1975, Brazil's public external debt reached about
US$11 billion. The public debt service ratio for 1975 was 16.7N which is in
line with that of other countries at a similar stage of development. Brazil's
total (public and private) external debt reached about US$22 billion at the
end of 1975, of which about two-thirds or US$15 billion was in the form of
financial credits. The debt service ratio during 197 on this total external



-3-
debt was about 38%, or about the same as the average for 1969-73. However,
it should be noted that net foreign exchange reserves at the end of 1975 were
still large, about US$4.6 billion, equivalent to some four months of the 1975
imports of goods and non-factor services. While the total debt service ratio
can be expected to rise somewhat in 1976, if an export growth rate of around
17% per year in dollar terms (compared to 30% in 1970-74) can be maintained
over the 1975-80 period and if average maturities of new financial credits
gradually improve from six to eight years, the debt service ratio in 1980 can
be expected to return to the level prevailing in the 1969-73 period. Despite
Brazil's heavy debt service burden, the large foreign exchange reserves accu-
mulated over the past several years ensure that the country will have the
liquidity to meet its debt service o'bligations in the short term, while the
country's record of high caliber financial management provides grounds for
confidence in the maintenance of creditworthiness over the longer runo
9.        Despite its recent growth and vast potential, Brazil is still a
country with a very unequal distribution of income and extensive absolute
poverty. The present Government acknowledges the gravity of the country's
income distribution problem and accepts the responsibility for its alleviation0
While like the previous Government it believes that a high rate of growth is
necessary to increase the income of the poor, it does not believe that the
"trickle down" effects of rapid growth are enough and is shaping a new posi-
tive policy which could be labeled as "redistribution along with growth."
To this end, in addition to pursuing some of the social programs initiated
by its predecessor, the Government is also working on new measures for improv-
ing income distribution. These can be classified into three broad areas:
(a) regional development; (b) provision of social services; and (c) wage
policy. In addition, recent tax changes have tended to have a favorable,
although marginal, impact on income distribution.
10.       As one of its measures to promote development in poorer regions,
the Government has formulated a program known as POLONORDESTE for rural deve-
lopment in the Northeast. The program envisages investment expenditures of
about US$2.5 billion during 1975-79 and is designed to raise the productivity
and income of small farmers through, inter alia, formulation and execution of
integrated rural development projects which are likely in some cases to include
changes in land tenure. POLONORDESTE is based on the assumption that the rural
Northeast cannot be regarded as a homogenous whole and, therefore, standardized
programs are inadequate. The Government identified 28 subregions covering large
portions of the Northeast on which POLONORDESTE funds would be used initially.
The recently approved Rio Grande do Norte project is one of the first under
POLONORDESTE, and the Government intends to present additional similar projects
for Bank consideration in the future. Active consideration is being given to
a major modification in the state value added tax system to redistribute fiscal
resources from the richer to the poorer states in order to give the latter the
fiscal resources which they badly need to accelerate social programs, particu-
larly in education0 In the area of social services, the Government has created
a new Ministry of Social Security in order to consolidate its social benefit
programs and to extend these programs to a larger share of the population* In



- 4 -
1975, it allowed, under the Social Integration Program (PIS, social security
fund), the lowest paid workers covered by PIS, with incomes between about
US$60 and US$300 monthly, to withdraw up to one month's minimum wage (about
US$60) from their PIS accounts. The Government is also strengthening the
nutrition program which, under the previous Government, got off to a poor
start. Greater emphasis is being given by BNH (the National Housing Bank)
to low-income housing, whose beneficiaries will enjoy better financial terms
than in the past. BNH is also developing a site and services program to
reach parts of the population even lower down the income scale. In agricul-
ture, the recently reorganized rural extension agency (EMBRATER) will expand
and strengthen its activities directed specifically toward the small-scale
farmer; and the newly established federal agriculture research institution
(EMBRAPA) is defining its program to include a selection of crops and farm
systems which will ensure that small-scale farms benefit from research
efforts. Overall, the Government's recently approved public investment pro-
gram for 1975-77 gives high priority to education, health, agriculture and
regional development, which account for about 30% of total public investment.
Finally, the Government intends to use wage policy to improve income distri-
bution. It has already revised the formula governing the adjustment of the
union wage scale and has introduced an 8-10% increase in the real minimum
wage.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
11.       By April 30, 1976, the Bank had approved 60 loans for Brazil
amounting to US$2,603.1 million, of which 36 have not been fully disbursed.
During FY65-69, disbursements averaged only US$10 million per year, increas-
ing to an average of US$136 million per year during FY70-74, reaching US$225
million in FY74, US$248 million in FY75 and US$127 million in the first half
of FY76. Disbursements will continue to increase during the next few years.
Annex II contain8 a summary statement of Bank loans as of April 30, 1976 and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
12.       Bank lending to Brazil was very active in FY72, when seven loans
were approved totalling US$437 million, including three loans totalling US$192
million for the Stage III expansion of the steel industry. In FY73, six loans
amounting to US$187.7 million; in FY74, three loans totalling US$242 million;
and in FY75, five loans totalling US$426.5 million were approved. So far in
FY76, eight loans totalling US$429 million have been approved:  US$60 million
for the COSIPA Stage III steel expansion program, US$75 million for the FEVASA
railway rehabilitation and expansion program, US$12 million for the Rio Grande
do Norte rural development project, US$85 million for a development banking
project for small- and medium-sized industries, US$55 million for a secondary
and feeder roads project, US$40 million for an agricultural research project,
US$52 million for a power distribution project in the State of Parana and
US$50 million for an ammonia/urea fertilizer project in the same state. A
water and sewerage project in the State of Minas Gerais and a project for
power distribution in the Northeast are in an advanced stage of preparation,
and we are working actively with the Brazilians on the preparation of an agro-
industry credit project, a rural development project in the State of Minas
Gerais, a power transmission project in the South and two additional fertiliz-
er projects.



-5-
13.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1975, amounting to US$11 billion, the Bank held about 10%. The Bank's
share of the service on this debt was about 4.5%. If present trends continue
as expected, the Bank's share in total external public debt outstanding would
increase to 12% by 1980. The Bank's share of public debt service would rise
to about 6% while its share of Brazil's total (public and private) external
debt service would remain at the present level of 2.7%.
IFC Operations
14.       IFC has committed more financial resources to Brazil than to any
other country. Since 1957, IFC has made 27 commitments to Brazil, totalling
US$262.9 million, of which US$32.6 million has been cancelled, US$20.4 million
repaid and US$126.9 million sold.  Of the balance of US$8300 million, US$60.6
million represents loans and US$22.4 million equity. A summary of IFC's in-
vestments up to April 30, 1976 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
15.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Government
achieve a number of important development objectives which are interdependent
and complementary. One of these objectives is to support the effort of the
Government to identify and develop projects designed to increase productivity
and incomes of the lowest income segments of the population, to broaden the
economic opportunities open to those groups and to alleviate poverty. The pro-
posed nutrition development project would make an important contribution to the
attainment of these objectives. The project is designed to aid the Government
to formulate a long-term program for improving the nutrition of low-income sec-
tions of the population by increasing production of basic food staples, devel-
oping the production of low-cost nutritious foods and testing alternative
nutrition delivery systems for nutritionally vulnerable groups. The project's
direct impact on the health and nutritional status of the population should
help to increase the productivity and income of some of the poorest segment of
the population. The recently approved Rio Grande do Norte rural development
and the Lower Sao Francisco Polders project were also designed to assist low-
income groups. The Government is making a concerted effort to develop addi-
tional integrated rural development projects to increase the productivity of
the small farmer in the Northeast, the poorest section of the country; and it
is expected that in the future, an increasing number of projects of this type
will be presented to the Bank for financing. In urban areas, a water supply
and sewerage project for the State of Minas Gerais, designed particularly to
reach the low-income segment of the population, will further assist this
objective. Low-income groups would also be helped by site and services and
rural education projects now under preparation.



-6-
16.       A second Bank lending objective in Brazil is to support institu-
tional development and policy reform designed, inter alia, to help maximize
public savings and ensure that they are used economically. The proposed
nutrition project has, as a central objective, an improvement in the capa-
bility of INAN, the agency responsible for coordinating the national nutri-
tion program. Institutional development and policy reform is also a primary
objective of the recently approved development banking project which was
designed to help strengthen Brazil's system of state and regional development
banks and to assist a segment of industry with good employment generation
prospects. In the transportation and electric power sectors, the Bank has
supported the rational selection of investments, the strengthening of opera-
tions and the improvement of financial performance.
17.       Another important lending objective for the Bank is to ease the
foreign exchange constraint on development, a constraint that has become more
critical since the increase in petroleum prices, by supporting projects de-
signed to increase Brazil's export capacity and, where economical, to substi-
tute domestic production for imports. Proposed Bank support for an agro-
industry credit project, which is oriented towards increasing exports of
processed agricultural products, is in line with this objective. Most of the
Bank-supported investments in the transport sector -- railways, ports and
highways -- are designed to facilitate the smooth and economical flow of
exports. Also, support of the steel expansion program is helping Brazil to
expand domestic output of a traditional import commodity whinh can be pro-
duced efficiently in Brazil due to the country's ample supply of high grade
iron ore and the scale of its internal markets. The balance of payments
would also be aided by the proposed fertilizer projects.
18.       A final objective, which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil, is
to provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital
inflows that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in
order to sustaim rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and region-
al development objectives. In some sectors, especially in electric power and
steel, the Bank's participation has helped and should continue to help Brazil
to obtain additional external resources on favorable terms.
PART III - NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT IN BRAZIL
Bank Participation in the Sector
19.       The proposed loan for nutrition development would be the Bank's first
loan in the sector. Its preparation is one of the results of the dialogue
which the Bank and the Government have conducted over the past few years in an
attempt to find innovative approaches to the problems of increasing the produc-
tivity and improving the welfare of the low-income segments of the population,
particularly in the Northeast. These efforts have already led to the develop-
ment of a series of rural development projects. In 1973, Brazil requested
Bank assistance in developing a national nutrition program and in strengthening



- 7 -
institutions concerned with the formulation and execution of nutrition
programs. Since that time, several Bank staff have worked closely with
government authorities in Brazil to assist them in preparing the proposed
project.
Sector Background
20.       Due to the scarcity of accurate up-to-date data on nutritional
status, food consumption patterns and consumer expenditures, only broad and
limited conclusions can be reached about malnutrition in Brazil. For the
period 1960-68, daily per capita consumption of food was estimated at 2,900
calories and 63 grams of protein (both more than 15% above recommended daily
allowances), but all indications are that more than half of the population
have caloric and protein deficiencies. The Getulio Vargas Foundation reported
that in 1961/62, some 61% of the urban and 63% of the rural population in
Northeast Brazil were deficient in calories and protein. A significant pro-
portion (26-47%) of the population in other areas of the country also consumed
less than the minimum requirements.
21.       Infant mortality, one of the direct results of malnutrition, is es-
timated at 75 per 1,000 throughout Brazil and 137 per 1,000 in the Northeast.
This compares, for example, with 20 per 1,000 in North America.  A study
undertaken by the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) in 1973 reported
that nutritional deficiency and immaturity (i.e., less than 2,500 grams of
weight at birth) wene contributing causes of 60% of the infant mortality in
Recife, the largest city in Northeast Brazil, and on the average, 39% in other
localities. By comparison, only around 10% of the infant mortality cases in
North America, 32% in Mexico and Chile and 24% in Jamaica could be traced to
problems of nutritional deficiencies and immaturity.
22.       Spot surveys in Northeast Brazil have shown that around 85% of the
children who survive infant mortality are afflicted with malnutrition, one-
fifth falling below 70% of their normal body weight. Similar conditions are
reported to exist in other parts of the country, including the Southeast
which continues to attract large numbers of migrants from other regions.
According to a survey undertaken in 1965, iron deficiency and vitamin A de-
ficiency are found in approximately 20-30% of Brazilian children. Pregnant
women are also especially vulnerable. On another front, UNESCO data show
that for every 1,000 Brazilian children entering school, 644 drop out before
completing the fourth grade and of the remaining attendants, some 200 repeat
at least one grade0  As in the case of other developing countries, such poor
school performance is traced increasingly to malnutrition in early childhood.
Still other general studies indicate that iodine, fluoride, riboflavin and
vitamin C deficiencies exist throughout the country in significant proportion.
23.       As in most countries, Brazilian agricultural policies have seldom
consciously taken into account the nutritional needs of specific age and in-
come segments of the population. Also, until recently, government agricul-
tural services have concentrated attention on large-scale farms emphasizing
export crops. As a result, many of the small farmers, particularly those in



the Northeast who mainly produce basic food crops, have had limited, if any,
access to agricultural credit, storage and rural extension. This has reduced
the amount of basic food available for family consumption. In urban areas,
problems of inadequate food intake are exacerbated by infections derived from
unsanitary conditions and inadequate personal hygiene. Not unlike the trend
in other countries, breast-feeding is declining in Brazil. For low-income
families, however, in the absence of a suitable substitute, this has aggra-
vated problems of malnutrition and infant mortality. Other factors which
have tended to reinforce the malnutrition problem are food losses due to poor
preservation, the loss of valuable nutrients during grain processing, the
lack of attention to the development and marketing of low-cost nutritious
foods and poor sanitation.
24.       To a large extent, of course, malnutrition in Brazil is simply a
reflection of poverty and the highly skewed distribution of income. Conse-
quently, all government programs which have as their objective to raise the
productivity and incomes of the lowest income groups should help to alleviate
malnutrition. In addition, however, recognizing the high social and economic
costs of malnutrition, the loss of life, the reduction of the efficiency of
education and the long-term losses in productivity, the Government has attempt-
ed to develop specific programs to deal with the problem. In 1940, the Federal
Health Ministry launched a National Child Protection Program with the intent of
providing basic nutrition services as part of a general maternal-child health
program. This was followed in 1945 by the establishment of a National Food
Commission to serve as a focal point for nutritional activities. In 1960, the
National School Food Campaign (CNAE), a program which now provides food to
about 12 million students in 100,000 schools located throughout the country,
was launched and, in 1968, the Brazilian Association of Food Industries was
established to promote the production of low-cost nutritious foods by food
manufacturers. The Public Health Services Foundation (SESP), a semi-autonomous
agency under the Ministry of Health provides basic health and nutrition educa-
tion services to the rural population and, more recently, the rural extension
agency (EMBRATER), has begun to add similar services to the agricultural ex-
tension program. In addition, certain universities and schools have designed
nutrition training and research programs.
25.       Several international agencies have provided support for the Govern-
ment's nutrition effort. Under its PL-480 Program, the United States has
provided the school feeding program with food valued at approximately US$273
million. This assistance continued until mid-1975 when the United States
reduced its overall program of assistance to Brazil. The World Food Program
provides a small rait of the food required in the school feeding campaign and
the United Nations Development Program has sponsored several pilot agricul-
tural projects related to nutrition. Also, over the past few years, the Food
and Agricultural Organization has provided technical assistance in a variety
of food and agriculture related fields and the United Nations Children's Fund
has supported certain nutrition education activities. In addition, the Pan
American Health Organization/World Health Organization provides training,
technical assistance and support for research programso



26.       Brazilian officials recognize that, with the exception of the
school feeding campaign, the Government's nutrition-related activities have
so far had little impact on the nutritional status of the population. This
is attributed primarily to the modest scale and the sporadic and isolated
nature of these activities and to the absence of a defined and coherent
policy framework. The Government's increasing concern about the malnutrition
problem led in 1972 to the establishment of the National Food and Nutrition
Institute (INAN) with responsibility for formulating and coordinating national
nutrition programs. INAN was one of the first national nutrition coordinating
bodies to be organized anywhere in the world. Unfortunately, at first, INAN
concentrated its resources on an extensive self-promotion campaign while
failing to initiate realistic programs that would improve national nutrition.
Little effort was made to coordinate the other agencies involved in nutrition
programs. The results of this misdirection were conflicting objectives among
existing nutrition programs and an -increasingly ineffective INAN. In early
1974, INAN's top management was removed from office.' In August 1974, new
management was appointed and the Government's policies were restructured
according to the original objectives but with tighter controls by the parent
institution, the Ministry of Health. The Government reactivated its request
for assistance from the Bank and resumed preparation of the proposed project.
In February 1976, a new National Nutrition Program covering the period 1976-
79, and incorporating the broad conceptual framework of the proposed project,
was promulgated. INAN was reorganized as a "special" public agency, allowing
the salary and operational flexibility necessary for engaging qualified per-
sonnel and for successfully implementing a national nutrition program.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Objectives
27.       The proposed project is designed to strengthen, over a four-year
period, the capability of Brazil to upgrade successfully the nutritional
standards of the population, particularly the most vulnerable groups: pre-
school children and pregnant and lactating women of low-income families.
The project was appraised by Bank missions which visited Brazil in November
1974, February 1975 and February 1976. On July 1, 1975, the Executive
Directors considered a preliminary report (No. 693a-BR) on the project. A
report entitled "Appraisal of a Nutrition Research and Development Project
in Brazil" (No. 1096-BR dated June 7, 1976) is being circulated separately
to the Executive Directors. The main features of the project are summarized
in Annex III. Negotiations took place in Washington,' D. Co May 10 to 13,
1976. The borrower was represented by a team headed by Dr. Bertoldo Kruse
de Arruda, President of INAN.
28.       The project is based on the principles established in the nutrition
policy guidelines paper (R73-247) which was considered by the Board on
November 27, 1973: that is, that even in the absence of complete data on
malnutrition, and of a methodology permitting quantification of the problem,
it is reasonable to assume that well-directed investment in nutritional
improvement can lower mortality and morbidity rates, contribute to increases
in productivity, assist in achieving educational objectives and' serve as a
vehicle for income redistribution. Malnutrition is seen not only as a



- 10 -
consequence but a contributing factor to underdevelopment, a problem that
cannot be viewed in isolation but as om of the many interrelated factors
in the development process, and a problem requiring well designed, direct
intervention.
29.       The Goverrment's 1976-79 national nutrition program, of which the
project is an integrated part, is designed to initiate a coordinated series
of such explicit actions, including the following activities: (a) food
supplementation for low-income pregnant and lactating women and preschool
children; (b) school feeding; (c) fortification of basic foods; (d) develop-
ment and industrial production of low-cost nutritious foods; (e) food produc-
tion and marketing with emphasis on low-income groups; (f) research and
evaluation; and (g) training. Oriented primarily towards research, training
and testing (though itself having a direct impact on nutritional status),
the proposed project would provide the Government of Brazil with basic infor-
mation on nutrition needs and how best to meet them, and would initiate the
production of certain high priority, inexpensive but nutritious food products.
Organization and Implementation
30.       INAN would be responsible for the overall administration of the
project, for coordination of the other agencies concerned, for the execution
of part of the training element of the project and for monitoring and evalua-
tion. A project unit, reporting to the President of INAN and concerned
solely with the project, has been established within INAN and a competent
project coordinator has been appointed. The project unit would have a staff
of about eight professionals, some of whom helped to prepare certain components
of the project. In addition to the project coordinator, the staff would
include a deputy coordinator, a finance officer, a planning officer, an
agricultural economist, a sociologist, a nutritionist and a training coordina-
tor. All staff of the project unit would be well-qualified professionals
with experience in administration and in the implementation of nutrition and
nutrition-related programs. The project unit would have responsibility for
coordinating the various activities of the project, supervising the performance
of the various executing agencies operating under contractual arrangements with
INAN and supervising the use of project funds. At the conclusion of the project
period, the functions and staff of the project unit would be merged with the
appropriate departments of INAN.
31.       Responsibility for monitoring and evaluating the various project acti-
vities would rest with a planning office of INAN. The planning office would
recommend periodic adjustments in project activities and in the national nutri-
tion plan, in the light of experience with the project. The data and experience
gained would be used in the preparation of a refined comprehensive nutrition pro-
gram which the Government intends to complete by the end of the project period
(see Section 2.09 of the draft Project Agreement).
32.       The Deliberative Council of INAN (chaired by the President of INAN and
consisting of representatives of the Federal Ministries of Agricultur6, Education
and Culture, Health, Industry and Commerce, Interior Social Welfare and the Secre-
tariat of Planning) would make an evaluation of the progress of the project every
six months, and INAN would communicate its findings to the Bank (see Section 3.02
of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement).



- 11 -
33.       Implementation of most of the project components would be the
responsibility of the various participating agencies, working under agree-
ments with INAN, as discussed in paragraphs 34 to 46 below (see Section
2.05 of the draft Project Agreement). Each of these agencies is competent,
and has made adequate staffing arrangements for carrying out the project.
Project Components
34.       The project components, described below, would consist of:
(a) the development of an information base through a nutrition
and food consumption survey and surveillance system, in
order to determine the magnitude and implications of the
nutrition problem, and a continuing program of assessment
of the nutritional implications of agricultural policies;
(b) the testing of alternative new or refined nutrition delivery
systems, in order to determine their effectiveness. The
systems to be tested would be the rural extension service,
the school feeding system, the urban and rural health
delivery systems and the commercial markets;
(c) development, testing, and industrial production of low-cost
highly nutritious foods, including fortification of food
staples with local fortificants; and
(d) institutional development, consisting of the training of
staff and the development of a training capability, and
organizational support for project planning, management.
monitoring and evaluation.
The Development of an Information Base
35.       The portion of the project designed to improve the nutrition
information base would consist of nutrition and food consumption surveys,
and carrying out of studies relating to nutritional implications of agri-
cultural policies. An initial nutrition survey would be undertaken in 1976
by the Brazilian Institute for Geography and Statistics (IBGE) as an exten-
sion of its ongoing food consumption survey. This would be followed by
regular biennial surveys designed to ensure systematic surveillance of
national nutrition conditions. A nutrition status surveillance unit would
be established within IBGE to perform this function. (See Section 2005 (xii)
of the draft Project Agreement.) IBGE is a highly reputed Brazilian economic
research institution which is fully capable of implementing the component.
36.       The Ministry of Agriculture, through its Superintendency of Plan-
ning (SUPLAN), would be responsible for monitoring the nutritional conse-
quences of alternative food/agriculture strategies and for sponsoring several
studies concerned with identifying and quantifying the nutritional implica-
tions of agricultural policies. The studies, to be performed by universities
and other research groups under contract with SUPLAN, would investigate such



- 12 -
subjects as the effect of agriculturaliprice policies on the level ofproduc-
tion of basic food crops and the nutritional consequences of shifting from
sharecropping arrangements to production by wage laborers. A nutrition plan-
ning unit would be established in SUPLAN to coordinate the research program
and assure that findings from the studies are properly taken into account in
formulating agricultural plans and programs. A policy committee chaired by
the Under Secretary for Planning in the Ministry of Agriculture and comprised
of representatives from INAN, the Brazilian Enterprise for Agricultural
Research (EMBRAPA) and the Economic Planning Institute (IPEA) of the Federal
Secretariat of Planning and General Coordination would be established to pro-
vide direction and set priorities for the specific' studies in the research
program. SUPLAN would provide the secretariat to the committee.
Test of Alternative Delivery Systems
37.       The portion of the project concerned with testing alternative nutri-
tion delivery systems would-generate, for future planning, important practical
experience concerning effective means of reaching the target groups (preschool
children, pregnant and lactating mothers). Four existing channels would be
tested: the rural extension service, the school feeding system, the rural and
urban health services, and, in conjunction with the latter, normal commercial
channels. Under contract with INAN, the Brazilian Enterprise for Technical
Assistance and Rural Extension (EMBRATER) through its-affiliate, EMIATERSE, in
the northeastern State of Sergipe, would be used as the vehicle for testing
the effectiveness of the agriculture extension agency in improving the nutri-
tional status of the target group. The test would involve 3,000 low-income
families with holdings below 50 hectares in 12 rural districts., The partici-
pants would receive varying combinations and intensities of both agricultural
and social extension services, with a view to identifying, by careful control
and monitoring, the cost-effective mixes of such services. Agricultural ex-
tension would seek to increase agricultural output through better farm plan-
ning, the application of improved agricultural practices, improved on-farm
processing and preservation and access to agricultural inputs. Credit total-
ling US$1.5 million equivalent, for the financing of on-farm investments and
agricultural inputs, would be provided by Banco do Brasil, through its network
of agencies in the state, to those farmers receiving extension services. As
in the case of the recently approved loan for a rural development project in
the State of Rio Grande do Norte (Loan 1195-BR), each loan to a farm family
for seasonal crop production would not exceed 25 times the highest minimum
monthly wage in the country (currently around US$74). Also, the aggregate
outstanding principal amount of loans for seasonal crop production would not
exceed the equivalent of 50 times the highest minimum monthly wage in the
country for each individual farmer. Social extension would focus on nutri-
tion education, the improved use of existing family resources and the utili-
zation of increased food production. A special project unit would be estab-
lished within EMATERSE to monitor the extension activities and to carry out
an initial socioeconopic and agricultural survey of the participating groups.
The Institute of Nutrition at Recife and the University of Vicosa would be
responsible for evaluation. In order to allow for final detailing of the
proposed operations and the methodology for evaluation, the rural extension
test would be implemented in two stages: Phase I, final preparation; and
Phase II, implementation, contingent upon the Bank's approval of the plan of
operation prepared during Phase I (see Sextion 2005(xi) of the draft Project
Agreement).



- 13 -
38.       The Sao Paulo State Secretariat of Education would be responsible
for implementing the test of the school feeding system (i.e., personnel,
transport, storage and other facilities) as a channel for improving the
nutritional status of children of low-income families. The test would
build on, and determine the replicability of, an ongoing small, closely
controlled experiment in the City of Sao Paulo involving kindergarten type
centers (CEAPES) for improving school attendance performance and subsequent
productivity through the educating and supplemental feeding of preschool
children.  Under the project, about 48 CEAPES would be used to improve the
nutritional status of approximately 4,800 preschoolers from low-income
families in rural sections of the State of Sao Paulo. The School of Public
Health of the University of Sao Paulo would be in charge of the test1s
final design and its evaluation.
39.       In the State of Pernambuco, the efficiency of nutrition interven-
tions through health services and commercial markets would be tested by the
Public Health Service Foundation (SESP) and the University of Pernambuco.
The test would use the ongoing maternal and child health program in three
low-income districts in the Encruzilhada area of the City of Recife to deli-
ver supplementary food to some 13,000 children under 6 years of age and
7,000 pregnant and lactating women and to provide nutrition instruction and
health care to an additional 34,000 children and 10,000 pregnant and lactat-
ing women. Both the health service infrastructure and normal commercial
channels (i.e., local shops) would be used to distribute food. In four rural
districts of the sugar plantation region (Zona da Mata) of the same state,
12,000 mothers and children would receive nutritional services through a new
"outreach and referral program" conducted by paramedical personnel. An addi-
tional 12,000 mothers and children in four small cities in the same area would
also receive similar services. A project group in the University of Pernambuc
would be responsible for preparing the final designs for evaluating the tests.
40.       In order to ensure that the various tests yield meaningful results,
INAN has given assurances that by January 31, 1977, the design of a consistent
measurement base for the evaluation of the several delivery system tests would
be submitted to the Bank for review and comment (see Section 2.07 of the
draft Project Agreement).
Development and Marketing of Nutritious Foods
41.       The component of the project concerned with the development of low-
cost nutritious foods would comprise three separate but related activities -
product development through research and testing, studies of the feasibility
of producing and marketing selected products and financing of industrial scale
production of certain foods. The objective would be to make nutritious foods
available at reasonable prices for use in institutional feeding programs and
the commercial market.



42.       Selected governmental centers of food technology, initially
the Institute of Food and Technology (ITAL) located at Campinas in the
State of Sao Paulo, would be responsible for the research and develop-
ment of 10-15 low-cost nutritious processed products, with special
attention to incprporating locally produced foods such as soymeal and
high protein "opaque-2" corn. Both products are now produced in adequate
quantities in Brazil and are extensively exported as livestock feed, with
little attention given to their potential use in products for human consump-
tion. Examples of foods expected to be produced are milk substitutes and
weaning foods (consisting of vegetable protein, fats and sugars fortified
with vitamins and minerals), and texturized soy protein to be used as a
rehydratable meat extender or replacer. In addition, attention would be
placed on research in the local production of fortificants and their addi-
tion to basic food staples such as wheat and manioc flour, cornmeal, salt
and sugar. ITAL would establish a group of 12 experienced technicians for
carrying out its responsibility under this activity.
43.       Working from the results of the research program included in the
project and other product development activities, the Agency for Funding
Studies and Projects (FINEP) would finance studies of the feasibility of
producing and marketing food products selected by the Food Advisory Board
(see paragraph 45 below).  It is expected that around 20 such studies, to
be undertaken by industries, universities and other technical institutions,
would be funded. For some foods, other studies are already well enough
advanced to form the basis for investment financing in the immediate future.
The cost of studies which subsequently form the basis for manufacture of a
product would be fully recovered from the manufacturer over a five-year
period including two years of grace at 6-8% interest with full monetary
correction.
44.       The National Economic Development Bank (BNDE) would provide
financing for industries producing low-cost nutritious foods. Industries,
expected to be medium and small in size (with net fixed asset value no more
than US$7.5 million equivalent), and agro-industrial cooperatives would be
eligible to receive financing to enable them to produce low-cost processed
foods. Some of these foods are expected to be developed through the FINEP
studies. Food so produced would be distributed through both commercial and
institutional channels, the latter already established by the sizeable
government-sponsored school feeding program. Loans would carry maturities
of up to 10 years including 18 months of grace at an interest rate of 3%
plus full monetary correction. The project funds would cover up to 80% of
the total cost of investments, and the entrepreneur would provide at least
2C% (see Schedule 1 of the draft Project Agreement). In accordance, with
existing procedures that are satisfactory, the Brazilian Center for Manage-
rial Assistance to Small and Mledium Enterprises (CEBRAE) would assist BNDE
in developing the plan of implementation for the production of specific
products. Also, INAN would work closely with the Brazilian Association of
Food Industries (ABIA) to achieve this objective.
45.       A Food Advisory Board would be established to advise INAN on the
criteria for selecting, developing, testing and distributing the foods.
The criteria would include assurances that (a) prices of produced foods



would be within the reach of the poor (those classified as being in rela-
tive poverty, i.e., with annual per capita income of US$275 equivalent or
less), and (b) INAN would have the right of prior approval of each sub-
project before BWDE would make its financing available.  In addition to
the President of INAN who would serve as the chairperson (with INAN pro-
viding the secretariat), the Board would include representatives from
BNDE, FINEP, governmental centers of food technology and Brazilian agen-
cies involved in food delivery programs such as the National School Feed-
ing Campaign and the Maternal Child Protection Program. The Government
has given assurances that the Board would be established by January 31,
1977 (see Section 2.08 of the draft Project Agreement).
Institutional Development
46.       A portion of the project would concentrate on strengthening
staff capability within INAN and other federal and state agencies involved
in the implementation of nutrition programs, and in expanding and improv-
ing the training facilities of Brazilian educational institutions which
provide nutrition and nutrition-related training. The training program,
to be undertaken primarily by the Universities of Brasilia, Sao Paulo and
Pernambuco, would consist of short-term multidisciplinary training courses
for approximately 470 persons in nutrition planning and administration, as
well as graduate and specialized training about 70 persons in such fields as
public health, biochemistry and food technology. Participants would be
selected from INAN and other relevant federal and state agencies, e.g.,
Ministries of Health, Agriculture, Social Welfare and Education. The par-
ticipating training institutions would be strengthened by additional staff
recruited locally and abroad by INAN, and by expansion in their training
facilities. In addition, parallel to the project, INAN expects to prepare
a program to provide for teacher training, equipment and materials related
to nutrition education in public schools. INAN would also make a study of
the existing and future manpower requirements for implementation of the
national nutrition plan. To provide guidance for INAN in this activity,
an Advisory Council on Nutritional Manpower Needs and Training consisting
of representatives from government and educational institutions, would be
established by March 31, 1977 (see Section 2.13 of the draft Project Agree-
ment).
47.       The project would include a project special fund totalling
US$885,000 for use by the project team in financing, subject to prior Bank
approval, special innovative activities relating mainly to strengthening
project evaluation, and special studies on such matters as nutrition/pro-
ductivity relationships.
48.       In order to assist INAN in meeting its institutional develop-
ment objectives, the project would include 39 person-years of long- and
short-term technical assistance at an estimated total cost of US$107
million equivalent, an average of about US$44h,000 per person-year. This



- 16 -
assistanoe is designed to reinforce the special staffing requirements of
INAN, with particular emphasis on the project unit and the monitoring
and evaluation group of INAN?s planning office, and to assist the other
institutions concerned with implementation of the project.
Project Cost and Financing
49.       The total project cost would amount to US$71e9 million equi-
valent including fiontingencies. The major categories of expenditures are:
US$ Equivalent
(Million)
Development of an Information Base                                  6.6
Nutrition Survey and Surveillance System        2.7
Food and Nutrition Policy Research              3.9
Testing of Alternative Delivery Systems                            11.0
Agriculture Extension Service                    6.3
(Including Credit of US$1.5 Million)
Health and Commercial Systems                    3.6
School Feeding Program                           1.1
Development of Law-Cost Nutritious Foods                           37.7
Product Development                              4.7
Feasibility Studies                              3.0
Industrial Production                           30.0
Institutional Development                                           6.9
Training                                         3.3
Project Administration and Evaluation            3.6
Subtotal                                                           62.2
Contingencie s                                                      9.7
TOTAL                                                              71.9
The proposed Bank loan of US$19 million would cover 26% of total project
costs, the estimated foreign exchange content of the project. Brazilian
private industries benefitting from loans for food development would pro-
vide an estimated US$6 million equivalent, the credit institutions involved
(BNDE and Banco do Brasil) US$31.5 million, and FINEP US$3 million. The
remainder of the project cost (US$12.4 million) would be provided directly
by the Government.



- 17 -
Procurement and Disbursement
50.       Supply contracts for furniture and equipment (excluding small
value contracts below US$50,000 equivalent) would be awarded in accordance
with the Bank's guidelines for international competitive bidding. Local
suppliers would be allowed a preference margin of 15% (or the import duty
rate, if lower). To the extent practical, items would be grouped to form
sizeable bid packages to permit bulk procurement. Due to the relatively
small size of the individual construction contracts, civil works would be
contracted through local competitive bidding, advertised only in the nation-
al press but not excluding foreign competitors. Food, vehicles, furniture
and instructional and other equipment would be purchased according to normal
local procurement procedures which are satisfactory. The international con-
sultancy services provided for in the project would be contracted on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The foreign fellowship program
would be executed through university services contracted in various countries.
Procurement under projects financed by local loans would be through normal
commercial channels.
51.       The Bank would reimburse INAN in amounts equal to:  (a) 100% of the
cost of fellowships abroad and foreign technical assistance, and (b) 24% of all
other expenditures. Disbursements would be made against full documentation,
except for those expenditures for food supplements and lending programs which
would be made against statements of expenditure, but with documentation retained
by INAN for ex-post review by Bank supervision missions.
Auditing
52.       INAN would submit, within four months or the close of its risca.L
year, annual audited financial statements by independent auditors satisfactory
to the Bank. (See Section 4.02 of the draft Project Agreement). Other
executing agencies would submit to INAN, for transmission to the Bank within
four months of the close of each fiscal year, audited statements of expendi-
ture of project funds (see Section 2.05(viii) of the draft Project Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
53.       There are three basic justifiaations for the project.  First, good
nutrition is one of the main determinants of human well-being, the ultimate
goal of all development activities. Second, improved nutrition would make a
major contribution to human capital formation with positive implications for
future earnings of individuals and econnmic development in general. A third
basic Justification is that the productivity of the existing labor force
would be enhanced. The project would further these objectives by improving
the basis for designing and implementing an effective, comprehensive, long
run nutrition program addressed to the most vulnerable population groups.
Experience obtained from the various activities under the project should lead,
inter alia, to adjustments to agricultural and other policies affecting prices
of specific foods consumed by 'the poor; increased production of basic food
staples, especially by small farmers; production and marketing of low-cost
processed foods, including fortified food staples; and better nutritional
assistance to those most vulnerable to malnutrition.



- 18 -
54.       In the process of carrying out the tests for the long-range pur-
poses stated, the health and performance -- both short and long-run -- would
be improved for approximately 110,000 young children and, relatedly, pregnant
and lactating women from low-income families who would benefit directly from
food supplementation and/or other nutrition services; school attendance,
performance and subsequent productivity would be increased for older children
and productivity of a substantial, but indeterminate, portion of the low-income
labor force (and their families) would increase through consumption of low-
cost processed nutritious foods made possible by the project; increased food
production, lower food losses, increased on-farrn consumption and related in-
creased productivity would take place among families of 3,000 small farmers
in Northeast Brazil; the productivity and well-being of an indeterminate but
substantial portion of the low-income population would be enhanced from im-
proved diets made possible by the modification of agricultural policies which
would be expected to incorporate consideration of nutritional implications;
and small- and medium-sized industries, traditionally hindered by difficLlt
access to term financing (particularly foreign exchange), would be given the
opportunity to carry out needed capital investments to improve production
facilities and increase productivity. (An estimated 2,000 new jobs would be
created.)  The long-term benefits of the project, which wculd be realized
after the implementation of an efficient comprehensive nutrition program,
would be a generally improved health status and increased labor productivity
by persons benefitting from the program. Both in terms of beneficiaries and
contributors, the project reflects the importance of women in development.
55.       The proposed project follows closely the strategy, criteria and
categories of components set forth in the nutrition policy guidelines and
is responsive to the resolution of the World Food Conference calling on
international agencies to assist countries in preparing food and nutrition
policies and programs. There are no precedents for this kind of nutrition
project either in the Bank or any other institution or government dealing
with the problems. As discussed with the Board during the preliminary pre-
sentation of this report, the project is highly experimental and, as with
all experiments, details will not necessarily work out as planned and
changes may be required. Such risks must be accepted when working to make
a significant development contribution in a highly uncharted field.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the National
Food and Nutrition Institute (INAN), the report of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of
the draft resDlution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
57.       A condition of disbursement for each part of the project would be
that INAN entered into an agreement with the executing agency responsible for
that part of the project - IBGE, BNDE, EMBRATER, SUPLAN, relevant governmental
centers of food technology, including ITAL, SESP, FINEP and the State Univer-
sities of Pernambuco and Sao Paulo. In the case of BNDE, an additional condi-
tion of disbursement would be that the Food Advisory Board has published the
specifications for the development and testing of foods (see paragraph 4(b)
and (c) of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
June 7, 1976






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE 3
BRAZIL                   C IOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHCCT
LAND 't81  (THOU K(Ml)               ...                        .                   ......
,,,,      , .....                                SPAM     MOSTRAZIL                   REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
rTOTL      S5t2.0                                       MOST RECECNT
AG'0.           .                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE          MEXICO         URUGUAY         JAPAN
GNP PER CAPITA CUSS)                      300.0      130.0       7h0.0              720 .0      890 ,o     25TO.0
...._...............
*OPULATIDN AND VITAL STATISTICS
sPOPUI.TION EWIMOD-YR, MILLION69.8                  92.8       101.1                50.7         2.9       104.3
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SOUARE K'(.                         8.0       11,0        12.0                26.0        I6.0      280.0
s4 tOt. A0tC.       D                   ..                     ..                  *.
VITAL STATISTICS
cRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND         40.8         38.4       57.1                1,3.1       22.1        17.5
CRUDE DEAT4 RATE PEn THOUSAND          11.7        9.9         8.8                10.2         9.2         7.1
INPANT MORTYALIT  RATE (ITHOU)       1tO0.       120.0          ,,               69.0          .0        13.1
LOPE EXPECTANCY A7 BIRTH    YRSl     56.0         59.7       61.4                8,.0        OY 3        71.1
GR3SS REPROODtCTION RATE                2.6        2.6         2.5                 3.1        .14          1.0
POPULATION GROWTH RAT, CI)
TOTAL                                   3.0        2.         2,0                 3.5        15          1.0
URBAN                                   5,5        5.0         4.3                 S.S                    4.0
JRSAN POPULATION (X OP TOTAL)            46.0       S6.0        59.1.               59.0 8, ,,              4.4
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 7O la YEARS                        43.0        42.0        (l1.7,              06.0       28.0        24.0
15 TO 60 YEIAS                         04.0       555.0         .1               5 00        6.0         68 
5 YEARS AND OVER                        3.0        3.0         3.2                   o 0.0    8,0         7,1
*GE DEP1NONCY,A RATIO                     0.9        0.8         0.8 /               1.0        0.h         0.5
EOOC ot mya PENDNCY RATIO                 1.6         1,5         1.2 ^              2.0         1.0        06
FAMILY PLANNING.
ACCEPTORS 3CU4ULATIVE, THOU)             ,,      250.0          ,,                55.5         ,.
USERS 1I nr MARRIE5 WOMEH                ,,          6          ..                  ..          *-
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABoR roPCE (THOUSANDI         22700.0     29600.0      37750.0            13000.0     1100.0     53300.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE I1)           52.0       44.0           ,,               40.0        I7.O        19,0
JNEMPLOYED (I OF LABOR FORCE)              ..          ..         ..                  *-        8.0         1.2
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
IOF PRIVATE INCOME RECD BY.
zl8T    5%#         S      'nm         28.0        35.0                           178
EXIWBT 20 Of OWtitDS                   54- Z      62.0 a                          17.2        90 So       24.T
l1ilST 2CS or                           I,tEE,D   .0 C:  3.0 a                     3.2         447.5 ri 37.
IOABBT 40S or t153  ns                 12.0 C,     10.0  a                         0.2         0.4 2       8.8
IMM 20% OJP WgaZBMM  L.,           i ~~~~~~~~102                         1 ,2,
DISTRIBUTION OF L4ND OWNERSHIP
X ONNED BY TOP 200 OF ONNERS               ,,       45.0          ,,                  ..          .-          *
I OWNED BY S"ALLEST 100   MWNERS           ..         .5.. 
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
000ULATION PER PHYSICIAN              2170.0      1950.0      2070.0 /           1000.0       900.0       880,0
POPULATION PER NURSING PER30N ,                  , 3300.0  a 2920.0 I     S    TO70      ,O 30      240,0
OPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            27s,0       260.0          *930.0                      160.0        80.0
PCR CAPITA SUPPLY OF D
C4LORIES CS 0P REOUIRE4ENTS)          102.0      109.0        20,o0              110.0      107.0       106,0
PROTEIN IGRAMS PER DAY)               61.0        64,0        6S.0               65.0        96.0        76,0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL! AND PULSE         38.0        39.0           .               2.0i.       64.0        45o0
DECAT  RATE C/TMOU) AGES 1-4               ,,          ,,          ,                 9.8         1.3        1.0
EDJCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY 0CHOOLC )00.                              87.0        71.0               104.0       110.0       101.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       11.0       28.0        74,.0               23.0       59.0        91.0
YEARS OP SCHOOLING P OVIDED
CPIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              13.0        23.0        13.0               12.0        12.0       1.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(O oP SECONDARY1                      19.0        17.0        18. D4.0                       21.0        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE CII                 62.O        68,0          ,.                76.0       9,0         9.0
MOJSING
"ERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                 ,.         I.0        I.1                 2.2          ,.         1.0
ICCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER C(%                          ,.       73,0        67,0 T              6.0A                    S.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
O oP ALL OwELLINGS)                      ,,      40.0          S3.0              59.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (0)                       ,         8.0        11.0               28.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           66.0       60.0        61.0               276.0      346.0       551.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)             7.0       25.0        29.0                25.0        42.0       89,0
ELECTRITCTY ('(N/Y R PER CAP)           325,0 o    47.0        544.0              8s6.0       762.0       3391.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 3.3        2.7         2.6                 3.1        7,2        28,9
SEE NOTES AND DEPINITTONS ON REVERSE.........................................................................



ANNEX I
pao2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless. otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to 1959-61, for 1970 to 1968-70, and for Most Recent Estimate to 1.971-73.
Japan has been selected as an obJective country since the Braz1iia Gmovernent has shown particular interest in Japan 's dovelopeental experience. also,
the two go-rnisents have conducted joint studies to identify poss.ible future economnic probtem of Brasil on the basis of the experience in japn..
BRAZIL               1960    j    Econceically active population.
1970    I   EconOmically active population.    /b  Hospital personnel;   /c  Inside only.
HOST RECENT ESTIMATE:     la  1974;   /b  Ratio of population under 15 sod 65 and over to total labor force;    Ic  Hospital personnel;
7d Inside omly.
MEXICO                1970    I   1964-66;   /b  Inside only.
URUGUAY               1970    I   1967.
R8, May 26, 1976
--  - - - -   -  - - - - - - - - - - -    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL. INDICATORS
thouee2Population per nuring.person - Population divided by number of practicing
ura-Tti7iaue area omopriSing land area and inland saters.                saead     ensgraduate norses, ~trainede or 0certified" nursea, and
Agric. - Most recent estimate of agricoltural area used temporarily or            auxiliary personnel with training or experience.
Permanently for crops, Pastures, market & kitchen gardens or to lie           POpuainprhsia:ed-Pplto                     iie     y  ubro      optlbd
fallow,                                                  available i~~~~~~~~~~~~n P.bic ad private general. and specialized hospital. and
IINPi   itn                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rehabilitation centers; excludes noising homes and establishments for
:r     U      GIIP 01  per capita estimates at market prices, calcu-    custodial and preventive care.
conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1972-74 basis).          Per cait suppl ofclre          %o    eurmnt)-Cmue             rmeeg
;gjattign -d vital statistics                                      rt~~eqivalet niT nt foduple  vavlab.le In country per capita per day;
an   itlsttstc                                                         available supplies comprise domestic production, imports loss exports,
mid-    Milion) - An of July first,    if not available,              aid changes in stock; net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds, quanti-
aeaeof tw  end-year estimates,                                              ties used in food processing aid losses in distribution; requirements
"opmlation de                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~were estimated by FAO based on PhYsiologicul mends for normal activity
me ter (100 heel&res) of talrea.                                                sex distributions of Population, aid allosing 10% for waste at house-
Population density - per snuare he of agrie. land - Computed as above for         hold level.
agricultural ladony                                                           Per capitasupply   f.protein (gram  per day) - Protein content of per,
capita tnetsPpl    f foo   pe dy    not supply of food is defined as
Vital statistics                                                                  above; requirements for all  acutries established by USDA Economic
Crude birth rate per thousand - Annual live birtha per thousand of mid-           Research Services provide for a msinimum allowance of 60o grams of total
Year poPulation; ten-year arithmntis averMagesnading in 1960 and 1.970,         protein per day, aid 20 grams of ansimol and pulse protein, of wihieh
Grand five -year average aiding in 1975 for mosft recent estimate.               10 grams should be animal protein; these standards are lower than those
ude_ death rate   r thousad - Annual deaths Per thousand of mid-year             of 75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
, t:. ~;  :~    averages eidng in 1960 and 1970 an              average for the world, proposed by PAD i-n the Third World Food Survy.
five -year average ending in 1975 for meet resent estimate.                   Perwcpita   rotein   ' sply fro  anmlad polses - Protein supply of food
-Annual deaths of infants under one yero           Meivotrm"     nasadplssi           rmsprdy
aeper thousa     ye  ir ?s.-                                                Death rate (/thou)   es 1lt  - Annual deaths per thousand in age group
Life epcac       t birth (ora) - Average number of years of life remaining                            enyiiThfdu Ii -this age group; suggested as an inidicator of
atbrh  sually five-yer averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for         malnutrition.
developing countries.
Gross reproduction rate - Average member of live daughters a woman will         Education
bear in her normal rproductive period if she experiences present age-         Ausedenrollment rai          rimary school - Ebsroliment of all ages as
specific fertility rates;,sal      ieya       veae     nigi      90             percentag  ofpiayoho-age popu.lation; includes children aged
1970 and 1975 for developi-ng coantries.                                        6-11 years but adjusted fur different lengths of primary education;
Pplation  rot rgate (%)    total - Compound annual growth rates of mid-        for Countries with universal education, enrollment may exceed 100%
year pouato      fo  190-0     1   -70, and 1970 to most recent year.            since some pupils are below or above the official school age.
PoPul-ation growth rate(%- urban - Computed like growth rate of total           AdJusted enrollment ratio - secondary-school - Competed as above;
Population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compara-            soonay education requires at least four, Years of approved primary
bility of data among countries,                                                 instruction; provides general, vocational or, teacher training
Urban pop      ofltotal   - Ratio of urban to total population;              instructions for pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence
erc  dfntiesofA  ura  areas may affect casparability of data          Courses are generally excluded.
among countries.                                                              Tearsof schooling provded (firt and second levels)       Total yearn of
Ag:n. ruturj     enQ) - Children (0-1k Years), working-age (15-64 Years),         scoling.    tseodrylvl vocational instructo            ma   ePar
retired  yearn and over) as percuntages of mid-year population.         tially or completely excluded.
Aedo endency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to Vocational enrollment (% of secondary) - Vocational institutions include
these of ags 1   t~hrough 64.                                                   technical, industrial or other programs which operte independently or
Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over          as dePartments of secondary institutions.
to te lbor orc  in agegrou  of15-6  yersedutrierc                                   rae%     - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
Family Planning -acceptors (uultv         thou) - Cumulative number of            percntage oft totL adult population aged 15 years and over.
acceptors of birth-control devices uxAr auspices of national fatily
planning program since inception.                                             Hui-
Family PlnI   g- users (% of eared women) - Percentages of isarried            Personns 4r room (aver?q    - Average number Of Persons per room in
woen ofchl-booin      age (1-ayears) who use birth -Control devices           occupied conventiona dwellings in urban areas; dwellings exclude
to all married women in same age group.                                         non-pernamet structures and aLnocnupied parts.
O'ccup-ied dwellings w.ithout piped water (% - -Cocpied Conventional
I                                                              1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~delngs inuba  n r urlareas without inside or Outside PiPed
Yot  Norfom  ithu-sndl- Econoemically active persons, including           water facilities as percentage of all occupied dweUings.
aefocsand unemp oyed but excluding housewives, students, etc.;         Access to electricity (% Of all dwe11l-lns  - Conventional dwellings with
definitions in various countries are not comparable,                           electricity in living quarters as Percent of total dwellings in urban
Labor force in ag-riculturem I    Agricultural labor force (in farming,           and rural areas.
forestry, hunting ad fihn)as percntage of total labor force.                 Rrldeinscncted to electricity (%) - Computed as above for
Unmloe      a  f-awf             Unemployed are usual-ly defined as persons     rural dwelings "1onlyc.
who r: a~ble on willing to take a job, out of a job on a given day,
remained out of a job, and seeking work for a specified minimum period       C      t~(ppiu
not exceeding one week; nay not be cisepaable between coantries due to       T0adiRei6d6.tnvsrs (per thou pu)-All types of receivers for radio broad-
different.definitions of unmployed and source of data, e.g., employ-           costs to general public Per thousand of Population; excludes unlicensed
ment0ofice statistics, sample surveys, compulsory unemployment insurance,      receivers in coontries and in Years when registration of radio sets was
in effect; data for recent years may not be comparab:le since most
Income distribution - Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind)       countries abolished licensing.
received by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest 40% of         Passenger Curs (per thou pup) - Passenger cars Comprise motor oar    seast-
households.                                                                    ingles   tha  eight Parsons; excludes ambulnces, hearses and military
vehicles,
Distribution of larid ownership - Percentages of laid owned by wealthiest      Electricitvfwhy     prca)      -Anual consumption of industrial, com-
10% and poorest lUT-o-f land owners,                                              mil pu=blic andKpr1voPt1e electricity in kilowatt boors per Capita;
generally based on produstioc data, without allossance for losses in
Health and Nutrition                                                             grids but allowing for imports and exporte of electricity.
Ppltion pr physician - population divided by number of practicing                riNeercptyana                             cnupio       nkiorm
physiin    qalified f om a medical school at university level.                 effiI~        domestic PrOduction Plus net imports of newsprint.



ANNEX I
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMEINT DATA                                                      Page-3 of lj pagea
(In millions of U.S. dollars)
Actual           Estimated      Projected         Average Annual Growth Rates           As percent of GDY
1971      192      1973      1974      1975      19801970-74         1974-76     1976-80      1970       1974       1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS Li)                       Amounts in 1973 prices and exchange rates
Gross domeetic product                 62,710    69,608   77,891    85,369    88,357   121.700      11.0         4.2         7.0       100.6      100.6     100.7
Gains from  terms of trade(+            - 609     - 598      -       - 469     - 965     - 819        ...                              - 0.6      - 0.6    - 0.7
Gross domestic income                  62,101    69,010   77,891    84.900   105,278   120,881      11.0         3.7         7.1       100.0      100.0    100.0
Imports (ind. NFS)                      5,199    6,357     7,577    10,073     9.183    11,264      24.0        -5.6         5.7         7.6       11.9       9.3
Exports (import capacity)               4,098     5,218    6,596     5,987     6,705    10,784      10.2        10.2        10.6         7.2        7.1       8.9
Resource gap                            1,101     1,139      981     4,086     2,478       480        ...0.4                                        4.8       0.4
Consumption                            50,437   54,547    61,529    66,578   69,020     91,586       9.7         3.0         6.5        82.2       78.4     75.8
Tnvestment                             12,765   15,602    17,343    22,408    20,910    29,775      22.0         0.5         7.1        18.2       26.4     24.6
Domestic savings                       11,664    14,463   16,362    18.322    18.432    29,295      16.4         6.7         8.9        17.8       21.6     24.2
National savings                       11,078    13,784   15,655    17,722    17,482    27,933      17.0         5.8         9.0        16.9       20.9      23.1
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                 Annual data at current prices                                                          As percent of total
Imports
Capital goods                         1,241    1,734     2,143     3,108    3,569      7,522      31.0        14.3        16.7       42.8        24.8     36.1
Intermediate goods (excl.fuele)       1,210    1,451     2,233     5,091    4,636      7,343      57.0        -5.4        12.6       35.2       40.6      35.3
Fuels and related materials             316      449       727     2,812    3,022      4,344      63.0         5.6         8.5        9.4       22.4      20.9
of which:   Petroleum                 251      344       605     2,495    2,650      3,711      71.0         4.3         8.1        6.9        19.9     17.8
Consumption goods                       478      598     1,089     1,519     1,221     1,610      42.0       -11.0         6.7       15.0        12.1      7.7
Total me-chandise imparts (fob)       3,245    4,232     6,192    12,530   12,448     20,819      50.0         1.9        12.5      100.0       100.0    100.0
Exports
Primary Products (excl. fuels)        2,315    3,063     4,718     5,606    6,987     13,142      25.0        17.0        14.4       84.8        70.4     61.2
Fuels and related materials              19        36       52        65        70       101      55.0         7.4         7.7                   0.8       0.5
of which:   Petroleum                   8       16        16        30        30        40                                          o .4       0.4       0.2
Manufactured goods                      570       892    1,429     2,297     2,793     8,231      55.0        22.5        24.0       14.8        28.8     38.3
Total merchandise exports (fob)       2,904    3,991     6,199     7,968     9,850    21,474      31.0        18.6        17.7      100.0       100.0    100.0
Merchandise trade indices                                    1973-100
Export price index                       67        73      100       134       140       201      18.4         4.6         8.2
Import price index                       77       82       100       145       158       216      14.3         7.9         6.4
Terms of trade index                     87        89      100        93        88        93        . 
Export v~olume index                     71       88       100        96       113       172      10.0        13.7         8.8
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR /2                   Annual data at 1973 prices and exchange rates                                                As percent of GDP
Agriculture                             8,850     9,212    9,535    10,346    10,760     13-,995     6.8         4.5         5.5       14.6        15.1      14.3
Industry and mining                    15,875   18,066    20,776    22,480    23,222    32,805      12.0         4.2         7.7       32.7        32.8     33.6
Services                               25,554   28,532    32,140    35,620   36,860     50,777      11.1         4.3         7.0       52.7        52.1     52.1
Total                                  50,279   55,810    62,451    68,446    70,842    97,577      11.0         4.2         7.0      100.0       100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                             Annual date at 1973 prices and exchange rates
(Federal Government)
Current receipts                      6,168    7,316     8,629     9,757   10,399     15,540      16.9         6.2         9.0        9.4        11.5     12.8
Current expenditures                  3,553    3,558     4,227     4,577    5,032      7,107       8.5         9.1         6.9        5.9         5.4      5.9
Budgetary saving                      2,615    3,758     4,402     5,180    5,367      8,433      28.0         3.5        11.0        3.5         6.1      7.0
Other public saving                   3,393    3,669     4,832     5,825    6,348     10,510      15.5         9.0        10.7        5.0         6.9      8.7
Public sector fixed investment        6,404    8,037     8,705     9,667   10,344     15,198      15.8         7.5         8.0        9.8       11.4      12.6
US$ million
DETAIL ON PUBLIC SECTOR                at 1973 prices and ER
INVESTMENT PROGRAM                            1971-74  7. of Total
Social Sectors                               4,504        11.3
Agriculture                                     187         0.5
Industry and Mining                          6,060        15.2
Power                                        5,499        13.8
Transport and Coesunications                  7,384        18.6
Regional development                         1,441          3.6
Other   3                                    1471          37.0
Total expenditure                           39,787        1-00.0
FINANCING
Public sector savings                     33,674        84.6
Foreign borrowings (net)                   5,762        14.5
Domestic borrowings                          351         0.9
Total financing                           39,787       100.0
LA,BOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER WORKER                    Total labor force                   Value added p r worker (1970 prices & exc. rates)
In millions       % of total        1-f960-70       I_US     olr          .o   vrage             607
1960     190     19~60    1970    Growth rate        190990690097                            rot    7rt
Agriculture                  ~~~~~~12.2  13.1  54.0     44.4          0.            --        402       --        33          -
Industry                                 3.0     5.3     13.3     18.0          5.8           --      2,222       *-       182          -
Service                                  7.4    11.1     32.7     37.6         4.1            -       1.0         --       140          -
Total                                   722.6  2i 9. 5  100D.0o  10.             .             -      120         --       10           -
not aPplicable
not available
L1  The national accounts data were revised in September 1974 to reflect data obtained in the 1970 census.          GOP in 1970 has been revised upward
by about 20%, mainly in the industrial sector. Revisions of the data for years prior to 1970 still have not been completed.
/2Net domestic product at factor coat.
/3. Includes financial investment.
May 14, 1975



ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT                                           ag     of   pge
(In millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Actual             Estimated                                    Projected
1971      1972      1973        1974      1975      1976      1977       1978       1979       1980        1985
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (inel. NFS)                    3,175     4,272     6,596      8,568    10,614     12,116    14,001     16,422     19,507     23,274     52,488
Imports (incl. NFS)                    4,028     5,205     7,577     14.585    14,536     15,228    16,854     18,683     20,965     24,308     50,264
Resource balance (X-M)                - 853     - 933     -  981     -6,017    -3,922    -3,112     -2,853     -2,261     -1,458     -1,034      2,224
Interest (net)                        -  302    -  359    _ 514      - 650     -1,273    -1,469     -1,747     -2,009     -2,272     -2,503     -3,053
Direct investment income              -  166    -  202    -  220     - 240     -  270     - 304     - 342      -  384     - 432      - 486      - 877
Workers' remittance                            -         -          -         -               -         -          -          -          -           -
Current Transfers (net)                   14         5        27         23        40         50        50         50         50         50         50
Balance on current account            -,07      -1,489    -_         -668      -5.425     -4.835    -4_892                -4.113     -3.974     -1 656
Private direct investment                168       318       940        845       940      1,035     1,135      1,275      1,435      1,615      2,908
Medium- and long-term loans
Disbursements                          835     1,099     1,376      1,800     2,025     2,226      2,443      2,654      3,004      3,397      6,218
-Repayments                          -  441    - 525     - 670      -  720    -  779    -   745    -  793     - 868      -1.062     -1.282     -2.867
Net disbursements                        394       574       706      1,080     1,245      1,481     1,650      1,786      1,942      2,115       3,351
Financial credits
Disbursements                        1,442     3,396     3,151      5,017     3,819     4,509      5,054      5,258      5,386      5,587      1,524
-Repayments                          -  641    - 860     -1.058     -1,300    -1.579    -2,190     -2,946     -3.715     -4,130     -4,500     -4,404
Net disbursements                        801     2,536     2,093      3,717     2,240      2,319     2,107      1,543      1,255      1,080      -2,880
Capital transactions n.e.i.              504       626       377        194        -          -         -          -          -          -           -
Change in reserves (--increase)       - 560     -2,565    -2,428      1,049     1,000         -         _          _      -  519     - 836      -1,723
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                                                                   Actual              Estimated
1971       1972       1973        1974
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Medium- and long-term loans                                                      Public debt outstanding
IBRD                                   256       455       199                   and disbursed                4,122      5,509      6,496      9,096
IDB                                    133       180       250                 Interest on public debt          211        296        440        619
Governments                            199       249       270                 Repayment on public debt         608        758        953       1,081
Suppliers                              324       350       775                 Total public debt service(gross)819       1,054      1,393      1,700
Bonds                                   -         -         80                 Other debt service (gross)       607        820      1,175      1,570
Loans n.e.i.                           121       100       110                 Total debt service (net)L-    1,384      1,744      2,242      2,670
Total mdium- and long-term loans       1,033     1,334     1,684         .-
Burden on export earnings (7.)
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                    Actual debt outstanding on March 31. 1974pbl       db       i258                         4,          0         14
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                                         ~~~~~~~~~~Public debt service      25.8       24.7        20.6       t9,4
Disbursed only             Percent Total debt service                 43.6       40.8        34.0       31.2
IBRD                                               708                   10.0    TDS + Invest. Inc.                48.8       45.6       37.3       34.0
IDB223
Governments                                      1    830                2539 8  Average Terms on
Suppliers                                        1,008                   14.2
Bonds                                              149                    2.1    Int. as % prior year DO & D        6.0        7.2        8.0        9.5
Financial credits                                2,875                   40.5    Amort. as % prior year DO & D     17.4       18.4       17.3       16.6
Public debt n.e.i.                                 273                    3.8
Total public debt                                7,095                  100.0    IBRD debt outs. & disbursed      347        484        647        872
IBRD as % public debt 0 & D       8.4         8.8       10.0        9.6
IBRD as 7. total debt 0 7. D       5.2        5.0        5.1        5.0
IBRD as % public debt service     4.2         4.8        5.0        4.3
IBRD as % total debt service       2.5        2.9        2.9        2.7
/1 Gross debt service less interest earned on reserves.                                                                         May 14, 1975



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMNRY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of April 30, 1976)
Loan                                                        Amount Less    Undis-
No.     Year         Borrower                    Purpose   Cancellations   bursed
(US$ m=ilionT)
Twenty-Four Loans Fu;Ly Disbursed                               656.9
403     1965    Furnas - Centrais Eletricas       Power          57.0        0.1
Estreito I
474 /1  1966    Furnas - Centrais Eletricas       Power          39.0         0.7
Estreito II
565     1968    Furnas - Centrais Eletricas       Power          22.3        0.4
Porto Colombia
566     1968    Centrais Eletricas de Minas       Power          26.6        0.6
Gerais - Volta Grande
677     1970    Furnas - Centrais Eletricas       Power          80.0        5.4
Marimbondo
728     1971    Centrais Eletricas do Sul do      Power          70.0       14.7
Brasil - Salto Osorio
755     1971   Brazil                             Education      8.4         4.3
756     1971    Brazil                            Ports          45.o       34.3
757     1971   Superintendencia de Agua e         Water Supply  22.0        12.5
Esgotos da Capital
758     1971   Companhia Metropolitana de         Pollution     12.0         5.9
Saneamento de Sao Paulo         Control
786     1971    R*e3 Ferroviara Federal           Railways      46.o         5.2
797     1972    Companhia Siderurgica Nacional    Industry      64.5         7.1
812     1972    Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas      Industry      63.0        11.0
Gerais
813     1972    BRAZIL                            Roads          89.0        5.6
828     1972    Companhia Siderurgica Paulista    Industry       64.5        9.6
/1 In two tranches.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
Loan                                                         Amount Less    Undis-
No.     Year         Borrower                     Purpose   Cancellations   burned
(US$ millionT
829     1972    Centrais Eletricas de Minas        Power          60.0        15.6
Gerais - Sao Simao
853     1972    Brazil                             Land Settl.     6.7         6.0
854     1972    Brazil                             Roads          51.0         3.7
857     1972    Banco do Brasil                    Grain Storage  23.7         5.5
868     1972    Brazil                             Livestock      26.0         5.8
887     1973    LIGHT-Servicos de Eletricidade     Power          20.0        18.0
923     1973    Furnas Centrais Eletricas -        Power         125.0       105.4
Itumbiara
924     1973    Brazil                             Agro-Indus.    54.0        38.7
1008    1974    Cia Hidro Eletricas do Sao         Power          81.0        81.0
Francisco - Paulo Afonso IV
1009    1974    Banco Nacional de Habitacao        Water Supply   36.0        34.5
1067    1974    Brazil                             Education      23.5        23.4
1074    1975    Rede Ferroviaria Federal           Railways      175.0       174.5
1075    1975    Brazil                             Roads         110.0       104.1
1151    1975    Companhia Siderurgica Nacional     Industry       95.0        95.0
1152    1975    Companhia Siderurgica Paulista     Industry       60.0        60.0
1153    1975    Brazil                             Agriculture    23.0        23.0
1171    1975    FEPASA-Ferrovia Paulista           Railways       75.0        75.0
1195 A 1976     Brazil                             Rural Develop. 12.0        12.0
1206 /1 1976    Brazil                             Develop. Bank  85.0        85.0
1207 A 1976     Brazil                             Feeder Rds.    55.0        55.0
Total                                          2,563.1 /2  1,138.6
Of which has been repaid to the Bank & others    295.3
Total now outstanding                          2,2
Amount Sold                       38.5
of which has been repaid        10.3            28.2
Total now held by Bank                         2,239.6
Total undisbursed                                          1,138.6
/1 Not effective as of April 30, 1976.
/2  No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.  Loans of US$52.0 million for the
COPEL power distribution project and of US$50.0 million for a fertilizer
project were signed May 19, 1976. A loan of US$40.0 million for an agri-
culture research project was approved April 30, 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF APRIL 30, 1976)
Amount in US$ mi_.)ion
Year                         Obligor                               Type of Business         Loans    Equity Total
1557             Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade        Electrical Equipment            2.00     -      2.00
1958             Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel              Pulp and Paper                  1.20     -      1.20
1958             D.L.R. Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.              Automotive Parts                0.L,5    -      0.,5
1958             Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.               Motor Vehicles                  2.1L5    -      2.45
Industria e Comercio
15)59            Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.   Cement                          1.20     -      1.20
1959             Champion Celulose, S.A.                       Pulp                            4.00     -     4.00
1S66/1968/1972   Acos Villares, S.A.                           Steel                           8.00    1.93    9.93
1966/1969        Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S.A.            Pulp and Paper                  4.06     3.13   7.19
1967/1972        Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Comercio de   Fertilizers                     8.22     3.03  1].25
Fertilizantes
1969             Petroquimica Uniai, S.A.                      Petrochemicals                  5.50     2.88   8.18
1970             Poliolefinas, S.A. Industria e Couercio       Petrochemicals                  5.50     2.88  8.38
1971             Oxiteno, S.A. Industria e Comercio            Petrochemicals                  4.60     l.bi4  6.04
1971             Industria de Celulose Borregaard, S.A.        Pulp                            4.90      -     4.90
1972/1975        Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas        Cement                         29.14     3.20  32.314
1973/1974        Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA  Steel                          67.00     6.50  73.50
1973             Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP      Capital Market Development      5.00      -     5.00
1973             Empresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos        Nickel Mining and Refining     26.00     4.40  30.40
Minerais - CODEMIN, S.A.
1974             Industrias Villares, S.A.                     Elevators and Industrial        6.oo      -    6.oo
Equipment
1974             Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.              Textiles                       31.00      -    31.00
1975             Capuava Carbonos Industriais Ltd.             Carbon Black                    6.18     1.08   7.26
1975             Oxiteno Nordeste, S.A.                        Petrochemicals                 10.00      -    10.00
Total Gross Commitments                                                     232.40    30.47 262.87
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                      171.84     8.09 179.93
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                                            60.56    22.38  82.94
Total Undisbursed                                                            17.68     0.80  18.48



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
1/
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
(As of April 30, 1976)
There are now 32 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
403/474   Estreito Hydroelectric Project:  US$57 and US$39 million loans
of February 26, 1965 and December 19, 1966; Effective Dates:
July 6, 1965 and June 1, 1967; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The project is completed and the loan is almost fully disbursed.
Equipment costs were substantially below estimates. The original
Closing Date was April 1, 1971.
565       Porto Colombia Hydroelectric Project:  US$22.3 million loan of
October 23, 196t; Effective Date: February 1T, 1969; Closing
Date: December 31, 1975. Changes in the project layout and
design have increased substantially the local cost, which will
be covered by ELETROBRAS, without, however, significantly affect-
ing the economic justification for the project. Construction
work is completed. The Closing Date of the project was postponed
from March 31, 1975, the original date, to December 31, 1975, to
allow for disbursement of retention payments. The final disburse-
ments are now expected to be completed in May 1976.
566       Volta Grande Hydroelectric Project:  US$26.6 million loan of
October 23, 196d; Effective Date: February 27, 1969; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976. The project was delayed six months bY
spillway foundation difficulties but progress has since been
satisfactory. The project was completed in September 1975 with
a cost overrun of US$138 million due to foundation problems and
cost increases in equipment. However, the project remains econ-
omically justified. The Closing Date of the loan was postponed a
second time to June 30, 1976, to permit payments to continue on
several purchases already placed. The original Closing Date was
January 31, 1975.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lens which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weakness in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Loan No.
677       Marimbondo Hydroelectric Project:  US$80 mlllion loan of May 25,
1970; Effective Date: September 29, 1970; Closing Date: May 31,
1977. Construction work is proceeding on schedule. The cost of
the project has increased by US$42 million, or 15% over the ori-
ginal estimate, because of increased excavation and concrete work,
resulting from poor rock foundation, and increased equipment prices.
This has not significantly affected the economic justification of
the project.
728       Salto Osorio Hydroelectric Project:  US$70 million loan of April 5,
1971; Effective Date: July 19, 1971- Closing Date: May 31, 1977.
The construction of the Salto Osorio hydroelectric plant is progress-
ing satisfactorily and the first two of the planned four generating
units are now in commercial operation. A cost overrun of about
US$127 million, due to increased equipment and construction costs,
is foreseen, but this does not significantly affect the economic
justification of the project. The cost overrun is being financed
by loans from ELETROBRAS and a commercial bank. The construction
of the transmission system, delayed to allow required modifications,
is proceeding satisfactorily.
755       Education Project:  US$8.4 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 26, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1977. Prog-
ress on the construction and equipping of the project schools is
now proceeding satisfactorily. However, the project implementation
is behind the original schedule due to initial delays in establish-
ing and staffing the project unit and because of subsequent changes
in project content. The original Closing Date was December 31, 1975.
756       Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979. Execution of
the project is now proceeding satisfactorily, although there have
been further delays and cost overruns which will be financed by the
Borrower. The Government has approved legislation which converted
DNPVN from a government agency to a public corporation, PORTOBRAS.
PORTOBRAS, with the assistance of management consultants, has been
improving port operations in Santos. The National Port Development
Study financed under the project is now completed.
757       Sao Paulo Water Supply Project:  US$22 million loan of June 21,
1971; Effectlive Date: January 13, 1972; Closing Date: June 30,
1977. The project suffered initial delays caused by the State of
Sao Paulo not furnishing the required counterpart funds, which are
now included in the state budget. The Government has consolidated
all the water and sewerage companies in the state into a single
company, SABESP, and a loan assumption agreement with the new
company was concluded on December 18, 1974. Because of the re-
organization of the sector and of management problems which are
now resolved, the Closing Date, originally June 30, 1975 has



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Loan No.
been postponed to June 30, 1977. Progress of the project is expected
to improve with new management of the company which took office
recently.
758       Sao Paulo Pollution Control Project:  US$15 million loan of June 21,
1971; Effective Date: January 13, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
A revijw of the original design resulted in its modification to ex-
clude the discharge of raw sewage and a related treatment facility.
As a result of the modifications in the project, the loan amount was
reduced to US$12 million. The Government has consolidated all the
water and sewerage companies in the State into a single company,
SABESP, and a loan assumption agreement with the new company was
concluded December 18, 1974. The Description of the Project has
been slightly modified again because of changes in the Investment
Plan. Because of the reorganization of the sector and of management
problems which are now resolved, the Closing Date, originally June
30, 1975, has been postponed to June 30, 1977. Progress of the
project is expected to improve with new management which took office
recently.
786       Railway Project - MBR:  US$46 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Effective Date: February 4, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
The project is now completed, except for the construction and equip-
ping of the Borrower's main workshop at Jaceaba. The purchase of
equipment for this workshop was delayed because of a change in the
location of the workshop resulting from the Government's decision to
build a new railway line between the cities of Belo Horizonte and
Volta Redonda. To allow additional time required for the purchase
of this equipment, the Closing Date, originally September 30, 1975,
was postponed to March 31, 1978.
797       CSN Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:  us$64.5 million loan of
February 5, 1972; Effective Date: August 31, 1972; Closing Date:
July 1,-1976. The latest cost estimate is US$653 million, an
increasa of about 65% over the appraisal estimate due to design
evolution, unforeseen site works and increases in local construc-
tion -osts. This cost increase will not significantly affect the
economic justification of the project. The project is now 75%
complete and is about ten months behind the appraisal schedule.
812       USINNAS Steel Exoansion Project, Stage II:   US$63 million loan
of April 11, 1972; Effective Date: July 20, 1972;.Closing Date:
June 1, 1977. The latest cost estimate is US$952 million, an
increase of about 67% from the appraisal estimate due primarily
to design evolution and increases in local construction costs.
This cost increase will not significantly affect the economic
justification of the project. The project is 80% complete and is
about nine months behind the original schedule.   Implementation of
Stage III, which is not being financed by the Bank, is well under-
way. The original Closing Date was June 1, 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Loan No.
813       Third Highway Construction ProJect:  US$89 million loan of
April 11, 1972; Effective Date:  December 4, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1976. Construction works are more than 96t% completed
but are slightly behind schedule; the estimated total contract
cost is about 2% above the appraisal estimate. The feasibility
studies and detailed engineering financed under the loan were
started later than planned, but are now completed at a cost
substantially below the appraisal estimate. Disbursements are
lagging behind the appraisal forecast, but have improved during
the past year.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project,, Stage ii: uss64.5 million loan
of June 14, 1972; Closing Date:  October 5, 19722; Closing
Date: January 15, 1977. The latest cost estimate is US$733
million, an increase of about 55% over the appraisal estimate
due primarily to increased local construction costs. This will
not significantly affect the economic justification of the project.
The project is now 70% complete and is about nine months behind the
original schedule.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:  US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Effective Date: SePtember 20 1972; Closing Date:
September 30 1979. Construction oI the project is proceeding
acording to shedule.   An anticipated 50% cost overrun is being
covered by local and foreign borrowing.
853       Alto Turi Settlement Project: us$6.7 million loan of July 241,
1972; Effective Date: Februa a15, 1973; Closing Date: Deeember 1,
197t$. COLONE has prepared revised farm development plans whose
credit component, to be financed by public financial institutions,
will be significantly higher than originally estimated, although
still low in comparison to other settlement projects. Administra-
tive delays in the release of public funds for farm credit and
COLONE working capital requirements and difficulties in recruiting
project staff delayed the start of project execution. Settlement,
however, has now begun and the project should be completed in 1978
as envisaged.
854       Fourth Highway Construction Project:  US$51 million loan of
August 4, 1972; Effective Date: March 21, 1973; Closing Date:
December 314 1976. Construction is more than 75% completed but
behind schedule. However, disbursement is expected to be com-
pleted by the Closing Date. The estimated total contract cost
is 11% above the appraisal estimate.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
Loan No.
857       Grain Storage Project:  US$30 million loan of September 27 1972;
ERfective Date:  January 1, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
After some initial difficulties with the appraisal of subprojects,
the project had been progressing satisfactorily. However, in April
1975 the Government adopted a national grain storage financing
program involving subsidized interest rates. Therefore, on October 28,
1975, the Bank and the Borrower agreed to cancel the uncommitted bal-
ance (about 20%) of the loan. Disbursement of the loan is proceeding
as scheduled.
868'      Interim Second Livestock Project: US$26 million loan of December 19,
1972; Effective Date: May 24, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The project is proceeding normally. The loan has been fully com-
mitted and is expected to be disbursed as scheduled.
887       Power Distribution Project:  US$20 million loan of April 16 1973;
Effective Date: July 31, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. Prin-
cipally due to difficulties encountered in preparing bidding docu-
ments and delays in deliveries of equipment and materials, the
project is about two years behind schedule. Complete delivery and
installation of equipment and materials to be financed by the loan
will. probably take until July 1977 and a postponement of the,Closing
Date will be required.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project: US$125 million loan of August 1,
173; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
192. Contracts for penstocks, turbines, and concrete and earth
works have been awarded. Commissioning of the first generating
unit is scheduled for March 1980, four months behind original
schedule due to delay in awarding of the civil works contracts.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$a54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date:  March 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978. *The Central Bank expects to complete commitment of project
funds by mid-1976.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project: US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Efective Date:   April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
Decemb   3i97b. A Bank mission recently reviewed the progress of
the preparation and implementation of plans for resettlement of the
9,700 families to be displaced by the Sobradinho reservoir. Execu-
tion of these plans is underway, and construction of new towns to
house the urban portion of the population has begun. The rural po-
pulation is being offered the opportunity of resettlement in a
promising new agricultural area in the Corrente River region in the
western part of the State of Bahia.- Those who prefer to remain near
their present houses will be resettled in new villages on the edge
of the future reservoir. The construction of the underground power
station and Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Loan No.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:  US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing Date: August 15,
1977. The State Water Supply Company changed its name from Ccm-
panhia Mineira de Agua e Esgotos (CONAG) to Companhia de Saneamento
de Minas Gerais (COPASA-NG). The project is progressing on schedule
and the loan has been fully committed.
1067      Second Education PrQject:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27, 1974;
Effective Date: Agr1 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution has started reasonably well, and is expected to be
completed by the target date. Project implementation units have been
established in all eight project states and these, together with the
main project unit, PREMEN, are working well. The pre-investment
studies in the Northeast, financed under the loan, are underway and
are expected to yield useful information for future sector investment
planning.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily and appropriate
steps are being taken to strengthen project management and control.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several low priority items have been
deleted or postponed. A second revision is now underway which should
further reduce the Plan to a more manageable size. These revisions
are not expected to affect significantly the items included under
Bank financing. The financial situation of the Borrower deteriorated
in 1975, in spite of higher revenues, because of increased costs of
materials and higher social charges. Procurement is progressing
reasonably well, although slower than expected.
1075      Fifth Hi Lwa Projct:    US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Efective Date:   May 15, 1975; Closing Date:  December 31, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.  Contracts for
civil works for all 21 lots have now been awarded and construction
works are proceeding according to schedule. Implementation of the
road m. intenance component of the project is slightly delayed due
to protracted negotiations for the hiring of consultants.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. Project is proceeding according to schedule. Bid-
ding for equipment is underway.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
Loan No.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion ProJect - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 195; Effective Date:   March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1960- Project is proceeding according to schedule. Bid-
ding for equipment is underway.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4I, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.  Construction of dikes and the irrigation and
drainage system for the Betume Varzea has begun. Bidding for most
of the other civil works and equipment procurement is underway.
Preliminary estimates, prior to bid evaluation, are that project
costs might increase considerably over the appraisal estimate due
to partial design changes and more rapid than expected increases
in equipment and construction prices and in costs of land expro-
priation. The emergency works remain the least cost way to offset
the effects on the project area population of the hydroelectric
developments upstream. Nevertheless, further possible modifica-
tions in the design of emergency and irrigation works are being
studied by CODEVASF and its consultants with a view to limiting
cost increases.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA): US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Terms of reference
have been approved for the Transport M4aster Plan for Sao Paulo, and
for the technical assistance program intended to improve FEPASA's
operations, marketing and data processing systems. Procurement is
progressing reasonably well.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
NUTRITION RESEARCH AND DEVELDPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMKARY
Borrower:     The Federative Republic of Brazil.
Amount:       US$19 million equivalent.
Terms:        Payable in 18 years including 5 years of grace at 8.85%
interest per annum.
Relending
Terms:        (a) Industrial loans made by BNDE would be payable in 10 years,
including 18 months of grace, with an interest rate of 3% plus
full monetary correction.
(b) Loans made by FINEP to manufacturers acquiring production
rights based on feasibility studies previously funded by FINEP
would be payable in 5 years, including 2 years of grace, with
an interest rate of 6-8% plus full monetary correction.
(c) Loans made by the Banco do Brasil for agricultural produc-
tion would be payable in up to 5 years, including up to 2 years
of grace, with interest rates of 7-13%, without monetary correction.
Project
Description:  The project consists of:
(a) the development of an information base through a nutrition
and food consumption survey and surveillance system, and a con-
tinuing program of assessment of nutritional implications of
agriculture policies.
(b) the testing of alternative nutrition delivery systems,
including the rural extension service, school feeding system,
urban and rural health delivery systems, and commercial markets;
(c) the development and production of low-cost nutritious foods;
and
(d) a program of institutional development, including the train-
ing of project staff and development of training capability; and
organizational support f8r project management, planning, monitor-
ing and evaluation.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Estimated Costs:                                  Local   Foreign   Total
---- (US$ Million) ---
Development of Information-.Base'
Nutrition Survey and Surveillance
System                                  2.5     0.2       2.7
Food and Nutrition P6licy] Research       3*5     0.4       309
Testing of Alternative Delivery Systems
Agriculture Extension Service
(including credit 6f 'US$1.5 million)  5.9      0.4      6.3
Health and Commercial Systems            2.2       1.4      3.6
School Feeding Program                   0.9      0.2      1.1
Development of Low-Cost Nutritious Foods
ProduWct"Development*                     4.0     0.7       4.7
Feasibility Studies                      2.4      o.6       3.0
Industrial Production                   19.5     10.5      30.0
Training                                   -1.9     1.4       3.3
Project Administration and Evaluation       2.6      1.0      3.6
Sub-tota-l                         45.4     16.8      62.2
Contingencies                       7.8      1.9       9.7
Total                              53.2     18.7      71.9
Financing:                                 US$ Million
3ank                                  19.bo
?rivate Industries                     6.0
Jovernment (including funding
through Government-owned
financial intermediaries)           46.9
Total                          71.9



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Procurement
Arrangements:    Supply contracts for furniture and equipment (excluding
small value contracts below US$50,000 equivalent) would
be awarded in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for
international competitive bidding. Due to the rela-
tively small size of the individual construction contracts,
civil works would be contracted through local competitive
bidding, advertised only in the national press but not
excluding foreign competitors. Food, vehicles, furniture
and instructional and other equipment would be purchased
according to normal local procurement procedures which are
satisfactory0 The international consultancy services
provided for in the project would be contracted on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The foreign
fellowship program would be executed through university
services contracted in various countries. Procurement
under projects financed by local loans would be through
normal commercial channels.
Estimated
Disbursements:                        US$ million by IBRD Fiscal Year
FY76   FY77   FY78    FY79   FY80    FY81
Annual          0.2    3.0    3.0    5.0     6.8     lo0
Cumulative      0.2    3.2   6.2    11.2    18.0    19.0
Technical
Assistance:       INAN would engage around 39 person-years of long and
short term consultancy services from Brazil and abroad,
as required to carry out the project successfully. The
estimated total coat of these services is US$1.7 million,
an average of US$44,000 per person-year.
Appraisal
Report:           Report No. 1096-BR dated June 7, 1976e






IBRD 121S3
7Fs   cS'   f_t  )sEOR~~~~~~~ ~~GETOWN                              - F 2  ARI 17
'     )  1  \.  -/   {   sCAY~~~~~~~~ENNE
\ % 7t t~~~~~~~~~~ U R I N A M  FRENCH
C O L O M B I A                           U 1  iANf 
_ _S\   ~~~~~RORAI A \    J                   A f a n t i c O c e a n
t  xzLs>_ ff  A 4  \if    AMAPAX
Itf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z               ELtMtEX>
<  \  V    wa MARANHAO /~~~~~~~~~~~~~RESINAQ CEARA  --PM TEoATA
-;! A C R E _ | ,/ORTOVEtHOI  G %X__ ,') :)  4  ? t)  f)-~~~~~~~D NORT2y ECNATA
% S {( X M A T O st <1 9 B )A H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I A  /j
'A C              5( R E  STSO V                    f   I    A    5    l Q   -  RECIFED
{ S Q .r &UIABA / 8RA5i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LI 60~ |I'
v ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    t RI BRANINCO)e 
NUTRITION RESEARCHONDOI                                           4- d<-AECAJU* ) 
_1r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A_ TS OF NURTO  HNE.\ETO          I 'A FOHRZOT  /ST
E  R h oU h  Gh Ru ol Exeisw Seno  0l                                 SALVADORr A  VTt
NURTO    RESEARC  ANDta  _,   GePT                      JAIR
DEE--|   EN PROJEC EoTl,rlM I\ v'  At p              G E R A Ii  S   9d=u
TEST ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ASNIN OF NUTRITION IS- RVENTIC  N  0  SAIETO
l  -4               ,/ VITORIAPL15X
I~~~~~~~~~F Th-g th. S6SAUNLD F-dLE.g Opt  c,C eIU   CTn     s-PC^70I  R
St~~~~~~~~~~           ,\                         ,-.,1. ,.t.  RIO D
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                               R A Z. ., L 






IBRD 12184
1A'976
39f 00'                   38-30'                    35-00'                    37- 30
8 r   R A Z I L oAF rF 
S-S U T H           CANINDEDe                                                    BRAZIL
I _9.30/  SAOFRANCISCO                                    NUTRITION    RESEARCH     AND               9-30-
A| ER.7 /29  ''          Y            ,            4DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PO(O AEDND ,. ,.  t\.   5   ,>'State of Sergipe
/       t        /I    ~~~~~~~~POC,O RFDONDO  ,  
L--n Al*,,,                      ,/ 130    ,,t' 
n, ^ >/.-7 ^> \  -                                      P6RTO D A FCOL
noo
GARARU
@    ,-     o ~M0NTE ALEGREA   )   ~             1
*ODE SERGIPE  I          - --  -  NO
ITAB!  CANHORA',,l
- 0-D0                          |--- 0---tAMiC3                                                                    10-001-
j S            NOSSA SENHORA DA GidRiAAb                                           10RACe0o
I   ,r,#   CAR,;^   ,   aMGUEL  DO   ~~~~CARDOSO/   s s       AP ^A  __    ,j
s                  OSSA _I       _NO SSA
--  -          *~~~~~~~A  5A010A1~~~~~~~~~r. ~~NEC5POLIS\
CARIRA           MG -   - P  NOVA  /  A A   ,             |  
I CRUZ DAIl"                        BECA0 rACISOI 
GRA S                                               AT I  PAAUBA  / /
/?    I        {J'         '____'_5  \" ,/ __,/           o        .I              I0    OAFIOU
J- -t ~   --NOSSA ;S:NHORA                                I
0AS  RET  CAPELA              (I
1'~ ~~ ~~~~                         ~~~~~~~~ 0-------'
FREI FIAIII.   ',RI'~I 
co ~ ~~PINHAO             oE
v S  EEA                  I MOR GTA      RrRc JAPARATUJBA      y         Z
~MOLE ,                                                         7
,  TX \      ,  i 0,LGADO  llRAPORANGAI   SAO CRTSTOVA01/   *  Prol@cl ReGloncoA,'   0
MACAM                 "SA 'IA '  I                                           ' 30-
TAAAA  '-I'  0  '\ MA /FASTORA  ( 'RA,0'%RO CAR.&D`LIS--
\ RIACHAO DOOANTAS 1 IADOR              GA M  O 0   /   ETEZ--,
I'        ' A R   1 ..      PlRAM8; *u-c U i
PII- D OR D ET )                      AM O   O I               M - - -  -)  +M A   NOlD
T031*5 3ARRETO   ^   v (     l          l                  *    vSAO  0  jL0 InpuE  Cenlers
I T A B A I A N I N HO7\  A R A U A D O M IN G O S I  E T NI A   A W X  M n A R E IA   T O   A M A R O
MGO            BRANA  LAAIIA  - 0 OAS BROTAS
A   A   O      .1      -~~~--~~~  -. 1  /   0                        t t  B u d re
A,' 00A N OC`RA   AA  0
IJ'I  ~~~  I  J_JOSDSA SE-FOR
LAGARTO         /                  ISA LZ  O | /
E TOA   R       G GEPUE                          I                   PrAO /s
- A)~~~~~~PjctA.
N                    1610600~~~~~~~~~'SLGD  IAPORANGA       A
-    0    I OUDA E_h                                  Fac1ZO3
'S-,TOB:AS  A RIAC;AODCOANTAS \                                           iesR:ooCodaos*0
S9j3A Sv-0A 0 /38-30          Il   00                      37;3
0                                       SUPPIY & I-PUt  Ca.lors~~~~010  0
IANAUA  ESRANCILE
2' 3R 30'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



