Report No. 1096-BR                                                                 ,i a
Appraisal Report of a Proposed Nutrition
Research and Development Project in Brazil
June 7, 1976
Agriculture and Rural Development
Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
U
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 - Cr$10.365 (April 30, 1976)    US$1.00 - Cr$9.42 (February 17, 1976)
Cr$1.00 - US$0.096                       Cr$1.00 - US90.106
W4EIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Kilogram (kg.)  -   2.20 pounds
1 Hectare (ha.)  -   2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABIA        Associacao Brasileira das Industrias de Alimentacao
(Brazilian Association of 7ood Industries)
BNllE       Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econ6mico
(National Economic Development Bank)
CEAPES      Centro de Educacao e Alimentacao de Pre-Escolar
(Center for Education and Feeding of Pre-School Children)
CNA         Comissao Nacional de Alimentacao
(National Food Commission)
CNAE        Campanha Nacional de Alimentacao Escolar
(National School Food Campaign)
CPMI        Coordinacao de Proteca'o Materno-Infantil
(Maternal-Child Protection Program)
CEBRAE      Center for Managerial Assistance to Small and Medium Enterprises
EMATERSE    Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural - Sergipe
(Enterprise Technical Assistance and Rural Extension of Sergipe)
EMBRAPA     Empress Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Brazilian Enterprise for Agricultural Research)
EhBRATER    Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e Extencao Rural
(Brazilian Enterprise for Technical Assistance and Rural Extension)
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization
FINEP       Financiadora de Estudos e Projectos
(Agency for Funding Studies and Projects)
IBGE        Instituto Brasileiro de Geographia e Estatistica
(Brazilian Institute for Geography and Statistics)
INAN        Instituto Nacional de Alimentacao e Nutricao
(National Food and Nutrition Institute)
IPEA        Instituto de Planejamento Econonico e Social
(Institute of Economic and Social Planning)
ITAL        Instituto de Tecnologia de Alinentos
(Institute of Food Technology)
LBA         Legao Brasileira de Assistencia
(Brazilian Legion of Assistance)
PRONAN      Programma Nacional de Alimentaceo e Nutricao
(National Food and Nutrition Program)
PAHO        Pan American Health Organization
SAPRO       Setor de Alimentos Proteicos
(Section on Protein Foods of ABIA)
SESP        Fundaceo Servicos de Saude Publica
(Public Health Services Foundation)
SUDENE      Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for Northeast Development)
SUPLAN      Subsecretaria de Planejamento e Orcamento - Ninisterio de Agricultura
(Subsecretariat of Plarning and Budgeting - Ministry of Agriculture)
UNICEF      United Nations Children's Fund
USAID       United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL REPORT ON A PROPOSED NUTRITION RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN BRAZIL
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .................................    i - iv
I.        INTRODUCTION     ........................1.................... 
II.       BACKGROUND ON BRAZILIAN NUTRITION ........................       1
A.   Nutritional Needs ..................................        1
B.   Relationship of Nutrition to Economic Development ..        3
C.   Causes of Malnutrition .............................        5
D.   Actions to Counter Malnutrition ....      ................  7
III.      THE PROJECT .........      ....................................  11
A.   Project Description ................................       11
B.   Detailed Features ..................................       12
IV.       IMPLEMENTATION AND ORGANIZATION .....     ....................  23
V.        COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS    .........    26
VI.       PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ................... ................      30
VII.      RECOMMENDATIONS     ..................... ....................  34
ANNEXES
1.       Malnutrition in Brazil
2.        Nutrition Survey and Agricultural Policy Research
and Planning Studies
3.        Nutrition - Intervention through the Rural Extension Agency
4.        Nutrition Intervention through the Health and Commercial
Delivery Systems
5.        Nutrition Intervention through the School Feeding System
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil in November 1974. The mission consisted of: Mr. A. Berg, CPS
(Chief), Mr. S. Venkitaramanan, CPS (Deputy Chief), Mr. G. Kaddar (IAC),
Mr. S. Reutlinger (DED), Dr. J. Wray (Medical Specialist, Consultant),
Mr. E. Thomson (Agriculture and Nutrition Administration Specialist, Con-
sultant), and Ms. E. Johnson-Sirleaf (LAC, Loan Officer). Post-appraisal
missions were made in February 1975 by Messrs. Berg, Venkitaramanan and
Thomson, in July 1975 by Messrs. Venkitaramanan and Hall (CPS), and in
February 1976 by Messrs. Venkitaramanan and Thomson.
[ This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEXES (Continued)
6.        Research and Development of Low-Cost Nutritious Foods
7.        Feasibility Studies and Loans for Production of
Low-Cost Nutritious Foods
8.        National Nutrition Training Program
9.        Organization and Management
10.       Monitoring and Evaluation
11.       Cost Estimates
12.       Disbursement Schedule of Bank Loan



APPRAISAL REPORT ON A PROPOSED NUTRITION RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN BRAZIL
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        As pointed out in the Policy Guidelines for Bank Nutrition Activ-
ities, 1/ malnutrition in low-income countries is a problem of substantial
proportions, with significant and wide-ranging developmental consequences.
In addition to combatting the pronounced effect of malnutrition on mortality
and morbidity, investments which improve nutrition are likely to lead to
fuller utilization of education opportunities and to greater productivity of
the working population. Nutrition programs also imply a more equitable
distribution of income and may encourage more effective population planning.
While the precise relationships linking all these factors are only beginning
to be understood, nutrition programs that are effectively designed and oper-
ated can improve the level of well-being and enhance a country's prospects for
economic development.
ii.       Programs aimed at increasing incomes and agricultural production
can be powerful influences on nutritional status and many Brazilian development
programs -- and Bank projects supporting these programs -- have had nutri-
tional impact. However, as experienced in Brazil and elsewhere, such programs
of themselves are insufficient to meet within a satisfactory time-frame the
nulritional needs of disadvantaged portions of the population. In most coun-
triLes the nutritional consequences of traditional development efforts occur by
happenstance. Explicit policies and related actions need be directed to the
unproductive circumstances of the malnourished. Such work is best planned and
implemented in the context of, and as complementary to broader development
efiforts. Relatedly, Bank investment in improving nutrition should be viewed
as part of a constellation of agriculture, industry, education and other proj-
ects and as supportive of and enhancing the return on those other endeavors.
iii.      Malnutrition in Brazil is widespread and is especially serious in
the Northeast where the infant mortality rate -- largely nutrition-related --
is among the highest in Latin America. The Government recognizes the gravity
of this problem and has taken certain direct actions to alleviate it. The
Government intends to develop a refined comprehensive national nutrition plan
and to provide increased resources for an integrated national nutrition pro-
gram. That program bases its overall approach on the principle that improve-
merit of the nutritional conditions of a population depends largely on a reduc-
tion of the costs of producing and marketing basic foods and on better distri-
bution of income. It seeks to meet the most urgent needs of vulnerable groups
through development and execution of low-cost interventions while laying the
base for broader policies and programs designed for more fundamental and
longer-term impact on malnutrition in Brazil. However, the Government now
needs to build basic prerequisites for such an effort: sufficient knowledge
of the nature and extent of malnutrition and more precise understanding of its
1/   Document R73-247; discussed by Board November 27, 1973.



- ii -
causes; trained manpower and institutions capable of implementing large-
scale programs, and knowledge concerning the effectiveness of alternate
forms of delivering nutrition services. The latter applies especially in
low-income communities to the nutritionally vulnerable pre-school aged children
and, relatedly, to pregnant and lactating women. (This portion of the population
constitutes the main target group for this project, although other categories
of the nutritionally needy also will benefit.) Appropriate nutritious low-cost
processed foods are not currently produced in Brazil to meet the needs of the
population through either institutional or commercial channels.
iv.       Accordingly, the primary purpose of the proposed project is to
assist launching the national nutrition effort on a sound basis. It will help
provide Brazil with the basic information, institutional and manpower capabili-
ties, and adequate quantities of certain high-priority inexpensive food
products so that within 4 years it will be able to plan and deploy resources
with greater precision and as a result to conduct a more effective national
nutrition program. Toward this end, the proposed project would consist
of:
(a) the development of an information base generated by:
(i) a national nutrition and food consumption survey and the
establishment of a monitoring system to provide periodic
surveillance of nutrition conditions;
(ii) the assessment and policy consideration on a continuing
basis of the nutritional implications of agricultural
policies;
(b) a testing of the effectiveness of alternative delivery systems
to improve the nutritional status of the target group through:
(i) the rural extension service;
(ii) the school feeding infrastructure;
(iii) urban and rural health delivery systems;
(iv) the commercial market;
(c) development and commercialization of nutritious foods for use by
the target group through:
(i) a research and development program for low-cost processed
foods;
(ii) engineering and marketing feasibility studies for industrial-
scale production of such foods;
(iii) investment credits to stimulate industrial production of low-
cost nutritious foods, including the fortification with
indigenous materials of processed food staples;



- iii -
(d) training programs; and
(e) assistance for the National Food and Nutrition Institute
(INAN) to support management, monitoring and evaluation, and
planning.
v.        As a result of the project, the Government would improve its under-
standing of (a) the magnitude and implications of the nutrition problem and
the relationship of nutrition status to agricultural policies; (b) have a
cadre of trained officials and strengthened institutions equipped to plan and
implement a national program; (c) have an assessment of the effectiveness of
several delivery systems and have the practical experience provided by the
testing of such systems; and (d) have locally produced low-cost nutritious
products for institutional and commercial markets. During the last year of
the project, the Government intends to develop a refined comprehensive
national nutrition program.
vi.       In the process of carrying out the tests for the long-range purposes
stated, the health and performance -- both short and long-run -- would be
improved for approximately 110,000 young children and, relatedly, pregnant and
lactating women from low-income families who would benefit directly from food
supplementation and/or other nutrition services; school attendance, performance
and subsequent productivity would be increased for older children and producti-
vity of a substantial, but indeterminate, portion of the low-income labor
force (and their families) would increase through consumption of low-cost
processed nutritious foods made possible by the project; increased food
production, lower food losses, increased on-farm consumption and related
increased productivity would take place among families of 3,000 small farmers
in Northeast Brazil; the productivity and well-being of an indeterminate but
substantial portion of the low-income population would be enhanced from
improved diets made possible by the modification of agricultural policies
which would be expected to incorporate consideration of nutritional implica-
ticns; and small and medium-sized industries, traditionally hindered by
difficult access to term financing (particularly foreign exchange), would be
given the opportunity to carry out needed capital investments to improve
production facilities and increase productivity. (An estimated 2,000 new jobs
would be created.) The long-term benefits of the project, which would be
realized after the implementation of an efficient comprehensive nutrition
program, would be a generally improved health status and increased labor
productivity by persons benefitting from the program.
vii.      Although substantial numbers of the poor will benefit directly from
the proposed project, it should be viewed largely as a preparation project --
a necessary first step of a longer range, larger effort designed for consequen-
tial impact.
viii.     The total cost of the proposed 4-year project would be US$72 million
equivalent. The Bank loan would cover 26%, or US$19 million, equal to the
estimated foreign exchange component. The balance would be provided by the
Government and the participating industries.



- iv -
ix.       For the proposed project, the Bank loan would help finance the
construction and equipping of pilot food processing plants and laboratories;
the purchase of vehicles; technical assistance through consultants and fellow-
ships; operating costs for tests and surveys including the cost of data
processing, additive staff salaries, and food utilized in the tests; credit
to food processing companies; credit to small landholders participating in the
rural extension test; evaluation of the project components; and training of
staff in INAN and other entities associated with the proposed project.
x.        The proposed project follows closely the strategy, criteria and
categories of components set forth in the nutrition policy guidelines and is
responsive to the resolution of the World Food Conference calling on inter-
national agencies to assist countries in preparing food and nutrition policies
and programs. There are no precedents for this kind of nutrition project
either in the Bank or any other institution or government dealing with the
problems. As discussed with the Board during the preliminary presentation of
this report, the project is highly experimental and, as with all experiments,
details will not necessarily work out as planned and changes may be required.
Such risks must be accepted when working to make a significant development
contribution in a highly uncharted field.
xi.       Subject to the assurances described in Section VII, the proposed
project is suitable for Bank financing.



APPRAISAL REPORT ON A PROPOSED NUTRITION RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN BRAZIL
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      As in several other countries, Brazil is beginning to recognize
the importance of the malnutrition problem and its implications for national
development and is undertaking major efforts to develop a national nutrition
program as part of its .1evelopment program.  In November 1972, the (wvernment
established the National Food ard Nutrition Institute (INAN), with the intent
of providing a coordinating body at the national level with responsibility
for formulating and overseeing a multi-sectoral plan to improve national
nutritional status.  INAN was one of the first such national bodies to be
organized.
102      in response t_  requests from the Government for assistance to help
develop nutrition programs, a reconnaissance mission from the Bank visited
Brazil in February 1973, Subsequent Bank missions assisted INAN and other
public agencies with project preparation.  However, growing difficulties with-
in INAN, which led in May 1974 to the removal of the institution's leader-
ship and nearly all of its staff, seriously interrupted the pace of prepara-
tion and appraisal. After a new President of INAN took office in September
1974, preparation work resumed. An appraisal mission visited Brazil in
November 19749
1.03      On July 1, 1975, a "Preliminary Report" on the project was pre-
sented to the Executive Directors, in keeping with the President's Memorandum
on Board Procedures (R72-45). 1/  The Board approved completion of appraisal
and negotiation of the proposed project, contingent on assurances related
to INAN's organization as outliaed in the "Preliminary Report'
1.04      On February 6, 1976, the Social Development Council of the Govern-
ment formally agreed on a suitable structure for INAN and approved a national
nutrition program (PRONAN)9 thus paving  .he way for completion of the appraisal
by a mission later that month,
T1_  BACKd-ROUND ON BIRAZILIAN NUTRITION
A, Nutritional Needs
2.01      Data on nutri.tional status, food consumption patterns and con-
sumer budget expenditures in Brazil are meagre, geographically spotty, of
1/   R72-45 provides that the Executive Directors shall have a chance for
special preliminary review of projects with "unique or unusual
features",



-2-
uneven quality and usually outdated. Also, almost no information is available
on the relationships of agriculture and income growth programs to the nutri-
tional condition. Nonetheless, from the existing data and observational
reporting, certain broad conclusions can be made about malnutrition in Brazil
-- enough to provide general direction until the surveys and studies to be
sponsored by the proposed project can provide more precise data.
2.02      Although the daily per capita availability of food in Brazil from
1960 to 1968 was estimated at 2,900 calories and 63 grams of protein (more
than 15% above recommended daily allowances), all indications are that more
than half the population have caloric and protein deficiencies. The Getulio
Vargas Foundation reported that in 1961-62, 61% of the urban and 63% of the
rural population in the Northeast were deficient in calories and protein and
that a significant portion of the population (from 25% to 47%) in other areas
of Brazil also consumed less than the minimum requirements. A 1971 study by
the Bank of Northeast reported that the average daily intake of the urban
population in the Northeast was 1,857 calories, 69% of the recommended allow-
ance. Other studies indicate seriously low intake levels among landless
laborers, e.g., families of sugar plantation workers.
2.03      Malnutrition affects especially pre-school age children, reducing
optimum physical and mental development and resistance to infectious dis-
eases, and contributes to high infant mortality, which in Brazil is about
75 per 1,000 and in the Northeast officially reported at 137 per 1,000.
This compares to 20 per 1,000 in North America. A study undertaken by
the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) in 1973 reported that nutri-
tional deficiency and immaturity (i.e., less than 2,500 grams of weight
at birth, a problem usually related to the malnutrition of the mothers)
were underlying or important associated causes of 60% of the infant mortal-
ity in Recife and an average of 39% in other Brazilian areas studied, com-
pared to 32% in Mexico and Chile, 24% in Jamaica and 10% in North America.
Of the survivors, eight spot surveys in the Northeast show that from 51%
to 85% of the children studied are suffering from malnutrition, with more
than one-fifth falling below 70% of the normal body weight for their age.
Although, like infant mortality, malnutrition among the survivors is most
serious in the Northeast, it is also prevalent in other parts of the country,
especially the Southwest. In a study recently completed in Sao Paulo, for
example, 30% of all the children showed anthropometric signs of malnutrition;
48% of the children from families with per capita incomes of under US$300 per
year had such signs. Of a random sample of children under two years of age
admitted to Sao Paulo hospitals, 73% were below normal for height and weight;
45% were below 70% of the norm. Even though no special studies have been
undertaken in Brazil, it is reasonable to assume from studies elsewhere that
the combined high degree of second- and third-degree malnutrition 1/ in the
1/   Second-degree malnutrition refers to body weight 60-75% of the
established norm; third-degree malnutrition includes any child
below 60% weight of the norm.



early chilhood years is one of the causes of poor performance later in
school and high rates of school absenteeism and dropout in Brazil.
2.04      Iron deficiency anemia and vitamin A deficiency, as evaluated by
low blood values, are found in approximately 20-30% of the children in most
of the places where observations have been made. Iron deficiency anemia
(affecting all ages in Brazil, as was reported in a 1965 survey) is responsi-
ble for lethargy and fatigue, experienced especially during physical exertion,
and a high susceptibility to infection. Pregnant women are especially vulner-
able to anemia. A higher incidence of maternal deaths, stillbirths and pre-
mature births has been observed among anemic women. Vitamin A deficiency
affects growth, the severity of other nutritional diseases and vision. Vita-
min A deficiency is the major cause of blindness in low-income countries.
2.05      One would expect these deficiencies to exacerbate the protein-
calorie malnutrition, although most of the studies were not planned to analyze
this combination of deficiencies in the same individual. Endemic goiter,
resulting from iodine deficiency, has also been reported as a severe health
problem in parts of the country, although no data are available from the past
decade. There also are indications that fluoride, riboflavin and vitamin C
deficiencies may be significant.
B. Relationship of Nutrition to Economic Development
2.06      The effectiveness of improved nutrition as a means of reducing
mortality and the severity of childhood infections and of preventing forms of
retardation, blindness, anemia and other problems discussed above has been
clearly established for some time and is, of itself, sufficient justification
for investment in better nutrition. Although the case for and investment in
better nutrition on economic grounds has only recently been advanced and is as
yet Less easy to quantify, the benefits would appear to be substantial.



-4-
2.07      Improvement in diet increases work output. 1/  Malnourished workers
have been shown to lose 30% of their muscle strength and 15% of their preci-
sion of movement. Pace of work, coordination and behaviorial characteristics
are altered. Desires to take advantage of opportunities for innovation are
foregone. Nutrition status is also related to the extent of absenteeism from
the labor force in that the length and severity of illness and the length of
time required for recovery of infections, and surgery are heavily influenced
by the nutritional condition. Because malnutrition is an important associated
cause of early death rates among adults, their potential working life span is
cut short and the potential return to the investment during childhood reduced.
2.08      Investment in the education system becomes more effective when
students are adequately nourished. People who are better educated are more
likely to achieve higher skills and become more productive. Malnutrition
interferes with the child's motivation and his ability to concentrate and
learn. A malnourished student is listless, lacking in curiosity and unre-
sponsive to stimulation. Because of frequent bouts of nutrition-related
illnesses, the malnourished youngster is frequently absent as much as a
third of the school-days in a year. Improved nutrition reduces the high
rate of drop-outs and increases the absorptive capacity of those who do
pass on to advanced grades. UNESCO data show that for every 1,000 Brazil-
ian children entering school, 644 drop out before completing the fourth
grade and of the remaining students, 200 repeat at least one grade. In
the Northeast this situation is worse, with only 19% of beginning students
completing the fourth grade.
2.09      Because malnutrition during the fetal period and in early child-
hood impairs physical and mental development (80% of eventual brain weight
1/   This conclusion is supported by a substantial body of literature in-
cluding, inter alia, S. Basta and A. Churchill, "Iron Deficiency and
the Productivity of Adult Males in Indonesia," IBRD Staff Paper No. 175
(1974); Maurice E. Shils, "Food and Nutrition Relating to Work and
Environmental Stress", in Michael Gershon Wohl and R.S. Goodhard (eds.),
Modern Nutrition in Health and Disease (4th ed., Lea, 1968, pp. 1014-44);
W.D. Keller and H.A. Kraut, "Work and Nutrition", in Geoffrey H. Bourne,
World Review of Nutrition and Dietetics (Hafner, 1962), Vol. 3, pp. 69-
81; Nutrition and Physical Activity: Symposium of the Swedish Nutrition
Foundation (Uppsala, Sweden: Swedish Nutrition Foundation, 1967); H.
Kraut and others, in Arbeitsphysiologie, Vol. 14, (1950), p. 147; F.W.
Lowenstein, Nutrition and Working Efficiency, Special Paper No. 3 (FAO,
WHO, and Organization of African Unity, Scientific, Technical and Re-
search Commission, May 1968); W.H. Forbes, "The Effects of Hard Work upon
Nutritional Requirements", Milbank Memorial Fund Quarterly, January 1945,
pp. 89-96; Bhavani Belvady, "Nutrition and Efficiency in Agricultural
Labourers," Indian Journal of Medical Research, October 1966, pp. 971-76;
N.H. Areskog, Ruth Selinus, and B. Vahlquist, "Physical Work Capacity and
Nutritional Status in Ethiopian Male Children and Young Adults," American
Journal of Clinical Nutrition, April 1969, pp. 471-79.



- 5 -
is reached by the first 24 months of life), investment to prevent malnutrition
during this period is the most critical in terms of subsequent performance.
Even if a child's diet is fully adequate only in utero and during the first
critical years, he will be brought closer to his growth potential. Even if
dur-ing adulthood nutrition levels fall short of the desirable norm, his pro-
ductivity will already have been ratcheted to a higher level - more relevant
to a modern economy - than would otherwise be achieved. Investment to prevent
malnutrition during this early period will make it possible for children to
respond to outside stimuli, better cope with the school situation and subse-
quently as part of the labor force perform with more alertness, dexterity,
incentive and have greater comprehension and retention of things taught. In-
asmuch as investments in increased agricultural production and other develop-
ment activities consist largely of new technologies, such characteristics in
the labor force grow in their importance.
2.10      Investment in nutrition improvement of pregnant and lactating women
is linked to productivity in that the nutrition status of the child at birth
and during infancy is heavily influenced by the nutritional condition of the
mother. In addition to the physiological significance of the mother's health
that is passed on to the child, nutritionally-induced lethargy severely limits
mateirnal stimulation for the child, a recognized ingredient in an infant's
mental development. Also, women whose activities are not measured in a market
economy improve performance on a number of economically important functions
aroutnd the home, including care of food gardens and the quality of care for
the rest of the family.
2.11      Other economic benefits accruing from improved nutrition are the
reduced cost of medical care (or increased effectiveness of the current
health care system since demand will be lessened); savings resulting from the
lower incidence of communicable disease, reducing the exposure of these
diseases to others; savings on the cost of caring for those malnourished who
become a social burden (e.g., the blind); and increased future productivity of
the well-nourished worker's dependents because of his higher income and the re-
sulting improvement in living conditions. Nutrition programs also provide
a direct means of income redistribution. The nature of nutrition activities
benefits the poor directly in ways that boost both their health and real in-
come.
C. Causes of Malnutrition
2.12      As in most countries, Brazilian agricultural policies in the past
have seldom consciously taken into account the nutritional needs of specific
age and income segments of the population (para. 3.04 1/). Brazilian agricul-
ture has grown at an average of 6.5% over the last five years, with much of
1/   Paragraph numbers so cited in this section refer to subsequent discussions
of project components related to problems identified here.



-6-
the increase attributed to the Government's drive to increase export crops
such as soybeans. In some instances the emphasis on production of certain
export crops has had the effect of displacing basic food crops for domestic
consumption and such substitution may not have had, at least in the short
term, a positive impact on the nutritional status of the poor. Beans, which
are a major protein source for low-income families, dropped in per capita
annual availability from 62.5 pounds in 1971 to 47.1 pounds in 1974. Bean
prices during this period increased from US$.25 to US$.70 per pound.
2.13      Government agricultural services have concentrated attention on
large-scale farms, emphasizing export and import substitution crops. Small
farmers in the Northeast, for example, generally have had limited, if any,
access to agricultural credit and rural extension, although basic food crops
constitute the main production of these farms (paras 3.06-3.08). Similarly,
funds for agricultural production research have not been deployed in a manner
to increase crop production by small farm owners, sharecroppers and tenant
farmers (para 3.04). The lack of on-farm storage facilities and access
to larger storage facilities has contributed to the need of the rural poor
to sell products at low prices during harvest season and to buy them back
later at higher prices for family consumption (para 3.06). Moreover, basic
social and institutional patterns including concentration of land ownership,
a sharecropping system, marketing deficiencies and an inadequate social
infrastructure, serve as underlying constraints to improvement in the nutri-
tional condition.
2.14      In urban areas, problems of inadequate food intake are exacerbated
by infections derived from unsanitary conditions and inadequate personal
hygiene. In the low-income Encruzilhada section of Recife, where sanitary
conditions are highly inadequate, infant mortality (91 per 1,000 live births)
and the death rate of children under 5 years of age (29 per 1,000 population)
are the highest reported for an urban area in the Western Hemisphere (paras
3.09-3.10).
2.15      Breastfeeding is declining in Brazil, as in many countries in the
world. A common urban practice in Northeast Brazil is for mothers to wean
their children at five or six weeks and substitute manioc gruel (which con-
tains almost no protein) for breast milk. Mothers are reluctant to feed
children fruits or vegetables; meat and eggs are considered noxious. Heavily
promoted commercial milk-based baby formulas are often used, but because of
income limitations, the product is frequently over-diluted, and served un-
hygienically. Infant diarrhea often results, leading to malabsorption, mal-
nutrition and increased severity of otherwise minor childhood infections--
all factors contributing to the high infant mortality rate. In Recife, 73%
of the children who died during their first year had been breast fed less
than one month. At the age of about one year, children are fed the adult
diet without any added precaution such as pureeing the foods. Among the
poor, there apparently is little understanding about the types of foods and
the amounts to be fed or basic practices of hygiene in child feeding (paras
3.06, 3.09-.10).



- 7 -
2.16      Although Brazil has a large food industry, only modest attention
to date has been directed to developing and marketing low-cost nutritious
products, in part because profitability from producing such foods was un-
clear (paras 3.19-3.21). Similarly, the several food technology institutes
in Brazil have not given priority attention to the needs of low-income con-
sumers (para 3.17). The cost of conventional (mostly milk-based) manufac-
tured baby foods ranges from US$1.34 to US$3.33 equivalent per kilo--beyond
the reach of the poor. A few products employing new technologies and non-
conventional sources of protein that would lower the cost have been and are
being developed in Brazil, but none as yet are produced on a large scale.
2.17      Insufficient attention has been directed to food losses--from the
farm to the home (paras 3.06 and 3.17). Grain products, such as wheat flour
and corn meal, lose some of their important nutrients during processing.
Whereas fortification of the processed grain with vitamins and minerals is
now standard practice in many industrialized countries, in Brazil it is not
(paras 3.15-.18). Brazil has a program to iodize salt, but the performance
is not fully effective. The Health Ministry reports that approximately 50%
of the salt used for human consumption is fortified. (A fuller discussion
of malnutrition in Brazil is given in Annex 1.)
D. Actions to Counter Malnutrition
Government Agencies
2.18      Since to a large extent malnutrition reflects an inadequacy of
food, the thrust of the Government's effort in the past has been to in-
crease total supply. Experience in Brazil, however, has demonstrated that
increase in production -- although of fundamental importance -- is, of it-
self, insufficient to meet nutrition needs (see para 2.12). Attention needs
to be directed to what is grown, subsequent steps in storage and processing
of the food and how it is distributed. Also certain nutritional deficiencies,
especially those exacerbated by poor sanitary conditions, require explicit
attention. Past sporadic attempts have been made to counteract malnutrition
among children in Brazil, but these generally have been isolated, short-term
efforts. Brazilian nutrition experts report that the nutritional impact
of these activities has been limited. They ascribe this to the lack of (a)
clear identification of the causes of malnutrition toward which intervening
measures can be directed; (b) a nutrition policy; (c) coordination among and
continuity of existing programs, and (d) strong Government commitment, in-
cluding the substantial resources a national nutrition program requires.
2.19      As early as 1945, an interministerial committee known as the
National Food Commission (CNA) was established in Brazil to serve as a
focal point for nutrition. CNA conducted several nutritional surveys and



-8-
studies. Nutrition activities aimed at young children during the period of
the CNA's existence (1945-1971) were mostly of a small pilot nature, lacking
a policy context. Several separate nutrition programs were established, but
mostly were aimed at target groups other than those addressed by this pro-
posed project. The Ministry of Education, for example, in the early 1960s
developed the National School Food Campaign (CNAE) which now provides food
to 12 million students through 100,000 schools. For this program, much of
the food (worth approximately US$273 million) was donated under the U.S.
PL-480 program. These donations were concluded at the end of FY 75 and the
Government has taken steps to continue the program at increased levels
through commercial purchase of food, much of it currently being imported.
Pre-school aged children are not reached by the CNAE program. Since 1940
the Health Ministry has conducted some form of its current Maternal Child
Protection Program (CPMI), which attempts to include basic nutrition serv-
ices as part of a general maternal-child health program. CPMI, however,
emphasizes curative rather than preventive health and has had a history
of financial and administrative difficulties.
2.20      The Public Health Services Foundation (SESP), a semi-autonomous
federal agency which comes under the Health Ministry, has 126 medical units
located mostly in small cities in the Northeast which distribute some foods;
until recently these also were mostly foreign donations. The rural exten-
sion agency (EMBRATER), attached to the Ministry of Agriculture, also in-
cludes a social extension wing of approximately 800 extensionists who pro-
vide basic health and nutrition education services, primarily to the less-
privileged portions of the rural population. In the past year, a closer
relationship has been established between the work and aims of the social
extensionists and the agricultural extensionists of the same organization.
Several other philanthropic organizations are involved in nutrition pro-
grams in Brazil, but their contributions are modest due to limitations of
funds and staff. The strongest such entity is the Brazilian Legion of
Assistance (LBA), which traditionally is headed by the wife of the
President of the Republic. This agency concentrates on medical services
to mothers and children during the first months of life. As there has been
no evaluation of the programs of the above agencies, the nutritional impact
is unknown.
Research and Training Institutions and the Food Industry
2.21      Universities and schools in several states offer nutrition training
and/or research programs which in some cases also have test projects serving
adjacent communities. A field project in the satellite city of Sobradinho,
for example, gives the nutrition program at the University of Brasilia a
focus for research in nutritional rehabilitation, nutrition education and
protein-calorie relationships. The Institute of Nutrition in Recife (asso-
ciated with the Federal University of Pernambuco) is involved in training
and research, including the testing of nutritional rehabilitationl centers
in adjacent sugar cane growing areas. The Institute recently established
a division of food technology with assistance from the Government of Switzerland
and the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO).



- 9 -
2.22      The School of Hygiene and Public Health in Sao Paulo offers a
regular course in nutrition and also a two-month nutrition course for physi-
cians from other Latin American countries, with the assistance of PAHO.
The staff of the School of Medicine in Ribeirao Preto has conducted a var-
iety of biochemical and food technology research programs. The largest of
several food technology institutes in Brazil is ITAL, the Food Technology
Institute in Campinas. It has not, until recently, given attention to the
nutrition problem, either in developing new low-cost nutritious or fortified
foods or in devising ways to prevent food losses. The National Economic
Development Bank (BNDE) and other funding agencies have provided assistance
to expand considerably Brazil's food processing capacity. Concentration,
however, has been on export products and foods not of particular nutritional
benefit to low-income groups (e.g. meat processing). Budget expenditure and
food consumption surveys have been conducted by the Getulio Vargas Foundation
and the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE).
2.23      The Brazilian Association of Food Industries (ABIA) in 1968 esta-
blished a Section on Protein Foods (SAPRO), designed primarily to coordinate
efforts and promote the production of low-cost nutritious foods by food
companies. Although SAPRO provides to the Government a focal point for
communication with industry, little of the early promise has materialized.
All of the above activities have been pursued without a national nutrition
policy focus and in an uncoordinated fashion, similar to the situation in
mary countries.
International and Foreign Agencies
2.24      For more than a decade international agencies have provided ser-
vices to one or another of the Brazilian entities involved in nutrition.
The contribution of the UN agencies has been limited; the size and nature
of the programs have varied significantly from year to year. The World
Food Program provided approximately 4% of the foods used in the National
School Food Campaign. The Pan American Health Organization/World Health
Organization has provided training, technical assistance and some funding
for research. The United Nations Development Program currently sponsors
eight agricultural projects that indirectly relate to nutrition, and FAO
provides technical assistance in a variety of food and agriculture-related
fields. The United Nations Children's Fund has sponsored nutrition education
activities, training for several Brazilian agencies, and evaluation of their
programs. World Bank agriculture and food processing projects (totalling
$192.2 million since 1967) 1/ have contributed to Brazil's food supply. The
current rural development project in Rio Grande do Norte is the first of what
is expected to be a series of Bank-supported state efforts to increase food
supply and incomes among small-scale farmers.
1/   As of December 31, 1975.



2.25      The U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) has the
largest bilateral nutrition program, with major emphasis until recent1y
on supplying commodities to institutional feeding programs. USAIl also has
been active in training and technical assistance, especially as it relates to
the development of new foods.  Special emphasis has been gi^e.- to "rtifica-
tion of manioc flour with soy and local development of fish protein concen-
trates. The Ford Foundation also finances a nutrition training program.
These external inputs have been useful but not utilized to their full effec-
tiveness due to the lack of a policy context and a strong centralized agency.
Establishment of INAN
2.26      Increased Government concern about the malnutrition problem and
awareness by certain top officials of the inadequacies and lack of focus and
coordination of existing programs, led to the establishment in November 1972
of the National Food and Nutrition Institute (INAN). Under the Ministry
of Health, INAN was given responsibilities for assisting the Government in
formulating national nutrition policies and preparing, supervising and coor-
dinating a national nutrition program. Its official mandate was the National
Food and Nutrition Program (PRONAN), promulgated in March 1973, and designed
for an initial period through 1975. Based on this mandate, INAN's activities
were to be directed to a target group consisting of children from low-income
families (pre-school and primary-school age), and pregnant and lactating
women. The PRONAN stated that program execution will be undertaken by esta-
blished agencies with INAN responsible for "planning, guidance, coordination,
supervision and evaluation".
2.27      INAN's first president, however, developed and attempted to imple-
ment a broad-based, family-wide feeding program, accompanied by an extensive
promotion of INAN. Rather than coordinating other agencies, INAN's opera-
tional efforts had the effect of creating conflict and of exacerbating an
already difficult situation. In early 1974, INAN's president and three top
aides were removed from office. In the following year, the new Government
reappraised the direction of INAN's development, in the process restating the
original objectives and providing tighter control by the Ministry of Health.
The INAN staff was reduced substantially and a fresh start made. In August
1974, a new president was appointed and the Government undertook a lengthy
examination of alternative possible organizational arrangements to ensure the
viability of INAN. During this period a contractual arrangement (convenio),
entered into with the Institute of Economic and Social Planning (IPEA), pro-
vided INAN with funds to contract several experienced personnel to prepare
a plan of operation.
2.28      In February 1976, the Government concluded that the most promising
organizational form for INAN was a special type of public agency (autarquia)
with greater flexibility than standard Government agencies, particularly in
regard to salaries. At the same time the Government approved, by Presiden-
tial decree, a new PRONAN for the period 1976 through 1979.



- 11 -
2.29      As described by the Government of Brazil, the new PRONAN seeks
to improve the nutritional status of particularly vulnerable groups while
improving the living conditions of people in the most deprived rural areas
by rationalizing production and marketing of basic food products in ways
which stimulate rural incomes and optimize food availability and use.
PRONiAN includes, inter alia, a food supplementation program for low-income
pregnant and lactating women and pre-school age children; school feeding;
fort-ification of basic foods; development of low-processed nutritious foods
with related incentives for their production and consumption; evaluation of
nutritional status of the population; training; and a series of nutritionally-
oriented measures designed to increase food production, on farm consumption
and improved marketing among the rural poor. PRONAN also provides special
financing and tax incentives for firms to provide meals to improve the
health, welfare and productivity of their low-income workers. Under
direction of the Ministry of Labor, this program permits tax deductions of
up to double the expenditures for construction of canteens and related
facilities and for operating such feeding programs, which serve as a sup-
plemnent to workers' salaries. (A more detailed description of PRONAN is
appended to Annex 9.)
2.30      About three-quarters of the US$1.3 billion equivalent allocated
to PRONAN for 1976-79 is to buy food for feeding programs, primarily through
direct purchase of basic unprocessed products from small producers in low-
income areas. Through agricultural credit and extension programs, the
Government plans to organize small farmers progressively into forms of
association which would permit agro-industries to develop in low-income
rural areas. These units in time are expected to become principal
suppliers of processed foodstuffs for Brazil nutrition programs.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Description
3.01      The proposed project, aimed principally at countering malnutrition
among pre-school age children and pregnant and lactating women of low-income
families, but benefitting other nutritionally needy as well, would help
launch the national nutrition effort on a sound basis. Oriented toward re-
search, training and testing various experiments on a wide front, the proj-
ect would provide the Government with basic information, institutional and
manpower capabilities and adequate quantities of certain high-priority inex-
pensive food products so that within 4 years it would be able to plan and
deploy resources with greater precision and, as a result, to conduct a more
effective program. The proposed project, all components of which are included
in the PRONAN, would consist of:



* 12 -
(a) the development of an information base comprised of:
(i) a national nutrition and food consumption survey
and the establishment of a surveillance system
to provide periodic monitoring of nutrition con-
ditions;
(ii) assessment and policy consideration on a continu-
ing basis of the nutritional implications of agri-
cultural policies;
(b) the testing of the effectiveness of alternative delivery
systems to improve the nutritional status of the target
group through:
(i) the rural extension service;
(ii) the school feeding infrastructure;
(iii) urban and rural health delivery systems;
(iv) the commercial market;
(c) the development and commercialization of nutritious foods for use
by the target groups through:
(i) a research and development program for low-cost processed
foods;
(ii) engineering and marketing feasibility studies for industrial
scale production of such foods;
(iii) investment credits to stimulate industrial production of
low-cost nutritious foods, including the fortification with
indigenous materials of processed food staples;
(d) training programs, and
(e) assistance for INAN to support project management,
monitoring and evaluation and planning.
By the end of the project period, INAN expects to develop a refined compre-
hensive national nutrition program to succeed the present PRONAN. In pre-
paring that program, the Bank has received assurances that INAN would take
into account experience in executing the present PRONAN along with the re-
sults of the surveys, tests and studies undertaken through the Bank-aided
project, and would exchange views with the Bank on the development of that
follow-on effort.



- 13 -
B. Detailed Features
Development of an Information Base
3.02      Nutrition Survey and Surveillance System.  The proposed project
includes a nutrition survey of a representative nationwide sample, to provide
the Government with basic data necessary for planning nutrition policies and
intervention programs. The survey would include information on intra-family
food distribution, weaning practices, attitudes toward foods, history of
family illnesses and deaths, history of pregnancies, anthropometric measure-
ments of height, weight and arm circumference, and iron and vitamin A levels.
The survey would be managed on behalf of INAN by IBGE, an experienced official
survey organization. At present, IBGE is conducting a general family budget
and food consumption survey, covering 55,000 families. The families to be
surveyed in the proposed project would comprise a sub-sample of the current
survey. (For the clinical measurements, a smaller sub-sample would be selec-
ted.) INAN would enter into an agreement with IBGE under which staff employed
in the IBGE's ongoing survey would, upon its completion, be trained to conduct
the nutrition survey. Consultants would be hired for technical advisory
assignments. INAN gave assurances that it intends to complete the survey de-
sign by January 31, 1977. Data collection is expected to take about nine
months and data processing and analysis three months.
3.03      The project would establish a new nutrition status surveillance unit
in IBGE, consisting of four professionals and support staff. This unit would
be responsible for regular biennial follow-up food consumption and nutrition
surveys, the first to be undertaken in 1979 through a partial sampling of the
families covered by the initial nutrition survey. The second set of data
should be ready for compilation and analysis in 1980. (Further details of this
component are provided in Annex 2.) Survey findings of this component would
provide INAN with the basic nutrition data necessary to carry out its planning
and evaluation responsibilities (see para. 4.09).
3.04      Nutrition Policy Research and Planning Studies Related to Agri-
culture. Although seldom explicitly recognized as such, agricultural policies
often are key determinants of nutritional status. The aim of this component
is to provide the Ministry of Agriculture with information on the nutritional
consequences of its policies and programs so that this information can be taken
into account in future policy decisions. Included would be identification of
agricultural policies that adversely affect nutrition of the poor and quanti-
fication of the negative impact of those policies. The proposed project would
include: (a) establishment of a nutrition unit in the Ministry's Secretariat
of Planning (SUPLAN); and (b) a research program, concerned with the nutri-
tional implications of agricultural policies, to be carried out by universities
and other research groups. INAN would enter into an agreement with SUPLAN to
ensure that the studies and data generated are pertinent to and available for
the formulation and implementation of national nutrition programs. In its
annual report to the Social Development Council, INAN would reflect the effect
of national agricultural policies on nutrition.



- 14 -
The functions of the nutrition unit would be: (a) to project food supplies
for different socio-economic groups, review and analyze the nutritional
implications of alternative food/agricultural production strategies for these
groups, 1/ and assure the findings are considered by the Ministries of Agricul-
ture, Planning and Finance in the formulation of agricultural plans and
programs; and (b) to coordinate the research program so that it would provide
data and information for the above analysis. 2/ Directions and selection of
specific studies for the research program 3/ would be made by a committee
to be established under the chairmanship of the Subsecretary for Planning in
the Ministry of Agriculture, with representatives from INAN, the Brazilian
Enterprise for Agricultural Research (EMBRAPA) and IPEA. The nutrition
unit in SUPLAN would serve as secretariat to the committee. The project
component includes provision for short-term and long-term consultants,
workshops and seminars, research costs and costs of incremental staff.
(Additional information concerning this component appears in Annex 2.)
Tests of Alternative Nutrition Delivery Systems
3.05      The proposed project would include a series of tests designed to
generate for future planning purposes knowledge concerning effective means of
reaching target groups with appropriate food, nutrition education and other
nutrition services, and under what circumstances such delivery systems
would be effective. The tests build on the major existing social service
delivery systems rather than attempt to develop a parallel system for providing
nutrition services. Although modifications would be required in each of the
four systems selected for testing, the assumption is that utilization of an
existing infrastructure would be less costly and easier to administer than a
new one. INAN, assisted by technical experts, would coordinate the design and
evaluation of the tests so that a basis of common measurement is established.
INAN agreed to develop consistent measurement bases for evaluating the several
delivery system tests and expects to set them up by January 31, 1977. In
addition to providing information, the tests of alternative delivery systems
would help those agencies which would have responsibilities in the subsequent
national nutrition program to gain operational experience in servicing the
target groups.
1/   Special effort will be directed to isolating those agricultural policies
with the greatest adverse effects on nutrition and to quantify the impact
of those negative features.
2/   The surveys being carried out by IBGE would also provide information need-
ed for this analysis.
3/   The studies would include topics such as: (a) the effect of agricultural
price policies on the level of production of basic fond crops ccl.p;-are
to other agricultural commodities; (b) the nutritiorial implicati3ni,  of
the deployment of the agriculture production research budget; and (c) oilte
relationship of nutritional status to agro-industry ar.d agriLcultural pro-
ductivity.



- 15 -
3.06      Test of Nutrition Intervention through the Rural Extension Agency.
The potential effectiveness of the agricultural extension agency, EMBRATER,
would be tested as a vehicle for improving nutrition of target groups. The
test would involve families of 3,000 low-income farmers, with holdings gener-
ally below 50 ha. 1/, in twelve counties (municipios) in the Northeastern
State of Sergipe. The participants would receive varying combinations and
intensities of both agricultural and social extension. The objective of agri-
cultural extension would be to increase output through better farm planning,
the application of improved agricultural practices, improved on-farm processing
and preservation, and access to the necessary agricultural inputs and credit.
In the project areas, existing technology packages appear satisfactory as a
starting point for the proposed activities. Social extension would primarily
concentrate on education concerning the proper nutritional use of existing
family resources (e.g., extension of the breastfeeding period, improved sani-
tation and improved intra-family food distribution) and the use of increased
production and increased income (made possible by the agricultural advances)
in nutritionally beneficial ways. A total of 30 health miniposts would be
opened to provide basic health and nutrition services. These health centers
and the social extensionists would cover, in addition to the families of the
selected farmers, those of the landless poor and tenants within their respec-
tive jurisdictions. By the end of the fourth project year, it is estimated
that a total of 36,000 persons would be covered by health and nutrition
services.   The study would seek to identify cost-effective mixes of agricul-
tural and social extension by careful control and analysis of various exten-
sion combinations. Information generated from the test would be used by
EMBRATER and other relevant agencies (e.g. SUDENE) in planning the deployment
of resources for future rural development projects.
3.07      The test would be supported by the provision of supplemental agri-
cultural credit, estimated at US$1.5 million, to be given by the Bank of
Brazil to participating farmers. The EMBRATER would enter into an agreement
with the Bank of Brazil, to ensure that the demands for credit from farmers
participating in this program would be adequately met. These terms are highly
subsidized -- with interest rates of 7 to 13% without monetary correction.
(In this case the subsidized terms are acceptable, since the recipients are
low-income farmers and the credit would be closely supervised to prevent
misuse of resources.) During negotiations, the Bank received assurances that
each loan made to a farm family for seasonal crop production would not exceed
25 times the highest minimum monthly wage in the country. Also, the aggregate
outstanding principal amount of loans for seasonal crop production and for
investment purposes would not exceed the equivalent of 50 times the highest
minimum monthly wage in the country for each individual farmer. Operation-
ally, the component would involve the employment and training of 30 additional
1/   Based on the 1973 SUDENE - IBRD/DRC Survey, farms below 50 ha. receiving
institutional credit have been shown to represent income levels below the
poverty limit (US$885 per farm family).



- 16 -
nvolve the employment and training of 30 additional agricultural extensionists,
30 additional social extensionists and 30 additional health orienters. 1/ A
special project unit within ANCARSE would manage the component and carry out
an initial socio-economic and agricultural survey of the participating farmers.
The evaluation would be designed and carried out by the Institute of Nutrition
at Recife and the School of Agriculture in Vicosa (of the Federal University
of Minas Gerais). The project would provide ANCARSE with technical assis-
tance by consultants.
3.08      The component would consist of two stages.  In stage one, ANCARSE
would draw up a detailed plan of project operations, including the methodology
for evaluation. The preparation stage of the plan of operations is expected to
be completed within six months of the signing of the Loan Agreement. Subject
to approval of this plan by the Bank, the project would be implemented as
stage two, lasting 3 years. 2/ Details of the component are given in Annex
3.
3.09      Tests of Nutritional Intervention through the Health and Commer-
cial Delivery Systems. The proposed project would test the efficiency of
health, and, relatedly, commercial delivery systems as vehicles for nutrition
intervention, the managerial capability of the Government's health system to
carry out such programs, and the community's response to the programs in the
Northeastern State of Pernambuco. In an ongoing maternal and child health
program run by the State University of Pernambuco in the low-income Encruzil-
hada area of Recife, the project would study the benefits from adding nutri-
tion services to existing health units. More specifically, the project
provides for such actions as monitoring children's nutritional status, related
education in how to improve a malnourished condition (including motivation for
extending the period of breastfeeding to at least 3 months) and provision of
specific nutrients (e.g. iron tablets, mass doses of vitamin A) to benefit
1/   The initial ratio of 100 farmers to one extensionist takes into account
the terrain, the widely dispersed farms and the pilot nature of the
project, including data collection requirements. As the Sergipe
component is implemented, the number of farmers per extensionist is
expected to increase in line with the objective of determining which
ratios and combinations are cost-effective under specific circumstances.
2/   During their preparation of the component, EMBRATER officials came to the
preliminary conclusion that combined agricultural and social extension
activities as proposed in the project, would have a positive impact on
low-income rural families. Accordingly, the agency is undertaking opera-
tional-scale programs along these lines in 8 Northeast states, initially
with a fixed ration of social and agricultural extention. GOB's official
view is that on the basis of nutritional need, the programs are justified
now and that the subsequent program changes can be made as cost/effectiveness
information becomes available. The Sergipe study, with its detailed testing
and evaluation, Is being looked upon to provide refined data needed to
determine optimum division of resources between agricultural and social
extension staffs and the best deployment of resources of specific activities
within each.



- 17 -
approximately 34,000 children under 6 years of age and 10,000 pregnant and
lactating women considered as being at high nutritional risk. For about 45%
of this group, food would be provided through two food delivery systems to be
tested: food distribution through the health system, and distribution through
the normal commercial food channels. In the case of the latter, which takes
place in years 3 and 4 of the project, the health staff would provide coupons
which target groups would redeem for food supplements.   A special project
group working in the State University of Pernambuco would design nd evaluate
the proposed test, which would also include comparisons with typical families
who do not yet have access to these services.
3.10      The proposed project also provides for studying the nutritional
effectiveness and extending the outreach into rural areas of typical maternal
and child health programs currently operated by SESP in small cities in the
sugar plantation areas (of Zona da Mata) in Southern Pernambuco. The project
would finance and evaluate the impact of adding in existing SESP centers nut-
rilUion services such as nutrition education (including efforts to extend breast-
feeding to six months) to 12,000 beneficiaries, about half of whom would also
receive food supplements. In addition, the project would finance the hiring
and training of a newly established group of health/nutrition extension-
ists who would travel through the Zona da Mata to provide nutrition education
an(d food supplements, and to identify and forward to SESP centers for treat-
ment serious cases of malnutrition. An estimated 12,000 rural mothers and
children would benefit (and be compared to a control group without services).
The research design, monitoring and evaluation of the Zona da Mata tests
would also be under the direction of the State University of Pernambuco.
Additional information on this component appears in Annex 4.
3.11      Although the maternal child health program of the Ministry of
Health is not included for financing under the proposed project (because
it is already in progress), the testing of the effectiveness of official
CPMI centers as vehicles for delivering nutrition services would be coordi-
nated by INAN and the results compared to those of the other tests discussed
in this paper.
3.12      Test of Nutrition Intervention through the School Feeding System.
The proposed project would include a test to determine the nutritional impact
ancl efficiency of feeding pre-schoolers by taking advantage of the existing
transport, storage and other facilities of large ongoing school lunch programs.
Feeding would be tested among children of low-income families in the rural
sections of Sao Paulo where an effective school feeding program is underway.
The normal channels of the State Department of Education would operate the
program.  The School of Public Health in Sao Paulo would be in charge of the
test design and evaluation.
3.13      The component involves through use of existing facilities the
establishment and evaluation of 48 kindergarten-type centers known as CEAPES
(Centers for Education and Feeding of Pre-School Children) in school feeding
locations. Approximately 4,800 pre-schoolers from the age of 24 months to 5
years would be brought by mothers to the school lunch program centers and fed.



- 18 -
Nutrition education would be provided to the mothers. This test wouid build
on a successful, closely controlled smaller experiment of the same type
currently under way in the city of Sao Paulo. The project would test whether
the concept could be expanded successfully under normal administra;v: orodi--
tions, especially in poor rural areas. 1/ Evaluation of the nutritional im-
pact would include a control group outside the CEAPES.  The component includes
provision of technical assistance for conducting baseline studies and evalua-
tion. The School of Public Health would utilize foreign and local consultants,
provided by INAN, for devising the baseline nutrition surveys and conducting
the evaluation of nutritional intervention through the various school feeding
programs.
3.14      Costs of the component include the operational costs for CEAPES,
including food, transportation and supervision, and the operating costs re-
lated to the evaluation of the nutritional impact on the children. Included
in the evaluation would be a determination of the effect of the nutritional
difference on the educational, health, and sociological profiles of the pre-
schoolers. The effect of the program on the benefits derived from the invest-
ment in the education system would be measured. (A more complete description
of this component appears in Annex 5.)
Development of Low-Cost Nutritious Foods
3.15      The proposed project would make possible the development, testing
and industrial-scale production of low-cost nutritious foods, for use in
institutional feeding programs and the commercial market. 2/ Included would
be work related to (a) new low-cost processed nutritious foods, e.g., soy-
based weaning foods, (b) fortified foods, e.g., manioc flour fortified with
soy protein or sugar fortified with iron or vitamin A, and (c) fortificants
to be incorporated by others in subsequent production, e.g. soy grits, soy
flour or soy isolates added to manioc flour, weaning foods or inexpensive
milk substitutes.
1/   Another means of utilizing the existing school feeding infrastructure
to provide food to pre-school age children is a "take home" program in
which students would carry food home on a periodic basis to younger
siblings. Except for the carrier and the institution, the approach
parallels in many ways the mother's "take home" feeding program through
the maternal child health centers. With regard to the school feeding
infrastructure, the student "take home" program has the advantage
of reaching the 0-2 year old group, that would not be attending the
CEAPES. The major drawback is that some diversion of food may occur;
however, even with such loss the approach may be a cost-effective means
of reaching the target group. It is expected that a test of the "take
home" concept, consisting of a sub-sample of the participants of this
component, would be undertaken during the project.
2/   Relatedly, the Finance Ministry is considering the provision of tax
inducements (similar to those provided in the Export Sector) for
companies engaged in the production of low-cost nutritious foods.



- 19 -
3.16      A Food Advisory Board would be established by the President of INAN.
Its membership would include, inter alia, nutrition specialists and representa-
tives of agencies responsible for food delivery programs, e.g., CNAE and CPMI,
and financing agencies such as the Agency for Funding Studies and Projects con-
cerned with Economic Development (FINEP) and the National Economic Development
Bank (BNDE). The Board would advise INAN on the specific types, cost range,
nutritive value and other specifications for foods to be (a) developed, (b)
tested, (c) eligible for BNDE credits, and (d) eligible for purchase by INAN
for institutional feeding programs. Establishment of the Food Advisory Board
by January 31, 1977, and publication by INAN of food specifications were
agreed on during negotiations. The Board would review food specifications
annually and adjust them, as necessary, in consultation with the Bank.
3.17      Product Development.  The proposed project would support development of
nutritious products through Government centers of food technology. Special atten-
tion would be directed to developing or improving on existing technologies for
food processing and preservation at village and farm levels. (Information on
the latter would be incorporated into the work of the agricultural extensionists;
see para. 3.06) INAN has established cooperative agreements with several such
institutions including the University of Campinas and ITAL. At ITAL, the project
would finance the construction of a pilot plant including blending and auxiliary
equipment for producing blended foods, a pilot scale extrusion cooker and packing
and packaging equipment. The ITAL component also would include a storage testing
facility, housing for experimental laboratory animals and a cereal testing labora-
tory. The equipment described here would be required for any applied research and
development program in "new foods" 1/. The project would also establish at ITAL
a group of twelve experienced technicians (and finance salary costs for seven
technicians who would be additional to the existing staff) to plan, manage and
carr-y out the development of 10-15 new low-cost nutritious products. Receiving
special attention in this regard would be use of locally produced soy meal, a
by-product after oil is removed from the soybean, and high protein Opaque-2
maize. (Both are used now primarily for export or livestock feed, with little
attention having been given their potential in products for human consumption).
The project, in addition, provides interim technical assistance in the form of
two foreign technicians for periods up to one year and twelve short-term
foreign consultants, and training for two Brazilian technicians abroad.
3.13      Included under this component would be work on fortification of
processed food staples, such as wheat flour, manioc flour, corn meal, salt
and sugar. In this regard, emphasis would be given to use, when possible
of local materials (e.g. soybeans) to produce fortificants. The component
1/   New foods are defined here as products made possible by recently developed
technologies which can provide (primarily through use of oilseeds such as
soybean) foods of high nutritive value at half to two-thirds the cost of
comparable conventional (i.e. primary milk-based) processed foods.



- 20 -
finances the development, testing, and training necessary to make fortified
foods available to the poor on a large scale. Decisions on what specific
nutrients would be added at exactly what levels to what staples in the forti-
fication process would be contingent on the outcome of the food consumption
and nutrition status surveys. (Details are provided in Annex 6.)
3.19      Feasibility Studies.  Once products have been developed (by ITAL,
other food technology institutions, or industry), detailed engineering and
commercial marketing studies would be funded by the proposed project through
FINEP. This organization, which reports to the Planning Secretariat, intends
to help make possible 10 detailed engineering studies (costing approximately
US$75,000 equivalent each) and 8 commercial market tests of products (costing
approximately US$200-250,000 equivalent each), determined in conjunction with
INAN. FINEP concurrently would finance studies on the development of produc-
tion of low-cost nutritious foods, fortified foods and fortificants (empha-
sizing indigenous materials) in agro-industrial cooperatives of small pro-
ducers. It is expected that about 20 such studies would be undertaken during
the project period at an estimated average cost of US$50,000 equivalent. Fund-
ing would be provided to selected companies and other agencies by FINEP as
either grants or loans. When FINEP involvement is necessary to stimulate
industrial interest, studies would be financed fully by FINEP. In a case
where interest has been established, FINEP would finance a study to determine
the feasibility of the venture, and the company would pay retroactively for
the study if it enters into production of the product. In such instances,
payment would be through a five-year loan, with a two-year grace period, at
6-8% interest with monetary correction. Standard procedures accepted by the
Planning Secretariat have been established for requesting, funding, and con-
tracting FINEP studies, and these procedures would be followed in the case
of this proposed project. (See Annex 7 for details.)
3.20      Loans to the Food Industry.  The recently approved PRONAN leads
to an accelerated demand for low-cost nutritious foods. PRONAN will, over
the period 1976-79, allocate approximately US$850 million equivalent for
purchases of such foods for supplementary feeding programs. These purchases
largely are planned to meet the needs of the growing institutional feeding
program which until last year relied heavily on foreign donated foods (see
para. 2.19). The Government program contemplates the production of such foods
by small and medium-sized industrial companies 1/ and by agro-industrial co-
operatives of smaller producers. The same type foods are expected to be sold
through normal commercial channels at a price within reach of groups not now
able to afford existing nutritious processed products. BNDE and INAN have
entered into an agreement spelling out BNDE's intent to lend about US$30 mil-
lion equivalent during 1976-79 to industries for this program. The loans
i/   Defined for purposes of a previous Bank project with BNDE as firms
employing 20-250 workers and with fixed assets (after sub-project
implementation) of less than US$7.5 million equivalent.



- 21 -
would be for up to ten years at 3% interest 1/, 18 months grace, monetary
correction to account for inflation, and certain tax concessions. Loans can
be for up to 80% of the total value of the investment; the entrepreneur must
invest: at least 20%. The draft agreement between INAN and BNDE states that
BNDE's Center for Managerial Assistance to Small and Medium Enterprises
(CEBRAE) would be responsible for developing the means for planning and im-
plementing specific projects. INAN would select and review subprojects from
a teclnical viewpoint and be satisfied with production costs and sale prices
to the ultimate consumer. The project would finance a part of this loan
program. It includes approximately US$24 million equivalent for subloans to
small and medium-sized food industries through BNDE and, in turn, through
State Development Banks 2/. Determination of eligibility for loans of the
indiv:idual applicants would be made in accordance with normal BNDE criteria.
The Government has given assurances that these criteria would include in
addition to satisfaction of the nutritional specifications to be laid down
by the Food Advisory Board, the requirements that:
(a) the foods would be priced to be within reach of a sizeable
income group not now able to afford nutritious processed foods;
(b)  the production would be in small and medium industrial
units; and
(c) INAN would approve the project in advance.
State Development Banks would assure criteria are met in appraisal of project
proposals. Disbursement against this component would be contingent upon the
publication of the specifications by INAN and satisfactory arrangements es-
tablished to monitor and enforce appropriate pricing. The criteria would be
refined as BNDE and INAN gain experience with the operation of the program.
Any change in criteria would be made after consultation with the Bank. Pro-
ceeds of repayment of the principal and interest payments on such loans would
be used for similar purposes in accordance with agreed eligibility criteria.
3.21      BNDE loans for production of low-cost foods would be expected
to start in the first year of the project, when they would be provided for
products where technologies are already developed (e.g. production of soy
flour, iodization of salt, blending of a simple food for children using
cereal flour and soy flour) such as the foods previously provided under
PL-480. An estimated 10% of the funds for this component would be disbursed
1/   Same as interest rate approved for small and medium-sized industries
in the Northeast as part of the loan for BNDE approved January 28, 1976.
(See Brazil Appraisal of a Development Banking Project Report No.
932a-BR).
2/   The project component includes, besides the loans of US$24 million
equivalent, US$6 million equivalent representing the contribution of
borrowers.



- 22 -
in year one of the project. By the second year, the amount of lending is
expected to double. Products already well advanced in testing by industry
and ITAL are by then expected to be eligible for approval and financing.
(An example is VITAL, a soy-based milk substitute developed by ITAL, which
is in the final stage of testing). Thirty percent of the lending is ex-
pected to take place in the third year of the project and 40% in the final
year. The combination of the incentives provided by BNDE credit and the
immediate institutional feeding market for such products is expected to
attract substantial interest. Industrial firms and cooperatives obtaining
BNDE loans and selling to INAN for the institutional market also will be
expected to sell the same foods through normal commercial channels at reason-
able prices (see para 3.20). Thus, the target group will benefit both as a
result of free foods available institutionally and low-priced processed foods
available for the first time in the market. A product meeting the INAN
specifications would be permitted to include on the package and in related
advertising and promotion a special symbol identifying it as a recommended
nutritious food. INAN would undertake an institutional advertising campaign
to promote awareness and significance of the symbol.
3.22      The effectiveness of the foods financed under this component in
reaching the target group would be carefully monitored in the project.
The Planning Office of INAN, which would be responsible for such monitoring,
would also monitor the impact of nutritious foods on the dietary patterns
of the target population (e.g. substituting breastfeeding with baby-foods
or foregoing needed calories from basic staples to buy higher priced foods.)
(Additional details are provided in Annex 7.)
Training
3.23      Given the substantial number of trained personnel required to plan
and implement a national nutrition program and the paucity of such expertise
currently in Brazil, the proposed project would include a training component
with the objectives of (a) developing the staff capabilities in INAN and other
federal and state agencies to meet the needs of a national program, and (b)
improving the quality and expanding the capacity of Brazilian educational in-
stitutions to provide nutrition and nutrition-related courses. In addition to
the training programs included in the sub-components above, the proposed proj-
ect would provide multi-disciplinary short-term instruction in nutrition plan-
ning and administration (ranging from one week to 3 months) for approximately
470 persons and specialized courses and graduate-level training for approxi-
mately 70 persons. Training primarily would be undertaken by the universities
of Brasilia, Sao Paulo and Pernambuco. Participants would be selected from
INAN and other relevant federal and state agencies such as the Ministries of
Health, Agriculture, Social Welfare, and Education, and from the faculties of
universities in which upgrading of training capability would be sought. The
project also would strengthen training in food marketing and food technology
at national, state and regional levels. Provision in the project is made for
equipment and other facilities needed for training. (Although not financed as
part of the project component, INAN would, in addition, provide for teacher
training, equipment and materials as a means of strengthening nutrition educa-
tion in the public schools and in the adult literacy program.)



- 23 -
3.24      The training component would be the responsibility of a training
coordinator in INAN. The project training component would provide for a
survey of (a) existing trained personnel, including detailed figures of
professionals in the fields of agricultural and social extension who have
received training in nutrition, and (b) the capacity and current capability
of training institutions. The manpower requirements over the next decade
would be estimated and the expansion of facilities and staff for training
needed for bridging the gap worked out. The survey is expected to take about
six months. INAN's training coordinator, who would be responsible for the
training component, also would be responsible for organizing the survey
and drawing up a detailed plan based on the survey. In this work, the coor-
dinator would be assisted by a National Advisory Council on Manpower Needs
and Training established by INAN. The Council would be a permanent body that
would review on a periodic basis the estimate of manpower needs in nutrition
and the status and adequacy of nutrition training institutions. The reviews
from the Council would provide INAN with a continuing basis for planning and
managing training programs and for developing the institutions capable of
meeting the needs. Completion of the survey and the related training plan
would be a pre-condition to the implementation of the training program.
(Details appear in Annex 8.)
Organizational Support
3.25      This component finances the cost of a special project unit, a Plan-
ning Office in INAN, and technical assistance to meet the short- and medium-
term manpower requirements of INAN. Included would be a total of 72 months
of short-term technical consultancy with an average of four months' service
and 48 months of long-term consultancy. Job descriptions have been dis-
cussed and details regarding the criteria for recruitment of consultants
are being prepared by INAN on the basis of broad guidelines agreed upon
with Bank staff. Details are provided in Section IV (paras 4.02-4.04) and
in Annex 9. The project would also finance a special fund to be managed
by thLe special project unit. The fund would be applied to (a) strengthening
evaluation activities in the different project components and (b) undertaking,
with the prior approval of the Bank, special studies and other innovative
activities not anticipated at the time of project preparation. This could
include evaluation of different forms of nutrition education efforts being
undertaken in Brazil or special studies of nutrition/productivity relation-
ships based on the Government's new emphasis on worker feeding programs.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION AND ORGANIZATION
Implementation
4.01      The different components of the project would be implemented by
the participating agencies discussed above and enumerated in Charts I and 2
of Annex 9.  In each of these agencies, adequate staff (in addition to staff
provided for by the project) has been assigned to implement the relevant
project component.



- 24 -
4.02      INAN would be in charge of organizing the project and assuring
coordination among the various participating agencies. By a Presidential
Decree of February 6, 1976, the Government has enabled INAN to offer higher
salaries in order to attract competent personnel to its staff.
4.03      Within INAN a special project unit has been created to administer
the project. This unit would be under the leadership at all times of a
project coordinator whose qualifications would be acceptable to the Bank.
The Government already has designated such a person as project coordinator.
In addition to the coordinator, the project unit would include a deputy
coordinator, a finance officer, a planning officer, an agricultural economist,
a sociologist, a nutritionist, a training specialist and supporting staff.
At the conclusion of the project period, the functions and staff of the
project unit would be merged with the appropriate departments of INAN. The
special project unit, which would report to the President of INAN, would
help various project entities draw up plans of operations, approve their
budgets in relation to the project, arrange for project disbursements 1/, and
hold periodic meetings to review project components and resolve problems.
The special project unit would be in charge of obtaining and analyzing prog-
ress reports from various entities and coordinating them for submission to
the Ministers of Health and Planning and IBRD. It would also evaluate the
performance of various entities both directly and through the assistance of
independent evaluation agencies such as universities. Release of funds to
various project entities would be based on a review of reports from them.
Coordination of project entities would be ensured through the mechanism of
contractual arrangements or convenios, which is an accepted Brazilian method
of ensuring the coordination of work by different Governmental entities.
4.04      As part of the project, INAN would set up a Planning Office which
would consist of four full-time professionals who would be in charge of
coordination of the planning activity in INAN. This Office would review
the results of the different tests and studies proposed in the project with
a view to refining the national nutrition plan. In preparing a national
nutrition action plan to succeed the present PRONAN, INAN would take into
account the findings and recommendations of the tests, studies and surveys
included in the project, as well as the experience gained in executing PRONAN,
and would exchange views with the Bank on development of that action program.
4.05      Technical assistance funds in the project would provide a full-
time management expert, to be selected in consultation with the Bank, to
assist the special project unit through the project period. In addition,
the project provides for 72 man-months of short-term consultancy, to be
utilized by the special project unit and for assisting the Planning Office.
The special project unit would be in charge of disbursing the funds for con-
sultancy, and selecting and supervising the consultants.
1/   All funds for the Bank-aided project would pass through INAN, except for
the loans from BNDE, FINEP and the Bank of Brazil which will be funded
directly from the Government.



- 25 -
4.015     Assurances were received that (a) the Deliberative Council of
INAN (consisting of representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture, Edu-
cation and Culture, Health, Planning, Industry and Commerce, Interior and
Social Welfare, and chaired by the President of INAN) would examine the
progress and problems of the project on a semi-annual basis; and (b) the
results of such review and action thereon would be communicated to the Bank.
(Additional details on organization and management appear in Annex 9).
Contractual Arrangements with other Implementing Agencies
4.07      Within three months of loan signing, INAN would enter into appro-
priate contractual agreements with IBGE, EMBRATER, SUPLAN, ITAL, SESP, BNDE,
EMATERSE and FINEP. An appropriate contractual agreement also would have
been reached between EMATERSE and Bank of Brazil. (See Chart 2, Annex 9.)
Major features of the contractual arrangements (convenios) were discussed
during negotiations.  INAN has agreed that agreements satisfactory to the
Bank will be a condition of disbursement of the proceeds of the loan allo-
cated to the components involving each of these entities.
Changes in Program Content and Administration
4.08      As the project constitutes the first of its kind for Brazil, the
Bank and the nutrition field, there inevitably will be unidentified con-
straints and, perhaps, unanticipated opportunities. Accordingly, appro-
priate flexibility should be permitted to allow for possible desired changes
in both component content and project administration. Annual reviews of
project organization and implementation would be conducted jointly by the
Government and the Bank, and adjustments of any aspect of the project would
be made by mutual consent provided they are directed toward achieving the
stated project objectives.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.09      Given the nature and objectives of the proposed project, the Gov-
ernment has accorded high priority to monitoring and evaluating the project
work. Monitoring and evaluation would be built into all project components.
In addition, overall monitoring and evaluation of the project would be under-
taken by INAN to (a) permit comparisons among the operational test components
and (b) collate and analyze all the information generated by the tests, sur-
veys and studies of the project in ways necessary to refine a national nutri-
tion action program. Participating agencies would be responsible for monitor-
ing and evaluating individual components.
4.10      The Planning Office of INAN would have responsibilities for moni-
toring and evaluation of the project as a whole. INAN would (a) assist
participating project agencies in developing procedures for and maintaining
working monitoring and evaluation systems, including criteria for collecting
satisfactory baseline and follow-up data and establishment of controls. (The



- 26 -
project training component would be designed to strengthen agency ca-
pability in this regard.); (b) establish accounting and control systems
for collection of all project data; (c) develop a system for bringing
together data necessary for refining an integrated national nutrition
plan; (d) collect, analyze and provide feedback on a routine basis infor-
mation for policy and programming purposes on intervention tests; and
(e) conduct special studies, the need for which is identified in the anal-
ysis of other routine work.
4.11      With specific regard to the testing of alternative delivery sys-
tems, evaluation would be designed to learn the efficiencies and difficul-
ties of the various delivery systems in terms of delivering the designated
services, the amount and the quality of services delivered, the effective-
ness of services delivered in relation to nutritional improvement, the cost
per person reached in the delivery system and the cost per person in rela-
tion to change in nutritional status, and the replicability of the system.
4.12      INAN's Planning Office would seek assistance from an experienced
evaluation group (separate from the participating agencies) for development
of the test design. This is to assure valid tests and useful comparisons,
within and between distribution agencies and with appropriate control groups,
uniformity of measurements of costs and nutrition results, and assessment of
coverage and administration efficiency. The organization retained for this
purpose would consult with the participating agencies in specifying the
purpose of the test, in identifying the data to be collected and in the form
of such data so that it is compatible with data processing requirements. The
organization also would assist INAN in testing and monitoring the quality of
the data during the collection process, in making adjustments in the design
and in interpreting results. The evaluation results would be provided to the
Deliberative Council of INAN, to appropriate participating agencies responsi-
ble for project implementation and to other relevant agencies. The evaluation
results would assist INAN in refining PRONAN. Overall design for monitoring
and evaluation would be completed within six months after loan signing. (Addi-
tional information on monitoring and evaluation may be found in Annex 10.)
V. COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
5.01     Total project costs, including contingencies, are estimated at US$72
million equivalent. Cost estimates by expenditure categories are given in
Table 1, and by components in Table 2.
5.02     The cost estimates are updated to the level of February 1976 and
assume a price escalation of 9% for 1976, and 8% for 1977-79. See Annex 11
for a detailed breakdown of costs. With respect to the investment financed by
loans from BNDE, the base cost estimates are inclusive of the likely increases
in costs during the project period.



- 27 -
Project Financing
5.03     The total cost of the project would be financed by an IBRD loan of
US$19 million covering the foreign exchange costs of the project, and a con-
tribution of US$53 million equivalent 1/ by the Government of Brazil and
Brazilian private industries.
Disbursements
5.04     The loan would meet 26% of the total project costs.  Disbursements,
which would be channelled through INAN, would be made on the following basis:
(a) 100% of the foreign cost of fellowships abroad and
international technical assistance; and
(b) 24% of all other expenditures of the project against
full documentation, except for food supplements and
local loans and assistance which would be made against
statements of expenditure, documents for which would be
retained by INAN for expost review, by the Bank's Super-
vision Missions.
Undisbursed funds would be available for reallocation to other components or
activities related to the project, contingent on Bank approval.
5.05     Participating agencies would maintain accounts of expenditures
under the project and would be audited annually by Government auditors accord-
ing to standard practice. The special project unit would maintain accounts of
its expenditure under the project together with statements of project expendi-
tures by participating agencies. INAN would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. Copies of audited statements of project expendi-
tures would be forwarded to the Bank within four months of the end of each
fiscal year. Bank of Brazil is audited by satisfactory independent auditors
and BNDE is audited by both satisfactory independent auditors and government
auditors. Both the Bank of Brazil and BNDE would provide within four months
of the end of their fiscal years audited statements of their lending under
the project. During negotiations, assurances were received that these
procedures would be followed.
I/   This includes an estimated US$6 million equivalent invested by borrowers
receiving BNDE loans.



- 28 -
Table 1
BRAZIL: ESTIMATED TOTAL PROJECT COST BY TYPE OF EUPKNDITUR3
- -----Cr$ 000-------          ---uSooo___ ------                   Percentage
F.E.        of
local  ?orEi*n       Total    Local   Foreign    Total &            Base Cost
A. Civil Works
1. Construction                        3,761      939       4,700       399       100        49.    20.0       0.8
2. Equipment              4       , 0           .24      4    L   9     45         10       25      100 19.0   2
Sub-Total A                      7.761    L     .                  2        200     1&024    Jj1
B. Non-Construction
1. Vehicles and special equipment      9,439    6,075      15,514     1,002       645     1,647    39.2        2.6
2. Technical Assistance               18,618   21,631      4o,249     1,976     2,297     4,273    53.8       6.9
3. Food Supp1ement                    10,955   14,337      25,292     1,163     1,522     2,685    56.7        4.3
4. Salary Support                    10e,858      -       102,858    10,919       -      10,919      -        17.5
5. Other operating costs              562    8f13          67,759     6,329       864     72193    '2.0       11.6
Sub-Total B                    201,491   50,181     251,672    21,389     L,28    26,717    19         4.2.9
C. Local Loans and Assistance
1. Loans by Bank of Brazil/          12,717    1,413      14,130     1,350       150     1,500    10.0        2.4
2. Assiatance through Fin*p!          22,608    5,652      28,260     2,400       600     3,000    20.0        4.8
3. Assistance through BNDE 4/        183690   28,910      282,600    19.500    10500      ,                    8.2
Sub-Total C                    219.015  105.975      24L,990    23.250    11,250                 6 _   :
Base Cost Estimates              428,267 158,00         6           63    16,778    62J21       27.0    100.0
D. Contingencies
1. Physical                           23,680    5,724      29,404     2,513       608      3,121    19.5       5.0
2. Price                              9.9760   12,440      62.200     i282      2.20       6Q0    2Q.0        10.6
Sub-Total D                     734o   13,6          91.604     7!795     1,928     9,723    *0         15.6
TOTAL iSTIMATED PROJECT COST         501,707  176,204     677.911    53.258    18,76        .64     26.0    115.6
I/  As of February 1976.
2/ Supplemental agricultural credit to be given to participating farmers in Sergipe.
3/ For financing marketing and feasibility studiez.
Includes a contribution of US$ 6.0 mnilior b'y participating irdustrial units.
February '76



- 29 -
Table 2
BRAZIL: ESTIMATED PROJECT COST COMPONENT (US$ '000)
Total
ProJect Component                   Project Cost           Local      Forgn
A. Nutrition Planning
and Programming
1. Nutrition Survey and
Surveillance Systems                           2,706              2,517           189
2.  Food and Nutrition Policy Research             3,865               3,519          346
B.  Testing Alternative Nutrition Delivery
Systems
1.  Rural Extension Service                        6,347               5,943          404
2.  Health and Commercial Delivery Systems         3,644               2,198        1,446
3.  School Feeding Programs                        1,136                 947          189
C. Development and Commercialization of
Nutritious Foods
1.  Research and Development Program               4,672               3,953          719
2.  FINEP                                          3,000               2,400          600
3. BNDE 2/                                        30,000              19,500       10,500
D. Nutrition Training Program                          3,266               1,918        1,348
E.  Organization and Management 3/                     3.605               2!568        1,037
TOTAL BASE COST                               62,241             45,463        16,778
Contingencies                                      9I723                            1,928
TOTAL ESTIMATED PROJECT COST                          71,964                 28        18,706
1/ Includes US$1.5 million Bank of Brazil Loan.
2/ Includes a contribution of US$ 6 million (20%) by participating industrial units.
3/  Includes US$885,000 Special Fund to be operated with prior Bank approval by INAN.
February '76



- 30 -
Procurement
5.06     All supply contracts for furniture and equipment (emxcl;&         ,all
value contracts below US$50,000 equivalent) would be awarded in accordance
with the Bank's guidelines for international competitive bidding. Local
manufacturers of furniture, equipment, vitamins and minerals would be
allowed a preference margin of 15% or the existing rate of import duty,
whichever is lower. To the extent practical, items would be grouped to
form sizeable bid packages and to permit bulk procurement. Numerous small
contracts aggregating an estimated US$50,000 equivalent for items which
cannot be purchased in bulk would be purchased through contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance
with local procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
5.07     The procurement of food, costing US$2.7 million equivalent (or 4.3%
of the project) does not lend itself to bulk purchases. Various types of
food would be purchased at various places for use in individual programs at
different times over the four-year project period. Because Brazilian Govern-
ment agencies are experienced in food purchasing for institutional and other
uses, the Bank would rely on their established procurement procedures which
are satisfactory.
5.08     Construction to be executed under the proposed project would cost
an estimated US$500,000 equivalent including contingencies. The well-
developed nature of the Brazilian building industry makes it unlikely that
foreign building contractors would be attracted. Therefore, the contracts
would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and
in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
5.09     About 70 vehicles of four-wheel drive and small motor car types,
estimated to cost about US$400,000 equivalent, are to be purchased over the
first two years. Suitable vehicles are available from major international
firms with manufacturing facilities in Brazil or other international manufac-
turers represented by local agents and prices are competitive. It is essen-
tial that local service and spare parts facilities be readily available.
Procurement of the vehicles would therefore be made on the basis of competi-
tive bidding, advertised locally and in accordance with Government procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
5.10     Procurement with respect to financing by local loans and assistance
by the Bank of Brazil, FINEP and BNDE would follow normal commercial channels.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The recent substantial commitment of resources to deal with mal-
nutrition reflects the growing concern of the Government of Brazil about the
magnitude and the economic and social implications of the problem. Earlier
attempts to grapple with the complex issues raised in such programs have been
frustrated partly by inadequate data, a lack of proven delivery systems, and



- 31 -
admainistrative difficulties. It is also recognized that inadequate attention
had been directed to the nutritional consequences to the poor of agricultural
and other development "growth" policies.
6.02      The principal short run benefit of the proposed project is that it
provides a framework for a more effective use of the significant investment
the Government has committed to nutritional programs. Thus while small in
relation to the overall program, under which expenditures of US$ 1.3 billion
equivalent are expected over four years, the Bank contribution helps provide
the means through which effective design and implemention standards would
be established. As a result of the project, necessary information would have
been collected and acted upon, staff trained, institutions strengthened, and
products developed and produced in quantities to meet the needs of the pro-
gram. (In the case of the latter, the project would reduce Brazil's current
dependence on processed food imports.) In addition to financial support, Bank
participation would help bring a disciplined approach to the coordination,
execution and evaluation of the project, which will be much needed if the
problems confronting the implementation of a nutrition program are to be
surmounted.
6.03      The longer-range development benefits of the project flow from the
impact of an effective, comprehensive nutrition program addressed to Brazil's
needs and problems.  Such a program conceivably would include, inter alia,
adjustments to agricultural and other policies as they relate to prices of
specific foods consumed by the poor, food production oriented activities
emphasizing the small farmer, reduction of food losses, marketing of low-cost
processed foods including fortified food staples, broad use of nutrition-rich
foods not currently available in forms appropriate for human consumption, and
institutional feeding and other direct nutritional assistance. The mix of
principal components in such a program and relative emphasis to be given to
each element are precisely what the project aims to better establish in the
specific configuration of the Brazilian malnutrition problem. Nevertheless,
for each principal area of investigation there exists strong presumption that
productivity benefits would be significant. (See paras 2.06 - 2.11.) Thus,
there are three basic justifications for Brazil investing to improve the
nutritional standards of its population, half of whom suffer from some form of
nutritional deficiency. One is the impact of nutrition on productivity of the
existing labor force. A second is the impact on human capital formation with
its implications for future earnings of individuals and economic growth. The
third is that malnutrition is one of the main determinants of human well-being,
the ultimate goal of all development activities.
6.04      While the basic objective of the project is to provide the knowledge,
conditions, and products necessary for a subsequent national nutrition program,
several immediate benefits would accrue. Among them:
(a)  the health and performance -- both short and long-run -- would
be improved for approximately 110,000 young children and relatedly,
pregnant and lactating women from low-income families who would
benefit directly from food supplementation and/or other nutrition
services;



- 32 -
(b) school attendance, performance and subsequent productivity
would be increased for an estimated 4 to 5 million older
children who would consume through school feeding programs
nutritious products, the development and production of which
would be made possible by this project;
(c)  the productivity of a substantial, but indeterminate, portion
of the low-income labor force (and their families) would
increase through consumption of fortified food staples and
other low-cost processed nutritious foods, the marketing of
which would be made possible by product development and testing
and incentives to the food industries;
(d) increased food production, lower food losses, increased on-farm
consumption and related increased productivity would take place
among families of 3,000 small farmers in Sergipe in Northeast
Brazil, and an organizational infrastructure would be established
to provide extension and credit to bring nutrition improvement;
(e) the productivity and well-being of an indeterminate portion of
the low-income population would be enhanced from improved diets
made possible by the modification of agricultural policies
which would be expected to incorporate consideration of nutri-
tional implications (i.e. the SUPLAN component -- the Govern-
ment having accepted that food prices are a key determinant
to nutritional status); and
(f) small and medium-sized industries, traditionally hindered by diffi-
cult access to term financing (particularly foreign exchange),
would be given the opportunity to carry out needed capital invest-
ments to improve production facilities and increase productivity.
An estimated 2,000 new jobs would be created (based on an average
estimated cost of US$15,000 equivalent per job).
6.05      The project reflects the importance of women in development, both as
beneficiaries of services provided and as staff of those projects providing
the services. The majority of personnel in most of the proposed project
components would be women.
6.06      An added benefit of the project would be that the Bank -- by partici-
pating in a project with so wide a range of activities and in a country as
diverse as Brazil -- would gain useful experience for similar activities
elsewhere in the world. Thus, the Brazilian project would contribute to
meeting the needs of other countries. Within Brazil, the project would
serve as the basis for subsequent appropriate Bank development projects in
both rural and urban sectors.
6.07      In presenting this first-stage project, the staff has been guided by
principles established in the nutrition policy paper which pointed out, in
absence of data and a satisfactory methodology to provide meaningful quantifi-
cation, that it is "reasonable to proceed on the grounds that a well-directed



- 33 -
nutrition investment can lower mortality and morbidity rates, contribute to
increases in productivity, assist in achieving family planning and education
objectives, serve as a direct means of income redistribution, and, in general,
improve the social and economic conditions of disadvantaged portions of the
population." 1/ Meanwhile, efforts are being undertaken, including through
this project, to develop a better understanding of the precise benefits of
nutrition programs. 2/
6.08      Since the project is an innovative, multi-sectoral effort, it
carries considerable risks. The capacity of INAN to perform the coordinating
function will depend upon staff development and administrative changes, en-
visaged in the project, and upon INAN's continued recognition and support by
the Government. The evaluation of work envisaged under the project is another
area of considerable risk. Such a large-scale evaluation of nutritional activ-
ities has never been undertaken. The project aims to develop the evaluation
capacity of INAN with the assistance of universities and other independent
agencies. Evaluation activities would be supported closely in an anticipated
intensive work program for project supervision.
6.09      Malnutrition in Brazil is not only a consequence of underdevelopment
but is a contributing factor, a drag on the potential from which better nutri-
tion might be provided. The problem cannot be viewed in isolation; nutrition
is one of many interrelated determinants requiring advancement. Under certain
circumstances, however, better nutrition may be a pre-condition to the advance-
merit of the other factors and a propellant to many forms of production. Just
as the Government's food and nutrition program (PRONAN) is part of its larger
development effort, the project is part of and complements a constellation of
Bank-assisted actions ranging from improving the efficiency of the education
system to increasing agricultural production. With regard to the latter, ex-
perience in Brazil has demonstrated that agricultural growth, of itself, is
insufficient to meet nutritional needs within a satisfactory time period. In-
clusion of nutrition considerations in agricultural policies and explicit com-
plementary actions, especially to meet distributional needs, are required.
The project helps provide for initial actions necessary to bring about such
changes.
1/   Document R73-247; discussed by Board November 27, 1973.
2/   Rate of return estimates have been attempted on investments in better
nutrition by Selowsky and Taylor, ("The Economics of Malnourished Children:
An Example of Disinvestments in Human Capital", Economic Development
and Cultural Change, October, 1973), but for want of basic data heroic
assumptions necessarily were used. In their study that compared nutrition
levels and IQ differences of Chilean children with IQ and productivity
(or wages) of Chilean workers, the potential increase in earnings from
investment in child feeding that would offset nutritional deficiencies
during the critical periods of growth was estimated to be 20% or more.
Even if these benefits have been overestimated by a factor of 2, this
would still provide a satisfactory rate of return.



- 34 -
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Assurances were received from the Government that:
(a) the design of the nutrition survey (IBGE) would be
completed by January 31, 1977 (para. 3.02);
(b) INAN would develop consistent measurement bases for
evaluation of the several delivery system tests and
would seek to set them up by January 31, 1977 (para.
3.05);
(c) upper limits would be set on the size of agricultural
credit loans on subsidized terms to ensure that they
are available only to small farmers (para. 3.07);
(d) INAN would establish the Food Advisory Board to prepare
food specifications by January 31, 1977 (para. 3.16);
(e) INAN publication of the specifications in (c) above and
the establishment of detailed criteria for food process-
ing loans would precede the granting of loans under the
BNDE component of the project (para. 3.20);
(f) proceeds of repayment of the principal and interest on
BNDE loans for production of low-cost nutritious foods
in the project would be used for similar purposes (para
3.20);
(g) the special project unit in INAN administering this proj-
ect at all times would be under the direction of a coor-
dinator whose qualifications are acceptable to the Bank
(para. 4.03);
(h) in preparing a national nutrition action program to suc-
ceed the present PRONAN, INAN would take into account the
findings and recommendations of the tests, studies and
surveys included in the project, as well as the expe-
rience gained in executing PRONAN, and would exchange
views with the Bank on development of that action program
(para. 4.04);
(i) the Deliberative Council of INAN would review the project
on a semi-annual basis and communicate to the Bank the
results of such review and action thereon (para. 4.06);
(j) the appropriate execution or modification of contractual
agreements between INAN and IBGE, BNDE, EMBRATER, SUPLAN,
ITAL, SESP and FINEP, and between EMBRATER and the Bank



- 35 -
of Brazil would be conditions of disbursement of respec-
tive portions of the proceeds of the loan (para. 4.07);
and
(k) suitable audit arrangements would be provided (para. 5.05).
7.02      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$19 million
for a term of 18 years including a five year grace period.






Annex 1
Page 1
MALNUTRITION IN BRAZIL
_ntroduction
1.       Information on nutritional status in Brazil is inadequate to pro-
vide direction concerning the most effective deployment of substaatial
national nutrition program resources. Over the years a number of isolated
studies have been undertaken of specific deficiencies among specific groups
in specific locales. The studies, however, have lacked commonality in design,
have been of uneven quality and often were undertaken sufficiently long ago
to be of questionable relevance in a society as rapidly changing as Brazil's.
There has, to our knowledge, been no continuity in the studies to reflect
changes in the nutritional conditions of the same people over time.
2.       Nonetheless, the many spot studies that have been collected and
anaalyzed permit sufficient general observations and preliminary conclusions
concerning Brazil's nutritional status to orient the project until the food
consumption surveys being undertaken by the Brazilian Institute for Geography
and Statistics (IBGE) and follow-on nutrition status surveys to be sponsored
by the project can provide more precise guidance. On an average per capita
basis the country is self-sufficient in calories and animal and vegetable
proteins. However, existing studies indicate that more than half the popula-
tion suffers from calorie and protein malnutrition, and deficiency diseases
sach as anemia, endemic goiter, and hypovitaminosis A are widespread. Mal-
nutrition affects the pre-school age group most severely, reducing physical
and mental development and resistance to infectious diseases, and contributes
to high infant mortality and sub-optimal performance both as children and in
slubsequent years. 1/ Among the school age population, the effects of mal-
nuatrition can be traced in poor performance in school, high rates of absen-
teeism and dropouts. 2/ Malnutrition among adults is reflected in reduced
productivity (see paras 2.06 - .11 of main text).
Food Production and Consumption
3.       Brazil's National Food Commission estimated the average per capita
daily food available for human consumption for the years 1960-1968, at 2,900
calories and 63 grams of protein, more than 15% above recommended allowances.
(Table 1). Increase in food production in the last ten years has been main-
tained above the increase in population for several food commodities. A
recent study by the Vargas Foundation on per capita food consumption 3/
demonstrated the average diet for 1970 was adequate in all nutrients except
1/   See Nutrition Policy Guidelines, Document R73-247.
2/   A. deOrague, "Scientific Study of Malnutrition as a Limiting Factor in
the Development of Education" UNESCO, February 1971.
3/   "Food Consumption in Brazil - Family Budget Surveys in the Early 1960s",
Getulio Vargas Foundation, November 1970.



Annex 1
Page 2
vitam;n A (42% of the recommended allowance). The forecast to 1980, based
on the rate of agriculture growth, is that a per capita Brazilian diet would
include 3,000 to 3,300 calories and 73 to 78 grams of protein.
Nutritional Needs
4.        In contrast to the food per capita averages is substantial evidence
of prevalent malnutrition. The Vargas Foundation study indicated that 61%
of the urban and 63% of the rural population in the Northeast had inadequate
nutritional intakes. There are similar findings in other areas of the
country (Table 2). Calculations based on these data suggest that almost half
of the total Brazilian population has protein and calorie deficiency. An
additional segment of the population has just protein deficiency; only a third
of the population has adequate protein and calorie intake. Estimates were made
that 1.2 million Brazilian children under 5 years of age are subject to a high
risk of malnutrition (Table 3).
Infant Mortality and Malnutrition
5.        A 1973 Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) study 1/ showed high
rates of infant mortality in Brazil (91/1000 in Recife and 65/1000 in Sao
Paulo compared to 20/1000 in North America) and that malnutrition and im-
maturity 2/ were important causes. Sixty percent of the infant mortality
in Recife and between a third to a half in other areas of Brazil studied
(cf., Franca, Ribeirao Preto, and Sao Paulo) was directly related to mal-
nutrition (compared to 32% in Mexico and Chile, 24% in Jamaica and 10% in
North America). Mortality among children 1-4 years of age was also found to
be high. The average mortality in eleven cities in the Northeast was reported
(in 1967-68) to be 11.4/1000 and between 4.5 to 4.8/1000 in the city of Sao
Paulo. 3/ This compares to .8/1000 in North America. About half of all
deaths in the 1-4 year age group are caused by infectious diseases and
children with nutritional deficiencies are highly susceptible to such disease.
Nutritional deficiency was the principal cause in 11% of the deaths in Recife
and was a contributory cause to a further 50%. For Sao Paulo, the comparable
figures were 7% and 29% respectively. 4/
1/   "Patterns of Mortality in Childhood", Pan American Health Organiza-
tion, 1973.
2/   Immaturity (less than 2,500 grams of body weight at birth) is generally
related to malnutrition of the mother. Infant mortality in immature
children is much higher than in children born with normal weight.
3/   Beghin, I., III Western Hemisphere Nutrition Congress, Miami, 1971 and
Guedes, J.C., Thesis: School of Hygiene and Public Health, University
of Sao Paulo, respectively.
4/   "Patterns of Mortality in Childhood", Pan American Health Organization,
1973.



Annex 1
Page 3
Most Predominant Forms of Malnutrition
Protein-Calorie Malnutrition
6.       Widespread protein-calorie malnutrition in pre-school children
has been reported in practically all areas where studies have been made.
In Pernambuco, well over half the children are reportedly malnourished.
In Ceara, in a study covering 14 municipalities, two-thirds of the 1-4
year old children studied were malnourished; and in the city of Sao Paulo,
one-third of the children studied were protein-calorie deficient. A current
study in Sao Paulo 1/ is reaching similar conclusions in a representative
sample of 500 children of 6 to 60 months old representing 500 different
families at 5 income levels. Malnutrition, as expected, was more frequent
(30%) in the children from families with less than 1.5 minimum salaries
(per capita/month) but was also observed in families (15%) with income
over 1.5 minimum salaries. On the average, 30% of the children studied
showed anthropometric signs (e.g., less than normal weight, height) of mal-
nutrition. At the lower income level (per capita income of less than $300
per year) 48% of the children had such signs. Another study 2/ demonstrated
low weight and height values among the 7 to 8.5 year old children of low
income families in several Brazilian states (Ceara, Paraiba, Pernambuco,
Minas Gerais, Guanabara, Sao Paulo, and Rio Grande do Sul), an accepted in-
dication that these children had been malnourished at pre-school age. Data
collected at 14 hospitals in Brazil indicated that a large percentage of
children under 5 years of age being admitted showed clear evidence of mal-
nutrition. Of 945 children under two years of age admitted to hospitals in
Sao Paulo, only 27% were normal for height and weight; 45% had second degree
malnutrition (less than 60-75% of normal body weight) or third degree mal-
nutrition (less than 60% of normal body weight). 3/
Anemia
7.       The Interdepartmental Committee on Nutrition for National Develop-
ment (ICNND) survey in 1965 in the Northeast 4/ detected, among all age groups,
anemia, usually caused by iron deficiency. In the city of Sao Paulo, anemia
is frequent in children of 6 to 60 months of age, mainly in the low income
1/   Institute of Preventive Medicine, Paulista School of Medicine and Insti-
tute of Economic Research, University of Sao Paulo. At this writing,
the data are being analyzed.
2/   III Simposio Brasileiro de Alimentacao e Nutricao - Belo Horizonte, 1971.
3/   Rosenburgo, C. Thesis:  School of Public Health, University of Sao Paulo,
1970.
4/   Interdepartmental Committee on Nutrition for National Development Survey -
Brazilian Northeast, Washington, D.C., 1965.



Annex 1
Page 4
groups (Table 4): 63% of the cases were in the age group 6 to 24 months.
A study in the Southern littoral in Sao Paulo showed less than a danger-
ously low 10 grams of haemoglobin for 11% of the population in Iguape,
41% in Pontal da Ribeira, and 46% in Icapara.
8.       The 1973 PAHO study reported 21.8% of deaths in children under 5
years of age had anemia as an associated cause of death. Pregnant women are
especially susceptible to anemia. A higher incidence of maternal deaths,
stillbirths and premature births has been observed among anemic women.
Anemia in Brazil is usually caused by iron deficiency caused by low iron
intake, intestinal parasites, or both. Iron deficiency anemia is responsi-
ble for lethargy, fatigue, and high susceptibility to infection.
Avitaminosis A
9.       The Northeast Section of Brazil reportedly is one of the areas of
the world most seriously affected by vitamin A deficiency. The high preva-
lence of vitamin A deficiency was reported on the basis of studies showing
low retinal intake and on clinical signs (ocular and cutaneous).
10.      Average per capita consumption of vitamin A in three communities
in the Northeast was much lower than other Latin American countries studied.
Analysis of 1,045 individuals from the rural population revealed that about
one-fifth of pre-school children had low vitamin A blood levels. 1/ Studies
in Sao Paulo showed that one quarter of 1,078 migrants from several Brazilian
areas had low vitamin A blood values: in the Southern littoral of Sao Paulo,
sub-normal values were observed in high percentages of the population (Iguapa,
20%; Icapara, 48%; Pontal de Rebeira, 55%). 2/ Another study showed that the
vitamin A intake of close to 60% of 6-60 month old children was below accep-
table levels; 43% of these come from low income families. Ocular signs of
severe vitamin A deficiency were frequently observed in young children ad-
mitted to hospitals in Fortaleza (Ceara) and Natal (Rio Grande de Norte). 3/
11.      A large part of the Brazilian population is in a marginal state of
vitamin A deficiency although there are seldom severe clinical manifesta-
tions, Should the situation deteriorate as it has in the past under pro-
longed periods of drought in the Northeast, repercussions can be serious.
Prolonged vitamin A deficiency can cause serious clinical lesions of the
eye (xerophthalmia and keratomalacia) which damage vision and are a principal
cause of blindness. Subclinical vitamin A deficiency affects growth and the
duration and severity of other nutrition-related illnesses.
1/   Roncada, M.J.,  Niveis "Serco de Vitamin A e Caroteno em Tran-
sito pela Central de Triagem e Encaminhamento (ENTREN) no Capital do
Estado de Sao Paulo." School of Hygiene and Public Health, University
of Sao Paulo, 1972.
2/   Roncada, M. J.,  "Contribuicao para o Estudo da Hipo-Vitaminose
A. Niveis Sericos de Vitamina A e Caroteno em Tres Populacoes Litoraneas
do Estado de Sao Paulo: Iguape, Icapara e Pontal da Ribeira." School of
Hygiene and Public Health, University of Sao Paulo, 1970.
3/   Simmons, W. C. (PAHO) and Bezerra, L., Unpublished.



Annex I
Page 5
Endemic Goiter
12.      High prevalence of endemic goiter, due to iodine deficiency, has
been reported for a large percentage of the population in the South, Central
Weist and Southeast. From a survey 17 years ago with 900,000 sample popula-
tion covering 1,129 facilities in 19 states, it was concluded that 11 mil-
lion persons had iodine deficient diets. 1/ The ICNND study in the North-
east detected goiter in 22% of the girls 10-14 years of age. A study in
the State of Sao Paulo covering 56,230 school children indicated goiter at
different degrees in about 50% of the children in the interior, and about 7%
in the capital. Uncontrolled severe iodine deficiency causes dwarfism and
deaf-mutism.
Socio-economic and Cultural Factors
Income
1-3.     The apparent contrast between food production and prevalence of
mealnutrition can be explained in part by the low income of substantial
portions of the population. According to a 1969 study by the Brazilian
Northeast Bank covering 15 cities, 50 to 62% of the income was concentrated
irn 20% of the population, while 40% received only 10 to 15% (Table 5) and 60%
of the population was receiving per capita incomes unlikely to provide basic
nutritional requirements. According to the same report, the situation showed
little improvement during the past decade (Table 6). A study for the city
of' Sao Paulo by the Institute of Economic Research (IPE), reported that more
than 40% of the families were living on less than a minimum salary (US$50
per capita/month) and spending 50% or more of their incomes on food.
14.      This situation is aggravated by the continuous reduction due to
inflation in purchasing power of a minimum salary as compared to the retail
prices of food. A 1969 study demonstrated that the cost of the basic diet
(comprising thirteen products) increased from 43% (1958) to 107% (1969) of
the minimum salary. 2/
Aricultural Policies
151       Brazilian agricultural policies in the past have seldom consciously
taken into account the nutritional needs of specific age and income segments
of the population. Brazilian agriculture has grown at an average of 6.5%
over the last five years, with much of the increase attributed to the Govern-
ment's drive to increase export and import substitution crops. In some
instances the emphasis on production of certain export crops has had the
effect of displacing basic food crops for domestic consumption and such
I/   Mederios Neto, G. "Endemic Goiter in Brazil", PAHO, Scientific Publica-
tion 193, Washington, D. C. 1969.
2/   Ribeiro, H. P. "Alimentacao como Indicador da Triagem Socio-Economica",
(mimeo), 1969.



Annex I
Page 6
substitution may not have had, at least in the short term, a positive impact
on the nutritional status of the poor. Government agricultural services have
concentrated attention on large-scale farms, emphasizing export and import
substitution crops. Small farmers in the Northeast, for example, generally
have had limited, if any, access to agricultural credit and rural extension,
although basic food crops constitute the main production of these farms.
Similarly, funds for agricultural production research have not been deployed
in a manner to increase crop production by small farm owners, sharecroppers
and tenant farmers. The lack of on-farm storage facilities and access to
larger storage facilities has had the effect of forcing the rural poor to
sell products at low prices during harvest season and to buy them back later
at higher prices for family consumption. Moreover, basic social and institu-
tional patterns including concentration of land ownership, a sharecropping
system, marketing deficiencies and an inadequate social infrastructure, serve
as underlying constraints to improvement in the nutritional condition.
Product Availability
16.       Although Brazil has a large food industry, only modest attention
to date has been directed to developing and marketing low-cost nutritious
products, in part because profitability from producing such foods was unclear.
Similarly, the several food technology institutes in Brazil have not given
priority attention to the needs of low-income consumers. Also, grain pro-
ducts such as wheat flour and corn meal, lose some of their important
nutrients during processing. Whereas fortification of the processed grain
with vitamins and minerals is now standard practice in many industrialized
countries, in Brazil it is not. Brazil has a program to iodize salt, but
the performance is not fully effective. The Health Ministry reports that
approximately 50% of the salt used for human consumption is fortified.
Sanitation
17.       In urban areas, problems of inadequate food intake are exacerbated
by infections derived from unsanitary conditions and inadequate personal
hygiene. In the low-income Encruzilhada section of Recife, where sanitary
conditions are highly inadequate, infant mortality and the death rate of
children under 5 years of age are the highest reported for an urban area
in the Western Hemisphere.
Breastfeeding
18.      With only a few exceptions, wherever studied, breastfeeding is de-
clining in Brazil, 1/ as in many countries in the world. During the ICNND
survey in the Northeast (1965), it was observed that half of the children
were completely weaned by the fifth to sixth month and only 10% were main-
tained on breast milk until this age. (Although no statistics are avail-
able, health experts observe that the decline since 1965 probably has been
considerable.) In 65% of the ICNND cases, weaning was related to maternal
1i   The northern portion of the state of Goias and the arid zone of Pernam-
buco are two areas where prolonged breastfeeding was reported.



Annex I
Page 7
decisions: 41% of the mothers claimed that they could not produce enough
milk although scientists conservatively estimate 85% of all women have the
capacity to breastfeed for six months or longer. Even poor diet of the
mother does not affect the quantity of the milk. Premature weaning occurred
even though more than half of the mothers admitted that breast milk is the
best food for children until the sixth month of age.
19.      Although most of the mothers recognize that cow's or goat's milk
is the best substitute for breast milk, they usually feed their babies on
manioc gruel (which when mixed with water looks like milk but has almost no
protein). Mothers are reluctant to give children fruits or vegetables;
meats and eggs are considered noxious. At the age of about one year, the
chiLldren are fed the adults' diet without any precaution for pureeing and
mashing the foods. There appears to be little understanding of the adequate
amounts to be given or of elementary practices of hygiene and child feeding.



Annex 1
Page 8
TABLE 1
CALORIES AND PROTEIN AVAIIABLE FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION
IN BRAZIL (1960 TO 1968)
Year                Calories                          Protein
Total        Animal
1960                 2,870                        54            21
1961                 2,830                        60            16
1962                 2,980                        65            20
1963                 2,900                        65            20
1964                 2,900                        63            18
1965                 3,030                       64             18
1966                 2,730                        60            18
1967                 2,990                        66            18
1968                 2,900                        63            19
Average               2,903.3                     63.3           18.7
Source:   Comissao Nacional de Alimentaqao (CNA), 1970.



Annex 1
Page 9
TABLE 2
(1.)
REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF CALORIE AND PROTEIN INTAKE FOR LOW INCOME GROUPS
(1961-1962)
Percentage of the                               Protein
Area        Population in the           Calories/
Low Income Range(1)            day          Total      Animal
NORTHEAST
Urban                61%                    1,763           57          23
Rural                63%                    1,820            58         22
EAST
Urban                 36%                   1,670            48         14
Rural                 47%                   2,115            56         15
SOUTH
Urban                 25%                   1,809            44         12
Rural                 36%                   22600            76         24
BRAZ L
Urban                 36%                   1,756           49          13
Rural                 46%                   2,200            62         20
(1)  The sample was divided into eight income groups. The fi-u.re6 in this
column represent the lower income groups.
Source: Food Consumption in Brazil- Getulio Vargas Foundation, 1970.



Annex 1
Page 10
TABLE 3
ESTIMATED NUNBER OF CHILDREN FROM 0 TO 5 YEARS OF AGE AT HIGH RISK OF
MALNUTRITION, IN FIVE AREAS OF BRAZIL
Number of children from 0-5 years of
Area                               age at high risk of malnutrition
Urban            Rural             Total
North                             18,000          34,000            82,000
Northeast                        348,000         120,000           468,000
Central West                      32,000          30,000            62,000
South                             97,000          37,000           134,000
Southeast                        377,000         121,000           498,000
Total                            902,000         342,000         1,2414,000
Source:   Food Consumption in Brazil, Getulio Vargas Foundation, 1970.



Annex 1
Page 11
TABLE 4
CHILDREN 6 To 60 MONTHS OLD WITH ANEMIA, CITY OF SAO PAULO
(100 children per income group; one child per family)
Per Capita Income                                                 Children with
(minimum salaries/month)                                            Anemia
< 0.5                                                               23
0.5-1.0                                                           16
1.0-1.5                                                            8
1.5-2.5                                                           10
-7 2.5                                                               6
Total                                                                  63
1/ A minimum salary corresponds to approximately US $50.
Source: Department of Preventive Medicine, Paulista School of Medicine and
Institute of Economic Research. Data being analyzed now.



ANNEX 1
Page 12
TABLE 5
DISTRIBUTION OF FAMILY INCOME FOR 15 CITIES OF THE BRAZILIAN NORTHEAST
(Brazilian Northeast Bank, 1969)
(Each group represents one-fifth of the total population.
The figures indicate the percentage of total income being
received by the group.)
1st.      2nd.      3rd.      4th.      5th.
Cities         Group     Group     Group     Group      Group      Total
Recife                3,2       8,3      10,9       21,2      56,4      100,00
Salvador              3,8       7,7      13,9       23,6      51,1      100,00
Fortaleza             5,3       8,8      14,4       22,5      49,0      100,00
Natal                 4,6      10,9      13,0       20,8      50,7      100,00
Maceio                3,9       7,3      12,6       21,3      54,9      100,00
Joao Pessoa           2,8       6,5      12,9       23,7      54,1      100,00
Sao Luis              4,6       8,5      13,2       21,4      52,3      100,00
Teresina              4,0       7,3      12,4       22,2      54,1      100,00
Feira de Santana      4,0       7,9       13,2      22,9      52,0      100,00
Campina Grande        2,7       5,7      11,2       20,9      59,5      100,00
Caruaru               3,1       8,8      11,3       20,7      56,1      100,00
Sobral                3,2       6,4       10,7      21,1      58,6      100,00
Parnaiba              3,1       6,8       11,4      20,6      58,1      100,00
Alagoinhas            3,7        8,1      12,8      22,2      53,2      100,00
Montes Claros         3,4        6,3      10,7      16,7      61,9       100,00



Annex 1
Page 13
TABLE 6
CHANGES IN DISTHIBUTION OF FAMILY INCOME FOR 8 CITIES
OF THE BRAZILIAN NORTHEAST DURING THE SIXTIES.
(Brazilian Northeast Bank, 1969)
(Each group represents one-fifth of the total population.
The figures indicate the percentage of the total income
received by the group.)
1st.      2nd.      3rd.      4th.      5th.
Cities       Group      Group     Group     Group     Group     Total
Recife
-October/1960              1 ,5          14,5      21,9      47,1      100,0
-March/1967           3,2       8,3      10,9      21,2      56,4      100,0
Salvardo
-1962                 5,6       8,5      13,6      21,8      50,5      100,0
-August/1966          3,8       7,7      13,9      23,6      51,0      100,0
Fortaleza
-1962                3,0       11,2      16,0      15,0      49,8      100,0
-July/1965            5,3       8,8      14,4      22,5      49,0      100,0
Natal
-November/1964        5,2       8,6      15,0      22,2      49,0      100,0
-July/1.966          4,2       10,9      13,2      20,9      30,8      100,0
Maceio
-April/1964               1 4            12,0      20,1      52,5      100,0
-March/1968           3,9       7,3      12,6      21,3      54,9      100,0
Joao Pessoa
-November/1965        5,0       8,1      14,8      20,7      50,8      100,0
-July/1967            2,8       6,5      12,9      23,7      54,1      100,0
Sao Luis
-Septezber/1963       3,6      11,7      15,9      22,9      43,9      100,0
-February/1967        4,6       8,5      13,2      21,4      52,3      100,0
Campina. Grande
-May/15962                 1,2           13,8      21,3      48,7      100,0
-July/1967            2,7       5,7      11,2      20,9      59,5      100,0






Annex 2
Page 1
NUTRITION SURVEY AND AGRICULTURAL POLICY
RESEARCH AND PLANNING STUDIES
A. Program Synopsis
1.       Improved information on nutritional conditions and the nutritional
implications of related government policies is important to the formulation
and evaluation of an effective nutritional policy. The project aims to help
develop this information through: (a) a nationwide nutrition survey which
would be carried out by and supplement the work of the Brazilian Institute for
Geography and Statistics (IBGE) and the establishment of a permanent nutri-
tional surveillance system at IBGE; and, (b) a research and studies program
concerned with the nutritional implications of agricultural policies to be
carried out with the assistance of universities and other research groups and
administered by the Secretariat of Planning of the Ministry of Agriculture
(SUPLAN). The nutrition survey would provide more precise information on
nutritional conditions and practices, particularly for priority target groups
-- pre-school children up to five years of age, pregnant women, and women
lactating during six months following childbirth. Agricultural policy re-
search and planning studies would provide pertinent information to the Govern-
ment on the nutritional consequences of its agricultural policies and programs.
Resuilts of the nutrition survey and the research and planning studies are
expected to be available for analysis and review by INAN from the third year
of the project period and would serve to guide INAN in the formulation of the
national nutrition plan.
B. Nutrition Survey and Monitoring System
2.       Nutrition Survey.  IBGE currently is conducting a national quarterly
survey of household expenditures and food consumption covering some 55,000
families throughout Brazil. The survey provides detailed socio-economic data,
inc'Luding education, employment, income, expenditure, and food consumption
levels by family. IBGE would conduct the nutrition status survey proposed as
part of the project as a subsample of the on-going food consumption survey,
and cover a representative nationwide sample. 1/ A methodology would be
developed for the nutrition survey that would elicit the important relationship
between the food consumption data being collected and nutrition status. In
addition to the main nutrition survey, the project includes several smaller
nutrition surveys organized by administering agencies of project components,
covering the populations subjected to alternative nutrition intervention tests.
As a basis for subsequent analysis, a common methodology would be developed by
INAN and IBGE for all the nutrition surveys.
1/   Exact numbers to be determined by nutrition survey experts as part of
design.



Annex 2
Page 2
3.       The main nutrition survey would be limited to basic required infor-
mation not now available: (a) intra-family food distribution; (b) maternal
knowledge, attitudes and practices regarding breastfeeding, weaning diets
and childfeeding; (c) anthropometric measurement of height, weight and arm
circumference of target groups; (d) morbidity rates in children up to 5 years
of age; and (e) pregnancy histories of women in the child-bearing ages. The
nutrition survey would be repeated after an interval of two years to assess
the nutritional impact of various government policies and direct nutrition
intervention programs. IBGE is developing criteria for the selection of
samples to provide a high enough sampling ratio to give reliable information
on nutritional conditions and on the impact of planned interventions in de-
fined geographical areas. Comparable areas with and without nutrition programs
would be selected. Urban municipios tentatively selected based on the IBGE
sample are Belem (North) Recife (Northeast), Sao Paulo (South-Central), and
Belo Horizonte (Central). The selection of rural municipios would be based on
the findings of the current food consumption survey.
4.       Permanent Surveillance System.  A permanent nutritional surveillance
unit would be established in IBGE in collaboration and through a convenio with
INAN. The purpose of the unit is to ensure periodic surveillance of national
(and, when appropriate, regional) nutrition conditions and to furnish early
warning signals to policy makers regarding the emergence of nutritional defi-
ciencies. The surveillance unit would undertake on a periodic basis sample
surveys of nutritional conditions and family expenditure studies among target
groups. It would liaise, effective from the period of its establishment, with
the INAN Planning Office which would relate the IBGE findings to the SUPLAN
studies (see below) and other relevant data necessary to fulfill its planning
responsibilities. The nutritional surveillance unit would consist of two
professionals with supporting staff, and would be located in IBGE.
5.       Organization, Implementation, Costs.  IBGE would be responsible for
conducting the nutrition survey, utilizing its organizational infrastructure
and staff that is currently engaged (with the assistance of two full-time
FAO experts) in the household budget and food consumption survey. Data
processing and data storage would be performed through the IBGE data bank
in Rio de Janeiro.
6.       A Nutrition Survey Advisory Council would be established consisting
of representatives of INAN, IBGE and several Brazilian nutritionists as well
as from agencies with operational programs and universities. The Advisory
Council would assist IBGE to ensure that the nutrition survey is relevant and
applicable to nutritional planning needs, and to facilitate use of informa-
tion provided by the survey.
7.       Preparation of the nutrition survey by IBGE in consultation with the
Nutrition Survey Advisory Council, including final determination of size and
location of samples and refinement of questionnaires based on field testing,
is to be completed by January 31, 1977. Data collection is expected to take
about nine months, and data processing and analysis about three months. The
survey is to be repeated with a sub-sample of participants after two years.



Annex 2
Page 3
8.       Survey costs are primarily the costs of salaries and special
equipment. The costs (shown in Annex 11) have been derived from the unit
costs of the on-going food consumption survey since accurate cost estimates
of the nutrition survey cannot be made before detailed questionnaires and
schedules are developed. The IBGE staff which is undertaking the food con-
sumption survey would, after further training, conduct the nutrition survey
with additional contracted assistance from medical specialists. The unit
costs of the nutrition survey are not expected to vary significantly from
the on-going survey.
C. Nutritional Policy Research and Planning Studies
Related to Agriculture
9.       Agriculture policies, although seldom explicitly recognized as such,
are important determinants of the nutritional status of the population. The
project would (a) establish a nutrition unit in the Secretariat of Planning
(SUPLAN) of the Ministry of Agriculture; and, (b) fund research designed to
assist the nutrition unit.  The research would be carried out by universities
and other research groups.
10.      The nutrition unit in SUPLAN would project national food supplies
for different socio-economic groups, review and analyze the nutrition impli-
cations of alternative food/agricultural strategies for these groups, and
assure the findings are considered by the Ministries of Agriculture, Planning,
and Finance in the formulation of agricultural plans and programs. It would
also coordinate contracted research studies to provide additional information
for the above analysis. 1/ The unit would ensure that the research would be
oriented towards the generation of specific policy alternatives, and that the
research should attempt to examine alternative policy measures and their
implications for different groups in the population. Research would be
concentrated in those regions with known nutritional deprivation such as
the Northeast of Brazil. Supplementary data presently available and that
being collected by IBGE through its surveys would be fully utilized. In
its annual report to the Social Development Council, INAN would reflect
the effect of national agricultural policies on nutrition.
11.       The unit which would strengthen existing SUPLAN staff would consist
of a full-time coordinator, three assistants and support staff. The duties
of the coordinator with respect to contracted research are described in para.
13. Eight man-years of consultancy would be provided to assist the research
groups in the universities as well as SUPLAN in integrating nutrition surveys
and research findings with agricultural research and planning. The staffing
of the unit is shown below:
1/   Examples of studies proposed by universities or research groups in
Brazil and a list of the universities which have prepared research
proposals in agricultural nutrition policy are appended.



Annex 2
Page 4
Coordinator                 1
Assistants to Coordi-
nator                     3
Researchers                 3
Research Assistants         2
Accountant                  1
12.       Implementation, Program Coordination, Costs.  The agricultural
policy research and planning studies proposed as part of the project would
be administered by SUPLAN under a convenio with INAN. A Research Programs
Committee, which would meet at least twice a year, would be established
under the chairmanship of the Subsecretary for Planning (or his designated
representative) and would consist of the presidents or designated represen-
tatives of EMBRAPA, INAN, EMBRATER, and a representative from one of the
universities or research institutes as indicated by the Subsecretary. The
full-time coordinator mentioned earlier would be appointed by the Subsecretary
for Planning to serve as the Secretary of the Research Programs Committee
and to supervise the research projects undertaken by the universities and
other agencies.
13.       The Research Programs Committee would establish objectives, bud-
gets and schedules for the research projects, select research proposals, and
conduct periodic reviews and evaluations of research projects and supervise
the work of the coordinator. Responsibilities of the coordinator would
include: (a) identification of research priorities and solicitation of pro-
posals from appropriate institutions to undertake the research, (b) prelim-
inary evaluation of research proposals submitted to SUPLAN for approval;
(c) monitoring of the progress of projects through field visits and analy-
sis of progress reports; and (d) preparation of annual reports on the status
of research activities.
14.       Research programs for each year would be approved in advance by the
Research Programs Committee. The cost of research and planning studies activ-
ities (shown in Annex 11) includes the costs of the nutritional planning unit
at SUPLAN and the research activities to be undertaken by the various univer-
sities and other agencies under contract.
1/   EMBRAPA is the Brazilian Enterprise for Agricultural Research.
EMBRATER is the Brazilian Enterprise for Technical Assistance and
Rural Extension.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 1
Examples of Studies
1.        Following are capsule illustrations of the types of studies pro-
posed by universities or research groups in Brazil to be undertaken as part
of this component:
(a) Factors Affecting Production of Basic Food Staples
2.        Many observers have noted that yields of staple food crops have
stagnated in Brazil, while yields of other agricultural crops have improved.
Similarly, total production of other crops has expanded faster than the pro-
duction of staple food crops. The research project's objective is to ana-
lyze the role of public policies with respect to price incentives, invest-
ment in agricultural research and marketing infrastructure and farm credit
in this development pattern. Particular attention will be given to the dis-
tribution and production of various crops among regions and farm tenure
structure.
3.        Most of the data needed for this project is expected to be avail-
able. New data will need to be generated on the direction and magnitude of
agricultural research and extension devoted to different crops.
(b) Size and Causes of Variation of Food Prices Among Rural Areas
4.        The promotion of food production in every rural area is often ad-
vocated as an instrument of reducing malnutrition. The underlying presumption
is that more local production of food, as distinct from more generation of
income, leads to higher food consumption by the residents of the area. Pre-
sumably, more ample local food production assures more reliable and larger
supplies at lower costs.
5.        To the extent that food production and consumption data, disaggre-
gated by small regions, become available, direct testing of the hypothesis
will be feasible. In the meantime, or concurrently, inferences can be drawn
on the basis of a comparative study of food prices in rural areas. For in-
stance, it is known that local food price data are available for the North-
east. Proceeding from these data, it should be possible to explain observed
price differences on the basis of food production in the periphery of local
markets and the distance to alternative sources of supply.
(c) The Effect of Income and Price Changes on Food and Nutrient Consump-
tion
6.        Past studies in Brazil already supply clear evidence that the con-
sumLption of food and specific nutrients is highly correlated with family in-
come.  However, much more precise estimates are needed of the effect of mar-
ginal income and food price changes on the nutritional well-being of the
undernourished population.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 2
7.        It is proposed to construct matrices of the percent changes in the
consumption of calories and proteins for given percent changes in family in-
come and an array of food and other prices for a number of socio-economic
classes in urban and rural areas of Brazil. The basic data will be provided
by the current IBGE food consumption survey and follow-up surveys.
(d) Effects of Nutritional Status on Agricultural Productivity
8.        Two types of productivity studies are being considered:  the rela-
tion between workers' productivity and their nutritional status and the impact
of child malnutrition on educational and subsequent work performance. Feeding
programs for workers in Brazilian agro-industries have never been adequately
evaluated. The cost of these programs and the direct and indirect benefits
might be suggestive not only for decisions about further extension of such
programs to industrial enterprises but also for assessing possible inclusion
of nutrition programs for workers in rural construction, rural roads and other
agriculture-related activities. Inasmuch as the Brazilian economy's absorp-
tive capacity for skilled and professional personnel far exceeds the supply,
it is particularly appropriate in Brazil to study the effect of improved
child nutrition on educational performance and the subsequent effects on
productivity.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Universities Which Have Prepared Proposals for Research in
Agricultural Nutrition Policy
1.        Universidade Federal do Ceara (Fortaleza), Department of Agricul-
tural Economics, Department of Sociology.
2.        Universidade Federal da Bahia (Salvador), Department of iconomics.
3.        Universidade de Sao Paulo (Sao Paulo), Department of Agricultural
Economics (School of Agriculture), Institute of Economic Research.
4.        Fundacao Getulio Vargas (Rio de Janeiro), Graduate School of Econo-
mics.
5.        Instituto Joaquim Nabuco (Recife), Department of Economics and Socio-
logy.
6.        Federal University of Minas Gerais, School of Agriculture (Vicosa),
Department of Agricultural Economics, Development and Regional
Planning Center.
7.        University of Brasilia (Brasilia), Departments of Economics and
Anthropology.
8.        Centro Brasileiro de Planejamento (Sao Paulo).






Annex 3
Page 1
EMBRATER
INTERVENTION THROUGH THE RURAL EXTENSION AGENCY
Introduction
1.        An innovative component of the proposed project is an experimental
scheme for increasing the output of nutritionally desirable foods by low-
income farmers and in the process improving the nutritional levels of their
families. This component of the project would be implemented in the North-
eastern State of Sergipe by the Empresa de Assistencia Te"cnica e Extensao
Rural-Sergipe (EMATERSE), a state branch of the Brazilian Enterprise for
Technical Assistance and Rural Extension (EMBRATER), the national exten-
sion agency.
2.        Nutrition interventions have been traditionally identified with pro-
grams of food supplementation. This has led to sometimes justified criticism
that feeding programs do not leave a lasting impact on behavior patterns and,
even if they do, the impact cannot be sustained inasmuch as supplementary food
from external sources may not continue to be available. Other efforts for
improving nutrition have concentrated on food production programs. Doubts,
however, have been expressed whether increased food production, of itself, is
sufficient to meet nutritional needs, especially of certain low age and in-
come segments of the society. Similarly, efforts at improving food consump-
tion through nutrition education programs alone appear to have had limited
impact.
Objectives
3.        The proposed project seeks to integrate nutrition education efforts
and agricultural production efforts via extension and agriculture credit and
evaluate their effectiveness in upgrading the nutritional status of a low
income population, in particular the project target group numbers of small
farm families. The overall objective is to identify cost effective ways for
extension to improve the nutritional status of the families of small producers,
whose farms range up to 50 ha. The source of nutritional improvement is
expected to be: (a) better dietary practices through provision of nutrition
education and direct nutrition services; (b) increased consumption of on-farm
production of corn and beans (increased production of vegetables and small
animals in backyard gardens also would be encouraged); and (c) the use of
increased purchasing power (arising from increased agricultural production of
cotton, corn, beans and other crops) in nutritionally beneficial ways. It is
expected that with the modest range of proposed inputs, an assumed increase
per hectare production of about 30% would be realized. In the areas of
Sergipe where the project component would be carried out, existing agricul-
tural technology packages appear satisfactory as a starting point for the
proposed activities (see Appendix 1 for a detailed description of the area
of activity). 1/ Both the extension and cooperative structures are suffi-
ciently organized and motivated to help small farmers, given the assistance
to be provided under the project.
1/   Improved on-farm processing and preservation techniques would be intro-
duced as they are developed at ITAL (see Annex 6).



Annex 3
Page 2
4.        A total of 3,000 small farmers with individual holdings of
generally up to about 50 ha. are expected to be identified in 12 munici-
pios to receive varying combinations and intensities of agricultural and
social extension through a total of 30 agricultural and 30 social exten-
sionists 1/ and 30 health miniposts, each staffed by a health aide.
5        A health minipost is a simplified health unit located in a rural
community organized and partially maintained by those it benefits. Each
minipost has a "health aide", chosen by the community, who carries out such
activities as helping select undernourished children for treatment at re-
ferral centers; guiding pregnant women, nursing women, and mothers in the
preparation and consumption of an adequate diet; encouraging nursing mothers
to breastfeed their children for 18 months, and to begin supplementary feed-
ing at five months; and keeping records showing the weight/size deveiopment
of children under five years of age. The basic health and nutrition services
provided by the miniposts would cover in addition to the families of the
selected farmers, the landless laborers and tenant farmers within the same
areas. By the end of the fourth project year, it is estimated that a total
of 30,000 persons would be covered by health and nutrition services.
6.        Social extension workers would be women recruited to the extent
possible from the local areas. They would receive training in nutrition
and health education, as well as in horticulture (home vegetable gardening,
food preservation). They would assist in training health aides for the
miniposts, and for individual home contacts. Agricultural extensionists
would introduce improved farming practices both on a farm by farm basis
and through group interaction. 2/
Phasing of Implementation
7.        The proposed component will be implemented in two stages:
a.   the preparation stage; and
b.   implementation, contingent upon the Bank's approval of a plan
of operations, which would be drawn up during the preparation
stage.
1/   For definition of social extensionists, see paragraph 3.06 of main
report.
2/   In addition, information on aquaculture practice could be developed and
introduced by the extension service during the project.



Annex 3
Page 3
This two-step approach would allow for the careful preparation of the compo-
nent prior to implementation. Under the guidance of EMBRATER, EMATERSE is in
the process of drawing up a plan of operations and refining the methodology
of evaluation. Consultants from INAN, the Nutrition Research Institute at
Recife, and the School of Agriculture at Vicosa (of the Federal University of
Minas Gerais) are assisting EMATERSE in developing the Plan.
Preparation Stage: The Development of a Plan of Operations
8.        The plan of operations involves:
a.   selection of suitable municipios;
b.   a survey of the socio-economic status of low-income
farmers with generally less than 50 ha.;
c.   identification of 3,000 farmers with holdings generally
less than 50 ha. (see Appendix 2 for suggested guidelines
for the selection of target farms);
d.   drafting of detailed job descriptions and a training program
for all categories of personnel involved in implementing the
project including basic, in-service and refresher training;
e.   drawing up an appropriate action plan for agricultural and
social extensionists in the selected municipios, and
completion of developing the methodology for evaluation;
f.   recruitment and training of the agricultural and social
extensionists and health orienters needed in the second
stage; and
g.   planning of a baseline survey of the nutritional status
of selected farmers' families. 1/
1/   The survey will collect information on intra-family food dis-
tribution; anthropometric measurements; maternal knowledge attitudes
and practices regarding breastfeeding; morbidity rates; pregnancy his-
tories; hemoglobin and haematocrit levels; general information on the
farm and its resources including land owned and rented, land use, improve-
ments, equipment and its use, crops and pasture, livestock management
and production, farm labor supply and use, other inputs (seed, ferti-
lizer, insecticides, etc.), type and capacity of on-farm storage, self-
supply of foods to family and farm employees, sharecroppers (numbers,
land and sharing principles) and gross revenue and family net income.



Annex 3
Page 4
9.        In addition to covering (a) through (g) above, the plan of
operations would include details regarding the availability, at reasonable
prices, of the recommended foods, in particular the availability of suit-
able nutritious foods, agricultural supplies and marketing facilities.
Agreement has been reached that the plan of operations and methodology
of evaluation would be approved by the Bank prior to implementation by
EMBRATER and EMATERSE.
Tests
10.       For purposes of control, a group of municipios outside the proj-
ect area with similar agro-economic and social characteristics would be
identified. Baseline surveys of the nutritional status of the vulnerable
target groups among the small farm families in the test would be carried
out within the preparatory stage. By the end of the project, there would
be another evaluation of the nutritional status of the vulnerable target
groups. The determination of nutritional status would be made through
anthropometric measurements -- weight, height and arm circumference tests --
simple enough to be handled by the social extensionists of the project, with
some training.
11.       The tests would assess the relative improvements in the nutritional
status of tested groups and identify the factors responsible and costs. The
hypothesis being tested is that there is a positive and synergistic relation-
ship between agricultural and social extension efforts on the one hand, and
nutritional improvements on the other. An evaluation of the agricultural
production impact, which takes into consideration both farm and institutional
performance of the project, will be undertaken simultaneously with the study
of improvement of the nutritional status. The data collection would be so
organized that the improvements in nutritional status and production of dif-
ferent groups of farms can be readily analyzed. The results would indicate
cost-effective combinations and intensities of agricultural and social exten-
sion for replication on a wider scale. Based on this evaluation, conclusions
can be drawn on: (a) best deployment of resources between agricultural and
social extensionists; (b) identifying tasks within each group to best util-
ize extension agents in improving nutritional status; and (c) the types of
training which will enable them to best perform these tasks.
12.       This component would be carried out by EMBRATER and its state
affiliate EMATERSE. EMBRATER, a civic, non-profit organization, and its
24 affiliates have a well developed extension system which is active
throughout Brazil. Its 4,400 technicians provide a wide range of agri-
cultural and social services.
13.       Successful implementation of the component requires close coordi-
nation of activities at the national, state, regional and local levels.



Annex 3
Page 5
This coordination is essential if the larger number oE participating govern-
mental and non-governmental agencies 1/ are to work together effectively in
carrying out the plan of operations. To facilitate this cooperation at the
national (policy), state and regional levels, the component would be adminis-
tered by:
a.   a national coordinator with supporting staff (administra-
tive assistant) in EMBRATER;
b.   a state coordinator in EMATERSE heading a special unit in-
cluding an administrative assistant, a nutritionist, and an
agricultural specialist; and
c.   three regional coordinators and supporting staff (each with
a nutritionist, social worker and administrative assistant).
14.       The national coordinator of the EMBRATER component together with
INAN and EMATERSE would be responsible for ensuring that all concerned agen-
cies are involved in the preparation and implementation of the project.
There would be a committee for coordination under the chairmanship of the
State Secretary of Agriculture and including the State Secretary of Planning
and representatives of other relevant agencies. The national coordinator
would serve as secretary of the national coordinating committee. The state
coordinator would be responsible for coordinating the work of the partici-
pating agencies at the state level.
15.       The regional coordinators would oversee the selection, training
and the work of the 30 agricultural extensionists, 30 social extensionists,
30 health aides and 10 administrative assistants. The first two categories
would be available largely from the Agricultural University of Salvador,
Bahia, as well as from the Institute of Nutrition at Recife. Health aides
are expected to have had a minimum four years of schooling. Their further
training for minipost duties would be provided by the State Department of
Health and SESP.
16.       A special project unit in EMATERSE would monitor project de-
velopment and progress. Evaluation of improvement in nutritional status
would be designed by the Institute of Nutrition at Recife in consultation
wiLth the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE) which is
to undertake the national nutrition survey, and by the Rural University
of Vicosa.  The Institute of Nutrition at Recife would have a special
staff to handle this aspect of the project. The methodology and final
1/   Among the participating agencies are: the National Food and Nutrition
Institute (INAN), EMBRATER, EMATERSE, the Bank of Brazil, the Ministries
of Agriculture and Health, SESP, the state government of Sergipe,
cooperatives, the Institute of Nutrition at Recife, the Rural Univer-
sity of Vicosa, and the Brazilian Enterprise for Agricultural Research
(EMBRAPA).



Annex 3
Page 6
evaluation would be approved by a committee of experts including repre-
sentatives of IBGE, the Public Health Services Foundation (SESP), and
the Rural University of Vicosa. Results of evaluation would be placed
before the committee for its recommendations.
17.       Evaluation of the agricultural impact would be undertaken by
the Rural University of Vicosa in terms of production and inputs includ-
ing credit, as well as family net income. It would be so designed as to
take into account the performance of the extension and credit agencies.
The cost and efficiency of these operations would be evaluated as part
of the test. The committee mentioned in paragraph 16 above will super-
vise the evaluation.
Project Components
18.       This component of the project finances:
a.   the provision of 55 vehicles to transport the ex-
tension agents and supervisory staff; 1/
b.   salary support for the additive supervisory and ex-
tension personnel including per diem expenditures;
c.   the provision of furniture and equipment (e.g., type-
writers, desks, mimeograph machines, demonstration
equipment);
d.   operating costs (e.g., for maintenance of vehicles and
buildings); and
e.   credit support to be provided to farmers participating in
the project on terms and conditions generally prevailing
for agricultural credit in the Northeast.
Funding
19.       Estimated costs are indicated in Annex 11.  Funds would be pro-
vided by INAN to EMATERSE through EMBRATER. Credit would be provided by the
Bank of Brazil. It has been assumed that the participating small farmer
would require an annual amount of up to US$1,000 equivalent of agricultural
credit. 2/
1/   A basic'constraint to past extension efforts aimed at reaching small
farmers has been the lack of mobility for extensionists.
2/   EMATERSE has proposed US$2,000 equivalent, the appropriateness of which
is being studied as part of additional preparation by expert consul-
tants to that agency.  Should the higher figure be established, total
credit now listed at US$1.5 million equivalent would increase corres-
pondingly.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 1
The State of Sergipe: Detailed Features
1.        The State of Sergipe is a small State in the Northeast of Brazil
with an estimated population in 19P0 of 900,000. 1/ The population density
is reported at 41.4 persons per km and the population growth rate estimated
to be 2% per year.
2.        The climate is characterized by a dry season lasting from 40 days
in the West to 150-200 days in the Sertao de San Francisco region, with rain-
fall varying from 857 to 704 mm. per annum. The project areas are generally
flat with soils of average texture or with clay and with satisfactory drain-
age. Phosphorus is the main nutrient deficiency in the soil. 50% of the
properties in the project areas are of less than 10 ha.; 37% are between 11
and 50 ha., 70% of the total number of holdings, occupying 97.6% of the area,
are farmed by individual owners.
3.        The project areas for the EMBRATER component (see map) comprise
12 mtnicipios and include some 150,000 people, over 77% of whom are rural
inhabitants (see Table 1).
4.        The State of Sergipe was selected on the basis of the following
criteria:
a.   traditional production of beans, corn, and cotton;
b.   presence of these crops on small properties (up to 50 ha.);
c.   economic importance of these crops in the total production
output of these farm units;
d.   ecological conditions allowing a significant increase in
productivity through the use of modern but simple practices
and equipment;
e.   the presence of a reasonable infrastructure composed of high-
ways which are passable at all times, credit agencies oriented
towards small farmers, public facilities for grain storage
and sales outlets for producers' goods and equipment;
f.   the presence of organized cooperatives and of a strong co-
operatives tradition or the existence of potential for
strengthening the system of cooperatives; and
g.   the existence of a health infrastructure with the possibility
of expanding the coverage of the population in the area where
the project is carried out.
1/   Source:  1970 Census, Instituto Brasilero de Estadistica, Department
of Census, Preliminary data.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 2
5.        Production would be raised by expansion of the area cultivated and
by increased yields of crops. Expansion of cultivation is proposed at a
rate of 1 ha. per year for farms in the under 10 ha. range and from 2 to 4 ha.
per year for farms in the 11 to 50 ha. range. This expansion in cultivated
areas has been achieved in previous extension activities in the State and is
believed feasible. Targets for increased production are being worked out in
the draft plan of operations.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 3
Brazil
Table 1. Population Project Area
Municipalities                Pop.
SERGIPE           Area     Density             Population
Km2      Km2         Total    Urban      Rural
Aquidaba             354      44,94      15,910     4,223   11,687
Carira               769      16.10      12,384     2,249    10,135
Frei Paulo           355      24.61       8,736     2,647     6,089
Garar'u              598      17.87      10,689     1,714     8,975
Itabi                180      27.92       5,025     2,067      2,958
Monte Alegre de Se.  407      16.54       6,730     1,424      5,306
N. S. da Gl6ria      764      17.95      13,716     3,004    10,712
Poco Redondo       1,169       7.95       9,298       811     8,487
Poco Verde           389      28.31      11,012     1,965     9,047
Porto da Folha     1,031      15.44      15,924     4,139    11,785
Ribeir6polis         225      44.84      10,088     3,174      6,914
Simao Dias           500      55.81      27,904     6,542    21,362
Total of Area      6,691      22.03     147,416   ~33959   113,457



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
Criteria for Selection of Target Farms
1.        The project target will consist of small, owner-operated crop
producing farms and families who have development potential, are credit-
worthy and are clustered to facilitate extension. More especially, the
following criteria will be adopted:
a.   farms will be owner-operated and the owner and his family will
reside on the farm. (This is deemed necessary to combine agri-
cultural and nutritional extension.);
b.   farm size generally will not exceed 50 ha. and at least 50% will
be the owner's property in order to facilitate hnxriw9 (e<.
ceptions to the latter could be made where cooperatives are will-
ing to lend to non-land owners);
c.   operations with an estimated pre-project net family income of
more than five annual minimum salaries will be excluded; so will
owners who lease part of their property to share-croppers;
d.   the farm has to feature a minimum of 3 ha. of crops, as the main
extension effort will be concentrated on crop production.   Some
of the pre-project crops have to be for sale (total livestock
farms will be excluded);
e.   minimum gross cash receipts should be equal to 1 annual minimum
salary to enable credit operations commensurate with the goals
of the project; and
f.   the farms serviced by one extensionist will be located within
20 kms. of his or her duty station.



Annex 4
Page 1
TEST OF NUTRITION INTERVENTION THROUGH THE HEALTH
AND COMMERCIAL DELIVERY SYSTEMS
1.        Health delivery systems which concentrate on curative medicine
comprise potentially effective means of providing preventive services, major
among these being delivery of nutrition services. The proposed component
seeks to study the benefits from adding nutrition services to health and
commercial delivery systems in urban and rural environments in the State of
Pernambuco in Northeast Brazil. Studies would be made using (a) the on-
going maternal and child health program (MCH) of the State Ministry of Health
in the low income Encruzilhada areas of Recife, (b) the ongoing MCH program
of the Public Health Services Foundation (SESP) in four urban areas of Zona
da Mata, and (c) a model of simplified basic medical aid (based on outreach
and referrals by paramedical personnel to central health facilities) in rural
areas of Zona da Mata. Through these studies the project component aims to
determine the nutritional/health impact of health centers with added nutri-
tion services, the effectiveness of rural health assistance through a program
of simplified basic medical aid and the relative efficiencies of food delivery
for the nutritionally needy through maternal child health centers and the
commercial market.
Project Sites
2.        The project would be taken up in:
a.   Encruzilhada area -- three poor districts in Encruzilhada in the
city of Recife, the capital of the State of Pernambuco. The
Encruzilhada area has an estimated population of 280,000.
b.   Urban interior -- the urban areas of four municipios in Agna
Preta, Palmares, Rubeiro and Gamelaira, in the Zona da Mata.
The urban areas have an estimated population of 70,000.
c.   Rural areas -- The rural areas of the four municipios indi-
cated above with an estimated population of 73,000.
3.        The Encruzilhada area is one of the most densely populated and
poorest urban areas in Brazil. A 1973 study by PAHO showed that more than
two-thirds of deaths among children below five years of age in the Encruzil-
hada area were caused by malnutrition or premature birth, the latter often
being a result of maternal malnutrition. 1/ Other studies in three hospitals
1/   "Patterns of Mortality in Childhood", Pan American Health Organization,
1973.



Annex 4
Page 2
in Recife have shown growth retardation in nearly half of the newborn babies,
due to malnutrition or related ailments. 1/
4.        The urban interior and rural areas of the sugar plantations are
representative of the problems of a sugarcane monoculture with few employ-
ment opportunities during non-crop periods. Surveys indicate that nearly
60% of all children under five in the area suffer from protein-calorie mal-
nutrition. 2/
Existing Health Facilities
5.        In the Encruzilhada area, health services are available at 1 mater-
nity hospital center, 1 health center and 5 local health stations, 4 of which
are closed due to shortage of staff. The facilities are staffed by 424 per-
sons of whom one-fifth have university level training. There are, in addi-
tion, two referral hospitals, one for general attendance (the Restauration
Hospital) and the other for infectious diseases (The Oswaldo Cruz Hospital).
6.        Each of the four selected municipios in the Zona da Mata has one
health center staffed according to the number of population served. The
staffing is as follows:
Health Center Staffing
Agna Preta      Gamelaira       Palmares      Rubeiro
Doctors               1                2              5             2
Other Staff           6               13             39            22
Total                 7               15             44*           24
*Palmares has a larger staff strength because it has an integrated health
unit with an 87-bed hospital.
7.        The selected rural areas have no health facilities, the closest
being in the cities mentioned above.
1/   "Northeast Brazil -- Nutrition Survey, March-May 1963", Interdepartmental
Committee on Nutrition for National Development (ICNND) 1965.
2/   "Patterns of Mortality in Childhood", Pan American Health Organization,
1973.



Annex 4
Page 3
Proj ect Component
8.        The component would provide:  (a) a new form of rural health/
nutrition assistance through provision of "outreach" teams; (b) additive
nutrition services for traditional health centers, through provision of
food supplements, nutrition education and other nutrition services; (c)
expanded and improved coverage under existing MCH programs through provision
of additional staff for curative, preventive and supervisory functions; and
(d) expansion of training programs for health personnel.
9.        Rural Health Assistance.  Health teams and facilities to be pro-
vided under the project component would constitute an initial stage of a
program of simplified basic medical aid being developed for rural areas
by SESP. The essential elements of the program involve paramedical staff
going out into Zona da Mata communities, providing nutrition and health
educ,ation, identifying serious cases of malnutrition deserving medical
attention, arranging for basic medical care and, if necessary, sending such
cases to SESP referral centers in urban areas. This approach contrasts
with the traditional public health programs in Brazil in which (a) little
attention is devoted to preventive measures and (b) the sick must go to
stationary urban facilities to be seen or to receive any type of services.
10.       The project component would provide for 38 health assistance
teams and 7 health units and staff. The teams would consist of 1 midwife
and 1 health aide each, and they would make use of local community facili-
ties or village houses for their work. The health units would be simplified
physical structures (3 rooms, records section and pharmacy) located in popu-
lation centers of over 1,000. The units would be staffed by 1 paramedical
technician and 1 visiting doctor (a visit per week). Detailed goals have
been worked out in respect to the number of consultations projected for each
unit and staff member. The rural health service would be supervised by a
multi-disciplinary team permanently headquartered in SESP health centers in
the urban interiors.
11.       Within the four year project period, rural health care (medical
and paramedical) is expected to reach close to 2,400 pregnant and nursing
mothers and 10,000 children under four years of age. In addition, local
health workers would provide food supplements to about half of those reached
by the program.
12.       Urban:  Encruzilhada.  The project component would provide addi-
tional staff and equipment to the existing maternal and child health programs
in the Encruzilhada area of Recife. Seven additional staff (1 doctor coordi-
nator, 1 nurse, 1 nutritionist, 1 social worker, 1 statistician and 2 admini-
strative aides) would be provided to the integrated maternity hospital and
health center to enable the expansion of the maternal and infant care program.
In addition, staff would be added to two local MCH centers. (See Appendix 1
for details). Nutrition coverage (e.g. education concerning extending the



Annex 4
Page 4
breastfeeding period, provision of iron tablets, mass doses of vitamin A,
and other needed nutrients including food supplements) would be provided
and health services improved for over 10,000 pregnant and nursing mothers
and about 34,000 children. Food supplements would be provided to 45% of
the above total reached by the program.
13.       Urban Interior.  In the urban interior, a total of 11 additional
staff (comprising doctors, nutritionists, nurses, social workers, administra-
tive officers) and equipment would be provided to the four existing SESP
health centers. The additional staff and facilities should enable health/
nutrition care to be extended to 2,400 pregnant and nursing mothers and about
10,000 children under 6 years of age, of whom about half would receive food
supplements. The additions would enable the health centers to function as
referral centers for the rural health assistance teams and enable supervision
of the rural health programs (paras 9-11).
Delivery of Food Supplements and Nutrition Education
14.       The project component would provide for the provision of food
supplements for the tests and nutrition education under the programs in
the Encruzilhada and Zona da Mata urban and rural areas noted in the above
sections. The proposed food supplements are of five types, each being chosen
on the basis of acceptability in the region. These would be basic foodstuffs
in the initial stage but would be replaced subsequently by fortified processed
foods as they become available for purchase.
15.       Two methods of distribution of food supplements would be employed
and evaluated for their efficiency in reaching the target groups. The first,
which would be tested in the first two years, would make use of the health
centers as distribution points. The second, to be tested in the third and
fourth year in Encruzilhada, would make use of the commercial sector. Under
the first method, food supplements would be purchased by COBAL, the Govern-
ment's food purchasing agency, from local food processors on the basis of
standard competitive bidding. Prices tendered would include costs of pack-
aging and transportation to health center distribution points. Food supple-
ments would be stored in local depots.
16.       A beneficiary selected according to established criteria would be
registered at a health center by a professional staff member and would be
given a numbered card for presentation to the health facility distribution
center (local depot). On presentation of the numbered card, the beneficiary
would receive a food packet free of charge. The registered mothers would be
expected to come each month, on the due date, with the children. Prior to
receiving a numbered card, both mother and children would be physically
examined and would be provided information on basic health and nutrition
practices.



Annex 4
Page 5
17.       Under the second method of food distribution, local processors
would market the required foodstuffs commercially (in place of government
agency purchasing, storing and distributing). Beneficiaries would receive
coupoDns from the health centers under the same procedures as for the first
method of food distribution, but the coupons would be used in commercial
stores to buy government "certified" nutritious foods. The food coupon
would cover a part of the cost of the food supplement, and the beneficiary
using the food coupon would pay the balance in cash. The coupons would be
used by the merchants to reorder such food and the coupons would be redeemed
for cash from the Government by the producer.  A mother and children wanting
a second month's food coupons would be required to bring the empty package
purchased using the first food coupon to the health center. In addition,
the mother and children would be examined at the health center and would re-
ceive nutrition and health practice instruction before receiving a second
coupon. 1/
18.       Under both procedures, health and nutrition education would be
directed to pregnant and lactating women. Nutrition education would emphasize
promotion of breastfeeding, proper attitudes to weaning foods and the use
of appropriate foods for pregnant and nursing women. The use of locally
avai:Lable low-cost nutritious foods would be stressed. Health eduction would
concentrate on simple concepts of personal hygiene.
19.       The cost of food supplements to be provided under the project compo-
nent is shown in Annex 11.
Training and Evaluation
20.       The component would provide for the training of two teams who would
be responsible for controlling, supervising and evaluating the proposed ex-
panded health delivery activities in Encruzilhada and Zona da Mata areas. The
teams would be comprised of the following:
3 doctors
4 nurses
2 nutritionists
4 social workers
3 administrative officers
1 statistician
1 secretary
1/   The coupon component would consist of two stages.  During the first year
of the project, a detailed plan of operations, including the methodology
for evaluation, would be prepared by INAN in conjunction with the State
University of Pernambuco. Subject to approval of this plan by the Bank,
the coupon system would be implemented as stage two, ready for full opera-
tion in year 3 of the project.



Annex 4
Page 6
The training program would be one month long, and would provide for (a) in-
struction in the operation of health/nutrition program activities, (b) the
educational, organizational and methodological aspects of supervision, (c) con-
trol systems for data collection, food distribution and technical and financial
matters, and (d) techniques of evaluation.
21.       In addition, special training programs would be provided to 45 out-
reach rural teams and 100 community representatives (in community relations,
group dynamics and in basic health practices) and up to 30 practical midwives.
A training timetable is shown in Appendix 2.
22.       The training programs would be carried out by the Faculty of
Scientific Medicine in the University of Pernambuco and SESP. The faculty of
Scientific Medicine working with the two supervisory teams would also under-
take continuing and terminal evaluations of the project component activities.
The results of the evaluations would be made available to INAN on an
annual basis.
Implementation
23.       The program of maternal and child health in Encruzilhada is run by
the Faculty of Medical Science of the State University of Pernambuco. The
State University of Pernambuco would implement this project; its agreement
with the State Ministry of Health would be extended to cover the rights and
responsibilities of INAN, inter alia to include independent evaluation of
these activities.
24.       The project component in the urban interior and rural areas would be
implemented by the regional directorate of SESP. An appropriate convenio would
be drawn up between INAN, SESP and the State University of Pernambuco defining
rights and responsibilities.
Costs
25.       Costs of the component have been calculated (see Annex 11) on the basis
of an agreed phasing of implementation. The costs of incremental salaries,
food supplements and other operational costs would be provided by INAN to the
State University of Pernambuco and SESP. The two entities would keep separate
accounts for the project and submit them to half yearly audits by independent
auditors chosen by INAN.



ANNEX 4
ppendix 1
Page 1
Age Composition of the Maternal-Child Group
Encruzilhada                                  Number         Percentage
Total population                             273,264            100.0
Ch:ildren under 1 year of age                  7,651              2.8
Ch:ildren above 1 and below 5 years           30,000             11.1
Ch:ildren above 5 and below 10 years          36,800             13.5
Children above 10 and below 1h years          33,064             12.1
Women between 15 and 49 years                 80,612             29.5
Pregnant and nursing women                    26,000            _ 9.8
Maternal-child group                         188,549            _69.0
Urban Interior
Total      Pregnant and      Pre-school
Mlunicipio                 Po jAtjj on   nursing women/l    Children/2
Agna Preto                   4,833            374                852
Palmares                    42,059          3,256              7,411
Ribeiro                     16,372          1,268              2,885
Gramelaira                  66,08             754              1,125
TPotal                    69,672          5,652             12,273
Rural area in the above Municipios
Total        Pregnant &       Pre-School
Municipio                    Population    Nursing women       Children
Agna Preta                     32,1 21         2,486             5,660
Palmares                       14,172          1,096             2,497
Rubeiro                        17,357          1,344             2,885
Garmelaira                      9,755 7a           4             1,719
.c 31 ,~ a73,405                             5,680            12,761
V  Estimated at      of total population of pregnant and nursing wcnen.
/ Estimated-a      oftotal pre-school age population.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 2
Table showing present distribution of staff and proposed additions
ENCRUZILHADA
1.  Hospital and health center
Existing Staff
Professional Staff               Maternity Hospital        Health Center
Doctors                                  39                     25
Nurses                                    8                      5
Nutritionists                             1                      2
Social workers                                                   1
Others                                    2                      9
50                     42
Administrative Staff                     13                     25
Auxiliaries                            127                      62
(of which nurses)                     107                      47
Support staff                            74                     30
264                    159
2.  Health Centers - (one for every 30,000 population) in Encruzilhada area
Pediatrician            1
Prenatal specialist    1 (part-time)
Visiting nurse          1
Health consultant       2
Clerical staff          2
Janitor                 1
8
Additional Staff Proposed
1.  En r%izilhAda area



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 3
Doctor (coordinator)            1
Nurse                           1
Nutritionist                    1
Social worker                   1
A&ainistrative officer          1
Statistician                    1
Adcministrative Assistant       1
2. Areas under SESP
Doctors                         2
Nut;ritionist                   1
Nurses                          3
Social workers                  3
Administrative officers         2



TRAINING TIMETABLE
MONTHS
1ST MONTH      2N2 MONTH         3RD MONTH        4TH MONTH       5TH MONTH   6TH MONTH
ACTIVITIES
1) Training of supervisor-y teams.
2) Recruitment and selection of rural
health counselors, community repre-
sentatives and practical midwives.
3)  Training of rural health counselors.                                                                 -
4)  Training of community representatives.
5)  Training of practical midwives.                                                                      -
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ii



Annex 5
Page 1
NUTRITION INTERVENTION THROUGH THE SCHOOL FEEDING SYSTEM
1.        Most serious cases of malnutrition occur during the early years
of childhood before schooling. The project component proposes to test
school feeding programs as a conduit for nutritional intervention for pre-
schoolers utilizing the manpower, transport and other physical resources
of existing school feeding programs.
2.        School feeding programs in Brazil are undertaken by municipal
and state governments and coordinated by the National Organization for
School Feeding (CNAE) covering about 12 million children. The coverage
and effectiveness of the school feeding programs differ from state to state.
The state of Sao Paulo has shown marked commitment to the effective organiza-
tion and funding of school feeding programs, and would offer a promising
testing ground for the mechanism of nutritional intervention for pre-schoolers
utilizing the school feeding programs.
3.        In Sao Paulo nutrition programs for pre-schoolers currently are
operated primarily through:
a.   day care centers for children in the age groups 0-3; and
b.   child care centers for children in the age group 3-7.
The present coverage of these programs is small -- the largest of the two
child care centers covers only 17,000 of the 700,000 pre-schoolers in the
city of Sao Paulo. The main limiting factor to these programs is their
relatively high cost -- hence the search for alternative means of nutri-
tional delivery for pre-schoolers.
4.        In 1973 the School of Public Health, University of Sao Paulo,
initiated a program to establish Centers for Education and Feeding of Pre-
school Children (CEAPES), located at the schools. The program is supervised
by a committee of representatives from the State Department of Education's
school health service, the national school feeding program, the municipios
and the School of Public Health's nutrition department. There are 3
CEAPES within the city of Sao Paulo and 21 in the rural areas (see Appendix
1).
5.        Under the CEAPES program, children in primary schools take their
pre-school age siblings to centers for a day of recreational play and lunch.
Mothers assist in the preparation and distribution of food and the super-
vision of recreational activities on a rotational basis. The kitchen,
transport and storage facilities on the school feeding locations are uti-
lized.  The costs of food are borne by the local municipio.  Funding
and organizational arrangements for the program are handled by the munici-
pio and the School of Public Health, under supervision of the State
Government's Ministry of Education.



Annex 5
Page 2
Project Component
6.        The project component would test nutrition intervention through
the school feeding system for its effectiveness and widespread applicability.
The hypothesis is that use of existing mass feeding networks (transport, stor-
age, equipment and so on) would be a less expensive means of reaching pre-
school age children than establishment of a new parallel network. The project
component would test the replicability and effectiveness of the CEAPES pro-
gram, as discussed above, and the feasibility of its expansion for 2 - 6 year
olds in rural areas. The component would, in addition, test the effective-
ness of nutritional training to mothers of children reached by the programs.
The test would derive data on costs, on nutritional and health improvements,
and on administrative and other aspects of the CEAPES.
7.        Under this component 48 CEAPES would be established in rural areas
over a four-year period, at a rate of about 11 such centers each year. Appro-
ximately 4,800 pre-schoolers between the ages of 2-6 years would be covered
by the program.
Organization and Implementation
8.        The location of new CEAPES would be determined by the State Depart-
ment of Education in consultation with the School of Public Health (Sao Paulo).
The state and municipal educational network would: (a) authorize the execu-
tion of CEAPES programs in various schools; (b) supply the personnel working
in the pre-school feeding program; and (c) authorize the use of school kitchen,
transportation, and storage facilities for the CEAPES program. The students
and staff of the School of Public Health would assist in developing the CEAPES
program and the related nutrition education program for mothers of pre-
schoolers.
9.        The project component funds would be provided by INAN to the State
Government of Sao Paulo and passed on to the School of Public Health and the
concerned schools. A convenio would be entered into between the University
of Sao Paulo, the Secretaria de Educacaro of the State of Sao Paulo and INAN
detailing the rights and obligations of the various parties. The State of Sao
Paulo would provide funds to the municipios for a portion or the full costs of
the food for the preschoolers depending upon the financial condition of the
municipios.
Take Home Feeding
10.       Another means of utilizing the existing school feeding infrastruc-
ture to provide food to pre-school age children is a "take home" program in
which students would carry food home on a periodic basis to younger siblings.
Except for the carrier and the institution, the approach parallels in many
ways the mothers' "take home" feeding program through the maternal child
health centers. With regard to the school feeding infrastructure, the student
"take home" program has the advantage of reaching the 0 - 2 year old group,
that would not be attending the CEAPES. The major drawback is that some



Annex 5
Page 3
diversion of food may occur; however, even with such loss the approach may
be the most cost-effective means of reaching the target group. It is expected
that a test of the "take home" concept, consisting of a sub-sample of the
participants of this component, would be undertaken during the project.
Baseline Survey and Evaluation
11.       A nutrition baseline survey of the target groups would be con-
ducted by the School of Public Health, as would the evaluation. The evalua-
tion would proceed on the basis of a system of indicators to measure the
physical and intellectual growth of the pre-school child. (These indicators
would be decided in consultation with IBGE which would, under another compo-
nent of the project, be conducting a national nutrition survey.) The indi-
cators would, among other things, include data on height, weight and arm
circumference, and development of intelligence, using locally appropriate IQ
tests. Information collected would cover the parents' socio-economic status
in order to analyze the impact of the pre-school nutrition program in families
at differing levels of income. Records would be kept of the children brought
into the program and a long term study begun of the relationship between
malnutrition and intelligence/school attendance and performance. The effect
of the nutrition program on the benefits derived from the investment in the
education system would be measured.
12.       The component includes provision of technical assistance for con-
ducting baseline studies and evaluation. The School of Public Health would
utiLize foreign and local consultants, provided by INAN, for devising the
baseline nutrition surveys and conducting the evaluation of nutritional
intervention through the various school feeding programs.
Costs
13.       The component would provide financing for:  (a) a 15 day training
course for 120 instructors (30 per year) for nutrition education programs;
(b) educational programs for supervisors, teachers, technicians and related
personnel; and (c) preparation and publication of audio-visual material for
the nutrition education programs. In addition, it would provide financing
for the operational costs for CEAPES, including researchers' salaries and
other costs related to evaluation of the program, transportation, food,
training and maintenance. The costs of the component are detailed in
Annex 11.



Annex 5
Ceapes in Operation
Number of                      Number of   Number of
Schools in which      Date of   Pre-school    mothers
Municip~io          Ceapes operate        Starting    Children    attending
Campinas                    2               6/73           82           36
9/73
Adamantina                  1               5/73          100           44
Capivari                    2               9/73           98          12
Indaituba                   2               6/73           80           35
3/74
Itapira                     2               6/73           87           45
Sumare                      2               8/73           70           30
Amparo                      1                3/74          18            9
Serra Negra                 1               3/74           48           23
Descalvado                  1                5/74         100           40
Posto Ferreira              1                5/74          22           20
Sao Carlos                  1               9/74           48           20
Lius                        2                5/74         125           42
Itatiba                     2              10/73          139           66
2/74
Sorocaba                    1                2/74          36           24
21                           1,053         446



Annex 6
Page 1
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT OF LOW-COST NUTRITIOUS FOODS
1.        Although Brazil has certain commercially processed infant and child
foods, and other nutritious foods on the market, these foods -- generally
milk-based -- are too expensive for institutional use on a large scale or
for purchase by the nutritionally needy on a regular basis. 1/ The purpose
of this project is to support the development and testing, using new techno-
logies, of 10 to 15 low-cost nutritious foods for INAN to use in large scale
delivery systems such as institutional feeding programs and in the commercial
market. The project component aims to strengthen ties among government centers
of food technology, as well as between them, INAN and representatives of indus-
tries and agencies responsible for food delivery programs through creation of
a Food Advisory Board to guide development and production of foods for the
nutritionally deprived.
Existing Situation
2.        There are a number of Brazilian organizations with interests in
food processing and some with special interest in low-cost nutritious foods.
One of these is ITAL, a well-equipped and operated food technology facil-
ity that was founded within the State Government of Sao Paulo in 1963. The
Institute carries out research and development for the State Government and
industry on processing, packaging, storing, distributing, and use of food
and provides technical services for the food industry such as quality con-
trol analyses and manufacture of special new products for market testing.
In addition, it conducts training in food technology and related fields and,
in collaboration with universities, offers intensive courses in food tech-
nology for degree credits.
3.        ITAL's major concentration has been on undertakings related to
processing of fruits and vegetables. Only in the last three years has ITAL
made a modest beginning in undertaking projects with implications for nutri-
tional status of the low-income population. ITAL currently has 11 active pro-
jects on nutritious foods (see Appendix 1) representing annually about 3%
of its budget. 2/
4.        Other centers of food technology include teaching and research or-
ganizations like the University of Campinas, the University of Sao Paulo, and
the Federal University of Pernambuco, and a number of institutes established
to develop tropical fruit products such as the Research Center for Development
(CEPED) in Salvador, Bahia, and the private food industry. Collectively,
however, the attention to development of low-cost nutritious foods has been-
reliatively minor.
1/   The prices of the processed foods are in the range of U.S. $1.50 to
U.S. $3.00 per kilogram; the costs of supplying a child's annual
protein requirement on this basis would be U.S. $60 and U.S. $120
respectively.
2/   The operational budget of ITAL for FY '74 was U.S. $3 million.



Annex 6
Page 2
Product Development
5.        Of the food processing organizations in Brazil, public or private,
ITAL is best staffed (78 trained professionals and 299 technicians and other
support personnel) and equipped to develop new foods for use in institutional
delivery systems and the commercial market. Under the project component,
ITAL would produce a series of technological packages consisting of food
products and manufacturing methods which meet the requirements of INAN for
low-cost nutritious foods that could be used in large scale delivery systems.
It is expected that 10-15 food products would be developed during the course
of the project (see Appendix 2). Special emphasis would be given to better
and more widespread utilization of Brazilian produced soy and high-lysine
(protein) Opaque-2 corn in products for human consumption. At present they
have been either exported or used as animal feed. However, the high nutritive
value of both foods (which include high levels of essential amino acids often
deficient in Brazilian diets) suggests that additional product research on
both soy and Opaque-2 for human consumption is warranted.
6.        In addition to "new foods", attention also would be directed in
the project to the fortification of processed food staples. Fortification of
centrally processed food staples with essential nutrients is a relatively
cheap and effective means of ensuring a better diet, without requiring changes
in purchasing, cooking or eating habits. Many developed nations and some
developing countries legally require fortification of such staples as wheat
flour, bread, cornmeal and salt. Salt for instance, when iodized, is a well
recognized means of reducing goiter and the dwarfism and deaf-mutism that
accompanies iodine deficiency. The fortification of sugar with Vitamin A is
now required in two Central American countries and successful experiments are
nearing completion on the fortification of salt with iron. Similarly the
fortification of sugar with iron was recently successfully tested in Guatemala
(see Appendix 3).
7.        The procedure that would be used by ITAL for product development
(whether "new foods" or fortified processed food staples) would vary
depending on the type of product, the availability of technology and other
considerations. However, it would generally include (a) an initial market
survey and review of nutrition and food consumption surveys for defini-
tion of products to satisfy INAN's requirements, (b) a rough cost estimate
to test economic feasibility, (c) a prototype sample including packaging to
test manufacturing feasibility, (d) laboratory and consumer panel tests to
assess acceptability, storability, nutritional and other product require-
ments, (e) production of sufficient quantity of the product to carry out
product tests, (f) preparation of final product ingredient and packaging
specifications and manufacturing procedures, and (g) a refined cost estimate
for manufacture and sale of the product. A technological package would be
assembled (for a product which appeared eligible for approval) and sub-
mitted to INAN and the Food Advisory Board for consideration.
8.        Work would be performed at ITAL and, as feasible, at other
food technology entities with the exception of the nutrition,



Annex 6
Page 3
consumer and manufacturing product development tests. These tests would
be carried out by other specialized institutions or organizations working
under contract to ITAL.
Project Component Details
9.        The proposed project component would finance the additional re-
sources that ITAL would require for development and testing of the low-
cost nutritious products envisaged under the project.
10.       Construction and Equipment.  The project component would finance
the construction of a pilot plant including blending and ancillary equipment
for producing blended foods, a pilot-scale extrusion-cooker, packaging and
packing equipment; a storage testing facility; a bioterium (animal house and
laboratory), and a cereals laboratory.
11.       Special Materials.  A substantial quantity of food ingredients,
packaging materials, and related expendible materials would be required.
These include (a) sufficient raw materials for food products to be made at
ITAL or under contract with food manufacturing companies to carry out large-
scale consumer testing, (b) sufficient food ingredients to undertake exten-
sive testing of food processing conditions, and (c) various special ingre-
dients and materials such as emulsifiers, stabilizers, anti-oxidants, lami-
nated flexible packaging films, etc., to allow exploration of their use in
conjunction with the new foods.
12.       Additional Staff.  The project component would finance the salary
costs of seven senior Brazilian technicians who together with five techni-
cians already working would form a Nutritional Foods Group. The Group would
plan, manage and supervise implementation of product development activities,
including the awarding of contracts to other organizations and institutes.
The Group would report to the Director-General of ITAL. The Group would
consist of: a food and nutrition specialist as group director, a food
technologist, a food engineer, a consumer market research specialist, a
marketing specialist, a nutritionist and a rural sociologist. (The latter
would give special attention to improvements or introduction of village and
home level technologies.) Job descriptions for technicians in the Group
are provided in Appendix 4.
13.       Consultants.  Two foreign technicians would be provided to assist
the Nutritional Foods Group until the full component of Brazilian staff for
the Group is recruited and operational. It is expected that the Group would
be fully staffed by the end of the first year, but that some supplementary
training would be required. The technicians would arrive during the third
quarter of the first year for a period of about 18 months.
14.       Twelve short-term foreign consultants would be made available
(for about one man-month each) to ITAL to expedite food development activi-
ties and to advise on specialized technical, marketing and nutrition topics.



Annex 6
Page 4
15.       Two short-term foreign consultants would assist the Food Advisory
Board, INAN and ITAL on nutrition programming and development of special
nutritlous foods. The consultants would attend the meetings of the Food
Advisory Board and provide periodic assistance as required by INAN and
ITAL.
16.       Training.  Special training abroad would be provided to two
Brazilians who would then become members of the Nutritional Foods Group.
The training would be for a period of one year in marketing and two years
in food formulation. The training component also provides for the use of
ITAL's personnel to strengthen the capabilities of other food technology
institutions in Brazil. This would be achieved through three-month courses
at ITAL, courses at other institutions, on-the-job training experience at
ITAL, special consultancy services by ITAL staff, inter-institutional
seminars for senior staff of other institutions, and collaborative product
development and testing work.
Organization and Implementation
17.       The Food Advisory Board.  INAN would be responsible for establish-
ing the types and specifications of foods to be used in the institutional
delivery systems and desirable for the commercial market. A Food Advisory
Board would be created under the chairmanship of the President of INAN to
assist in this undertaking. The Food Advisory Board would consist of repre-
sentatives inter alia from universities and nutrition institutions and agencies
responsible for food delivery programs (CNAE and CPMI), COBAL, financing
agencies (FINEP, BNDE) INAN and IBGE. The representatives could be called on
to serve as permanent or ad hoc members as appropriate.
18.       The Food Advisory Board would develop guidelines for foods to be
used in various delivery systems, with special attention to delivery systems
being tested under other components of the project, taking into account
regional differences and other variations in those systems. The guidelines
would include (a) a description of the special delivery system including
expected changes in the system, (b) the number, age, and location of the
intended recipients, (c) the amount of energy, protein and specific micro-
nutrients to be provided daily through the food, (d) any limitations regard-
ing the physical form of the food, packaging, stability or other things that
would affect food development, and (e) an acceptable range in product cost.
19.       The Board would advise INAN on the expected benefits which would
accrue to the nutritionally vulnerable group supplied with the food. The
Board would also be responsible for establishing a common basis for product
costing -- distinguishing between product development costs, start-up costs,
production costs and evaluation costs -- so that the effectiveness of alterna-
tive products could be assessed. The Food Advisory Board would meet semi-
annually to review status reports on progress in developing the specified
foods. Other meetings would be called by the President of INAN as the need
arises.



Annex 6
Page 5
20.       The Nutritional Foods Group of ITAL and similar bodies at other
food technology centers would be responsible for product development as
specified by the Food Advisory Board. Other institutions and the food
industry also would have the opportunity to develop or bring to INAN's
attention food products that would meet Food Advisory Board requirements.
Food specifications promulgated by INAN would be announced publicly to
the food industry and other interested groups. INAN would use established
procedures to buy food products for distribution in non-commercial delivery
systems.
21.       Industries Advisory Meetings.  To gain a closer relationship with
the food industry, INAN is considering holding annual meetings with repre-
sentatives from centers of food technology and the food industry. The purpose
of these meetings would be to discuss the procedures for product development
and testing, to obtain advice from industry and to discuss the feasibility of
industry-scale production of some of the new products already developed or
under development.
22.       Cost Summary.  The summary of costs by activity are shown in
Annex 11.



Annex 6
Appedi-x 1
Low-Cost Nutritional Foods Projects Currently in Progress at ITAL
EXPENDITURES  (US$  thousands)       (*)
Labor     Equipment    Supplies    Overhead    Total
4.1  Precooked beans and bean        25.2          4.7          0.9         12.3       43.1
flour
9.2  Soy-banana flakes               30.6          3.4         2.3          14.5       50.8
31.1 Production & utilization
of peanut flour                 20.0          5.6         5.5          12.4      43.5
33.2 Bread fortification with
brewers yeast                    7.6          1.4         1.8           4.3      15.1
33.3 Bread from composite flours      3.7          1.2          0.7          2.2        7.8
34.3 Pasta from composite flours      5.8          1.8          1.5          3.6       12.7
314.5 Pasta enriched with soy
flours                          16.3          1.8         2.2           8.1      28.4
35.3 Marine Protein Concentrate
from Shark                      16.7          3.1         6.3          10.4       36.5
37.2 Single Cell Protein              8.1          3.5          2.1          5.5       19.2
32.5 VITAL                            9.6          4.2          9.0          9.1       31.9
32.6 Whole Soybean flour             12.2         10.4          4.9         11.0       38.5
GRAND TOTAL......   327.5



Annex 6
APPENDIX 2
Page 1
Possible Technological Packages for Low-Cost Nutritious Foods
The following is a list of possible technological packages for low-
cost nutritious foods:
(a) Powdered milk-like product consisting at least in part of vegetable
protein, vegetable fats, and vegetable sugars with supplementary vitamins and
minerals, packed in low-cost flexible packaging and made available through
donation and/or commercial channels. This type of food supplement for infants
and small children would cost about 65% of the price of powdered cow's milk
(when substituting for 100% of the milk fat and 50% of the milk protein) and
therefore could be priced lower and would penetrate deeper into the economic
strata.
(b) Rice flour and maizena, traditional food supplements for infants
and small children in some parts of Brazil, fortified with protein, vitamins
and minerals. Rice flour and particularly maizena are low-protein foods
and therefore poor food supplements for pre-school age children. Addition of
soy protein, vitamins, and minerals can improve significantly the nutritional
properties of these traditional foods.
(c) Manioc flour fortified with soy grits, vitamins and minerals.
Toasted manioc flour fortified with soy grits has been successfully market-
tested in the Rio de Janeiro area by Granfino Co. Other types of manioc flour
might also be fortified for use in urban centers and other places where
centrally organized manufacture and marketing of the products takes place.
(Although such fortification will contribute where manioc flour is centrally
processed, logistical difficulties would make it extremely difficult to
control the fortification of flour produced by thousands of small on-farm
processors.)
(d) Pre-cooked blended foods similar to instant corn-soy-milk (CSM)
made from corn (possibly high protein Opaque-2) or wheat or rice with soy
protein, soy oil, and supplementary vitamins and minerals. Blended foods
supplied through the PL-480 program have been used in Brazil for more than
ten years in donation feeding programs.
(e) Refined sugar fortified with vitamin A and/or iron. Recent work
has resulted in the availability of simple technologies for fortifying
sugar with both vitamin A and iron. These technologies are now ready for
application on an operational basis after local adaptation and testing.
(f) Wheat flour (and products made from wheat flour including bread,
biscuits, and pasta) fortified with soy protein and possibly with minerals
and vitamins. A technology has been developed and is available for forti-
fying bread flour with up to 12% soy flour without adversely affecting bread
quality. Similar technology is also available to permit addition of high
levels of soy protein to biscuits and pasta.



Annex 6
APPENDIX 2
Page 2
(g) Texturized soy protein as a stable, rehydratable inexpensive meat
extender or replacer for use in ground meats, soups, stews, and similar
food preparations. Use of meat-like products made from soy is growing rapidly
in North America, Europe and parts of Asia due to their economic advantage.
These low-fat, high-protein (50% protein on dry basis) products of meat
equivalent can be produced and marketed for as little as one-fifth the price
of meat 1/.
(h) Pasta products made with corn flour and possibly with manioc flour
replacing part of the wheat flour (with substantial savings) and fortified
with soy flour, vitamins and minerals. Pasta products made with high pro-
portions of corn and soy have been developed and tested preliminarily in
Brazil. With relatively little additional work, improved pasta products
might be made available for donation feeding programs and with the avail-
ability of lower cost soy or government subsidies, they might have good
potential in the commercial market.
(i) A low-cost dry baby cereal product consisting of one or more
refined cereal grains and soy flour, supplemented with vitamins and minerals,
and processed to reconstitute with water to yield a smooth, non-gritty pap.
Milk-based products of this type selling at high prices (over US$2.00 per kg.)
are now on the market.
(j) Biscuit products, partially substituting wheat flour with inexpen-
sive cereal flour and manioc flour, and fortified with soy flour, vitamins
and minerals. Through use of small amounts of special additives, low-cost
corn flour, manioc flour, and other extenders can be incorporated into
biscuits thereby reducing the cost.
(k) Salt fortified with a stable biologically available iron compo-
nent. Recent research has resulted in a technique for adding iron to salt
in such a way that it remains biologically available yet has no noticeable
effect on the appearance or other properties of salt. Since salt is one
of the most universally consumed foods, salt fortification has excellent
potential as a means of overcoming the widespread effects of iron deficiency
anemia.
In addition to the above, ITAL will study the possibilities of in-
troducing improvements in domestic and village level food technology since a
considerable part of the food in parts of Brazil is processed at the domestic
level and in small village-level processing installations. The study will:
(i) survey the type of domestic and village-level
food processing in the North, Northeast, and
Central regions;
(ii) assess the technologies used and study how they
could be improved; and
(iii) plan for promotion of know-how developed.
1/   Based on price comparisons in the U.S.



Annex 6
APPENDIX 3
Page 1
Fortification of Processed Food Staples
Existing Situation
1.        Although the technology for fortifying processed wheat and corn
flour is well developed outside of Brazil, it has not been tested for local
conditions. In the absence of legislation requiring fortification, indus-
tries have been reluctant to incur the costs of local development work and
processing changes that the fortification of these foods requires. Pro-
cessed corn and wheat (including wheat flour equivalent of bread, macaroni,
biscuits and crackers) are consumed regularly by large numbers of persons
including those receiving low income in Brazil, and are processed in rela-
tively few mills (e.g., one flour mill per state in the Northeast), thus
simplifying the establishment and control of mass fortification. A family
budget survey undertaken in the Northeast in the early 1960's indicates that
although wheat consumption increases with income, the wheat equivalents con-
sumed amount to an important part of the diet among even the lowest income
group. Recent observational reporting confirms that, contrary to popular
belief, wheat flour products are being consumed in increasing quantities
by the poor, a phenomenon documented in several parts of the world. Corn
flour is consumed in large quantity almost equally among all income groups.
Fortification of wheat and corn flour using existing technologies which
lead, to no change in appearance, taste, texture and other properties of the
flours would have widespread and important health/nutritional impact. Even
though fortification reaches all consumers of the products, including some
who may not need the added nutrients, it has been demonstrated elsewhere that
such an approach is a less expensive means of reaching the needy than speci-
fic programs targeted for the needy alone.
2.        The technology for the fortification of other common dietary items
is less advanced, but has major nutritional potential. Salt is one of the
most universally consumed foods, which, if properly fortified with iron
has excellent potential as a means of overcoming the widespread effect of
iron deficiency anemia. A technique for adding iron to salt in such a way
that: it remains biologically available yet has no noticeable effect has
been developed in India. Refined sugar fortified with vitamin A and iron has
potebntial for reducing vitamin A-related problems including the incidence of
blindness caused by prolonged vitamin A deficiency and iron deficiency anemia.
Work at the Institute of Nutrition for Central America and Panama (INCAP) has
resulted in a recently accepted industrial-scale approach for sugar fortifi-
cation.
3.        Manioc flour, which is very low in protein, is used widely by the
poor- and would appear to be a potential candidate for fortification with soy.
There are problems, however, relative to the dispersed nature of production
in small units and the consequent difficulty of monitoring to ensure quality
and costliness of production in large quantity. The Government is currently
studying this.



Annex 6
APPENDIX 3
Page 2
4.        Food Fortification Testing.  The project would finance the develop-
ment and testing of fortified foods selected by the National Food and Nutri-
tion Institute (INAN) for use in the PRONAN food fortification program.
The testing of fortified processed wheat and corn products would include:
(a) studying distribution of wheat and corn, including determining inter-
mediate processing steps from the mill to the consumer and effect on added
nutrients by such processing, (b) adapting established technology to Brazilian
conditions, (c) determining the quality and quantity of nutrients to be added,
and (d) testing for stability, storability and consumer acceptability. In
the case of manioc, steps (c) and (d) would be necessary following completion
of current development work. The testing and fortification of sugar would
include: (a) establishing the pattern of production, processing and distribu-
tion in Brazil according to type (crystal, amorphous, and sugar cane cake),
(b) establishing intra-family distribution and nature of use for each type of
sugar, (c) repeating with Brazilian products INCAP's experiments with sugar
fortification, (d) selecting sugar mills for test fortification where sugar
flows from the plant to the consumer are known to permit evaluation of results,
and (e) testing for manufacturing feasibility and consumer acceptability.
Fortified salt is a special case in that the experiments for technology for
salt fortification with iron are only now being completed. Local development
work on the technology would be required, entailing laboratory and clinical
testing, to be followed by the same steps as indicated above for wheat and
corn.



Annex 6
APPENDIX 4
Page 1
NUTRITIONAL FOODS GROUP
Position                No.                       Job Description
Group Director          1           A food and nutrition specialist with experi-
ence in directing development activities and
managing senior level technicians. He will be
responsible for overall direction of the prod-
uct development group's activities to trans-
late the product requirements established by
INAN into finished, utilizable technological
packages. He will coordinate relationships
between the Group and INAN, the Food Advisory
Board, food industry organizations, the uni-
versities and other interested or participat-
ing groups. Also, he will be responsible
for helping develop the long-term capability
of ITAL and other participating institutions
to deal effectively with national nutrition
problems, and to strengthen the relationships
between all these institutions and industry
in the manufacturing and sale of low-cost
nutritional food products. To achieve this,
he should have the necessary entrepreneurial
qualities and motivational abilities required
to promote new action programs and to develop
strong relations between ITAL, industry and
the Government.
Food Technologist      1            A food formulation specialist knowledgeable
in liquid and powdered baby foods, baby
cereals and related weaning-type foods suit-
able for both institutional and retail dis-
tribution. Should have special expertise
in soy-based products. He will be responsi-
ble for formulating a broad spectrum of
product prototypes in accordance with the
requirements established by INAN, and for
reformulating those products as required to
overcome problems in acceptability, storage-
ability, etc., identified during testing.
He will also be responsible for organizing
projects to determine chemical, biochemical,
microbiological, physical, stability (in-
cluding packaging) characteristics of prod-
ucts and for establishing quality assurance
specifications.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Position                No.                        Job Description
Food Engineer           1           A food processing specialist knowledgeable
in a broad spectrum of food manufacturing
processes, including cereal grains and pro-
ducts made therefrom (baked goods, pastas,
etc.), oil seeds including soybeans, liquid
and dry dairy products and processed dairy
foods, enrichment and fortification with
vitamins, minerals, and proteins. He will
be responsible for: (a) identifying prac-
tical processes for manufacturing foods
selected by INAN using Brazilian food in-
dustry facilities; (b) for arranging for
the manufacture of foods used in accepta-
bility and other testing; and (c) for
obtaining preliminary estimates for manu-
facturing costs of products and when
necessary, estimating costs of new or addi-
tional capital facilities necessary to
enable industry to manufacture products
in sufficient- quantity for use in INAN
programs.
Consumer Market
Research Specialist    1            A specialist in planning, analyzing and
evaluating the acceptability testing of
consumer foods, and determining interests,
needs, and reactions of consumers for food
products in both institutional and commer-
cial settings. He will be responsible for
arranging for all acceptability testing of
products and for advising INAN as to the
likely pre-requisites for acceptable foods,
the extent to which particular foods are
expected to be suitable for use in parti-
cular delivery systems and changes in the
products which are likely to improve
acceptability.
Marketing Specialist   1            A specialist in food marketing (especially
consumer foods), knowledgeable in adver-
tising and promotion, food pricing, distri-
bution systems, finance and related factors
affecting the successful introduction of new
foods into the commercial market. He will
be responsible for coordinating with the
private food industry, for helping guide
INAN in establishing realistic requirements
for new products, and for giving continuous



Annex 6
APPENDIX 4
Page 3
Position                No.                        Job Description
direction to ITAL to develop products
to meet those requirements. He will also
assist FINEP with identifying needs for
feasibility studies, for manufacturing
and distributing products developed by ITAL.
Nutritionist            1           A specialist in human nutrition with training
and experience in assessing the need for sup-
plementary nutrients in the diets of young
children and evaluating the nutritional
quality of food products. He will be respon-
sible for assisting INAN in defining the nu-
tritional requirements for foods used in the
various delivery systems and for arranging
for the evaluation of the new food products
through both animal and human nutrition tests.
Rural Sociologist       1           A specialist in rural sociology, able to con-
duct surveys in rural areas and villages to
determine how domestically produced foods are
processed and consumed. Special attention
will be directed to village and farm-level
processing and food preservation techniques,
leading to follow-up work by ITAL staff on
the improvement or introduction of new low-
level technology.






Annex 7
Page 1
FEASIBILITY STUDIES AND LOANS FOR PRODUCTION
OF LOW-COST NUTRITIOUS FOODS
1.        This project component is designed to stimulate large scale pro-
duction of low-cost nutritious foods in support of the recently approved
PRONAN which calls for expanded institutional feeding programs and for com-
mercial marketing of low-cost foods for the nutritionally needy. The low-
cost nutritious foods to be produced would be required to meet the specifi-
cations of the Food Advisory Board at INAN and would include those low-cost
nutritious foods already being developed by the food industry and research
institutions including the Food Technology Institute (ITAL) and other food
technology organizations as well as new low-cost foods that would be de-
veloped under the project. Food companies have not been inclined to enter
into production of low-cost processed foods because the market has not been
sufficiently identified, profitability has not been proven and acceptability
of new types of foods poses inherent problems. This component aims to help
make available funding from the Federal Agency for Funding Studies and Pro-
jects concerned with Economic Development (FINEP) for detailed engineering
and commercial marketing studies and from the National Economic Development
Bank (BNDE) for production loans to small and medium industries as well as
for industries to be run by agricultural co-ops of small farmers. Qualify-
ing for project assistance would be industrial units with plans to produce
(a) new low-cost processed nutritious foods, e.g. soy-based weaning foods,
(b) fortified nutritious foods, e.g. sugar fortified with iron or vitamin A,
and (c) fortificants to be incorporated by others in subsequent production,
e.g. soy grits or soy flour, to add to manioc flour or weaning foods.
Engineering and Commercial Marketing Studies
2.        FINEP, an autonomous body reporting to the Ministry of Planning
and Coordination, provides about US$50 million equivalent a year to finance
engineering, marketing and other studies related to Brazilian economic
development. In addition, FINEP provides support to national consulting
firms for training, equipping and other activities necessary for implementa-
tion of economic and technological development, and to industries for the
development of industrial technology.
3.        For purposes of this project and in consultation with INAN, FINEP
would make available financing for engineering marketing tests (costing up
to US$75,000 equivalent each) and commercial marketing tests (costing up to
US$250,000 equivalent each). FINEP would, in addition, finance studies on the
development of production of low-cost nutritious foods, fortified foods and
fortificants (emphasizing indigenous materials) in agro-industrial coopera-
tives of small producers. It is expected that about 20 such studies would be
undertaken during the project period at an estimated average cost of US$50,000
equivalent. The engineering and commercial marketing studies would be for



Annex 7
Page 2
low-cost nutritious products developed according to specifications deter-
mined by the Food Advisory Board of INAN.  (See Annex 6.)  Particular
emphasis would be given to small and medium industries.
4.        Funding Arrangements.  For those studies that would deal with
projects to be implemented by small industrial units in the agricultural
cooperative sector, FINEP would undertake or arrange for the studies to
be undertaken on recommendations of INAN. These, in turn, would be based
on specifications laid down by the Food Advisory Board. The outlay for
FINEP studies would be met by INAN. For studies dealing with preparation
of projects to be implemented by private units in the small and medium-size
industrial sector, the standard procedure established by the Ministry of
Planning would be followed. FINEP would provide funds to companies as loans
or as grants depending upon the incentive necessary to stimulate interest
in undertaking the engineering and commercial market feasibility studies.
In the case of loans, the terms would be 6-8% interest, 5 years maturity,
2 years grace. If a company enters into production of a product based on
a feasibility study financed by FINEP, the company would pay FINEP retro-
actively for the study.
Loans for Production of Processed Foods
5.        The recently approved PRONAN leads to an accelerated demand for
low-cost nutritious foods. PRONAN will, over the period 1976-79, allocate
approximately US$850 million equivalent for purchases of such foods for
supplementary feeding programs. These purchases largely are planned to meet
the needs of the growing institutional feeding program which until last year
relied heavily on foreign donated foods (see para 2.29). The Government
program contemplates an accelerated shift to the production of such foods
by small and medium sized enterprises including agro-industrial cooperatives
of smaller producers. Those foods also would be sold through normal com-
mercial channels at prices within reach of groups not now able to afford
existing nutritious processed products.
6.        BNDE and INAN have entered into an agreement spelling out BNDE's
intent to lend about US$30 million equivalent during 1976-79 to industries
for this program. BNDE is Brazil's most important development Bank, reaching



Annex 7
Page 3
lending operations of about US$2.5 billion equivalent in 1974. 1/ Of this
amount, about 70% was devoted to manufacturing industries (including the food
industry), 15% to public utilities, 5% to agriculture and livestock and the
remaining 10% to other sectors including transportation. One of the goals
of BNDE's four-year plan (1975-78) is to foster the expansion of output of
low-cost basic consumption items such as foodstuffs, medicines and clothing
oriented specifically towards lower income groups.
7.        The loans under the BNDE/INAN convenio would be for up to 10 years
at 3% interest 2/ 18 months grace, monetary correction to account for infla-
tion, and certain tax concessions. Loans can be for up to 80% of the total
value of the investment; the entrepreneur must invest at least 20%. The draft
agreement between INAN and BNDE states that BNDE's Center for Managerial
Assistance to Small and Medium Enterprises (CEBRAE) would be responsible for
developing the means for planning and implementing specific projects. INAN
will select and review subprojects from a technical viewpoint and be satisfied
with production costs and sale prices to the ultimate consumer (see Appendix
1).  BNDE would use project loan repayments and interest payments for similar
purposes.
8.        The project would finance a part of this loan program.  It includes
approximately US$24 million equivalent for subloans to small and medium-sized
food industries through BNDE and, in turn, through State Development Banks.
Determination of eligibility for loans of the individual applicants would
be made in accordance with criteria agreed on during negotiations.
1/   BNDE, created in 1952, is a government owned public enterprise under
supervision of the Secretariat of Planning. Under competent and effect-
ive management, BNDE has become the main source of long-term finance for
industry, a position it will maintain under current plans to increase
operations by one-and-one-half times between 1975 and 1978. In 1974, BNDE
loaned 5% of its funds to small and medium-scale industry (SMI) in
accordance with a new policy to develop local industries and resources,
and to increase SMI's share in manufacturing output in relation to the
share (27% of value added) held by about 600 large industrial firms in
Brazil. The policy was directed at increasing employment opportunities
and improving distribution of income. A Bank loan of US$85 million to
Brazil was approved in January 1976 to assist BNDE in its financing pro-
grams for SMIs. (Bank Report No. 932a-BR). The BNDE financing programs
are concessional, and entail lending to state and regional development
banks for sub-lending to SMIs. Sub-loan interest rates differ by region
and range between 3 to 6 percent per annum (plus monetary correction of
the principal to account for the effect of inflation). BNDE has been
instrumental in the development of the network of 22 state and regional
development banks, as well as in the establishment of a special agency
(CEBRAE) to provide managerial assistance to SMIs.
2/   Same as interest rate approved for small and medium-sized industries in
the Northeast as part of the loan for BNDE approved January 28, 1976.
(See Brazil Appraisal of a Development Banking Project Report No. 932a-BR.;



Annex 7
Page 4
These criteria would include, in addition to satisfaction of the nutritional
specifications to be laid down by the Food Advisory Board, the requirements
that:
(a) the foods would be priced to be within reach of a sizeable
(to be quantified) income group not now able to afford
nutritious processed foods;
(b) the production would be in small and medium industrial
units; and
(c) INAN would approve the project in advance.
State Development Banks would assure criteria are met in appraisal of project
proposals. Disbursement against this component would be contingent upon the
publication of the specifications by the Food Advisory Board and assurances by
the Government that the agreed-upon criteria would be met and satisfactory
arrangements established to monitor and enforce appropriate pricing. The
criteria would be refined as BNDE and INAN gain experience with the operation
of the program. Any change in criteria would be made in consultation with
the Bank.
9.        BNDE loans for production of low-cost foods would be expected
to start in the first year of the project when they would be provided for
products where technologies are already developed (e.g. production of soy
flour, iodization of salt, blending of a simple food for children using
cereal flour and soy flour) such as the foods previously provided under
PL-480. An estimated 10% of the funds for this component would be dis-
bursed in year one of the project. By the second year, the amount of
lending is expected to double. Products already well advanced in testing
by industry and ITAL are by then expected to be eligible for approval and
financing. (An example is VITAL, a soy-based milk substitute developed by
ITAL, which is in the final stage of testing).  Thirty percent of the
lending is expected to take place in the third year of the project and 40%
in the final year.
10.       The combination of the incentives provided by BNDE credit and the
immediate institutional feeding market for such products is expected to attract
substantial interest. Industrial firms and cooperatives obtaining BNDE loans
and selling to INAN for the institutional market also will be expected to sell
the same foods through normal commercial channels at reasonable prices. Thus,
the target group will benefit both as a result of free foods available insti-
tutionally and low-priced processed foods available for the first time on the
market.
11.       A product meeting the INAN specifications will be permitted
to include on the package and in related advertising and promotion a
special symbol identifying it as a recommended nutritious food. INAN
will undertake an institutional advertising campaign to promote awareness
and significance of the symbol.



Annex 7
Page 5
12.       The effectiveness of the foods financed under this component
in reaching the target group would be carefully monitored in the project.
The Planning Office of INAN, which would be responsible for such monitor-
ing, would also monitor the impact of nutritious foods on the dietary
patterns of the target population (e.g. substituting breastfeeding with
baby-foods or foregoing needed calories from basic staples to buy higher
priced foods).
Implementation and Costs
13.       FINEP would be responsible for implementing the engineering and
commercial marketing studies and BNDE would be responsible for industrial
production loans under the project component, and each would enter into a
convenio with INAN for the respective purposes. The work of FINEP, BNDE and
ITAL (for product testing and development undertaken in another project com-
ponent) would come under the general guidance and coordination of the Food
Advisory Board at INAN. BNDE and FINEP would distribute loan amounts and upon
receipt of this information, INAN would include details thereof in its with-
drawal application for the loan from IBRD. BNDE and FINEP would send, through
INAN, suitable detailed progress reports as would be required by the IBRD on the
progress of the project component.
14.       The costs of the project component are shown in Annex 11.






ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 1
Draft Agreement Between INAN and BNDE
1.   Objectives
General guidance for joint and integrated action by BNDE and
INAN for the execution of an investment program 1976/79 aiming at de-
velopment of genuinely Brazilian industries for foods of adequate nutri-
tional value, with emphasis on small and average agro-industry.
2.  Responsibilities
I. INAN will prepare and co-ordinate the program, select and review
the projects from a technical viewpoint and forward them to BNDE; later
on INAN will supervise and control their implementation, ascertain the
production costs and sale prices to consumers.
II. BNDE will consider, in accordance with its general operational
norms, the requests for finance forwarded by INAN for economical, financial
and legal analysis, with the objective of providing financial support.
3.        INAN will conclude an agreement of cooperation with the Brazilian
Center for Managerial Assistance to the Small and Medium Enterprises (CEBRAE),
aiming at the preparation of programs to develop the necessary means for
planning and implementing specific projects.
4.   BNDE Participation
The Bank (BNDE) will allocate resources to finance approved projects,
with the terms of the present agreement, to a total value up to Cr$ 300,000,000
corresponding to ORTS and according to the following limits of disbursement:
1976 - 10% of resources
1977  -  20%       "
1978  -  30%       "
1979  -  40%       "
5.   Limits of Participation
Financial participation by BNDE will not exceed 80% of the total
value of the investment and the contribution of the entrepreneurs will be
not less than 20% of the total value.



ANNEX 7
Appendix I
Page 2
6.   Conditions for Credits 1976
Financial credits from the BNDE will be, among others, subject
to the following conditions:
(a)   reimbursement in 10 years;
(b)   interest at 3% per annum;
(c)   monetary correction corresponding to indices established with
ORTN; and
(d)   no taxes or commissions except for those laid down by law.
7.   Period of Validity
Starting date will be the date of signature and to be in force
until December 31, 1979, but the parties have the right to end the agree-
ment at other times, by notification in writing.
Modifications will be agreed by exchange of notes.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
NATIONAL NUTRITION TRAINING PROGRAM
Background
1.        The financial size, geographic scope, sophistication, and multi-
faceted nature of the new national nutrition program requires substantial
numbers of trained personnel. Currently there is a paucity of such expertise
in Brazil. This is partly due to the relative neglect given to nutrition
training in the past, partly to the quantum jump in the size and complexity
of the new programs and partly because of the kinds of new skills demanded
by the development-oriented concept of nutrition, as reflected in the PRONAN.
While the precise training needs will become clear only when details of the
February 1976 PRONAN have been drawn up, the requirements for trained people
clearly will far exceed presently available resources.
2.        The objectives of the training component are:
(a) development of a capability, in INAN and other federal and state
agencies, to facilitate the planning and implementation of a
national nutrition program; and
(b) upgrading of the professional competence of the faculties and
improving facilities of institutions where nutrition is taught.
3.        The exact numbers to be trained and the nature of that training
would be determined by INAN during the first six months of the project. INAN
would calculate personnel needs as related to PRONAN objectives and survey the
numbers of currently available trained personnel to meet those needs as a
basis for planning training programs and for developing and/or improving the
training institutions capable of meeting the needs. Completion of the survey
and training plan would be a precondition to the implementation of the train-
ing program.
4.        On-going nutrition training programs are being carried out in several
universities and nutrition institutes in Brazil. Among the better programs
are: (a) Institute of Public Health, Paulista School of Medicine, Sao Paulo,
which has rapidly increased its nutrition activities and has the potential
for expansion into administration, planning and evaluation of public health
and nutrition programs; (b) the Department of Nutrition, University of Sao
Paulo which has conducted nutrition surveys and assisted in planning nutri-
tion programs both in Sao Paulo city and the interior area of the State, and
has been active in food fortification activities; (c) the Institute of Nutri-
tion, University of Pernambuco, which is the only such institute in North-
eastern Brazil with an undergraduate program in nutrition, a masters program
in public health and nutrition, and several practical pilot programs involving
nutrition rehabilitation centers and supervised food supplementation; and
(d) the Health Unit of the University of Brasilia which is endeavoring to
develop a combination of public health and nutrition services and nutrition
research.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
5.        Overall, nutrition training in Brazil is narrow in scope and of
uneven quality. Mostly, the training relates to skills in dietetics and
home economics. Training of medical personnel in nutrition is generally
neglected as is common in most countries. Non-medical personnel who have
impact on the involvement in nutrition matters -- such as agronomists, plan-
ners and general administrators -- receive little exposure to the nutritional
implications of their work and the need for nutrition planning. Multi-disci-
plinary training in nutrition is virtually non-existent.
6.        The infrastructural base for training envisioned for PRONAN's needs
is generally available in Brazil, although deficiencies that are freely acknow-
ledged would have to be filled. In the Northeast area, there are several uni-
versities and training institutions capable of undertaking a significant part
of the training program envisioned under the project, although they would need
enlargement and further improvement in staff and facilities.
Project Description
7.        The Government has proposed, for financing by the Project, a training
program that ranges from seminars of one week to advanced instruction up to two
years. The program would consist of four parallel activities:
(a) multi-disciplinary training courses in nutrition planning and
administration for professionals in INAN, and in federal and
state agencies whose work is nutrition-related;
(b) training in specific nutrition-related disciplines such as public
health, bio-chemistry and food technology for middle level pro-
fessionals in appropriate federal and state agencies;
(c)  advanced professional trairing in specific nutrition-related
disciplines and nutrition planning/administration for staff of
federal and state agencies and faculty of training institutions;
and
(d) improvement in local training facilities.
The training component would include a survey of the number of personnel trained
in the field of nutrition, including those in other disciplines who have re-
ceived nutrition training, and of the availability of training facilities to
support manpower training requirements. The survey would be organized by the
training coordinator in the project unit and carried out with the assistance
of consultants within the first six months of the project. The training coordi-
nator would be responsible for developing a detailed training plan including
recommendations on the expansion and improvement of training facilities. To
assist in this regard and to refine the plan on a continuing basis, INAN would
establish an Advisory Council on Nutrition Manpower Needs and Training. The
Council would consist of representatives from government and academia as
determined by the President of INAN. It would review on a periodic basis the
estimate of manpower needs in nutrition and nutrition-related fields as a
basis for planning training programs and for developing the institutions



ANNEX 8
Page 3
capable of meeting the needs in training.   It would also examine the
status of the existing nutrition education and training institutions
in Brazil to determine the adequacy of existing teaching staff, labora-
tory facilities, libraries etc. Where specific deficiencies exist in
a given institution or department, specific plans would be made to remedy
such deficiencies within the four-year span. The Advisory Council would
also assess, in detail, the courses presently being offered in the institu-
tions or departments studied. New training programs would be required for
certain kinds of personnel, and this, in turn, may require the pooling of
resources from different institutions in order to meet the specific needs.
The Advisory Council, when assessing the existing institutions and depart-
ments, would also catalog the laboratory facilities available in each place,
and determine the kinds of nutrition-relevant laboratory analyses which can
be carried out in each place, as well as the unit cost of such procedures.
Such information is not available at present in Brazil. In addition, the
Council would try to identify individuals and departments capable of carry-
ing out special studies designed to supplement the national nutrition survey
(see Annex 2), and also determine those nutritional laboratories and clinical
research units capable of testing new food products.
8.        As a result of the initial survey of the nutrition training coordi-
nator and the work of the Advisory Council on Nutrition Manpower Needs and
Training, INAN would be equipped to determine:
(a) the manpower needs in nutrition during the next 2, 4 and 10 years;
ib) a rational plan for the improvement of the existing education
and training institutions, so that by the end of four years
these institutions might be capable of making Brazil self-
sufficient in meeting its needs for training personnel in
nutrition;
(c) identify those institutions which are presently best able to
meet the short-term training needs in nutrition in Brazil; and
(d) identify those training needs which can probably be met most
effectively at present by sending Brazilians abroad.
9.        As a result of work possible thus far, INAN has proposed the follow-
ing provisional program, recognizing the details are subject to revision in
light of the above-mentioned survey. 1/
10.       National Level Training.  The project would provide a one-week
multi-disciplinary seminar on nutrition planning and evaluation for the
benefit of INAN (25 participants), IPEA (10 participants) and concerned
Ministries (5 participants). The seminar would focus on basic elements of
nutrition for social scientists and planners and on techniques of planning
and evaluation for food and health representatives. Exercises on planning
and evaluation would draw on Brazilian and foreign programs, for examples.
1/   See Appendix 1.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
11.       Observation tours of 2 months' duration both in Brazil and
abroad would be provided for 10 participants. Tours would be made within
Brazil to areas where INAN plans to develop initial programs in order that
group members would be familiarized with the institutional and human resource
capacities and needs of the area. Tours abroad would be for attendance of
special university workshops in nutrition planning and development, and for
exposure to large scale nutrition programs in other countries.
12.       Longer term training (up to 2 years) in bio-medical nutrition, re-
search, administration or planning would be provided for an additional 5
persons to complement earlier training. These persons would be required,
upon their return, to strengthen the staffs of relevant government agencies
in position to facilitate the integration of decision-making with academic
research and policy planning.
13.       Regional and State Level Training.  The component would provide
training to regional and state agencies which would be required to adapt and
implement nutrition programs within the context of a national plan. One week
seminars would be given to participants (approximately 230 from State Secre-
tariats of Health, Agriculture, Education, Planning, as well as from regional
institutes and universities such as the Institute of Nutrition at the Uni-
versity of Pernambuco, the Department of Nutrition at the University of Sao
Paulo, the Health Unit at the University of Brasilia). The training would aim
to establish a permanent system of communication between regional and state
agencies, INAN and other national ministries.
14.       Three-month courses in public health and nutrition would be provided
for about 200 middle-level administrators and planners from regional and state
agencies (both official and non-official).
15.       State Level Training.  Training programs would be directed to the
academic and business community, and to key state government administrators
who would have impact on community and state level nutrition programs. Three
types of programs are envisaged:
(a) a six-month training program focusing on the orientation of
food technology to the nutritionally needy, would be provided
to 24 persons from food research institutes and food industries.
Also 4 one-week seminars focusing on food marketing, program
planning and administration and program evaluation as related
to health and nutrition, would be provided to 120 administrators
in government offices and students graduating in administration
and economics;
(b) training abroad of one year would be provided for an estimated
56 faculty members teaching in nutrition and nutrition-related
fields to upgrade their qualifications and to orient them to
broader aspects of their respective fields in ways that would
directly relate to PRONAN objectives; and



ANNEX 8
Page 5
(c) graduate and post-graduate training of up to 24 months for 25
Brazilians and specialized training of one year for another 25
would be provided in medical nutrition, food economics, agri-
culture and social sciences. These training programs, designed
both to improve local training competence and to better equip
program staff, would be conducted at Brazilian universities,
except when appropriate courses are not available, in which
case the training would be outside the country.
16.       The project component would provide the cost of travel, per diem
and incidentals for seminars and observation tours; fellowships to cover
the cost of travel, subsistence and tuition for study both in Brazil and
abroad; the cost of consultants, both local and foreign, and the costs of
management of the program.
17.       Although not financed as part of the project component, INAN
would provide in addition teacher training, equipment and materials, as a
means of strengthening nutrition education in the public schools and in the
adult literacy program.
Implementation
18.       The training program would be administered by INAN, with whom local
organizations involved in the training program would enter into convenios.
The convenios would spell out the details regarding the financing of sub-
programs, the training requirement that is to be met and the role that would
be played by the participating federal or state agencies.
19.       A training coordinator, who would be part of the special project
unit in INAN (see Annex 9), would head a small group of two professionals.
The group would assist in selection of eligible candidates for training,
their placement in different training institutions, their receipt of appro-
priate scholarships/fellowships, provision of the necessary consultants,
equipment and other facilities. The training coordinator would draw up
a master plan of training to be approved by the Bank prior to implementation.
(The plan would include provision for expansion, improvement and equipping
of facilities needed for the training in Brazil. For this, the component
provides US$1 million equivalent, which would be expended following approval
of a detailed plan of operations.) The training coordinator also would
assist the President of INAN in organizing the Advisory Council on Nutrition
Manpower Needs and Training and would serve as the Council's secretariat.
20.       Monitoring and evaluation of the project component would be con-
ducted by INAN in consultation with the University of Brasilia and the
Advisory Council on Nutrition Manpower Needs and Training. The task would
involve collection of data on the numbers of people trained, the duration
of training, the jobs held of those trained, the effect of the training on
the jobs, and an analysis of the extent to which the training project appears
to meet the objectives. The results obtained from the evaluation would form
the basis for the design of future nutrition training programs.
21.       The costs of the training component are shown in Annex 11.



Annex 8
Appendix 1
Table 1
Phasing of Training Programs - INAN 1/
(Numbers provisional)
Level/Type                      Duration       Participants       Year    Year    Year    Year
National Level
Seminars                      7 days              40              x        -        -
Observation tours             2 months         5 each year         x       x
Postgraduation &
Specialized courses
abroad                       2 years               5             x        x        x      x
Regional & State
8 seminars                    7 days each         230             x        -
Public health
nutrition courses            3 months            200              -       x        x
State Level
Food technology training      6 mnnths in          24              x       x        x
Brazil
Food marketing                7 days           30 each year        x       x        x      x
Training of nutrition
professors                  12 months             14              x       x        x      x
Graduate training abroad    18-24 months           25              x       x        x      x
Specialization in medical
nutrition,nutritional
economics,agri.& social
sciences                     1 year               25              x       x        x      x
Strengthen nutrition
education in public
schools                                            -              x       x        x      x
Administration, Supervision
and Evaluation                                      -              x       x        x      x
1/ Cost estimates reflected in Annex 11.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
1.        The National Food and Nutrition Institute (INAN) would be respon-
sible for administering the project. The responsibility would entail
organizing and coordinating the execution of project components by different
agencies at national and state levels, ensuring that governmental and Bank
procedures are carried out as required, and monitoring and evaluating the
project as a whole. Implementation of the various project components would
be carried out as described in Annexes 2-8. An indication of the organiza-
tional relationships is shown in Chart 1. For the purposes of the project,
a special project unit would be created at INAN.
Structure and Function of INAN
2.        INAN, established under Law No. 5829 in November 1972, is a quasi-
governmental authority (autarquia) attached to the Minister of Health. As
an autarquia, INAN abides by civil service regulation, but has a degree of
administrative autonomy which includes control over staff changes and budget
preparation. INAN earlier had been constrained in staffing activities by
civil service-regulated salaries which are much lower than those obtained
by non-governmental professionals in medical nutrition, food technology,
agronomy and economic planning. However, with the Presidential Decree of
February 6, 1976, the Government of Brazil has enabled INAN to offer salaries
to attract competent personnel to its staff. Recruitment is now under way
for fifty professionals, which includes the staff of the special project
unit.



Annex 9
Page 2
3.        INAN's organizational structure is reflected in the following
chart:
Minister of Health
I       ~~President of INAN 
Deliberative
Council
Coni                                    Secretary
of Planning
-P lanning Office
|   }       ,      _       > [~~~~Food &       
eneral         Technical Co-   Nutrition        Financial    pecial
Personnel  Admnstration   ordination         Orientation    Office       Project
Unit
4.        The President of INAN is appointed by the President of the Republic.
The Deliberative Council is presided over by INAN's president and consists of
representatives of the Planning Secretariat of the President's office, and
the Ministries of Health, Agriculture, Education, Labor, Welfare and Social
Security, Industry and Trade and Interior. The Council provides general policy
and financial guidance, and has responsibility for coordinating, monitoring,
evaluating and supervising the implementation of the national food and nutrition



|  -i(;E O}' 
PRIIIIDDT 
KINISTRY OF        [KIT    O         JSTRY OF            MINISTRY OF
PLANNING                  ~~~~~HEALTH        AORICULIAR
NP. BIK             A                                           ST OF
OF E! i   A1  C   i H                                          SoTEROFG|I|PE vT15 OF iR
I                               I ~~~~~~~OF PERNLYRIO i    
SEP                                           F CRUZILHADA|
KGROUP
STATE SECREY
OF EDUCATION
SCHOOL OF
PUBLIC HEALT|
1(D
rt X
" O0



Annex 9
Chart 2
BRAZnL
Contractual Agreements Between Participating Entities
(Numbers refer to appropriate paragraphs in the main text)
H X~~~~~~~~
En co
tQ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                  z
0
VI
.~~~~~~~~~c
L  XRae.nS uoTqT.n/
0~~~~~~~
rzq       0
t3 O         g                                   1 >U0LO  E
ox<2-82                                                L
0<                 C 



Annex 9
Page 3
program (PRONAN). The Deliberative Council would meet semi-annually
tc) review the work of INAN with respect to the project. The results
of the review and related actions would be communicated to the Bank.
5.        INAN's objectives, as stated, are:
(a)   to assist the Government in formulating a national food
and nutrition policy;
(b)   to formulate for approval by the President of Brazil a
National Program of Food and Nutrition (PRONAN);
(c)   to oversee the implementation and evaluation of the PRONAN;
and
(d)   to coordinate national nutrition activities.
T'hese are the original objectives of INAN which have been restated in a
decree issued in early 1975 following a change in INAN's leadership and
a governmental appraisal of INAN's development. The latest decree of
February 6, 1976, a summary of which appears in Appendix 1, reiterates
the vital role of INAN in implementation of the PRONAN.
Special Project Unit
6.        The special project unit to be created under the project would
facilitate administration of the project and, after project completion,
members of the project unit would merge with appropriate departments of
INAN. During the project, the special project unit would be under the
leadership of a project coordinator and would include eight additional
professionals and supporting staff. A full-time management expert would
be selected in consultation with the Bank to assist the special project
unit throughout the project period. The project coordinator would be
responsible for the overall direction and coordination of the project
tnit work, and for maintaining liaison with INAN staff, implementing
agencies and the IBRD. The unit would include a deputy coordinator, a
finance officer, a planning officer, an agriculture economist, an imple-
mnentation officer, a sociologist, a training specialist, and a nutri-
tionist. Job descriptions for each project unit member are provided in
Appendix 2.
'7.       The special project unit would be responsible for (a) the over-
all implementation of the project through the various project implementing
agencies including arranging for the preparation of operational plans for
the various project components, (b) ensuring availability of funds for the
participating agencies, (c) the adherence of project agencies to Bank
reporting and other requirements, (d) liaison with the Bank, and (e)
selecting and supervising consultants provided under the project and dis-
bursing the funds for consultancy. The unit would help various project



Annex 9
Page 4
entities draw up plans of operations and approve them, and would budget
for the funds required and requested by these entities for implementing
the project components. These funds would be provided by the Government
of Brazil to INAN. The special project unit would release funds to
various project entities based on their plans of operation initially
and on a review of reports and operations, according to pre-determined
schedules. With regard to the funding of the project activities, the
participating agencies would receive advances when necessary. On pre-
sentation of detailed accounts by the entities to the special project
unit, the unit would arrange for reimbursement of the funds and for fresh
advances to the participating entities. The special project unit would
also manage a special fund financed under the project to be used for spe-
cial studies or innovative activities, and for strengthening evaluation
activities in the project components. Other responsibilities of the unit
are detailed in the terms of reference of the various members of the unit.
Planning Office
8.        As part of the project, four full-time professionals would be
provided to the Planning Office of INAN. They would have responsibility
for overseeing the monitoring and evaluating of the proposed project com-
ponents by participating agencies and relating the results to PRONAN, and
for monitoring and evaluating the project as a whole. (See Annex 10 for
greater detail.)
Technical Assistance
9.        The project would provide 48 months of long-term technical
assistance and 72 months of short-term assistance (with an average of
4 months service) to meet the manpower requirements of INAN, with parti-
cuslar reference to the special project unit and the monitoring and evalua-
tion group of the INAN Planning Office.
Implementation
10.       INAN would enter into contractual agreements (convenios) for
purposes of project implementation with IBGE, EMfBRATER, SUPLAN, ITAL,
SESP, BNDE and FINEP. An appropriate contractual agreement would also
have been reached between EMBRATER and the Bank of Brazil (Chart 2).



ANNEX 9
Appendix 1
Page 1
SUMMARY OF PRONAN
Developed jointly by the Ministries of Health, Labor, Welfare and
Social Security, Education and Culture and Agriculture, the National Food and
Nutrition Program (PRONAN) was formally approved by Presidential Decree No.
77,116 dated February 6, 1976, as part of Brazil's social development strat-
egy. In their joint letter to the President, the Ministers of the above
agencies reported:
"... Brazil is becoming increasingly aware of the fundamental impor-
tance of correct dietary habits and nutrition among biologically vulnerable
groups (pregnant women, nursing mothers and children up to 14 years of age)
and low-income workers. These groups, the ones most directly affected by
dietary and nutritional problems, are precisely those with the lowest de-
fenses, despite their importance for the continuity of progress in Brazil.
"It is hoped through the implementation of PRONAN to reduce the
level of absolute poverty still prevailing among significantly large sectors
of the population.
"PRONAN will also have a marked economic and social impact by vir-
tue of the decisive support it will give to the small farmer.
"Developed jointly by the Ministries of Health, Labor, Welfare and
Social Security, Education and Culture, and Agriculture, PRONAN has identi-
fied a set of programs and projects that together form an integrated and
coherent basis for activity.
"Among those programs and projects are the following:
I.   Food Supplements Program, applying to:
a) pregnant women, nursing mothers and children up to
6 years of age; and
b) school children between 7 and 14 years of age.
II.   Small Farmer Support Program.
III.   Support Activities Program.
IV.   Incentives for Workers' Food Programs, centering on the
low-income worker.
"PRONAN calls for direct investment amounting to Cr$12,489.4 mil-
lion in 1976-79, with disbursement of Cr$2,335.1 million during 1976. These
figures increase to Cr$24,611.1 million and Cr$3,150.2 million, respectively,
if additions are made to cover estimated expenditures connected with the
proposed incentives for Worker's Food Programs.



ANNEX 9
Appendix 1
Page 2
"The Food Supplements Program is designed to provide pregnant
women, nursing mothers and children up to 14 years of age with foods sup-
plementing their ordinary diet.
"In carrying out the project for assistance to pregnant women,
nursing mothers and children up to age 6, use will be made of existing
operational structures of INPS, the SESP Foundation, FUNRURAL and Secre-
tariats of Health in the States, Territories and Federal District.
"The School Meals Project is intended to reinforce the structure
already existing under the National School Meals Campaign, which operates
through state and municipal school systems and community groups.
"Because of its implication for Brazilian agriculture, the Small
Farmer Support Program is of fundamental importance. Since it is the
small producers who bear the brunt of supplying the country with the food
it consumes, this program, by guaranteeing the small farmer a market for
his products, may very well bring about an extremely beneficial revolution
in the countryside. In addition, the program will lend decisive support
to strengthening of the already existing cooperative movement and will
foster the establishment of new groups. Program support activities will
include the following: technical assistance (mainly through EMBRATER),
credit made available through the banking system, and systems for the pur-
chase of agricultural products.
"The Support Activities Program is designed to deal with other
smaller-scale but no less important aspects of the general food and nutri-
tion problem. Program activities will center on the research and study
fields, personnel training, and campaigns against specific nutritional
problems through promotion, among other things, of the use of fluorine
(prevention of dental caries) and enriching agents (vitamin A in sugar,
iodine in salt).
"The measures for improvement of workers' diets are to be coordi-
nated by the Ministry of Labor and implemented through concerted action on
the part of various agencies such as SESI and SESC and employers them-
selves...."
An abridged translation of the related Presidential decree follows:



ANNEX 9
Appendix 1
Page 3
DECREE NO.  77116                     OF 6 February 1976
WHICH gives policy guidelines for Government action in the sphere
of food and nutrition, approves the National Food and Nutrition Program
(PRONAN) and sets out other provisions.
THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC HEREBY DECREES:
Article 1
The National Food and Nutrition Program (PRONAN) for the period
1976-79 is hereby approved.
Article 2
Government action in the sphere of food and nutrition shall imple-
ment the following general policy guidelines:
(I)  rationalization of assistance and education in the sphere
of food and nutrition;
(II)  promotion of production, warehousing, transportation and
marketing of the basic foodstuffs required in the official
food supplements programs, especially through the concession
of financial, fiscal and market incentives to small farmers'
cooperatives;
(III) a drive against nutritional deficiencies, with special
attention to preventive measures;



ANNEX 9
Appendix 1
Page 4
(IV)  encouragement of studies and research leading to improve-
ment in national dietary and nutritional habits and
conditions;
(V) support of human resources training for the technical services
connected with food and nutrition;
(VI)  expansion of the system of workers' food programs through
financing of and incentives to commercial firms and civil
employees and employers organizations;
(VII) organization of an integrated system of purchasing, ware-
housing and distributing of foodstuffs to be used in the
food supplements programs.
Article 3
During the period 1976-79, PRONAN shall have resources amounting
to Cr$12,489.4 million (at 1975 prices), of which Cr$2,335.9 million shall
be made available in 1976.
Sole Proviso
Appropriation of resources to PRONAN for fiscal year 1976 shall
be as follows:
(I) Federal Budget: Cr$1,700.1 million;
(II)  Federal banking system comprising the joint contribution of
the Banco do Brasil and the Banco Nacional de Credito
Cooperative: Cr$255 million;
(III) Sport and Federal Lotteries: Cr$200 million (non-reimbursable)
to be contributed to FAS (Fund for Social Development Support)
which is dealt with by Decree Law No. 1,405 of June 20, 1975,
promulgated in fulfillment of paragraph I, Article 3, Law
No. 6,100 of December 9, 1974;
(IV)  FINEP (Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos, S.A.):
Cr$27 million (non-reimbursable);
(V) States, Municipalities, Territories and Federal District:
Cr$335.9 million;
(VI)  External loan:  up to an amount of Cr$300 million.



ANNEX 9
Appendix 1
Page 5
Article 4
In the present fiscal year, Federal funds relating to the Mini-
stry of Social Security will be drawn from the reserve funds of the Insti-
tute of Social Welfare up to Cr$283,196,000,00 Sde Proviso. Provision to
reimburse the above mentioned fund will be included in the budget proposal
for 1977.
Article 5
The Deliberative Council of INAN (National Food and Nutrition
Institute), shall be responsible for coordinating, monitoring, evaluating
and supervising the implementation of PRONAN.
Sole Proviso
The above-mentioned Deliberative Council, chaired by the president
of INAN, shall be composed of representatives from the Planning Secretariat
of the Office of the President of the Republic and from the Ministries of
Agriculture, Education and Culture, Labor, Health, Industry and Trade,
Interior, and Welfare and Social Security.
Article 6
The federal agencies and entities with responsibilities in the
purchasing, warehousing, packaging, transportation, distribution of food-
stuffs, and in the granting of incentives for food production - in particu-
lar, COBAL (Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos), CIBRAZEM (Companhia Brasileira
de Armazenamento) and EMBRATER (Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e
Extensao Rural) - shall support and give priority to the implementation of
PRONAN.
Article 7
In implementing PRONAN, INAN shall use, for technical tasks spe-
cialized personnel contracted in the manner set out in Articles 96 and 97
of Decree Law No. 200 of February 25, 1967, subject to the approval of the
President of the Republic.
Article 8
The ministries with responsibilities for implementing PRONAN shall,
to the extent possible, delegate the actual execution of program activities,
preferably to the States, Territories and Federal District.
Article 9
INAN, in its capacity of coordinating agency for food and nutri-
tion activities, shall issue such rules and regulations as may be required
for implementation of this Decree.



ANNEX 9
Appendix 1
Page 6
Article 10
This Decree shall come into force on the date of its publica-
tion. All provisions contrary to it are hereby revoked.
*  *  *
Table 1 provides a consolidated statement of expenditures.



PRONAN
P.TABL  I                                        ANNEX 9
Appendix 1
Consolidated Statement of    enditure                           Page 7
Cr$1000.00 (1975 Values)
Subprograms and Projects,              l                          2 6           1              1979          TOTAL
~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ _.__ _                 _                       ,-                                 _t_ ,.__..
1.  Food Supplementation                                L     .:12   3 .882,M     2.2177LO0    2,87,88((583
1.1 Pregnant women, nursing mothers children 7.       5&*5M0       720,441    1,01h,400   1,568,581       3,  7-,92.2
1.2 School children-7-14 years                  .    ,lO67t,2   1,162,512    1,263,000    1,279,277        4,772,661
2.  Food Production Rationalization                   I        2       724o          2.La   ,.00T.283,167,213
3.  Supplemental and Support Activities                 _2458          297,103        63.272a       55.638     _61.571
3.1 Combatting Nutritional Deficiencies                11,099       16,000        20,0000      22,226         69,32$
3.2 Technology Development                              1,523       11,264        27,512       26t912         57,2I1
3.3 Studies and Research                               22,763       21,938         8,870         -            53,571
3.4 Manpower Training                                   5,009        7,901         6,890  i     6,50o         26,300
3.5 Distribution Network                          f   20%Al64      250,000          _                        455,164
TOTAL  2___2____2_ __904__56____  2,3.857230 2,91047Z9    1
After inclusion of the estimated                                                                         .
expenditures connected with the
incentives to Workers Food Programs                             ,                                         26,
the Totals become                                   3,150,000  14,480,000    7,3,0          92977100010
Approved in February 1976.



ANNEX 9
Appendix 2
Page 1
PROJECT UNIT STAFF REQUIREMENT
THE COORDINATOR
JOB DESCRIPTION
The coordinator shall be responsible for:
1. Making arrangements for the preparation of plans of opera-
tion for the various components of the Nutrition Project.
2. The overall implementation of the Project.
3. Providing professional and administrative support to the
Agencies undertaking implementation of individual components
of the Project.
4. Providing information for the liaison with Governmental and
non-Governmental Organizations involved in or associated
with the Project.
5. The organization of reports from implementing agencies and
the production of Program Reports as required by Government
or the World Bank.
6. The timely disbursement of funds to the implementing agencies.
7. The provision of advice to the President of INAN and the
Government on a practicable and comprehensive national
nutrition program.
QUALIFICATIONS
The Coordinator must be a well-qualified professional of recog-
nized national standing, with experience of administration and outstanding
qualities of leadership. The Coordinator must have the vision necessary to
see the project in the context of the future national nutrition program and
the practical ability to support and influence the various component agencies
in attaining project goals. Ability to delegate and the charisma which causes
colleagues to collaborate harmoniously would be essential. The Coordinator
would be expected to travel extensively in order to have first-hand information.



ANNEX 9
Appendix 2
Page 2
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER/DEPUTY COORDINATOR
JOB DESCRIPTION
The Administrative Officer shall be responsible for:
1. In the absence of the Coordinator, the functions of the
Coordinator.
2. The administrative arrangements for the Project Unit and
for inter-disciplinary and inter-departmental consultation.
3. The organization of Work Groups for specific aspects in the
preparation of Plans of Operation and implementation of
activities within the Project.
4. Facilitating personnel working on the Project to consult
with other Governmental or non-Governmental Agencies or
personnel.
5.  Ensuring that all Governmental agencies ar'e kept informed
of any activities which relate to their functions.
6. The issue of correspondence with the agencies implementing
components of the Program.
QUALIFICATIONS
The Administrative Officer should have wide experience at the
national level of how Government works and how to work successfully in Govern-
ment. The officer should have knowledge of the key personnel in the many
agencies and organizations involved in the Project and of how to reach them
readily. The ability would be required to organize staff service functions,
formal and informal conferences and work groups, distribution of information,
arrange for staff and consultant travel and liaison visits from staff of
component agencies. A working knowledge of English, to facilitate communica-
tion with the World Bank would be desirable.



ANNEX 9
Appendix 2
Page 3
FINANCE OFFICER
JOB DESCRIPTION
The Finance Officer shall be responsible for:
1. Interpreting the agreed disbursement policy.
2. Ensuring that Governmental and World Bank procedures
are carried out as required.
3. Liaison with the Bank of Brazil and BNDE
regarding agricultural and industrial credit.
4. Ensuring that accounting and auditing procedures are
carried out as agreed.
5. Organizing component estimates and budgets into Project
estimates and budget.
6. Providing financial information to the Government or
World Bank as required.
7. Advising on appropriate procurement procedures.
QUALIFICATIONS
Experience at the national level in designing and implementing
finance policy and sound knowledge of both Governmental and World Bank pro-
cedures would be required. There should be experience in the framing of esti-
mates, the control of expenditures, the disbursement of funds, procurement
procedures and of auditing requirements.



ANNEX 9
Appendix 2
Page 4
PLANNING OFFICER
JOB DESCRIPTION
The Planning Officer shall be responsible for:
1. Liaison between the Special Project lJnit and the Planning
Office at INAN.
2. Interpreting the results of monitoring so as to advise the
Co-ordinator on managerial actions required.
3.  Recommending revision of plans of action for any component.
4. Assisting in applying project results to refining activities
in PRONAN.
QUALIFICATIONS
An economic planner, with a basic knowledge of nutrition and,
preferably, having completed a course on nutrition programming. The ability to
work with others unfamiliar with planning techniques, would be essential. Tact
and firmness would be required when representing the views of the Special Pro-
ject Unit.



ANNEX 9
Appendix 2
Page 5
AGRICULTURAL ECONOMIST
JOB DESCRIPTION
The Agricultural Economist shall be responsible for liaison
with participating agencies involved in agricultural-related activities. In
this regard he will advise the coordination of the Project Unit on work con-
cerning:
1. The price policy of food crops and the influence of such
policy on food production or food consumption.
2. The social and economic effects of the agricultural ex-
tension effort.
3. Analysis of the agricultural input of the Project and
interpretation of the evaluation data relating to agri-
culture.
4. The statistical basis for sampling frames of surveys or
the collection of base-line data.
5. Liaison with the professional agricultural community as it
relates to the Project.
QUALIFICATIONS
A well-qualified agricultural economist with a special interest
in consumption; if possible, with basic knowledge of human nutrition. The
agricultural economist should have both the organizational and analytical
skills necessary to ensure timely and high quality work in the Project's
agriculture-related activities.



ANNEX 9
Appendix 2
Page 6
IMPLEMENTATION OFFICER
JOB DESCRIPTION
The Implementation Officer shall be responsible for:
1.  Diagnosing problems in any of the components of the
Project and arranging for speedy consideration of
alternative solutions and decision on remedial action.
2.  Giving advice on the practical feasibility of planning
proposals.
3.  Identifying gaps in knowledge which hinder or inhibit
implementation and to refer such gaps in knowledge for
study or research.
4.  Advising on the need for specialist advice from local
or international sources.
QUALIFICATIONS
A well qualified administrator with experience in field work
among both rural and urban communities. The essence of the job is problem
solving, so there must be ability to get to the bottom of problems and,
together with others, reach speedy solutions for remedial measures. Apti-
tude in obtaining willing response from others would be essential, coupled
with a determination to reach problem solutions quickly.



ANNEX 9
Appendix 2
Page 7
SOCIOLOGIST
JOB DESCRIPTION
The sociologist shall be responsible for:
1. Advising on the sociological aspects of the project.
2. Assisting in the INAN Planning Office in the develop-
ment of analytical indicators for evaluation, selection
of samples, collection of data, analysis and interpre-
tation of the data.
3. In collaboration with the nutritionist, organizing infor-
mation on food habits, patterns, beliefs.
4. Advising participating agencies on the form and design of
communication material to ensure its suitability for the
target audience.
5. Assisting in pre-testing material with samples of the
target audience before the material is approved for produc-
tion in bulk.
6. Collaborating with the Implementation Officer on social
aspects of problems diagnosed.
7. Assisting in the planning of the national nutrition program.
QUALIFICATIONS
A well qualified Sociologist with particular interest in the
behavioral changes involved in improving the nutritional status of families,
in diffusion systems and in extension methodologies. The Sociologist will be
required to have facility in drafting integrated papers or reports relating to
the Project.



ANNEX 9
Appendix 2
Page 8
NUTRITIONIST
JOB DESCRIPTION
The Nutritionist shall be responsible for:
1. Undertaking any nutritional calculation or investigations
as required by the Coordinator or Implementation Officer.
2. Providing information on food availability, the nutrients
in foods, the nutrient requirements of communities and
individuals and low-cost diets.
3. Organizing in collaboration with the sociologist, informa-
tion on food habits, patterns and beliefs.
4. Assisting the Planning Office of INAN in the interpretation
of data collected through evaluation.
QUALIFICATIONS
A nutrition graduate, who is well trained in the calculation of
the content of foods and the development of low-cost diets based on locally
available foods. The nutritionist should have special interest in the social
aspects of food consumption and in methodologies for bringing about behavioral
change at the family level.



ANNEX 9
Appendix 2
Page 9
TRAINING SPECIALIST
The training specialist shall be responsible for:
1.   Organizing programs related to the national nutrition
training program.
2.   Entering into and monitoring the observance of the con-
venios with training institutions selected for participa-
tion in the program.
3.   Ensuring that appropriate criteria are evolved and observed
for choice of candidates for various fellowships for training
in Brazil and abroad, under the project.
4.   Entering into arrangements with training institutions abroad
for placement and evaluation of trainees.
5.   Ensuring that trainees on return from training are utilized
suitably for the purposes for which they are trained.
6.   Conduct the survey of training needs as described in this
report.
7.   Serve as secretariat to the Council on Nutrition Manpower
Needs and Training.
QUALIFICATIONS
The training specialist should have experience in management of
educational and training programs of a multi-disciplinary nature and in
establishing contacts with international training agencies and institutions.
It is preferable to have a specialist with orientation in public health/
nutrition or agricultural education.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Purpose and Approach
1.        Inasmuch as learning is a basic objective of the project described
in this report, monitoring and evaluation has been built into all compo-
nents. 1/ In addition, overall monitoring and evaluation of the project
will be undertaken to (a) permit comparisons among the operational test com-
ponents concerning relative effectiveness and (b) to collate all information
generated by the project in ways necessary to refine the national nutrition
plan. Participating agencies would be responsible for monitoring and evalua-
ting individual components. The Planning Office of INAN would have responsi-
bilities for monitoring and evaluation of the project as a whole.
2.        Collection of the data would be conducted at several levels:  agency
field level; agency state level; national level by individual participating
agencies; and multi-sectoral (national) level by INAN. The special project
unit at INAN would be responsible for the aggregate collection, with the
guidance of INAN's Planning Office. Because health mini-posts, extension
offices, cooperatives, SESP health centers and schools already collect most
of the necessary information, INAN's principal tasks are to initiate minor
mcdifications in data collection forms for purposes of commonality and to
coordinate the timing, processing and analysis of data in ways that link
activities with related results. Data obtained for purposes of monitoring
and evaluation largely will rely on routine collection systems of the parti-
cipating agencies both because (a) it is more economical than developing
parallel reporting systems and (b) it accelerates feedback of project pro-
gress and problems.
3.        Data would be collected in a manner to reveal the results achieved,
the differences between actual and planned action, unanticipated problems and,
perhaps, misconceptions in the initial diagnosis of the problem. Partici-
pating agency management would respond by issuing new directives or initiating
further investigation.
4.        The focus of evaluation in the INAN Planning Office would be the
broader and longer-term aspects of the project and with refinement of the
policy and program of PRONAN. The Finance Officer of the special project
uniit would ensure that an effective system for cost analysis would be
maintained, both by the agencies and by the unit.
5.        INAN's general tasks would be to:
1/   Monitoring in this project refers to progress on activities (i.e.,
are entities doing what they are expected to do?). Evaluation refers
to results. For the latter, distinction is made between immediate/
intermediate results and final results. (e.g. there are several
obvious measuring points between food delivery and changes in nutri-
tion status.)



ANNEX 10
Page 2
(a) establish systems for monitoring and criteria for evalua-
tion of individual components and for the project as a
whole;
(b) assist participating project agencies in developing related
procedures and maintaining working monitoring and evaluation
systems, including criteria for collecting satisfactory
baseline and follow-up data and establishment of controls; 1/
(c) establish accounting and control systems for collection of
all project data;
(d) develop a system for bringing together data necessary for
refining an integrated national nutrition plan;
(e) collect, analyze and provide feedback on routine basis of
information for policy and programming purposes on interven-
tion tests; and
(f) conduct special studies, the need for which is identified in
the analysis of other routine work.
Implementation
6.        Specifically, the monitoring and evaluation staff in the Planning
Office of INAN, after consultation with the special project unit and parti-
cipating agencies, would be responsible for:
(a) defining the data to be collected in relation to each component;
(b) designing the format for reporting the data, so that they may
be analyzed by computer if required;
(c) laying down the frequency and method of reporting data;
(d) analyzing or arranging for the analysis of the data;
(e) interpreting the analysis so as to be able to report results;
(f) reporting the results to the special project unit and the
participating agency;and
(g) reporting to the Coordinator, special project unit, any delays
in receipt of data or misunderstanding of requirements by an
agency.
7.        INAN's Planning Office would contract with an experienced evalua-
tion group (separate from the participating agencies) for development of the
1/   The project training component would be designed to strengthen agency
capability in this regard.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
test design. This is to assure valid tests and useful comparisons, within
ancl between distribution agencies and with appropriate control groups, uni-
formity of measurements of costs and nutrition results, and assessment of
coverage and administrative efficiency. The organization retained for this
purpose would consult with the participating agencies in specifying the pur-
pose of the test, in identifying the data to be collected and in the form
of such data so that it is compatible with data processing requirements.
The organization also would assist INAN in testing and monitoring the quality
of the data during the collection process, in making adjustments in the de-
sign, and in interpreting results.
8.        The evaluation results would be provided to the Deliberative Coun-
cil of INAN, to appropriate participating agencies responsible for project
implementation and to other relevant agencies. The evaluation results would
assist INAN in refining PRONAN.
Design
9.        Overall design for monitoring and evaluation will be completed by
INAN within six months after loan signing. With specific regard to the test-
irng of alternative delivery systems, evaluation would be designed to learn:
(a) the relative efficiencies of the various delivery systems in
terms of delivering the designated services;
(b) the amount and the quality of services delivered;
(c) the effectiveness of services delivered in relation to nutritional
improvement;
(d) the cost per person reached in the delivery system and the cost
per person in relation to change in nutritional status. (Since
the change in nutritional status will be difficult to measure
during the life of the project, INAN would encourage continued
evaluation beyond the project period); and
(e) the replicability of the system.
10.       In addition to those general points raised in the above paragraph,
specific issues would be included in the design for each delivery system
component. For example, among the issues to be included in the Encruzilhada
component design would be distribution within the family of the increment
(taking into account trade-offs, i.e. family may give up cheap calories)
and cost comparison of food delivery from health centers and through com-
mercial markets.
II.       For components involving studies, such as SUPLAN, the evaluation
design would provide information on whether institutional arrangements have
in fact been created to carry out the component, studies have been contracted



ANNEX 10
Page 4
for and completed or are on schedule according to the plan, studies and
other work (e.g. routine monitoring) meet professional standards as
determined by the Advisory Council, studies and other work meet a test
of relevance as determined by the body designated, information emerging
from the SUPLAN work is fed to those responsible for related policy, and
information from the studies has been considered in policy formulation.
12.       For product development-related components, such as FINEP, the
design would insure information would be available concerning institutional
steps to activate the program, the number of marketing studies contracted
for and undertaken in time frame as related to the proposal, the quality
of design of studies as determined by the Food Advisory Board, the quality
of study performance as determined by the Food Advisory Board, products
resulting from the marketing studies, use of products resulting from market-
ing studies in institutional feeding programs, and availability of products
on the market (with quantities, prices, and purchases as they relate to
target groups).
13.       For the training component, the design would permit information
flow on the establishment by INAN of organizational capability to administer
the training component, signing of contracts, transfer of funds, holding
of seminars in numbers and types designed, numbers and types of participants
in seminars and courses as compared to training program design, use of skills
acquired by participants in positions (and in ways) that contribute to the
national nutrition program, quantitative and qualitative improvement of
faculty available for giving nutrition courses, improvement and if necessary
the expansion of facilities necessary to expand a quality nutrition training
capability, and other issues as noted in paras. 7-8 of Annex 8.



ANNEX 11
Table 1
Nutrition Survey and Surveillance Costs   IBE
(CR$ '000)
Year
1       2         3       4     Local      Foreign    Total
1. Equipment
1.1  Vehicles                      471      -        -       188      527        132        659
1.2  Equipment                     236     471       -        D6      754        189        943
Sub-Total - 1               707     471       -       424   1,281         321     1,602
2. Technical Assistance
2.1  Advisors/consultants         471     -         -       471      -          942        942
3. Operating Costs
3.1 Salary support
Central Administration-I/  472       472       942     942   2,828         -        2,828
Design of Survey             942     -         -       -        942        -          942
Field Work                   942   4,710       -     1,884   7,536         -        7,536
Evaluation                   -     471       471       42    1,884         -        1884
Sub-Total - 3.1          2,356   5,653    1,413   3,768  13,190          -      13,190
3.2  Social charges               763   2,035       170     933   3,901         -        3,901
3.3  Data Processing              500   2,000       -     1,000   3,150         350      3,500
3.4  Transportation and
per diem                     188     500       300     565   1,385         168      1,553
3.5  Office Supplies              132     224       224     224      804        -
Sub-Total 3              3,939  10,412    2,107   6,490  22,430          518    22,948
TOTAL BASE COST                 5,117  10,883    2.10     3      23,711       1,781    k25 42
1/ Includes cost of a nutrition surveillance unit set up in IBGE from year three.
2 professionals and support staff would be included in central administration. In addition
the surveillance unit will also have two professionals from year three.
February, '76



AMEX 11
Table 2
Food and Nutrition Policy Research Costs - SJPLAN
(Cr. $ '000)
Ye ar
1       2       3      4       Local     Foreign      Total
1. Technical Assistance
1/
1.1  Advisors                   706     706      706   706        940      1,884       2,824
1.2  Fellowships                188     188      188   188        752
Sub-Total - 1            8944    8        894   894     1,692       1,884      3,576
2. Operating Costs
2.1  SUPLAN Unit
2.11  Salary support    1,130   1,319   1,413 1,507       5,369         _        5,369
2.12  Social charges       405     471      510   546     1,932         -        1,932
2.13  Travel               217     226      226   226       716         179         895
2.14  Data Processing      104     122      122   122       376          94        470
2.15  Meetings              94      94       94    94       376         -           376
2.16  Publications         122     122      122   122       394          94         488
2.17  Books and Journals   19       19       19    19        57          19          76
2.18  Other                301     283      311   330     1,225         _        1.225
Sub-Total - 2.1        2,392   2,656   2,817 2,966    10,445          386     10,831
2.2 Studies By
Universities
2.21  Salaries:
Professors Ph.D.  1,502   1,503   1,502 1,503       6,010         -        6,010
Masters Level      1,794   1,795   1,794 1,795      7,178         -        7,178
Research Asst.       650     650     650   650      2,600         -        2,600
Programmers         230      231     231   231        923         -          923
2.22  Travel                11      12       12    12        47         -            47
2.23  Data Processing      706     707      706   707     2,543         283      2,826
2.24  Books & Journals    176      177      177   177        -          707         707
2.25  Other
Expenses             427     427     426   426      1,706         -
Sub-Total 2.2          5,496   5,502   5,498 5,501    21,007          990     21,997
TOTAL BASE COST              8,782   9,052   9,209 9,361    33.144        3,260      36.404
1/ Represents 4 man years of expatriate consultants and 4 man years of local consultants.
February '76



ANNE 11
Table 3
Costs of Test of Nutrition Intervention Througri ttie itural Extension service
(Cr. $ '000)
Year
1        2         3        4      Local       Foreign       Total
1.  Equipment
1.1 Vehicles                 2,035       -         -       -       1,630          405       2,035
1.2 PFuriture & Equip.                              932 19  38  75 848            216        L.Ok
Sub-Total - 1         2,967        19        38       75    2,628                     3,099
2.  Technical Assistance
2.1 Advisors                   471       -        -        471       _            942         942
3.  Operating Costs
3.1 Salary Support           5,662    5,162    5,378   5,615   21,817             -        21,817
3.2 Social Charges           1,517    1,347    1,413   1,488    5,765             _         5,765
3.3 Training                   528       179      179      122    1,008           -         1,008
3.4 Travel and Per Diem        904    1,168    1,074   1,008    3,325             829       4,154
3.5 Baseline Survey             85       -         -       -          85          -            85
3.6 Evaluation                 300       308       308     422    1,338           -         1,338
3.7 Insurance                  283       14i       141     141       706          -           706
3.8 Maintenance                622       622      622      622    2,488           -         2,488
3.9 Others                     802    1,171    1 171   1 113    4,257             -         4,257
Sub-Total - 3        10,703   10,098   10;,28   10,531   40,789             829      161
TOTAL BASE COST             14,141   10,117   10.324  11,077   43,267           2,392      45659
February '7?



ANNEX 11
Table 4
Costs of Test of Nutrition Intervention Through
Health and Commercial Delivery Systems
(Encruzilhada and zona da Mata)
(Cr. $ '000)
Year
1      2      3       4     Local       Foreign       Total
A. UICIUZILBADA
1.  Technical Assistance
1.1 Foreign               -     236      -     236       -          472           472
1.2 Local                123     28      -      47      198          -            198
Sub-Total            123    264      -     283     198          472           670
2. Food Supplement          1837   4324   6603   3408    6924           9248        16172
3.  Operating Costs
3.1 Salary Support       603    725    867   1046    3241             -          3241
3.2 Social Charges       217    264    311    377    1169            -           1169
3.3 Printing             254    339      -      -       593           -           593
3.4 Evaluation            -     509      -     508    1017           -           1017
3.6 Others                57     75      85    104      320          -            320
Sub-Total 3         1130   1912   1263   2035    6340            -           6340
Sub-Total A         3090   6500   7866   5726   13462          9720         23182
B.  ZONA DA MATA
1.  Equipment
1.1 Vehicles              57     -       -      -        47           10           57
1.2 Medical Equipment    84      -       -      -        66           18            84
Sub-Total 1          141     -       -      -      113           28           141
2.  Technical Assistance
2.1 Foreign               -     236      -     236       -          472           472
2.2 Local                 75     28      -      -       103           -           103
Sub-Total 2           75    264      -     236      103         472           575
3.  Food                    1055   1470   1941    989    2054           3401          5455
4.  Operating Costs
4.1 Salary Support       490    593    716    857    2656             -           2656
4.2 Social Charges       179    217    254    311       961           _            961
4.3 Maintenance            9       9     19     19       56           -             56
4.4 Evaluation            -     518      -     518    1036            -          1036
4.6 Other                 47      5,     7      86      265           -            265
Sub-Total 4          725   1394   1064   1791    4974             -          4974
Sub-Total B         1996   3128   3005   3016    7244          3901         11145
TOTAL BASE COST             5086   9628  10871       42                   21         34327
February '76



ANNEX 11
Table 5
Costs of Test of Nutrition Intervention Through School Feeding Programs
(Cr. $ '000)
Year
1      2      3       4      Local      Foreign      Total
1.  Technical Assistance    188    236    188    236          377          471       848
2. Equipment
Vehicles                 141      -      -      -         113           28       141
Other Equipment  /       565     94    _                  2            132       659
Sub-Total 2          706     94      -      -         640         160        800
3   Food 2/                  226    452    678    905        1262          999      2261
4. Operating Costs
4.1 Salary Support       847    848    848    848        3391           -       3391
4.2 Social Charges       306    306    306    306        1224           -       1224
4.3 Baseline Survey      471     -       -      -         471           -        471
4.4 Evaluation            -     236      -     236        472           -        472
4.5 Training              94     -       -      -          94           -         94
4.6 Data Processing       -     236      -     235        377           94       471
4.7 Travel                47     47      94     95        225           58       283
4.8 Maintenance           38     38      38     37        151           -        151
4.9 Others                94     57      47     37        235           -        235
Sub-Total           1897   1768   1333   1794        6640         152       6792
TOTAL BASE COST    3017   2550   2199   2935         8919        1782      10701
1/ Consists of US$50,000 equivalent for surveys and studies and US$20,000 equivalent
for office and other equipment.
2/  talculnted on the basis of US 10 equivalent per child per day for 200 school days
with 1,200 children in first year, 2,400 in second year, 3,600 in third and 4,800
in final year.
February '76



Research and Development Program Costs
(Cr. $ '000)
YearLoa                            Foeg
1        2         3                Local      Foreign   Total
A. CIVIL WORKS
1.  New Pilot Plant
1.1 Construction         2,355       471      -        _       2,261          565    2,826
1.2 Furniture and
Equipment            2 025    2 713       -       -        3,834          904      .738
Sub-Total 1         ,380   :31,18       -       -        6,09                  7,564
2. Storage Test Facilities
2.1 Construction           266       -        -        -         179           47       226
2.2 Furniture and
Equipment              188            -       -              151                   188
Sub-Total 2          2J7-               -       -          330           8        14
3. Bioterium
3.1 Construction           226       -        -        -         179           47       226
3.2 Equipment and
Furniture               19      -         -       -           15            4        19
Sub-Total 3          245      _         _                  1             51 
4. Cereals Lab.
4.1 Construction         1,422       -        _        _       1 142          280    1 422
Sub-Total A        6,461    31T84                                              ; 7,6  1,8824
B.  NON CIVIL WDRKS
1. Equipment
1.1 Vehicles               273       -        _        _         217           56       273
1.2 Other Equipment        179       _        _        -         -            179       179
Sub-Total 1          452      -         _       _          217          235      X452
2. Technical Assistance
2.1 Advisors/Consultants  471        471      471      471       -          1,884    1,884
2.2 Fellowships            829       829      829      829     1,243        2,073    3,316
2.3 Contracts with       1,243    1,253    1,253   1,253       5,002          -      5,002
Universities
Sub-Total 2        2,543    2,553    2,553   2,553       6,245        3,957   10,202
3.  Food                        66       443      443      452        716         688    1,404
4.  Operating Costs
4.1 Salary Support       3,768    3,768    3,768   3,580    14,884            -      14,884
4.2 Social Charges       1,356    1,356    1,356   1,290       5,358          -      5,358
4.3 Others                _518        18       18   _ 509      2.063          -       2.063
Sub-Total 4        5,6242    5,642    5,624  5,379    22,305            -     22,305
Sub-Total B        8,703    8,638    8,638   8,384    29,483          4,880   34,363
TOTAL BASE COST (A+B)  15,164   11,822    8,638   8.384    37,2244          6,764   44.o.008
February '76



Annex 11
TABLE 7
Nutrition Training Costs
(Cr. $ '000)
Year
1        2         3        4      Local       Foreign      Total
1.  Equipment                     471       942    3,297    4,710    4,710         4,710       9,420
2.  Technical Assistance
2.1 Advisors                  942       754      518       612    1,413        1,413       2,826
2.2 Fellowships             52670    5,379    2,967         L2 86590           6,68
Sub-Total 2           6,612    6,133    3,485    1,554   10,003          7,781     17,784
3.  Operating Costs
3.1 Salary Support            400       420      500       545    1,865          -         1,865
3.2 Social charges            144       151      180       196      671          -           671
3.3 'Training materials       471       179       93       -        595          148         743
3.4 Books                     200        X       -         -        228           57
Sub-Total 3           1,215      835       773       741    3,359          205      3,564
TOTAE  BASE COST            8,298    7.910    7          7,005   18,072       12.696      _______
/   The detailed plans for equipping various schools and universities for nutrition training,
which are to be drawn up following a survey, would be approved by the Bank. A sum of
US$1.0 million equivalent (Cr.$9.42 million) is included for this. 50% of this is
expected to be thne imporr; component, including directly imported equipment.
February '76



ANNEX 11
Table 8
Organization and Management Costs - INAN -
(Cr. $'000)
Year
1      2     3       4   Local  Foreign   Total
1. Technical Assistance
a. Advisors                942    942  1,413  1,413    -       4,710    4,710
2. Operating Costs
a. Salary Support        3,756  3,756  3,756  3,756  15,024       -    15,024
b. Travel and Per Diem    424    433    433    452   1,394    348    1,742
c. Evaluation               -     942    -       942   1.884      -      1,884
d. Others                  554    562    563    582   2,261       -      2,261
Sub-Total 2            ,734  5,693  4,752  5,732  20.563    348   20.911
TOTAL BASE COST       5,676  6,635  6,165  7,145  20,563  5,058   25,621
I/   In addition, a special fund of US$885,000 equivalent (Cr.$8.34)
will be operated by INAN for special studies and for strengthening monitoring
and evaluation capability in different participating entities.
February 176



ANNEX 12
Brazil Nutrition Development Project
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
U.S. $Million
Quarter        Quarterly        Cumulative        Balance
Ending         Disbursement     Disbursement      of Loan
1976        September            -                              19.0
December           0.2               0.2            18.8
1977        March              0.5                0.7           18.3
June               1.0               1.7            17.3
September          0.5                2.2           16.8
December           1.0                3.2           15.8
1978        March              0.5                3.7           15.3
June               0.5               4.2            14.8
September          1.0                5.2           13.8
December           1.0                6.2           12.8
1979        March              1.0                7.2           11.8
June               1.0                8.2           10.8
September          1.5                9.7            9.3
December           1.5               11.2            7.8
1980        March              1.5               12.7            6.2
June               2.0               14.7            4.3
September          2.0               16.7            2.3
December           1.3              18.0             1.0
1981        March              1.0               19.0






- - -----------------
V     I GeORGETOWN
pARAyARJBO
V:1 N E Z V         A
FAYENNt
fS Li R I N A Mkt:M_ri
k4U1ANA,1
B IA                                Is
30A 'A
c
MALAPA Q-1
MANA JS
SAC) IJ15
Y
7ORTALEZA
p                                             47                                      0                                                                b
V,1 'I'                                                                                   fERESI NA
clill 4L
C)
f Y
146
MACEI(
RIO BRANc                                                                                                                                                V_
CA64 AJU
N,
U                                                                                                                                     "'4LVADOR
J
J
OCU14,L;A                BRAS(LIAf;W_f, 5
NU7MON RESEARCH :AIND
DEVEL PMENT, PRQJET
0
RELO hORIOZONTE
_M,, INTE
"VIT 6RIA
th'o Hfh ..d D.4-Y Sy,-
f
0    N,3t,.t C,;wf                                                                             PAULO0           RIO ?RE
sk
JANI0
171ANTIC OlAA'
%         R A ZI.
4  t    a  n  t    c
o a
ol PORTO ALEGRE
A Al
----------- 1T1__ ______L






GY'BrnAS,,                                  I                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 12184
\ '.-SFO U T H       ~                AID   BBRAZIL
7~  ;  ~               /   AG FRANC 9C                                                                            NUTRITION  RESEARCH  AND                                                 93
/  <0  ~~~~~                                             DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Stcate of Sergipe
' ~   OcNor                                         0 OCREDONDO                         "      
N                                                      ~~~~~~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~GARABSO '
MO~NTE ACLBOB       7-
3ODE S'RGIPE       ,i
7-I                                                        F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I ELUD5
0
/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E'It SAD
NOSSA SENHIORA CA GLORI1    0CCI'T E LSAOX<
L9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SC                                                 .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIAV CAASO  ANOA-                           --
MIANOV                   Q AUIDAB          IlAC -cr
N SCPCL S\\
7-                                             '~~~~~~OAC  'i CAE                        DO~ BOSS
7     CARIRA      I                 OBELDOC             0 
30*                            ALEIC I                                                        9040AT    .
IALEIXO                              !S~~~~~~~~~~~ FRACISCCI
I~~~ ~~~~~~~~1  CRUZ DA450N----                                                MA/UECA
\ OBA;AS 'K~~~~~~~~~~~o                                                         B
<                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NOSSA SENHOBA /                      I                          R <4BA.B
DAS DORES         PEAFA\--
-RE1 FAULO-IBB/~RCEROOLIS                                                                           -'       ----
FPEDRA 'ISIRIA                                                                AAARB           .
10'30                                                                                                          -----        ---IOLLSO      -              - 
IDDS                              ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    A~~~~ACAMBRA\\                    50  DIV N4                   -----
0       I ABA ANA  '     ~    1`\L-A PASTORA   RA'AB   CARCECi s
/                    -.  Log        I~~~~~~~~      ~     ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~             ~~MALhADOR  /  A7TBM-- 
~~'/SIMZO               ZAM'CANSO  /C                            MARU/IM      E BC4~FRBB
so            Z~~>SO   0                          R/CAE0LAl/    0,       0
DONA NGCS1        ~          ARPA                --G        MAROACA
/~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /  RANC/A/ORANjE RA945                                                  0DA  ROA
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~
"7'  S  E       R             G             I           P             E           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~'--ARA'CAJU            Pojc
0N  ' CRISTO'VAC I~                              Project Reginona CoorlinIators
'   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;SALGADO 'IT190APrANA'
1      DAM/O-JDoninAailte
K           N       L~~~~~IACHAC DOSDANTAS\
*  ovrrcipal Ulnits
K                                                                                             *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Agencies of 6ools of Brazil
IM                                                                BtMO/I                                                                                Haspitots                               l0
TOBI/AAS 9AR*4C15'                               <            /A,    CIBRAZEM  Stones
0<0
$14 -LZA DO
TOMOF D.OEB                               TANA  C 02
5                       JABOSBA  9.                                                          N                           1N5 MBA45
/9-   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~KLOMEtTES/
B   A    H-   I  A    '-CAISTN%AFC            '        IND ARC/A  -Y
39~ 3D'                                     ,9- Do                                /5                                                 2-,37 0
Do-                           MA~~~~~~~~CA'~~~                            IA'



