CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1302 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Nutrition Research and Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ALIMENTACAO E NUTRICAO
Dated October 1, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 1, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ALIMENTACAO E NUTRI AO (hereinafter
called INAN).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith be-
tween Federative Republic of Brazil (hereinafter called the Bor-
rower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to nineteen
million dollars ($19,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that INAN
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as hereinaf-
ter set forth; and
WHEREAS INAN, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the Gen-
eral Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. INAN shall carry out Parts E and F of the Proj-
ect and shall cause the Participating Entities to carry out Parts
A, B, C and D of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity, as
appropriate, with sound administrative, financial, technological
and banking practices.
Section 2.02. (a) INAN shall maintain a separate unit to
coordinate the carrying out of the Project and to supervise the
performance of the Participating Entities in respect of the Project.
The staff of such unit shall include at all times a Project coor-
dinator, whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory
to the Bank, a deputy Project coordinator, a finance officer, a
planning officer, an agricultural economist, a sociologist, a
nutrition expert, a training specialist and the necessary supporting
staff.
(b) The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment of consultants employed by INAN to assist INAN in
carrying out Parts E and F of the Project shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.
Section 2.03. INAN shall maintain a Planning Office, respon-
sible for the monitoring and evaluation of the carrying out of
Parts A, B, C, D and E of the Project, and shall employ, on a
full-time basis, at least four qualified and experienced profes-
sionals for such office.


﻿I4-
Section 2.04. INAN shall promptly inform the Bank of +'e
results of the review of the progress of the Project made by the
Deliberative Council, as provided in Section 3.02 of the Loan
Agreement, and shall take all such corrective action as shall be
required in the light of such review.
Section 2.05. (a) INAN shall enter into a Subsidiary Project
Agreement, on terms satisfactory to the Bank, with each of the
Participating Entities for the purpose of regulating the rights
and obligations of INAN and each such Entity in respect of the
carrying out of the Part of the Project corresponding to each
such Entity. Such agreements shall, except as the Bank shall other-
vise agree, include the obligation of INAN to provide each Partici-
pating Entity with the necessary funds, including funds from the
Loan, for the carrying out of its Part of the Project, and the
right of INAN:
(i) to require the Participating Entity to carry out
its Part of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance, as appropriate,
with sound administrative, financial, technological
and banking practices;
(ii) to require that (1) contracts for the purchase of
equipment for Part D.1 of the Project estimated to
cost more than $50,000 equivalent shall be procured
in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for Procure-
ment under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1975, on the basis of


﻿-5-
international competitive bidding, and (2) all other
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil
works for the Project shall be procured in accordance
with the Borrower's procurement procedures (including
competitive bidding procedures) in force on the date
of this Agreement;
(iii) to require that the qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment of consultants
employed by the Participating Entity to assist such
Entity in the carrying out of its Part of the Proj-
ect be satisfactory to the Bank;
(iv) to require the Participating Entity to insure or
cause to be insured, or make or cause to be made
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported
goods for the Project against hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and that for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in
a currency freely usable by the Participating Entity
to replace or repair such goods;
(v) to inspect, by itself or jointly with representa-
tives of the Bank, if the Bank shall so request,
the facilities and construction sites included in
the Participating Entity's Part of the Project and
any relevant records and documents;


﻿(vi) to obtain all such information as the Bank or INAN
shall reasonably request concerning the Participating
Entity's Part of the Project;
(vii) to require the Participating Entity to maintain
records adequate: (1) to record the progress of
its Part of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed
under the Subsidiary Project Agreement, and to
disclose the use thereof in its Part of the Project;
and (2) to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of its Part of the Project;
(viii) to require the Participating Entity (1) to have its
accounts and financial statements, in respect of
its Part of the Project, for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (2) to furnish to INAN and
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such
year (A) certified copies of such financial state-
ments for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as INAN or the Bank shall
have reasonably requested; and (3) furnish to INAN
and the Bank such other information concerning such
accounts and financial statements and the audit


﻿-7-
thereof as INAN or the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request;
(ix) to require, in the Subsidiary Project Agreement
with EMBRATER for purposes of Part C of the Project,
that EMBRATER enter into contractual arrangements
with Banco do Brasil, S.A., providing that Banco
do Brasil S.A., shall adopt, for the loans included
in Part C of the Project, the same terms and con-
ditions as are applicable to its loans to small
farmers in the Northeast region of Brazil;
(x) to require, in the Subsidiary Project Agreement
with BNDE, that BNDE shall (1) adopt, for its loans
included in Part D.3 of the Project, the policies
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Project Agreement,
and (2) re-utilize, in accordance with such poli-
cies, the proceeds of repayment of the principal
of, and of payment of interest on, such Loans;
(xi) to require, in the Subsidiary Project Agreement
with EMBRATER, that EMBRATER will put into effect
the plan of operation for Part B.1 of the Project
only after INAN and the Bank have approved such
plan;
(xii) to require, in the Subsidiary Project Agreement with
Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e EstatIstica,
that such Instituto will maintain a special unit
in charge of carrying out periodic surveillance of
Brazilian nutrition conditions; and


﻿-8-
(xiii) to suspend or terminate the right of the Participating
Entity to receive funds under the Subsidiary Project
Agreement upon failure by the Participating Entity
to perform any of its obligations under such Agreement.
(b) INAN shall not amend, abrogate or waive any provision
of the Subsidiary Project Agreement without the Bank's approval.
Section 2.06. INAN shall prepare or cause to be prepared,
not later than January 31, 1977 or such other date as the Bank
shall agree, the design of the survey included in Part A.1 of the
Project.
Section 2.07. INAN shall, not later than January 31, 1977 or
such other date as the Bank shall agree, design consistent measure-
ment bases for the evaluation of the several delivery systems tests
included in Part B of the Project.
Section 2.08. (a) INAN shall, not later than January 31, 1977
or such other date as the Bank shall agree, (i) establish a Food
Advisory Board, such Board to include, inter alia, nutrition
specialists and representatives of governmental centers of food
technology, Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos - FINEP, BNDE
and Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos, S.A.; (ii) cause the Food
Advisory Board to prepare specifications, for foods to be developed
and tested, and to become eligible for production to be financed
by the loans included in Part D.3 of the Project.


﻿-9-
(b) INAN shall (i) publish the specifications referred to in
paragraph (a) hereof with such modifications as INAN shall deem
appropriate, (ii) cause the Food Advisory Board to review, annually,
such specifications, and (iii) on the basis of such review, make,
in consultation with the Bank, such adjustments in such specifica-
tions as shall be appropriate.
Section 2.09. In preparing a national nutrition action program
to follow PRONAN, INAN shall (a) take into account the experience
gained in the execution of PRONAN, including the findings and
recommendations of the tests, studies and surveys included in the
Project, and (b) exchange views with the Bank on the preparation
of such program.
Section 2.10. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, INAN
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclu-
sively for the Project.
Section 2.11. (a) INAN shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, reports, contract documents and construction, work, and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) INAN: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan made available to it by the Borrower, and to disclose


﻿-.10 -
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation
upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the
Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan so made available to it and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) INAN shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine,
in respect of the Project, all installations, buildings, property
and equipment of INAN and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.12. (a) INAN shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) INAN shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by INAN of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.13. INAN shall, not later than March 31, 1977 or
such other date as the Bank shall agree, carry out a study of the
existing and future manpower requirements necessary to carry out
PRONAN.


﻿- 11 -
Section 2.14. INAN shall, not later than March 31, 1977 or
such other date as the Bank shall agree, establish an advisory
council, composed of representatives of INAN and educational in-
stitutions, to provide guidance to INAN in the carrying out of the
study referred to in Section 2.13 of this Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of INAN
Section 3.01. INAN shall at all times manage its affairs and
carry on its operations, including planning, all in accordance
with sound administrative and financial policies and practices.
Section 3.02. INAN shall operate under competent and expe-
rienced management as shall be required to further the objectives
of the Project.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. INAN shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices (i) its operations and financial condition, and (ii) the
financial situation of the Project.
Section 4.02. INAN shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of INAN and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 14-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of INAN thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such re-
quest. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
For INAN:
Instituto Nacional de Alimentacao e Nutrigao
Ediffcio Chams
Setor Commercial Sul
Brasilia, D.F., Brazil
Cable address:                Telex:
INAN                          061-1210
BRASILIA


﻿- 16 -
Section 6.02. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 17 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Suitbertus M.L. van der Meer
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ALIMENTACA0
E NUTRICAO
By Is! Joao Baptista Pinheiro
Authorized Representative


﻿-18-
SCHEDULE 1
Lending Policies for Loans
under Part D.3 of the Project
1.   BNDE will make loans to those industries which meet its
creditworthiness criteria, provided that:
(a) foods to be produced will be priced within the reach
of low-income groups not now able to afford nutritious processed
foods, and will meet the specificaet.ions referred to in Section
2.08 of the Project Agreement; and
(b) INAN has approved the project to be financed.
2.   Loans will: (i) finance up to 80% of the total cost of the
project; (ii) be repaid in not more than 10 years, including a
grace period of 18 months; (iii) be denominated in cruzeiros and
will have their outstanding principal amount adjusted periodically
by applying the same index used for the adjustment of the price of
Obrigaco$s ReaJustIveis do Tesouro Nacional (ORTN), as calculated
in accordance with the regulations in force on the date of this
Agreement; and (iv) bear an annual rate of interest of 3% on its
outstanding adjusted principal amount.


