Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3112 GUI
Project Agreement
(Microfinance Capacity Building Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANQUE CENTRALE DE LA REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
Dated October 21 , 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3112 GUI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 21, 1998, between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and BANQUE CENTRALE DE LA REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE (BCRG).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Republic of Guinea (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million eight 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,800,000) on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that BCRG agree 
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this 
Agreement; and
(B)
by a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and BCRG the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to BCRG on terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and
WHEREAS BCRG in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement , the Preamble to this Agreement and in the 
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) BCRG declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and banking practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, BCRG shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) BCRG shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, BCRG shall, with the Borrower’s assistance: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) after the Closing 
Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Association and BCRG, a 
plan to ensure the sustainability; and 
(ii)
afford the Association reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with BCRG and 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 2.04. BCRG shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BCRG shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating 
or waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) BCRG shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
BCRG shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by BCRG of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of BCRG 
Section 3.01. BCRG shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and banking practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
Page  3
Section 3.02. BCRG shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound administrative, 
financial and banking practices. 
Section 3.03. BCRG shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. BCRG shall take all measures required on its part to participate 
in the mid-term review referred to in Section 3.05 of the Development Credit Agreement 
and to promptly implement the recommendations resulting from the said mid-term review 
in accordance with the provisions of the said Section 3.05 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of assisting it in the execution of the Project, 
BCRG shall: 
(a)
recruit a long term expert highly specialized in matters related to the 
development of microfinance institutions; and 
(b)
ensure that the said expert shall work in close collaboration with at 
least two national counterparts whose qualifications and experience shall at all times 
be acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) BCRG shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments of BCRG responsible for 
carrying out the Project.
(b)
BCRG shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts as well as the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, BCRG shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
Page  4
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
BCRG thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: (i) the 
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate; or (ii) the date 
twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify BCRG of 
this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
For BANQUE CENTRALE DE LA REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE:
Banque Centrale de la République de Guinée
B.P. 692
Conakry
République de Guinée
Telex:
22225 BAREG
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of BCRG or by 
Page  5
BCRG on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by its Governor, or by such other person or persons as BCRG shall designate 
in writing, and BCRG shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Africa
BANQUE CENTRALE DE LA REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
By /s/ Mohammed Aly Thiam
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997 subject to 
the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines), 
and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section 1. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to Bank member 
countries” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating 
countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $750,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Page  6
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations or to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of this Section. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the reference to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and "Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for technical assistance and training under 
the Project, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for technical assistance and training under the Project estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audits under the Project estimated to cost less than $10,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Page  7
Services for technical assistance and training under the Project estimated to 
cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000 the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program
1.
BCRG shall:
(a)
implement the Project, in accordance with the procedures set out in the 
PIM, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend, or waive 
any provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially and 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project;
(b)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association by not later than June 30 of each year during the execution 
of the Project, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date;
Page  8
(d)
review with the Association, by September 30 of each year throughout the 
execution of the Project, or such later date as the Association shall request, the 
report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Association’s views on the matter;
(e)
establish MSMU with functions and responsibilities and with qualified and 
experienced staff in adequate number, all satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) 
appoint and thereafter maintain at all times as Project Coordinator and Head of MSMU a 
Guinean professional with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association;
(f)
(i)
carry out the study referred to under Part B.2 of the Project; 
(ii) not later than June 30, 2000, submit the results and recommendations of the said 
study to the Association for its review and comments; and (iii) thereafter, implement 
the recommendations of the said study as they shall have been agreed upon with the 
Association and in accordance with a timetable agreed upon with the Association;
(g)
(i)
formulate the legal and regulatory framework referred to under 
Part B.1 of the Project; (ii) not later than December 31, 1999, submit to the 
Association for its review and comments, the draft legislation governing the 
operations of microfinance institutions as well as the draft regulations related 
thereto; (iii) finalize the said draft legislation and regulations, taking duly into 
account the comments and recommendations made by the Association; and (iv) not later 
than June 30, 2000, submit the said draft legislation to the Borrower’s Parliament for 
its consideration and subsequent enactment into law; and
(h)
(i)
conclude performance contracts satisfactory to the Association 
with the respective managers of CMG, CRG and PRIDE credit schemes for the purposes of 
monitoring the progress achieved in improving the financial and operational 
performance of each of the said credit schemes; and (ii) not later than the last day 
of the month following the end of each calendar quarter, submit to the Association for 
its review and comments a quarterly report, based on the performance indicators set 
forth in the PIM, summarizing the operational and financial results achieved under the 
CMG, CRG and PRIDE credit schemes.
