Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3112 GUI
Development Credit Agreement
(Microfinance Capacity Building Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 21, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3112 GUI 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 21, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF GUINEA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Association has received a letter, dated September 8, 1998, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
implement its institutional reform and development strategy in the microfinancing 
sector (the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program; 
(C) 
the Project will be carried out by BCRG (as hereinafter defined) with the 
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to BCRG the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; 
(D)
the Borrower has received from the Agence Française de Développement 
(AFD) a grant (the AFD Grant) in an amount equivalent to 21,000,000 French francs to 
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the AFD Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and AFD; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
Page  2
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date between the Association and BCRG;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.
The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through December 2, 
1997) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
“(12)
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by 
a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“BCRG” means Banque Centrale de la République de Guinée, the Borrower’s 
Central Bank, established pursuant to its Statutes; 
(b)
“Statutes” means the statutes of BCRG dated June 1, 1994, as amended to 
the date of this Agreement; 
(c)
“CMG” means Crédit Mutuel de Guinée, a project undertaken by the Borrower 
with financial support extended by Agence Française de Développement (AFD); 
(d)
“CRG” means Crédit Rural de Guinée, a project undertaken by the Borrower 
with financial support extended by Agence Française de Développement (AFD); 
(e)
“PRIDE” means Programme Rural Intégré pour le Développement de 
l’Entreprise, a credit scheme established with financial support undertaken extended 
by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID);
(f)
“MSMU” means the Microfinance Support and Monitoring Unit established 
within BCRG pursuant to Section 5.01 (c) of this Agreement, and paragraph 1 (e) of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(g) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
Banque Centrale de la République de Guinée (BCRG) of even date herewith, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(h)
“PIM” means the Project Implementation Manual to be adopted by the 
Borrower pursuant to Section 5.01 (f) of this Agreement, describing the Project 
reporting and monitoring procedures, plans, and other implementation arrangements and 
specifying the performance indicators to be followed in assessing the progress 
Page  3
achieved in the execution of the Project; 
(i)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and  
(j)
“Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and BCRG pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,800,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2008, and ending April 15, 2038. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2018, shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
Page  4
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.09. BCRG is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction to upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause BCRG to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
BCRG Project Agreement all the obligations of BCRG therein set forth, shall take and 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable BCRG to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to BCRG 
under a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and BCRG, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association. 
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall cause BCRG to: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
Page  5
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower and BCRG on said plan. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.4, 9.5, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
shall be carried out by BCRG pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
ensure that, not later than December 31, 1998, CMG, CRG and PRIDE’s 
operations are carried out under the overall supervision of MSMU without interference 
from any other officials or agencies of the Borrower; and
(b)
take all appropriate action as required on its part to: (i) assist BCRG 
in implementing the recommendations of the study referred to under Part B.2 of the 
Project as they shall have been agreed upon with the Association; and (ii) achieve the 
transformation of CMG, CRG and PRIDE credit schemes into autonomous and financially 
viable entities as provided for under Part A.3 of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association and 
BCRG, not later than eighteen months after the Effective Date, a mid-term review of 
the progress made in carrying out the Project. The said mid-term review shall cover, 
among other things: (i) progress in meeting the Project’s objectives; and (ii) the 
performance by the Borrower and BCRG of their respective obligations under the 
Project.
(b)
Not later than one month prior to the Midterm Review, the Borrower shall 
cause BCRG to furnish to the Borrower and to the Association, for review and comments, 
a report covering items specified in paragraph (a) above, including an evaluation of 
the progress achieved in the execution of the Project and recommendations resulting 
from the studies conducted under the Project.
(c)
Promptly after completing such review, the Borrower shall carry out or 
cause BCRG to carry out the recommendations emanating from the said review, as agreed 
between the Borrower and BCRG and the Association.
Section 3.06. Unless it shall have been otherwise agreed upon with the 
Association, the Borrower shall not initiate any new microfinance credit scheme until 
the completion of the Project. 
ARTICLE IV 
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out. 
(b)
BCRG shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that BCRG will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BCRG or for the suspension of 
its operations.
(e)
The AFD Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by December 
Page  6
31, 1998, or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to 
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: the right of the 
Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of the AFD grant made to the Borrower 
for the financing 
of the Project shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or 
in part, pursuant to the terms of the 
agreement providing therefor.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation 
or termination is not caused by the failure of 
the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement; 
and (B) adequate funds for the Project 
are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:  
(a)
The Project Coordinator referred to in paragraph 1 (e) (ii) of Schedule 2 
to the Project Agreement has been appointed in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraph (ii). 
(b)
The long term expert and two national counterparts referred to in Section 
3.05 of the Project Agreement have been recruited in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement. 
(c)
MSMU has been established with qualified staff in adequate numbers in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 (e) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement. 
(d)
BCRG has recruited independent auditors in accordance with the provisions 
of Section II of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement for the purposes of carrying out 
any and all of the financial audits required pursuant to the provisions of Section 
4.01 of the Project Agreement;
(e)
the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and BCRG; and 
(f)
the Borrower has adopted the PIM in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association.
Section 5.02. The following events are specified as additional matters, within 
the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the 
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by BCRG, 
and is legally binding upon BCRG in accordance with its terms; and 
Page  7
(b)
that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and BCRG and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BCRG in 
accordance with its terms. 
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Boite Postale 579
Conakry, Republic of Guinea
Telex:
22399
MIFIGE
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
By /s/ Mohammed Aly Thiam 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Page  8
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
  % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Vehicles and
100% of foreign
equipment:
expenditures
90% of local
expenditures
     (a) for  BCRG
80,000
     (b) for CMG
      170,000
     (c) for  CRG
      170,000
     (d) for PRIDE
      340,000
(2)
Consultants’ services,
100%
training and audits:
     (a)
for BCRG
    1,250,000
     (b)
for CMG
    1,200,000
     (c)
for CRG
      150,000
     (d)
for PRIDE
70,000
(3)
Unallocated
      370,000
   __________
TOTAL
    3,800,000
    =========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made: (a) for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) for expenditures made under Categories 1 (b) and 2 (b) unless the 
Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Borrower has made 
available to CMG an amount equivalent to $8,000,000 or such other amount as the 
Association may agree to sustain CMG’s operations; and (c) for expenditures made under 
Categories (1) (d) and 2 (d) unless the Borrower has submitted to the Association an 
action plan satisfactory to the Association describing measures and actions to be 
implemented in order to improve PRIDE’s operations. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works and services 
under contracts costing less than $20,000 equivalent each, under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in its endeavors to 
facilitate access to term credit by small businesses and microenterprises through a 
pilot process aimed at improving the performance of existing micro credit schemes with 
Page  9
a view to transforming them into autonomous and financially sustainable financial 
intermediation agencies.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Development of a Sustainable Microfinance Intermediation System 
1.
Establishment and equipping of a specialized unit within BCRG to be responsible 
for providing technical and logistical support as required to improve  the management 
of ongoing microfinance schemes (CMG, CRG and PRIDE) so as to strengthen the 
profitability and sustainability of their respective operations.
2.
(a)
Provision of technical advisory services to: (i) strengthen BCRG’s 
capacity to guide the development of microfinance institutions, supervise their 
operations and monitor their performances; and (ii) improve the management of CMG, CRG 
and PRIDE’s financial operations.
(b)
Provision of training to: (i) enhance the expertise of the relevant staff  
of BCRG responsible for the supervision of the financial operations of microfinance 
institutions; and (ii) strengthen the managerial capacity of  the  officials and staff 
responsible for managing the operations of the CMG, CRG and PRIDE credit schemes. 
3.
Restructuring of CMG, CRG and PRIDE credit schemes inter alia through the 
establishment of  appropriate financial management systems, management information 
systems and internal auditing and inspection systems with a view to ultimately 
transform the said credit schemes into autonomous and sustainable microfinance 
agencies.
Part B:
Establishment of a Legal and Institutional Framework for Microfinance 
Institutions 
1.
Preparation of appropriate draft legislation and regulations as required to 
promote the development of microfinance institutions in the Borrower’s territory. 
2.
Carrying out of a study to define appropriate modalities to be followed to 
transform CMG, CRG and PRIDE credit schemes into autonomous and sustainable 
microfinance agencies.
******
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,500,000. 
Page  10
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the  Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the  Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of the Project Agreement, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
Page  11
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
