Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18068
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
WEST BENGAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(IDA CREDIT NO. 23410-IN)
June 24, 1998
Rural Development Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =  Rupees (Rs.)
1991 US$1.00  =  Rs. 26.00
1992 US$1.00  =  Rs. 26.00
1993 US$1.00  =  Rs. 30.00
1994 US$ 1.00  =  Rs.31.40
1995 US$1.00  =  Rs. 32.40
1996 US$1.00  =  Rs.35.40
1997 US$1.00  =  Rs.36.00
1998 US$1.00  =  Rs.39.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report.
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
GRANT YEAR 1
The Credit became effective on June 23, 1992 and the first year of the operation was 1992/93.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARDD                                Animal Resource Development Department, GOWB
EDC                                 Ecodevelopment Committee
ERR                                 Economic Rate of Return
FD                                  Forest Department, GOWB
FPC                                 Forest Protection Committee
FRR                                 Financial Rate of Return
GO                                  Government Order
GOI                                 Government of India
GOWB                                Government of West Bengal
ICR                                 Implementation Completion Review
IDA                                 International Development Association
JFM                                 Joint Forest Management
MOEF                                Ministry of Environment and Forestry
MTR                                 Mid-term Review
NGO                                 Non-governmental Organization
NPV                                 Net Present Value
NTFP                                Non-timber Forest Product
OED                                 Operations Evaluation Department, World Bank
PA                                  Protected Area
SAR                                 Staff Appraisal Report
Vice President: MiekoNishimizu
Country Director: Edwin R. Lim
Technical Manager: Michael Baxter/Ridwan Ali
Staff Member: Jessica Mott



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
WEST BENGAL FORESTRY PROJECT (IDA CREDIT NO. 234110-IN)
Preface ................i
Evaluation Summary.r .
PART 1: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objecitives         ........................................1
B. Achievement of Objectives .....................................................2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ......................................................5
D. Sustainability ......................................................6
E. World Bank Performance                            ..7
F. Borrower Performance                              .8
G. Assessment of Outcome                              .8
H. Plan for Future Operation ............................8
I. Key Lessons Leared                               .9
PART 2: STATISTICAL TABLES .11
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .                                             13
Table 3: Project Timetable .14
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .15
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .17
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .                                            18
Table 8A: Project Costs ...................                                       22
Table 8B: Project Financing .22
Table 9: Economic Analysis ...................                                    23
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .24
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .................................. 29
Table 12: World Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .29
Table 13: World Bank Resources: Missions.                                         30
Annexes
1. ICR Mission Aide Memoire .33
2. Borrower's Implementation Cormpletion Report ................................................  37
3. Economic and Financial Re-evaluation .45
4. Social Impacts .67
5. Environmental Impacts .75
6. List of Working Papers in ICR Volume II .79
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.- 



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
WEST BENGAL FORESTRY PROJECT (IDA CREDIT NO. 23410-IN)
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report for the West Bengal Forestry Project in India, for
which IDA Credit 23410-IN in the amount of SDR 24.4 million (US$ 34.0 million) was approved on
March 17, 1992 and made effective on June 23, 1992. The credit was formally closed on December 31,
1997, compared with the original closing date of September 30, 1997. Final disbursement took place on
June 9, 1998 and the Credit was fully disbursed. There was no cofinancing for the project.
2.     This ICR was prepared by a mission led by Jessica Mott of the Rural Development Sector
Management Unit of the South Asia Region. It was reviewed by Michael Baxter and Ridwan Ali. The
borrower's own ICR is included in Annex 2.
3.    Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission, January
13-28, 1998. It is based on material in the project file, data and comments provided by the implementing
agency, other relevant studies, mission discussions, discussions with former task team members, and
suggestions of the peer reviewer.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
WEST BENGAL FORESTRY PROJECT (IDA CREDIT NO. 23410-IN)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The 1988 National Forest Policy of India regards forests first, as an ecological necessity, second,
as a source of goods for use by local populations, and third, as a source of wood and other products for
industries and other non-local users. The Bank has supported the 1988 policy with a series of state
forestry projects that address resource management and biodiversity in an integrated fashion, through
policy and institutional reforms, participatory resource management, technology improvement, and
mainstreaming of biodiversity concerns both within protected areas and outside them. These projects
also build on the lessons learned from Bank support in the 1980s for more narrowly focused social
forestry projects, including one in West Bengal. The West Bengal Forestry Project is the first of the
sector vvide state forestry projects to reach completion.
Project Objectives
2.    Objectives. The broad goals of the project as reflected in the Staff Appraisal Report were to (a)
prevent continuing degradation of the forest lands, (b) establish a sustainable protection system, (c)
enhance productivity and (d) conserve biodiversity. The project strategy sought to address these goals by
increasing the participation of local people and by introducing more productive forest management
practices. Project Agreement covenants related to the objectives included a time-bound reorganization, a
research plan and technical guidance, retention of specialized staffing, specified forest treatments, transit
regulatory reform, benefit sharing arrangements for joint forest management, and the elimination of
seedling subsidies.
3.    Evaluation of objectives. While the goals and basic strategy of the project were relatively clear,
its implementation strategy was not entirely consistent. Some components emphasized flexibility, while
others projected a prescriptive approach. Another problem was that structure of the components confused
the purpose and nature of expenditure. The SAR did not list indicators for assessing impacts,
socioeconomic considerations, sustainability, and other factors. The components and indicators would
also have had greater clarity if there had been more emphasis on qualities and processes rather than
physical inputs.
Implenientation Experience and Results
4.    Preventing degradation and establishing a protection system. The project exceeded appraisal
estimates. It rehabilitated large areas of degraded forests, substantially decelerated the onset of
degradaltion in other forest lands, and made a major contribution toward comprehensive and sustainable
coverage of forest lands that are potentially suitable for community protection efforts. Almost 3,300
registered Forest Protection Committees (FPCs) are now responsible for helping to protect over 450,000
ha, covering over 90% of all protected and reserve forest lands in the southwest, and over 60% of all
forest lands with nearby rural communities in the north and in the mangroves. FPCs now effectively
protect an estimated 280,000 ha, a significant increase over the estimated 118,000 ha pre-project
situation and 176,000 ha SAR expectations. Furthermore, forestry officials are now convinced of the
importance of the joint forest management (JFM) approach. The reorganization was implemented, but
its impact on protection is not clear.



5.     Enhancing productivity. The project: has increased productivity, but less than appraisal
expectations. The project's most important potential contribution to productivity is the extent to which it
has laid a foundation for very significant productivity gains in the future related to the use of improved
planting material, improved coppice management techniques, shade tolerant fodder, and the recognition
of the importance of bottom-up, site-specific planning and improved marketing. One of the project's
significant accomplishments was the change in attitude among forestry officials, many of whom now
strongly support these approaches. During the project period, the project accelerated the conversion of
wastelands to more productive use. Offsetting this, however, average third-year survival rates were only
50% on the plantations, and there was less intercropping than expected. The transit regulation reforms
and elimination of seedling subsidies were implemented.
6.     Biodiversity conservation. The project exceeded appraisal expectations. FPC protection
contributed to improved wildlife habitats and corridors, and native plant conservation. Activities in
mangroves supported globally significant wetlands, the Sunderbans. The support to park management
and research was also beneficial. The project experience contributed to the first government order for
ecodevelopment committees (EDCs) in India, influencing similar orders in several other states, and
establishing an incentive framework for biodiversity conservation in and around parks and sanctuaries.
7.     Costs, financing, and implementation timetable. The-unit costs closely corresponded to the
appraisal estimates, and physical quantities of treatments and civil works reflect adjustments agreed with
the Bank. Total project costs equaled US$44.1 million compared with appraisal estimates of US$39.0
million. The government financed most of the additional costs. Implementation was timely, except for
certain items subject to procurement clearance, especially technical assistance.
8.     Key Factors. On the negative side, government clearance requirements for consultancies, the
civil service structure, rigidity in the approved project budget and its allocation, and inadequate
monitoring and evaluation adversely affected project performance. On the positive side, the delegation
of financial powers to local forestry officials, and experiential learning by staff about participatory forest
protection and improved planting materials contributed to project achievements.
9.     Performance of World Bank. Bank performance was satisfactory. The project was innovative,
and the task was therefore challenging. In retrospect, there were shortcomings in overall project
structure, economic analysis, organizational analysis, communication between Bank staff and project
officials, and the identification of major adjustments needed at the mid-term review.
10.   Performance of Borrower. Borrowe:r performance was satisfactory; however, there were
shortcomings in project coordination, communication of the underlying intentions of the project design,
stakeholder partnerships, organizational development and management, and the involvemrient of women.
11.    Overall Outcome. The overall outcome of the project is satisfactory, but there are serious
concerns regarding sustainability.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
12.   Plans for Future Operations and Sustainability. The Forest Department (FD) has not drafted
specific plans for future operations related to project investments. The financial sustainability is
uncertain. FY98/99 is the first time since FY8 1/82 that the FD has not received significant funding from
foreign assistance. Even if there is sufficient budget to sustain existing achievements, additional
development investments would be needed to realize the potential of several project activities such as the
pilot modern nurseries, the shade-tolerant fodder cultivars, the biodiversity action plans, etc. On the
positive side, with continued development, the JFM incentive framework is likely to be sustainable for
the southwest and the mangroves. However, in the north it has largely failed and needs fundamental
reformulation with different benefit sharing arrangements that would more successfully entice local
people to help in protection. In addition, new institutional arrangements are needed to fully



iv
operationalize the forest department's partnership with Panchayats on Social Forestry, to arrange
financial management systems that would allow strong sustainable partnerships with other implementing
agencies, and to provide adequate expertise and attention to monitoring, adaptive management,
marketing, improved planting material, JFM and ecodevelopment microplanning, farm forestry
extension, and watershed conservation.
13.    Lessons for Ongoing and Future Projects in the Forestry Sector.
*  Best Practice. Examples of best practice lessons in the project included (a) systems with delegated
financial authority greatly facilitates fund flow and disbursement, and was a major reason for the
complete disbursement of the credit, (b) shade tolerant grasses and legumes are technically feasible,
which opens significant opportunities for forestry, since they can be planted after the trees mature
beyond the stage when they can be browsed by cattle or goats, and (c) experiential learning during
project implementation broadened and deepened the intially fragile ovvnership of reforms involving
participatory forest management and improved planting materials.
*  Potential improvements. The project experience demonstrated that (a) project design and
implementation should be results-oriented with a flexible process-oriented approach and an effective
monitoring system, (b) project design and implementation should focus on measures to ensure
financial, institutional, and incentive framework sustainability, (c) organizational reform is risky and
requires careful analysis of power relationships and risks, (d) realistic economic analysis requires a
careful consideration of the without project scenario.
*  Benefits to Forestry Portfolio. Other states implementing forestry projects have benefited from
West Bengal's pioneer efforts. Their design already addresses many of the potential improvements
outlined above. A major purpose of this in-depth learning ICR is to further deepen the application of
these lessons in future situations, both within West Bengal, and in other states.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
WEST BENGAL FORESTRY PROJECT (IDA CREDIT NO. 23410-IN)
Part I: Impleimentation Assessment
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
I.     Country and Sector Context. The 1988 National Forest Policy of India regards forests first, as an
ecological necessity, second, as a source of goods for use by local populations, and third, as a source of wood
and other products for industries and other non-local users. The Bank has supported this policy with a series of
state forestry projects that address resource management and biodiversity in an integrated fashion, through
policy and institutional reforms, participatory resource management, technology improvement, and
mainstreaming of biodiversity concerns both within protected areas and outside them. These projects also
build on the lessons learned from Bank support in the 1980s for more narrowly focused social forestry
projects, including one in West Bengal. The West Bengal Forestry Project is the first of the sector wide state
forestry projects to reach completion.
2.     Project Objectives. The broad goals of the project as reflected in the Staff Appraisal Report were to:
(a)    prevent continuing degradation of the forest lands
(b)    establish a sustainable protection system
(c)    enhance productivity and
(d)    conserve biodiversity
The project strategy sought to address these goals by increasing the participation of local people and by
introducing more productive forest management practices. Specifically, the project included components
intended to support regeneration and afforestation of degraded lands, mature government plantations, and farm
forestry. It also provided assistance for supporting works including roads, demarcation, and watershed
conservation, and for special action programs in research and plant propagation, training, institutional
development of joint forest management (JFM), Ibiodiversity research and protection, and the regeneration of
mangroves. In addition, the project included service support (houses, offices, vehicles, information systems,
etc.), and fodder research and development. The mid-term review made minor adjustments to the physical
targets but did not change the overall basic design.
3.     Special Legal Covenants Promoting Objectives. Project Agreement covenants related to the
objectives included a time-bound reorganization, a research plan and technical guidance, retention of
specialized staffing, specified forest treatments, measures (e.g., regulatory reform) for farm forestry, benefit
sharing arrangements for joint forest management, and the elimination of seedling subsidies.
4.     Evaluation of Objectives - Context and Complexity. The project's goals, strategy, and specific
components aimed to implement India's forestry sector objectives, as reflected in the 1988 National Forest
Policy, and Eighth Five Year Plan, which emphasized investments for rehabilitation of degraded forests. The
goals, strategy, and components conformed with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, which focused on
efficient resource allocation, increased efficiency in the public sector, and appropriate targeting and delivery of
support systems to the poor. They were also consistent with the Bank's forest policy and with the Asia
Region's strategy for forestry lending which emphasized policy dialogue coupled with investment with
afforestation. Due to the comprehensive, integrated nature of the project design, which treated the forestry
sector as a whole, the project was complex. It had a large range of components, and a wide variety of
ecological and geographical locations. Organizationally, however, the project was relatively simple in that it
focused only on one state, with two implementing agencies.



2
5.     Evaluation of Objectives - Content. The strategy and components were generally realistic and
within the capacity of the implementing agency. While the goals and basic strategy of the project were
relatively clear, its implementation strategy was not entirely consistent. The description of some activities
(e.g., JFNI implementation support) emphasized a strategy of flexibility, learning from experience, and bottom-
up planning, but wording for other activities (e.g. forest treatment models) projected a rigid, prescriptive
approach . Another problem was that structure of the components confused the purpose and nature of
expenditure. For example, it would have been more appropriate to group the treatments, associated works,
training and other support according to the purpose (e.g., separate components for farm forestry, joint forest
management in southwest, etc.). Greater emphasis on purpose might have helped to identify gaps in project
activities (e.g., extension in farm forestry; activities directly address overgrazing problems; support to working
plan revision; etc.). The main sector policy reforms of benefit sharing arrangements for JFM (prior to project
inception), the simplification of the transit pass for farm forestry, and the elimination of seedling subsidies
were modest relative to subsequent Bank-financed forestry projects and the staff appraisal report (SAR) did
not describe a process for ongoing policy dialogue and reform. The SAR did not list indicators for assessing
impacts, socioeconomic considerations, sustainability, and other factors. The components and indicators would
also have had greater clarity if there had been more emphasis on qualities and processes rather than physical
inputs. The design would benefited from a high quality log-frame planning approach, but at the time this was
not common Bank practice.
B. Achievement of Objectives
6.     Preventing degradation and establishing a protection system. The project exceeded appraisal
estimates. It rehabilitated large areas of degraded forests, substantially decelerated the onset of degradation in
other forest lands, and made a major contribution toward comprehensive and sustainable coverage of forest
lands that are potentially suitable for community protection efforts.
*  Coverage. Almost 3,300 registered Forest Protection Committees (FPCs) are now responsible for helping
to protect over 450,000 ha, covering over 90% of all protected and reserve forest lands in the southwest,
and over 60% of all forest lands with nearby rural communities in the northr and in the mangroves.
*  Planning. FPC microplans were focused on the distribution of project budget rather than on a sustainable
particiipatory site-specific forest management plan. The management information system (MIS) did not
achieve the aims of computerizing microplan information and supporting bottom-up planning, nor was the
plan (added at mid-term) to develop simple geographical (GIS) capacity ever implemented. However, in a
commendable achievement in spite of the limited support from the project, the FD revised the working
plans to incorporate the environmental and social considerations.
*  Effectiveness. An estimated 70% of the FPCs in the southwest and the mangroves function effectively, but
only 25% of the FPCs in the north are effective. The quality of the JFM policy would have been much
higher if it had continued to evolve in response to field experience.
*  Area utnder protection. FPCs now effectively help to protect an estimated 280,000 ha, a significant
increase over the estimated 118,000 ha pre-project situation and 176,000 ha SAR expectations.
Furthermore, forestry officials are now convinced of the importance of the JFM approach.
At the time of project design, senior FD managers and Bank staff feared that without strict mandates field staff
woulct revert to traditional treatments, which had emphasized physical biomass output rather than benefit flows
to local people (for protection incentives) ecological considerations, and overall economic productivity. In
retrospect, there should have been more attention to result-oriented monitoring and procedures for adjustment.



3
*  Environmental impact. Environmental benefits of protection (apart from biodiversity conservation
described below) include soil and water conservation throughout the state, and flood control in the
mangroves.
*  Fodder. The impact of the fodder activities on protection is uncertain.
*  Reorganization. The reorganization of the Forest Department was implemented, but there is no evidence
that the reorganization accomplished its obj ectives of distributing the staff work loads more evenly or of
providing more field staff to implement JFM. Furthermore it did notmake satisfactory arrangements for
soil conservation and farm forestry work.
7.     Enhancing productivity. The project has increased productivity, but less than appraisal
expectations.
* Future productivity. The project's most important potential contribution to productivity is the extent to which
it has laid a foundation for very significant productivity gains in the future related to the use of improved
planting material, improved coppice manage nent techniques, shade tolerant fodder, and the recognition of
the importance of bottom-up, site-specific planning and improved marketing. One of the project's significant
accomplishments was the change in attitude: among forestry officials, many of whom now strongly support
these approaches.
i  Improved land use. During the project period, the main contribution to productivity comprised the
acceleration in converting wastelands to more productive use under joint forest management (JFM) and
farm forestry. The project fully used the 38,000 ha of area that actually required viable rootstock
treatments. The plantation treatments (mostly in degraded lands) on about 41,000 ha in the southwest and
north exceeded both the SAR and mid-term review (MTR) estimates.
*  Plantation survival. Offsetting the larger p:lantation areas, however, recent monitoring surveys indicate
average third-year survival rates of only 50% on the plantations (please note that planting materials and
survival rates are not factors in viable rootstock treatments). Many of the plantation treatment models
prescribed in the project design have proved unsuitable. These low survival rates were a result of rigid
treatment application and budget allocations. The rigidity undermined site-specific, bottom-up planning
with a focus on underlying purposes, as well as adjustment in treatment design based on monitored results.
*  Intercropping. There was also less intercropping than anticipated -- in many areas intended for
intercropping, there was none at all, while in other areas, FPCs intercropped only in the first year of
plantation.
*  Farm forestry. Like JFM, farm forestry on 102,769 ha increased land use productivity, with most
plantings going on marginal private lands cr on public (non-forest) wastelands whose only other use was
for periodic grazing. However, the farm forestry productivity could have been further increased with better
technical extension, market information and quality planting materials. The reorganization neglected farm
forestry requirements. There is no information on the impact of the transit pass simplification on the
incentive framework. The elimination of seedling subsidies in almost all districts has increased the
prospects of financial sustainability of the f-arm forestry program, as well as an incentive framework that
should help increase survival rates.
*  Mangroves. The mangrove regeneration and afforestation on 20,663 ha (consistent with the reduced MTR
estimate that reflected a delayed start-up) did not involve any changes in technical guidelines, but there are
likely to be productivity gains in mangroves associated with community protection.
*  Planting material. About 50% of the planlations were covered by source-identified quality seed, and
some 400 ha were covered by improved seedlings produced mainly in 12 pilot modem nurseries. FD did
meet appraisal objectives of keeping specialized research staff in position for the duration of the project
and this contributed in a major way to the physical and attitudinal achievements of the pilot modem
nurseries.



4
* Fodder. Under the fodder component Animal Resources Development Department (ARDD) has
developed 30 shade-tolerant cultivars which show significant promise for increasing overall productivity
by providing a good source of grazing fodder in mature plantations. Improved fodder production in new
plantations coupled with a significant population of improved cattle breeds has significantly increased
milk production in the targeted villages.
8.    Bliodiversity Conservation. The project exceeded appraisal expectations.
*  Forest Areas. The forest protection and regeneration activities have helped to conserve biodiversity
throughout the 280,000 hajointly protected by FPCs, contributing to improved wildlife habitats, and
native plant conservation.
*  Mangroves. The mangrove protection and afforestation also contributed to the biodiversity conservation of
globally significant coastal wetlands, the Sunderbans Biosphere Reserve.
*  Ecodevelopment. The project established a total of 97 registered ecodevelopment committees, who are
now beginning to play a role in the protection of seven parks and sanctuary areas in the Sunderbans and
the north that cover a total of 356,000 ha. In a policy development unanticipated at appraisal, the JFM
experience contributed to the first government order for ecodevelopment committees (EDCs) in India,
influencing similar orders in several other states, and establishing an incentive framework for biodiversity
conservation in and around parks and sanctuaries.
*  Northern parks. The limited scale park management support in the North has helped important habitats
for endangered species such as tigers, rhinos, elephants, and red pandas. Unlike many other states in India,
the West Bengal FD had allocated sufficient staff to wildlife wing even prior to the project, a factor which
greatly facilitated project achievements in biodiversity conservation.
*  Research. Mid-term adjustments substantially expanded the biodiversity component to include joint
protection by ecodevelopment committees and an increase in the number of research studies from 4 to 12.
The MTR also rectified the unrealistic appraisal plan to recruit additional wildlife research staff by
proposing instead to contract biodiversity research.
9.     Stakeholder Partnerships. Stakeholder partnerships focused on the involvement of non-
govemmental organizations (NGOs) in JFM support, and the creation of comiTiunity-based organizations
(FPCs and EDCs), and inter-agency linkages between FD and ARDD. The project did not involve NGOs to
the extent originally envisaged. The project exceeded its original objectives in the creation of community-
based organizations. The number of registered FPCs grew to a total of 3,289, a significant increase over the
963 FPCs registered before the project. In addition to the FPCs, 97 EDCs have been established. There is still
room for improvement in the functioning of the FPCs and EDCs, especially in the north. FD and ARDD
worked together during the project period, but did not identify steps needed to sustain the partnership. One
unanticipated achievement of the elimination of seedling subsidies was the recent agreement in principle for
the Forest Department to provide technical support to Panchayats for group farm forestry and strip plantations
on panchayat lands.
10.    Facilities. The improved facilities for field staff, which have only recently been completed, and the
headquarters building, which is still under construction, are expected to improve working conditions, morale
and staff effectiveness. The headquarters building will have the added advantage of consolidating office
locations and facilitating coordination.
11.    Forestry Projects in Other States. One significant benefit was the influence of the project
experience on the design of forestry projects in other states. West Bengal provided inspiration, as well as
pragmatic lessons about areas requiring more attention (e.g. process orientation, project coordination,
communication, extent and timing of policy reform), which other states are now addressing.
12.    Economic and Financial Re-evaluation. The SAR estimated an ERR of 20% and an NPV of Rs.
756 million (in 1991 Rs.), based on 100% of the costs. However, the validity of these estimates is



5
questionable, because they assume that there would be no FPC protection nor plantations in the project areas
without the project. Using different assumptions for the without project scenario, the re-estimated ERR is 9%
and the re-estimated NPV is -129 million Rs. in 199 IRs., based on 85%of the costs. Re-estimated ERRs range
from 4% for southwest plantations to 28% for scuthwest sal. Major reasons behind the reduction in the ERR
include (a) without project scenarios that assume continued, although slower growth in FPC protection in SW
and continued investment in plantations and farrm forestry, although at lower level than the with project
situation (b) incorporation of the level of FPC fuinctioning and its impact on sustainability; (c) incorporation of
the relatively low survival rates and lower than Enticipated use of intercropping, and (d) potential harvesting
and marketing constraints for poles. The re-estimated ERR and NPV would be significantly higher, (ERR of
12% and NPV of 14 million Rs in 1991 Rs), if fature development replicated on a large scale the project's
pilot efforts to use improved planting stock and addressed harvesting and marketing constraints. It would be
even higher with the development of stronger operational linkages to complementary programs involving other
government agencies (e.g., shade tolerant fodder, Panchayat support for farm forestry), increased the
percentage of well-functioning FPCs and EDCs, and increased managerial effectiveness at all staff levels.
Assuming such development also included the implementation of the biodiversity action plans, and expanded
support for biodiversity, forestry, and policy research, the returns would further increase, although they would
not be reflected in the quantified analysis.
13.    Social Impact - The project very effectively targeted the poor, especially tribals, and exceeded
appraisal expectations for total number of beneficiaries.
• FPC members. An estimated 346,000 households are members of the FPCs. More than 95% of these
households are poor in absolute and relative terms. A significant percentage of the forest fringe dwellers
are tribals and they automatically formed part of the FPCs. FPC members benefit not only from the
employment, forest products, and community infrastructure stemming from the project, but also from
gains in confidence and community empowerment arising from the FPC formation and experience. One of
the most significant achievements of the project was the rapport with local people that forest staff have
developed, and resulting reduction in conflict.
-  EDCs members. Except for forest products, EDC members (with an estimated 10,500 households) receive
similar benefits, plus a 25% share of tourism receipts.
e Economic displacement. There is no empirical data on whether the employment and other project benefits
fully offset an initial loss in livelihood due 1o forest protection restrictions for all individuals.
Displacement may affect the most marginal individuals such as widows, and the lack of monitoring has
been a serious shortcoming.
* Farm forestry. Over I million households have benefited from farm forestry. One of the notable features
of the farm forestry program in West Bengal (unlike many other states) is that about 70% of the farmers
are either landless farm laborers (who are provided with leased state-owned wasteland), or marginal and
small farmers with holdings of less than 2 ha.
* Women in JFM. Women are joint members in FPCs. Women have a strong voice in some FPCs, and 16
of the FPCs have exclusively women members. There is room for improvement, however, in many FPCs,
and the role of cultural factors affecting women's participation requires further analysis. Staff are now
much more aware of the importance of womnen's participation, and have gained some experience in direct
interactions, but are still searching for effective methodologies.
* Women in farm forestry. The group farm forestry program registers husbands and wives as joint owners
of tree plantations, helping to give women confidence and security over assets.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
14.    The state government and the implementing agency controlled most of the factors affecting the
project.



6
* Factors not subject to government control included delays in the mobilization of the research contract, and
the favorable weather conditions during the project period (regular monsoons and the lack of severe
droughts).
* Factors subject to national government control included central government clearance requirements for
working plans that delayed thinning operations, and a civil service structure and procedures that during the
project undermined the sustainability of project design ownership when senior managers shifted positions,
and that during the post project period cause continuity problems related to short term tenure for senior
managers as well as no post-project retention of specialized senior nursery staff or training of successors.
*  Factors subject to state government control included the rigidity in the government state approval of the
project, which tied the budget to the detailed cost tables rather than the more general categories outlined in
the Project Agreement and Development Credit Agreement, and contributed to significant decrease in the
economic and other project returns. On the positive side, the financial powers which the state provides FD
staff tlhat have enabled smooth fund flow and full disbursement of the IDA Credit. In contrast ARDD staff
faced difficulty because they did not have comparable check drawing powers. Clearance delays and lack
of delegated authority to the implementing agency for approval of all consultancies also delayed or
prevented implementation of several planned consultancy contracts. Indecision by state officials also
delayed the beginning of the headquarters construction, preventing its completion before project closing.
The state government did not provide quality control over the reorganization plan or its implementation.
*  A major factor subject to implementing agency control was the mechanical allocation of departmental
budget to divisions, within very specific budgets and physical targets which contributed to inappropriate
expeniitures and quality problems. Adjustments required referral to headquarters on a case by case basis,
which took time. The combination of the rigid links to the cost tables and the top-down budget allocation
undertnined the bottom-up spirit of JFM and technical considerations for specific sites. Monitoring and
evaluation was not adequate due to lack of understanding of its purpose and use at various levels, changes
in staffing, and inadequate numbers of staff assigned to the task. This in turn adversely affected
management effectiveness. It also delayed-progress reporting and affected its quality. The FD also
neglected issues related to sustainability.
15.    Cost and Schedule Changes (Actual versus Appraisal). The unit costs closely corresponded to the
appraisal estimates, and physical quantities of treatments and civil works reflect adjustments agreed at mid-
term. The quantities also reflected a sixth year of support (agreed with the Banlc) for treatments on forest land
prior to the credit closing date. Total project costs equaled US$44.1 million compared with appraisal estimates
of US$39.0 million. The additional costs were financed by a combination of the US$ 0.8 million gained
through depreciation of the SDR to the US dollar, and by US$ 4.3 million from the government. The under-
spending on mangroves, research & plant propagation, wildlife, and fodder reflect a slow start during the
initial three years. The centralized administration of the training budget curtailed expenditures in that
category. IJnder-spending on JFM institutional development reflected the problems in creating strong NGO
links, and in developing alternative mechanisms when there were problems with the NGO links. Technical
assistance activities (e.g., research experts, MIS, project evaluation) required high level contract clearances
that resulted in delays or no implementation at all.
D. Sustainability
16.    Financial Sustainability of Forestry Program. The financial sustainability is uncertain. FY98/99 is
the first time since FY81/82 that the Forest Department has not received foreign assistance, which from
FY92/93 through FY96/97 financed some 25% of the total departmental expenditures. Due to elections and
the nonnal state plan budgeting calendar, the overall budget envelope for the Forest Department will not be
definite until May, 1998. Financial sustainability of the JFM and ecodevelopment support would be increased
if a portion of the state-wide rural development funds were specifically allocated for those purposes, and
channeled through FPCs and EDCs. The allocation of a portion of the harvest revenue for further treatments or



7
replanting would help secure the financial sustainability of forest operations. The appraisal team raised this
issue but did not include it on the policy dialogue agenda of project supervision. Other states have made this
arrangement. Even if there is sufficient budget to sustain existing achievements, additional development
investments would be needed to realize the potenl:ial of several project activities such as the pilot modem
nurseries, the shade-tolerant fodder cultivars, the Ibiodiversity action plans, etc.
17.   Incentive Framework. With continued development, the JFM incentive framework is likely to be
sustainable for the southwest and the mangroves. However due to differences in the mix of forest products, in
benefit sharing arrangements, and in the nature of'protection requirements, JFM in the north did not entice
local people to participate at the desired level, ancl the arrangements needs fundamental reformulation. In
general, the institutional sustainability of FPCs and EDCs would be improved if there were more attention to
facilitation support to further improve their functioning, establishment of community revolving funds,
development of high quality microplans, and improvement of the government order on JFM. Most of these
initiatives was generally envisaged in the project design and discussed during supervision but not fully
resolved. It would also be desirable to abolish counter-productive allotments and subsidies of wood to
industries and distortions in NTFP marketing arrangements.. Throughout the state, more attention to
marketing information and outlets for both wood amd non-wood forest products (which was in the original
design but not fully implemented) would improve the incentive structure.
18.   Institutional Sustainability. New arrangements are needed to fully operationalize the forest
department's partnership with Panchayats on Social Forestry, to arrange financial management systems that
would allow strong sustainable partnerships with other implementing agencies, and to provide adequate
expertise and attention to monitoring, adaptive mamagement, marketing, improved planting material, JFM and
ecodevelopment microplanning, farm forestry extension, and watershed conservation. All of these are subject
to state government or implementing agency control (see para. 27). Fund flow through public FPC and EDC
accounts, similar to what other states have initiated, would increase transparency and trust. Development
involving shade tolerant fodder cultivars will require ongoing collaboration between FD and ARDD. The
sustainability of staff attitudes embracing JFM and improved planting material will depend on future activities.
For example, underestimation of the required expertise of modem nurseries may lead to expansion program
results that do not meet expectations and thereby undermine staff support.
E. World Bank Performance
19.   Identification and Preparation. Satisfactory. The Bank responded to Govemment's initial proposal
for ajoint forest management project in the southwest by suggesting that the project scope be expanded to
cover all major forest areas and a wider range of fDrestry works in different agroclimatic zones. The project
concept built on the innovative work in JFM already supported on a pilot scale under the West Bengal Social
Forestry Project and also used analysis from an ongoing sector study of India Forestry Policy. The main
deficiency during was that Bank staff and Bank-financed consultants took a lead role in managing the
preparation work. While this provided some high quality background analysis, it also ultimately reduced the
extent and sustainability of ownership by the Borrower.
20.    Appraisal. Satisfactory but with shortcornings. Generally the technical, financial, commercial,
environmental and sociological aspects of the design were adequate. The appraisal adequately assessed
implementation capacity, the incentive framework, the project complexity, and the adequacy of the financial
package. The appraisal also took existing experience into account. As the first comprehensive, state-wide
forestry project in India, the appraisal had no overall model for comparison, and the task was therefore more
challenging than many Bank appraisals. There was room for improvement in the overall project structure and
monitoring system (see para. 5), and the economic analysis (see para. 11). The organizational analysis did not
review existing power structures nor the potential impact of reorganization on all FD operations. The risk
analysis did not highlight hidden opposition among implementing agency staff to new participatory and
technical practices, nor did it identify rigidities in the way government budgeting would linked to detailed cost
tables in a "blueprint" approach. Another shortcorning, which continued during supervision, stemmed from the



8
Bank employing on its team a forester who was a former senior West Bengal FD official. Although this
individual had strong integrity, cared deeply about project performance and had excellent background
knowledge, it was difficult for him to be dispassionate. The past hierarchical relationship made
communication difficult and the assignment was unfair both to the staff member and to the FD.
21.    Supervision. Satisfactory although there were significant shortcomings. In retrospect, the project
launch could have been better structured to focus on strengthening the understanding of the project design and
on pragmatic implementation issues. There was no attempt to follow the skills mix proposed for supervision
in the SAR and the lack of expertise in organizational management during initial supervisions proved
particularly damaging. At the MTR the Bank made significant changes to the biodiversity and forest research
and plant propagation components in response to field experience, but the mission failed to adequately address
the major problems the treatment models, the JFM govemment order, the inflexible budget allocation and the
weak monitoring system. The MTR mission also inadvertently did not identify how the adjustments in project
design would require a corresponding change in the procurement ceiling for force account civil works in the
Development Credit Agreement. The quality of the other supervision mission advice and regular supervision
reports was generally sound and the inclusion of greater than anticipated use of forest technology and
biodiversity experts has reaped significant benefits.
22.    Deviations from World Bank Policies and Procedures. There have been no significant deviations
from Bank policies and procedures. There were occasional delays in audits, and there was a delay in
amending the procurement ceiling for force account civil works. Readjustment of project costs were within
the scope of the Development Credit Agreement project description.
F. Borrower Performance
23.    Preparation. Satisfactory. The project built on the experience of the West Bengal Social Forestry
Project with pilot JFM activities. There was a core of senior managers who "owned" the project design.
However, the FD did not allocate sufficient number full-time staff to preparation work, nor effectively
communicate the underlying reasoning behind the project design to all its staff.
24.   Implementation. Satisfactory but with shortcomings. FD and ARDD fulfilled the physical, policy,
social, and environmental objectives. However there was room for improvement in stakeholder partnerships
(see para 9), involvement of women (para 13), organizational development and management including site
planning, budget flexibility, and monitoring (see para. 14), and marketing (paras. 7 and 17). More continuity
in senior management positions and allocation of a full-time team of staff dedicated to project coordination
would have improved project performance and demonstrated more ownership.
25.    Compliance with Legal Covenants. Except for delays in some of the dated covenants and the
procurement ceiling adjustment, there has been full compliance with legal covenants.
G. Assessment of Outcome
26.    The overall outcome of the project is satisfactory, but there are serious concerns regarding
sustainability.
H. Plan for Future Operation
27.    Description and Evaluation. . The forest department has a long-tenn plan for future operation
(1996-2015), but it does not focus on project-financed investments nor project developments after the mid-
term review. FD needs to address issues affecting sustainability (see paras. 15-17). It would be desirable if
FD could plan for the future in the context of a clear vision, developed in a logical framework structure. MIS
conceptual design could then define indicators within this framework. Even without additional financing, there
are many policy and organizational measures needed to address sustainability and additional development, and
more would be identified in the process of planning. The Implementation Completion Review needs wide



9
dissemination and careful review by large numbers of staff to consider its implications for future development.
Further focused impact studies on socioeconomic, technical, and environmental issues are needed to better
understand and learn from project results. Widespread consultation with a range of potential stakeholders
would also be desirable. In considering possible policy and other options for the future, FD staff would
benefit from visits to other forestry projects throwghout India. Careful development of a vision for future
development would require that FD allocate a team of experienced, thoughtful staff on a full-time basis to this
task. In contrast to the FD, ARDD have developed a proposal for a future project and is exploring potential
sources of financing.
28.    Future Performance Indicators. Routine department monitoring will measure expenditures and
physical activities in creation and maintenance oi plantations and other silvicultural treatments. During the
project, the FD has established an additional annual survey monitoring report which measures functioning of
FPCs, and the survival, growth, and yield rates of various treatment models. This exercise will also continue
in the post project period. Additional annual monitoring needs to be established to measure socioeconomic
and biological trends. The FD has also compared remote sensing data from 1991 and 1994 to assess extent and
quality of vegetative cover (i.e. trends in restoration and/or degradation), and is seeking funds to analyze 1997
data, and to provide data for a proposed GIS database. ARDD needs to introduce monitoring to measure
impacts of the fodder and livestock programs on people's livelihood and grazing patterns over the long-term.
29.    Recommended Follow-up by World Bank. In view of its activities in Indian forestry, the Bank
would appreciate receiving copies of future monitoring and evaluation reports. The Operations Evaluation
Department of the World Bank is planning to undertake an independent review the impact of the West Bengal
Social Forestry Project in 1998, and may also wish to use that opportunity to undertake a preliminary review
of the West Bengal Forestry Project. The earliest optimal time to fully review the impact of the present
project, however, would be in five years, in 2003.
1. Key Lessons Learned
30.    Benefits to Forestry Portfolio. Other states implementing forestry projects have benefited from
West Bengal's pioneer efforts. Their design already addresses many of the lessons outlined below.
31.    Project Design. Project design should be results oriented, with (a) clear statements of goals and
explicit linkages between the goals, strategies, purposes, project activities, outputs, and impacts in a logical
framework, (b) strategies and activities based on careful consideration of alternatives, (c) careful consideration
of lessons learned from previous projects, and explicit efforts to address existing constraints (e.g., social
forestry extension), and (d) careful critical path analysis and sequencing of implementation actions,
monitoring, and adjustment processes. A process-oriented approach that emphasizes standards and procedures
rather than a fixed blueprint, and includes a monitoring system which supports a learning process, is more
appropriate for projects that emphasize participatory and technical innovations.
32.    Sustainability. Project design and implementation should focus more explicitly on measures to
ensure sustainability. These measures include the incentive framework (para. 17), the financial and
institutional sustainability of long-term development programs (paras. 16 and 18), and the institutional
sustainability of key stakeholder partnerships (para. 18).
33.    Reform and Ownership. Bank support can foster a reform process yielding significant benefits that
would not otherwise be possible. However, ownership of reform is often fragile. Changes in attitudes (e.g.,
joint forest management, improved planting materials, etc.), practices (e.g., site-specific planning rather than
top-down physical and financial targets), and policies (e.g., removal of seedling subsidies) require leadership,
understanding, and experiential learning. Implementation of a Bank financed project can broaden and deepen
the ownership of reform, which happened with this project in the development of participatory forest
protection and improved planting materials. If ownership of reform is already strong prior to a project, Bank
support may not always be necessary. Bank-wide, more guidance is needed on how to assess the minimum
extent of ownership required at the beginning stage and how to best cultivate subsequent growth in ownership.



10
At project closing, the West Bengal Foretry Project had room for improvement in ownership indicators related
to the: (a) extent and continuity of staff involved in design and implementation, including a full-time staff
coordination team and widespread understanding by staff of project design intentions; (b) quality and
timeliness of progress reporting with linkages to overall monitoring and adaptive management decision-
making, (c) quality of key stakeholder partnerships, and (d) quality of a plan to sustain future operations,
which is realistic and implemented.
34.    Communication. Communication both up and down implementing agency staff levels and
responsible responses by staff reflecting understanding and accountability of their actions is essential for
iterative identification and solving of problems, and other forms of adaptive management. The relationship
between the implementing agency and the Bank depends in large part on communication efforts (e.g., active
listening and probing by both parties, wide dissemination of Bank aide memoires by the implementing
agency).
35.    Technical Assistance. Technical assistance contracts should be ready for signing as a condition of
negotiations. Alternatively, arrangements could be made to cofinance technical assistance and training
through other sources of external assistance that undertake the procurement administration on behalf of the
implementing agency.
36.    iEconomic Analysis. Realistic economic analysis requires a careful consideration of the without
project scenario which could imply some improving conditions as well as deterioration, and an integrated
assessment of project technical, marketing, and institutional risks.
37.    O3rganizational Reform. Organizational reform is risky. Wide-reaching reorganization requires
careful analysis of power structures and personality relationships and their potential impact on implementation,
analysis all existing operations and the potential impact of reorganization on these operations, and careful
evaluation of any pilot efforts and adjustment prior to large scale replication.
38.    Delegation of Financial Powers. Financial systems with delegated financial authority to field staff
greatly facilitates fund flow and disbursement.
39.    Staff Specialization and Continuity. Where professional and technical staff remain in the same post
for other three year their skills concerning the post responsibilities are significantly increased. Careful training
of successors is also important.
40.    Flexibility. Forest development planning and implementation should be site specific, and take into
consideration technical expertise, environmental factors, views of local people, and market prospects. In
participatory activities, flexibility across budget categories (within overall budget ceilings) is necessary to
enable local staff to respond quickly and efficiently to local needs.
41.    Fodder Production. Shade tolerant grasses and legumes identified by ARDD are technically feasible
and could revolutionize forestry. They have immense potential for JFM areas, for mature forest, or for
horticultural plantations, since they can be planted after the trees mature beyond the stage when they can be
readily browsed by cattle or goats. Fodder should not be cultivated in young forest plantations unless there is
an existing demand for fodder for stall feeding. Where feasible livestock improvement programs should
attempt to reduce the number of low quality animals (e.g., scrub cattle) when providing subsides for higher
yielding breeds.



11
Part II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9: Economic Analysis
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: World Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: World Bank Resources: Missions



12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives             Substantial      Partial        Negligible    Not applicable
Macro Policies                                                                               x
Sector Policies                              x
Financial Objectives                                         x
Institutional Objectives                                     x
Physical Objectives                          x
Poverty Reduction                            x
Gender Issues                                                x
Other Social Objectives                      x
Environmental Objectives                     x
Public Sector Management                                     x
Private Sector Development                                                                   x
Other                                        x
B. Sustainability                             Likely              Unlikely            Uncertain
x
C. World Bank Performance               Highly satisfactory     Satisfactory          Deficient
Identification                                                       x
Preparation Assistance                                               x
Appraisal                                                            x
Supervision                                                          x
D. Borrower Performance                 Highly satisfactory     Satisfactory          Deficient
Preparation                                                          x
Implementation                                                       x
Covenant Compliance                                                  x
Operation - not applicable                                           x
F. Assessm,ent of Outcome                  Highly       Satisfactory   UJnsatisfactory    Highly
satisfactory                                 unsatisfactory
x



13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Grant Title           Purpose                                   Year of   Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
West Bengal Social    To increase supplies of forestwood and    10/6/81    Closed 3/31/91
Forestry               secondary products to rural areas.
Integrated Watershed   Introduce sustainable land management    5/15/90    Progress satisfactory. Closing
Development (Plains)   practices in selected watersheds through the        date 3/31/98
promotion of cost-effective conservation
technologies.
Integrated Watershed    Reverse degradation of Himalayan        3/6/90    Progress satisfactory. Closing
Development (Hills)    foothills,reduction of flooding and improve         date 6/30/98
production of cereals, fruit,fodder,fuelwood
and animal products.
Maharastra Forestry    Increase productivity and community      1/14/92    Has had problems, but recent
participation; conserve biodiversity and            progress satisfactory. Closing
improve forest sector mnanagement                  date 9/30/98
Following Operations
Andhra Pradesh         Assist in increasing forest              2/24/94    Progress satisfactory. Closing
Forestry               productivity/quality, protecting the                date 9/30/2000
environment and strengthening the policies
of forestry sector in AP
Forestry Research,     To strengthen, develop and improve the   2/24/94    Problems with staffing,
Education and          capacity of national and state institutions to     strategic planning, and
Extension             plan and manage research programs.                  monitoring. Closing date
12/31/99
Madhya Pradesh         Assist the Implementation of GOMP        3/30/95    Progress satisfactory on most
Forestry               strategy for development of forestry sector        project components. Mid-term
in MP, involving substantial change in the         review in 3/98.
way sector is managed and the introduction
of innovative programs for participatory
management of forests.
Utter Pradesh Forestry   Assist the Implementation of GOUP      12/97      Project launch scheduled for
strategy for development of forestry sector         3/98
in UP which aims to imrprove public sector
management of the secitor in order to
increase forest cover, productivity and
biodiversity in an environmentally and
socially sustainable manner.
Kerala Forestry        Assist GOK in stabilizing the retro grade  3/98    Negotiations completed
trend in forest cover development and    (plan)
improving forest productivity in an
environmentally and socially sustainable
manner.



14
Table 3: Project Timetable
Processing Steps          Date Planned                  Date Actual
Identificalion                                          06/29/1990
Preparation                                             05/24/1991
Appraisal                                               06/14/1991
Negotiations                                             12/02/1991
Board presentation                                      03/17/1992
Signing                                                 03/25/1992
EffectivenLess              -                           06/23/1992
Completion                03/31/1997                    09/30/1997
Credit Closing             09/30/1997                    12/31/1997
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98
Appraisal estimate        2.0    6.4    11.9   18.7   25.1   31.6       34
Actual                    0      5.58   10.32   15.98   22.28   30.38   34.88
Actual as %YO of estimate         87     87      86     89      96      103
Date of finLal disbursement   June 9, 1998



15
2
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Implementation Indicators                          Estimated           Actual
Southwest Joint Forest Management
Indicators in SAR
Area Covered by Registered FPCs                    153,000 ha          331,744 ha
Viable Rootstock Treatmnents                       51,700 ha            37,549 ha
Regeneration and Other Plantation s on Degraded Lands  17,680 ha       26,047 ha
Modified Indicators (at MTR)
Viable Rootstock Treatments                        36,432 ha            37,549 ha.
Regeneration and Other Plantations on Degraded Lands   18,552 ha       26,047 ha
Number of Registered FPCs                          NA                   3,048
Other Indicators
FPC Area as % of Total Protected and Reserve Forest    42% (implicit)   92%
Number of FPC Households                           NA                   310,529
FPC Functioning                                    NA                  70 % well, 20%
marginal
North Joint Forest Management
Indicators in SAR
Area Covered by Registered FPCs                    25,000 ha            86,624 ha
Regeneration Plantations                           6,650 ha             8,427 ha
Production Plantations                             5,000 ha            6,432 ha
Modified Indicators (at MTR)
Regeneration Plantations                           7,196 ha             8,427 ha
Production Plantations                             5,000 ha             6,432 ha
Number of Registered FPCs                          NA                   226
Other Indicators
FPC Area as % of Forest Area with Nearby Rural     NA                  60%
People
Number of FPC households                           NA                   27,197
FPC Functioning                                    NA                   25% well, 25% marginal
Farm Forestry
Indicators in SAR
Area Planted                                       91,125 ha            102,769 ha
Modified Indicators (at MTR)
Area Planted                                       94,562 ha            102,769 ha
Other Indicators
Number of Households                               NA                   over I million
% of Households with Less than 2 ha Farm           NA                   70%
Survival Rate                                      NA                  60%
2
Estimates of FPC and EDC Functioning, area protected by FPCs as % of forest area with nearby local people, and % of
plantation area covered by source-identified quality seed are highly impressionistic and not based on actual monitoring data.



16
Implementation Indicators                         Estimated           Actual
Man groves
Indicators in SAR
Regeneration and Afforestation Works              27,750 ha           20,663 ha
Modified Indicators (at MTR)
Regeneration and Afforestation Works              20,463 ha           20,663 ha
Other Indicators
Area Covered by Registered FPCs                   NA                  39,600 ha
FPC Area as % of Forest Area with Nearby Rural    NA                  70%
People
Number of Registered FPCs                         NA                  21
Number of FPC households                          NA                  8,270
FPC Functioning                                   NA                  70% well, 20% marginal
Area of Parks and Sanctuaries                     NA                  250,000 ha
Number of Registered Ecodevelopment Committees    NA                  17
(EDC's) in Mangroves
Number of EDC Households in Mangroves             NA                  3,500
EDC Functioning                                   NA                  70% well, 20% marginal
Technology and Nursery Improvement
Indicators in SAR
Number of Modem Nurseries                         3                   12
Modified Indicators (at MTR)
Numlber of Staff Fully Trained in Improved Planting  NA               4 senior level; 12 ranger
Stock Operations                                                      level
Number of Studies Providing Useful Results        12                  12
Other Indicators
Number of Improved Seedlings in All Containers    NA                  650,000
Number of Improved Seedlings in Root Trainers     NA                  150,000
Percent of Plantations Covered by Source Identified  NA               50%
Quality Seed
Biodiversity Conservation
Indicators in SAR
Number of Studies Completed                       4                   8
Modried Indicators (at MTR)
Number of Studies Completed                       8                   8
Other Indicators
Number of Protected Areas in North Supported by   NA                  6
Project
Area of Parks and Sanctuaries in North Supported by    NA             106,000 ha
Project
Number of EDCs in North                           NA                  80
Number of EDC households in North                 NA                  7,000
EDC Functioning                                   NA                  50% well, 25% marginal



17
Implementation Indicators                  Estimated              Actual
Fodder Development
Indicators in SAR
Area of Planted Fodder                            2560                2838
Other Indicators
Number of Promising Shade -Tolerant Cultivars     NA                  30
Number of Cross-bred Cattle Resulting from Project  NA                28,000
Institutional Development
Indicators in SAR
Reorganization Plan with Timetable                1/94                7/94
Simplified Transit Pass System                    Established         Established
Eliminate seedling subsidies                      3/97                3/97 (with a few
exceptionis)
Other Indicators
Ecodevelopment Government Order                   NA                  Issued
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not applicable to this Project.



18
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study          Purpose as defined at appraisal or   Status        Impact of Study
redefined
Management and Socio-economic Research
Monitoring     Survey Monitoring Report (1996-97)   Completed     An extremely useful report
Survey         Monitoring and Evaluation wing WBFD.               providing insight into the
The survey provides useful review of               effectiveness of forestry treatment
experience in both south and north                 practices and JFM program. It
Bengal. In the South 104 FPCs surveyed.            helped the WBFD target particular
In the North information was collected             problems (JFM microplanning and
on 131 FPCs.                                       plantation mapping) and areas for
concern (ie particular districts with
unusual problems.
Monitoring     A relatively comprehensive and sound  Completed    The program was only partially
and Evaluation  design (1993) of a program to develop a           implemented. It did provide basis
System         performance monitoring system                      for above survey and for initial
computer procurement.
Reorganization  1995 government orders with plan to  Completed    Reorganization was implemented
Plan           optimize use of manpower by avoiding               but its impact on forest protection
overlapping of functions in the same               is not clear. Earlier evaluation of
geographical area, and to strengthen               pilot reorganization, which was to
focus on JFM. It replaced functional               form basis for plan, was never
organization by a geographical                     completed.
organization.
Gender study    Role of Women in the Protection and  Completed    A useful booklet which was
Development of the Forest. 1996, WBFD              appreciated by field staff. It brifly
(WID Coordinator). A booklet prepared              describes the context of women's
for forestry field staff to highlight the          participation in JFM and makes
role of women in JFM and propose ways              recommendations on ways of
of improving women's participation.                improving their participation and
Based on extensive discussions with field          ensuring greater benefits going to
staff and FPC members throughout the               women
State.
Review by      Report of the committee set up by the  Completed   An extremely insightful report
independent    GOWB to review the Working of FPCs:                which built from considerable
Gov't         review working and functioning of FPCs,             feedback from the FD field staff
Commitee      to review policy based on assessment of             and FPCs. Unfortunately, the
successes and failures of FPCs, review             Gov't was unable to act on the
problems with the expansion of FPC                 recommendations.
across the State, to identify the support
required to ssustain the FPC movement
across the State, look at equity issues,
harvesting arrangements
Marketing      Suggest a suitable marketing strategy for  Completed  Originally planned to be carried
the forest produce in the JFM areas                out during the first year but was
delayed to the very end of the
project. Its impact on marketing
strategy fornulation is too early to
be judged.



19
Study          Purpose as defined at appraisal or    Status          Impact of Study
redefined
Technical Forestry Research
Seed Handling   Review facilities available and      Completed       Though delayed in arrival a
recommend improvements necessary,                    significant impact somewhat offset
including procurement of required                    by late arrival of final equipment.
equipment. Train staff and devise                    Staff now conversant with
suitable record system.    -                         necessary seed handling
procedures.
Research       Assist CF Research on experimen,t     Not recruited
Analyst        design. Review past research and assess
validity of results. Conduct training in
statistical design.
Bio-fertilizer   Initiate a series of experiments to  Completed      This short term consultant initiated
& Mycorrhiza   examine the effects of bio-fertilizers and            a valuable series of experiments
mycorrhiza inoculation on growth of         -        have been set out and partially
nursery seedlings.                                   analyzed which will prove
extremely valuable to nursery
managers.
Physiology of   Examine methods of assessing seed    Completed       This short term consultant initiated
Forest Seed    maturity. Review methods of storing                   some important experiments on
orthodox and recalcitrant seeds.                     problematical seeds of important
forest tree species. This work
complements the work of the other
seed consultant and has assisted
staff n understanding some of the
physiological problems associated
with seed handling.
Plant          Select 4 sites for model nursery      Completed       Though delayed was immediately
Propagation    establishment, prepare suitable designs               effective after arrival and led to a
and recommend equipment for                          considerable change in the attitude
procurement. Introduce root trainer                  of WBFD staff regarding nursery
system. Provide training in vegetative               work.
propagation and all aspects of root trainer
nursery management.
Nutritionist   Redefined to concentrate on soil and   Completed      Though delayed the staff
foliar analysis with particular attention to         responded well and have initiated
development of organic potting media in              all the required trials which are on-
the root trainer nurseries. Review the soil          going. Training was successful.
laboratory facilities and recommend new
equipment where necessary. Train staff
in methods of soil survey and analysis.



20
Study          Purpose as defined at appraisal or   Status         Impact of Study
redefined
Tree Breeder    Assess potential for genetic upgrading,    Completed  The first consultant to arrive and
formulate plans for selected species and           this was not a successful
assist implementation. Advise on seed               consultancy. However, local staff
procurement and provide staff training.             were given a valuable list of
Give staff training.                               intemational contacts.
Geneticist     Review genetic resources and collate  Completed     This consultant arrived near the
details related to seed sources. Advise on          end of the project and though an
methods of tree selection and design                excellent report was prepared and
suitable trials.                                    valuable workshop given it is too
early to estimate the true value
because of the academic
requirements of this level of
breeding.
Yield          Assess available data on growth rates and  Completed  Arrival very late. Consultant
Modeling       determine deficiencies to advise on                 prepared an excellent report but
further collection. Devise practical yield          worked only with a Silviculturist
model and train staff.                              and would have been more
effective attached to the Working
Plan Division.
Biodiversity Conservation Research
Elephant Study  Study of ecology and management of  Completed      Though delayed due to initial
elephants in North and South West                   contracting difficulty, the study
Bengal, with a view to ensure long-term             has provided wildlife staff with
survival of elephant populations and                valuable insights into migratory
reduce man-elephant conflicts                       routes, habitat and food
requirements, and intensive
conflict zones. Staff are now
conversant with animal
immobilization and translocation
and monitoring techniques.
Rhino Study    To study the ecology and management of  Completed   Though delayed, the study has
rhino populations of West Bengal with a             confirmed the relevance of some
view to ensure their long term survival             of the existing habitat
and reduce inbreeding depression                    improvement works being
implemented by the forest
department.
Leopard Study  To study the leopard populations of the    Completed  Though delayed, the study has
Dooars with a view to reduce man-animal             provided a range of options to staff
conflicts                                           for managing the animal-man
conflict.
Wetland 'Study  Identification and priority ranking of  Completed  T hough delayed, the study has
West Bengal wetlands, and making                    provided the forest department
recommendations for developing 5-6 as               with a list of all wetlands in the
wildfowl habitats                                   state (>1 Oha) and detailed
information on 8 of the priority
wetlands.



21
Study          Purpose as defined at appraisall or  Status         Impact of Study
redefined
Tiger Straying   To study the reasons for tiger straying  Completed  Though completed, the study is
from the Sundabans Tiger Reserve and                limited in its analysis of the
recommend measures for control of tiger             problem
straying
Illegal Trade in  Study of the dynamics of illegal trade in   Completed  Provides forest department with a
Wildlife       wildlife and wildlife products and                  greatly improved understanding of
recommendations for better                          the problem and specific areas of
implementation of wildlife laws relating           the law that need change.
to trade.
Gaur Study     Formulation of action plan for       Completed      Provides specific
conservation of Gaur (Bos gaurus) in the            recommendations to manage gaur
forests of North Bengal with special                straying.
stress on reduction of man-animal
conflict
Avifauna and    Study of the avifauna and water quality    Completed  Staff trained in identification of
Water Quality   monitoring in selected wetlands in West            birds and in monitoring of water
Study          Bengal and transfer of skills of                    quality parameters.
identification and census techniques and
monitoring to staff of the Forest
Department
Fodder Research
Forage         Study on fodder production in the    Completed      Work on shade tolerant, saline
Research       Alluvial and Coastal Zone of West                   resistant, water logging tolerant
Bengal                                              and drought resistant successful
and results being utilized.
Forage         Study on fodder research in the Red  Completed      Adaptable fodder species have
research       Laterite Zone of West Bengal                        been identified and new tending
methods found to be highly
productive. Effective workshop
held.
Impact Study    Carry out a study in four selected districts  On-going  The initial report indicates a
of West Bengal to determine effects -               number of benefits accrue and are
beneficial or negative - of the fodder              being appreciated. However, there
component of the project                            is a lot more to do.
Fodder         Prepare two reports covering separately    Completed  The two reports were completed
Research       the livestock development project in                and evaluated by ARDD
West Bengal and also the Fodder &                   management. Recommendations
Livestock project.                                  from these reports were
immediately introduced to the on-
going program.



22
Table 8A: INDIA - West Bengal Forestry Project
Estimated Project Costs by Component
(US$ million)
Appraisal                      Actual
Component                       Local   Foreign   Total        Local   Foreign   Total
Forestry Works
Rehabilitation                 12.8      0.7      13.5         16.1      0.8      17.0
Production                      2.1      0.1       2.2          2.8      0.2      3.0
Farm Forestry & Strip           7.3      0.4       7.6          7.7      0.4      8.1
Mangroves                       1.3       0.1      1.4          1.0      0.1      1.1
Supporting Works                    4.4      0.2      4.7          4.6       0.2      4.8
Special Action Programs
Research & Plant Propogation    1.3      0.2       1.5          1.8      0.3      2.2
Training                        0.7       0.1      0.9          0.4      0.1       0.5
JFM Institutional Development   1.0       0.1      1.1          0.5      0.1       0.6
Wildlife & Protected Areas      0.5       0.1      0.6          0.9      0.1       1.0
Mangroves                       1.1      0.1       1.2          0.3      0.0       0.4
FD Service Support                  2.8      0.1      2.9          3.3       0.2      3.5
Fodder Development                  1.3      0.1      1.5           1.8      0.2      2.0
Total                          36.6       2.4     39.0         41.4      2.7     44.1
Table 8B: INDIA - West Bengal Forestry Project
Project Financing
(US$ million)
Appraisal                     Actual
Source of Financing             Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign   Total
Government                      5.0               5.0          9.2      0.0      9.2
IDA                            31.6      2.4     34.0         32.2      2.7     34.9
Total                          36.6      2.4     39.0         41.4      2.7     44.1



23
Table 9: Economic Analysis
Base Case                 Alternative Future Case
ERR        NPV       ERR         NPV    Main Features of
%         (Rs        %          (Rs      Alternative
million)             million)
Southwest
sal forests        28        42.1        29        82.7  Change of product
mix; improved
marketing.
plantations         4       -124.8        8        -76.5
subtotal SW           6       -82.7        12         6.2
North
forests in plains   10      - 20.7       11        -10.9  future improved
nurseries
forests in hills    6        -29.8        7        -27.5  future improved
nurseries
subtotal North        9       -50.5        10       -38.4
Farm/Strip           13        12.9        14        45.9  future improved
Forestry                                                   nurseries
Mangroves            12         0.0        12         0.0
Supporting           12         0.0        12         0.0
Works
Total Project         9      -120.3        12        13.7



24
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement       Type   Status  Fulfill    Revised   Description                        Comments
Section                        Date       Date
DCA 4.01 (ai)   01     C                             For all expenditures with respect to   In compliance
which withdrawals were made on
basis of SOEs, the Borrower shall
maintain or cause to be maintained in
accordance with sound accounting
practices, records and accounts
reflecting such expenditure.
DCA 4.01 (aii)  01      C                            Borrower shall ensure that all records  In compliance
(contracts,orders, invoices, bills,
receipts, other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are
retained until at least I years after the
Association has received audit report
for FY in which last withdrawal
made.
DCA 4.01 (aiii)  01     C                            Borrower shall enable the         In compliance
Association's representatives to
examine such records.
DCA 4.01 (bi)   01     C                             Borrower shall have records &     In compliance
accounts referred to in para (a)(i) of
this Section and those for Speical
Account for each FY audited, in
accordancewith appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to
Association.
DCA 4.01 (bii)  01     C                             Borrower shall furnish, not later than  In compliance
9 months after end of each year,
report of such audit including a
separate opinion by said auditors as
to whether SOE submitted, together
with procedures, can be relied upon
to support withdrawals.
DCA 4.01 (biii)  06    C                             Borrower shall furnish to the     In compliance
Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts
and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.



25
Agreement       Type   Status  Fulfill    Revised   Description                        Comments
Section                         Date      Date
PA 3.01 (a)     01      C                            GOWB shall maintain records and    In compliance
accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting
practices and operations, resources &
expendituresin respect of the project
of depts. or agencies responsible for
carrying out the project.
PA 3.01 (bi)    01      C                            GOWB shall have records &         In compliance
accounts referred to in para (a) of
this Section for each FY audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to
the Association.
PA 3.01 (bii)    01     CD                           GOWB shall furnish to the         Some audits were
Association, not later than 9 months   late, but none are
after end of each such year, a    currently
certified copy of the report of such  outstanding
audit by saidauditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested.
PA 3.01 (biii)    01    C                            GOWB shall furnish to the         In compliance
Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts
as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
PA Sch 2.01 (a)  12     C       6/30/92              GOWB shall implement              In compliance
reorganization of field staffof FD at
& below district level in Purulia &
Kurseong districts in accordance
with Order dated November 20,
1991.
PA Sch 2.01 (b)  12     CD      1/13/94              GOWB shall adopt a time-bound      In compliance
plan of action satisfactory to the
Association for purpose of extending
such reorganization of FD to
additional districts and implement
such plan in accordance with such
time schedule.
PA Sch 2.02 (a)  05     CD      6/30/92              For purpose for implementing Part   In compliance
C. I (a) of the Project, GOWB shall
employ consultants to assist FD in
the preparation of the research
program to be carried out under such
Part of the Project.



26
Agreement       Type   Status  Fulfill    Revised   Description                         Comments
Section                         Date      Date
PA Sch 2.02 (b)  05     CP      12/31/92   12/31/96   GOWB shall discuss with the      Comprehensive
Association such research program,   research program
including a timetable for         has to await
implementing such program & taking  completion of
into account Association's comments,  consultant's report.
if any, relating thereto, implement    Funding for post-
program in accordance with        project
timetable.                        implementation of
new research is not
certain. However,
the interim
research program is
well-established
and likely to be
sustained.
PA Sch 2.02 (c)  05     C                            GOWB shall take steps to ensure that  Full compliance
research staff of FD engaged in such   since MTR
research program remain in their
respective positions for at least 5
years from commencement of such
engagement, except under
circumstances acceptable to
Association.
PA Sch 2.03     05      C                            GOWB shall select staff of FD for    In compliance
overseas training under Part C.2(a) of
Project who have at least 5 years to
retirement, and ensure that such staff
are posted for at least 3 years upon
completion of training in areas where
such training has been received.
PA Sch 2.04     05      CD                           In carrying out Part A of the project,  Compliance after
GOWB shall cause FD to follow     delay. However, in
such treatment models, including  retrospect many of
basic soil & moisture conservation    the treatments have
treatments & incorporation of fodder  proved unsuitable.
& legume species & follow improved
nursery practices satisfactory to
Association.



27
Agreement       Type   Status  Fulfill    Revised   Description                        Comments
Section                         Date      Date
PA Sch 2.05     05      C                            GOWB shall: (a) adopt or cause to be  In compliance
adopted all measures necessary or
required to promote farm forestry;
(b) obtain or cause to be obtained, in
all approvals and clearances from the
Borrower or its departments or
agencies necessary or required for
implementing the activities under the
project;and (c) provide or cause to be
provided all extension services
necessary or required.
PA Sch 2.06     05      C                            GOWB should maintain or cause to   In compliance
be maintained benefit sharing
arrangements with community
members in Sunderbans, northern &
southern areas and buffer zones
satisfactory to Association and
should not change such arrangements
without prior approval of
Association.
PA Sch 2.07 (a)  06     CD      6/30/92    9/30/96    GOWB shall furnish to the        Compliance after
Association terms of reference    delay.
satisfactory to the Association for the
studies to be carried out under Part
C.4(a) of the Project.
PA Sch 2.07 (b)  06     CD      7/31/94    9/30/97    GOWB shall complete such studies    Compliance after
in accordance with such terms of  delay
reference.
PA Sch 2.08     09      C                            GOWB shall cause FD and ARDD to  In compliance
furnish to the Association by June 30
& Dec. 31 of each year beginning on
Dec. 31, 1992, reports on the
progress of Parts A,B,C, & D, and E
of the projectrespectively.



28
Agreement       Type   Status  Fulfill    Revised   Description                         Comments
Section                         Date      Date
PA Sch 2.09     12      C       3/31/97              GOWB shall adopt appropriate       Full compliance
measures to ensure that seedlings are  has been difficult
not distributed free of charge and to   due to subsidies of
increase seedling pricing year so as    other agencies but
to achieve full cost recovery by  FD seedlings now
March 31, 1997, in accordance with   cover operation
methodology satisfactory to the   costs in almost all
Association.                      the state. There are
exceptions in a few
SW districts where
seedlings are
distributed at
reduced cost to
eligible poor
farmers and these
subsidies are likely
to be phased out
over the next few
years.
PA Sch 2.10     09      C                            GOWB shall, in consultation with the  Done 1/30/95-
Association, undertake and complete  2/16/95
a mid-term review of the project and
shall, promptly thereafter, carry out
agreed recommendations of such
review in a manner acceptable to the
Association.



29
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There were no significant deviations from World Bank policies and
procedures during implementation.
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle                 Actual
Weeks      US$
Preparation to appraisal         58.1     158.8
Appraisal                        32.1      93.6
Negotiations through grant approval    6.3  14.4
Supervision                     101.2     229.7
Completion                       32.6     127.7
Total                           230.3     624.2



30
Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions
Performance rating
Stage of     Month/   No. of   Days in  Specialized staff  Imple-   Develop-  Types of problems
processing     year    persons   field         skills        men-      ment
represented    tation   objectives
status
Identification   5/90        2        4              A, E
Preparation     10-        16       29    E, A, F, FT, EN
11/90                      S, Fl, NR, FD, I.
Preparation    1-2/91      7        25  A, E, C, F, P, FN,
FD
Appraisal   6-7/91        6       15     E, C, F, P, FN,
FD
Supervision    3/93         2       10                F         S          S  Adminstrative,
Financial
Supervision    10/93        3       15            F, S, A       S          S  Procurement,
Adminstrative,
Financial (ARDD)
Supervision    2/94         1        7                F         S          S  Technical,
Procurement,
Adminstrative,
Financial (ARDD)
Supervision    8-9/94       2       11              F, P        S          S  Procurement,
Adminstrative,
Marketing,
Training, Technical
(ARDD)
MvIid-term   2/95         6       13   F, FT, IT, EN, F,      S          S  Procurement,
review                                        S, FD                       Admninstrative,
Marketing,
Tmining, Policy
Supervision   10-11/95       5       13    E, FT, EN, F, S      S          S  Soical, Technical,
Procurement,
Adminstrative,
Marketing,
Training,
Financial,
Discussions     2/96         2        2            E, FN      NA         NA  Financial
Supervision      6/96        2       11              E, F       S          S  Marketing,
Financial,
Procurement



31
Performance rating
Stage of     Month/   No. of   Days in  Specialized staff  Imple-   Develop-  Types of problems
processing     year    persons    field         skills        men-       ment
represented    tation   objectives
status
Supervision     10/96        5        16    E, F, EN, S, FT       S          S  Sustainability,
Social, Marketing,
Financial,
Administrative,
Project structure,
Supervision      5/97        2         5              E, F        S          S  Sustainability,
Administrative,
Social, Financial,
Marketing
Implementation      1/98         8       15  E,F,FN,EN,S,FT,                        Sustainability
Completion                                            FM
Review
A - Agriculturalist                                FM - Forest Product Marketing Specialist
C - Cost Specialist                                FN - Financial Analyst
E - Economist                                      FT - Forest Technology Specialist
EN - Environmental Specialist                      I - Institutional Specialist
F - Forester                                       IT - Information Technology Specialist
FD - Fodder Specialist                             NR - Natural Resources Specialist
FI - Forest Industries Specialist                  P - Procurement Specialist
S - Social Development Speicalist



I



33                                     Annex l
Annex 1: Implementation Completion Review I Supervision Mission
Aidle Memoire
3
1.    Introduction. From January 13-28, 1998 a World Bank mission carried out a final supervision
of the above project, in combination with an implementation completion review. The mission held
discussions with West Bengal Forestry Departrnent (WBFD) officials, the West Bengal Animal
Resources Development Department (WBARDD) officials, local community committee members and
individual farmers who participated in project activities, associated non-governmental organizations,
private sector forest product merchants and forest processing industry representatives, Ministry of
Environment and Forestry officials, and a Department of Economic Affairs official. Mission members
express their sincere thanks to all for the assistance and hospitality extended during the course of the
mission. This Aide Memoire reviews the principal findings of the Implementation Completion Review
(ICR) and the status of actions agreed during MIay 1997 mission.
2.     Wrap-up Meetings. The following summarizes the mission's major findings and
recommendations, which were discussed at wrap-up meetings chaired by Dr. K.K. Bagchi, Secretary of
Forests, GOWB, Mr. Ajoy Sinha, Principal Secretary of Animal Husbandry GOWB, and Mr. G.S.
Mandal, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Forest Directorate, GOWB on January 27, and with Dr.
Ahmed Parvez, DIGF, MOEF, and Mr. Abhas Jha, Under Secretary, DEA on January 28.. This aide
memoire expresses the findings and agreements reached by the mission and is subject to review and
confirmation by Bank management.
3.     Project Achievements. The mission found that the project successfully used the strategy of
increasing participation of local people and introducing forest management practices to address the broad
project goals of
(a)    preventing continuing degradaltion of the forest lands
(b)    establishing a sustainable protection system
(c)    enhancing productivity and
(d)    conserving biodiversity.
The achievements in halting forest degradation, establishing a sustainable protection system, and conserving
biodiversity are particularly noteworthy and exceed appraisal expectations. Registered forest protection
committees are now responsible for more than 90% of the official forest areas in the southwest of the state,
and these committees are effectively protecting over 280,000 ha throughout the state. This positive
experience has also changed attitudes of field staff, who are now convinced of the value of the joint forest
management approach. The forest protection and biodiversity activities have helped to iniprove wildlife
habitats and corridors both in and outside parks and sanctuaries. These areas include the globally
significant coastal wetlands, the Sunderbans Bic sphere Reserve, and parks in the north with endangered
species such as tigers, rhinos, elephants, and red pandas. The project also was effective at targeting the
poor, especially tribals: More than 95% of the 356,000 household in forest protection or ecodevelopment
committees, and some 70% of the 1 million farm forestry beneficiaries, are poor in absolute terms.
4.     Productivity. The project's most important potential contribution to productivity is the extent to
which it has laid a foundation for very significant productivity gains in the future related to the use of
3
Ms. Jessica Mott (mission leader), Mr. Irshad Khan (forestry specialist), Mr. Malcolm Jansen (environmental
specialist), Mr. Sanjay Vani (financial specialist), Ms. Julia Falconer (social development specialist/ forester), Mr.
Norman Jones (forest technology specialist), Mr. Leo Lintu (forest product marketing specialist), and Mr. Barry
Deren (economist).



34                                   Annex I
improved planting material, improved coppice management techniques, shade tolerant fodder, and the
recognition of the importance of bottom-up, site-specific planning. During the project period, the main
contribution to productivity comprised the acceleration in converting wastelands to more productive uses
under joint forest management and farm forestry. However, the productivity gains would have been much
greater and closer to appraisal expectations if the survival rates on plantations had been higher. Many of the
plantation treatment models prescribed in the project design have proved unsuitable. One of the main
lessons learned from this experience is the importance of focusing on project purposes in a logical
framework, with an emphasis on standards and procedures rather than fixed blueprints and rigid budgets,
and using adaptive management based on monitored results. Attachment 1 presents the Project
Performance Indicators.
5.    Status of Past Agreements. Attachment 2 lists the status of agreements made during the May
1997 supervision. Although there have been delays, WBFD and WBARDD have taken or are taking
action on most items.
6.    Sustainability. Both government officials and mission members noted that sustaining the
progress made during the project will require a significant increase in financing from state govemment
sources. The Secretary of Forests assured the mission that he was making every effort to secure adequate
budget for the post-project period. Due to the elections and the normal calendar for finalizing state plan
budgets, however, the overall budget envelope for the WBFD would not be definite until May, 1998. The
mission suggested that a detailed plan for future operations would provide further evidence that the
department officials are giving this issue careful consideration, and provide helpful background information
in the budget negotiations. Within such a plan, the mission suggested that it would be desirable to consider
revolving fund mechanisms and cost-effectiveness measures that that could increase the reliability of long-
term domestic financing for forestry. Sustainability will also require further policy reform, including the
developrnent of a more effective incentive framework for joint forest management in the northem part of
the state.
7.    ]Future Development. The mission also discussed WBARDD's and WBFD's future
development program. In the draft ICR, the mission has made several recommendations focusing on
conceptual planning, policy reform, institutional arrangements, and other critical activities that would
require little or no incremental financing. However, it was also clear that overall project returns would
be significantly higher if there is a further investment program to replicate on a large scale the project's
pilot efforts to use improved planting stock, as well as to increase the percentage of well-functioning
Forest Protection and Ecodevelopment Committees, to address harvesting and marketing constraints, to
strengthen managerial effectiveness, to develop stronger operational linkages to complimentary
programns involving other government agencies, to implement biodiversity action plans, etc. Both
WBFD and WBARDD expressed interest in proposing a follow-on project with Bank financing, and the
mission explained that any such proposal would need to be formally submitted to the Bank through DEA,
so that Bank management could consider it in the context of the Country Assistance Strategy.
8.    Agreed Follow-up Actions. The Secretary of Forests specifically requested that the upcoming
disruptions of the national elections be taken into consideration in scheduling further processing of the
ICR. Actions agreed during the current mission consist of:



35                                    Annex I
Issue                       Action                            Agency         Completion
Responsible         Date
Receipt of all project-financed  Send copy of Joint Forest    WBFD           February 20,
consultant studies etc.     Management film to Bank                              1998
Send copy of WBARDD             WBARDD         March 15, 1998
impact study
Review of mission's draft   Distribute mission's draft ICR   WBFD and        Distribute by
ICR                          including annexes to WBFD       WBARDD           February 7,
and WBARDD field staff for                          1998
comments and suggestions.
Revised version of mission's   Send revised, complete version  Bank          February 27,
draft ICR including complete   of mission's draft ICR to                         1998
set of annexes              GOWB
Corrections and suggestions    Collect and send to Bank     Secretary of    March 31, 1998
on mission's draft ICR                                        Forests
Revision of summary         Revise to incorporate           Secretary of    March 31, 1998
GOWB's ICR submission       WBARDD and suggestions of         Forests
WBFD staff, obtain GOWB
clearance, an(d send to Bank
Updating of ICR to reflect   Finalize ICR and submit for       Bank           April, 1998
comments from wrap-up        final GOWB clearance
meeting, and written
suggestions and corrections.
Government Clearance of final Review and clear final ICR for  Secretary of    April, 1998
ICR                         distribution to World Bank    Forests, (GOWB)
Executive Directors and       and DEA (GOI)
officials involved in other
Bank-financed forestry
projects in India.
Attachments
1.    Project Performance Indicators
2.     Status of Actions Agreed During May 1997 Mission
3.     Draft ICR Report of Mission (to be sent by February 27, 1998)






37                           Annex 2
SUBMISSION OF WEST BENGAL FOREST DEPARTMENT:
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
WEST BENGAL FORESTRY PROJECT (IDA CREDIT NO. 2341-IN)
Part I: Implementation Assessment
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.   Country and Sector Context. The 1988 National Forest Policy of India treats
forests first as an ecological necessity, second, as a source of goods for use by local
populations, and third as a source of wood and other products for industries and other
non-local users. In support of this policy, the Government of West Bengal proposed a
state forestry project to address resourc:e management and biodiversity in an integrated
fashion, through policy and institutional reforms, participatory resource management,
technology improvement, and mainstreaming of biodiversity concerns both within
protected areas and outside them. Other states have followed the West Bengal
example, but the West Bengal Forestry Project is the first of this type of project to reach
completion.
2.   Project Objectives. The objectives of the project as reflected in the Staff
Appraisal Report were to
(a)   prevent continuing degradation of the forest lands
(b)  install a sustainable protection system in all regions of the state
(c)  enhance productivity and
(d)  conserve biodiversity
More specifically, the project was intencled to support regeneration and afforestation of
169,000 of degraded lands, 7,000 ha ol mature government plantations, and 114,000
ha of farm forestry. It also provided assistance for supporting works in roads,
demarcation, and watershed conservation, and for special action programs in research
and plan propagation, training, development of joint management (government-people
partnerships), biodiversity research and protection, and regeneration of 25,000 ha of
mangroves. In addition, the project included service support (houses, offices, vehicles,
information systems, etc.), and fodder research and development. The mid-term review
adjusted the quantitative targets but did not change the basic design.
3.   Items in Project Agreement Promoting Objectives. Project Agreement
covenants related to the objectives included a time-bound reorganization, a research
plan and technical guidance, retention of specialized staffing, specified forest
treatments, measures (e.g., regulatory reform) for farm forestry, benefit sharing
arrangements for joint forest management, and elimination of seedling subsidies



38                            Annex 2
4.   Evaluation of Objectives. The objectives were important not only for the state,
but also to India's forestry sector, as reflected in the 1988 National Forest Policy, and
Eighth F ive Year Plan, which emphasized investments for rehabilitation of degraded
forests with people's participation. The objectives responded to and reinforced West
Bengal's innovations in joint forest management that addressed forest policy priorities
of ecological restoration and use forests for the needs of local people. The objectives
were relatively clear, but it would have been preferable to connect the nature of the
expenditure and the purpose, as for example in training. There would have also been
greater clarity if there had been more emphasis on qualities and processes rather than
only physical quantities. Due to the comprehensive, integrated nature of the project
design, which treated the forestry sector as a whole, the project was complex, with a
large range of components, and a wide variety of ecological and geographical locations.
Institutionally, however, the project was relatively simple in that it focused only on one
state, with two implementing agencies. The project objectives were realistic and within
the capacity of the implementing agencies.
B. Achievement of Objectives
5.   Sector Policies. The main sector policy reforms related to the project objectives
consisted benefit sharing arrangements for JFM, the simplification of the transit pass for
farm forestry, the elimination of seedling subsidies. The benefit sharing and transit
pass reforms were fully achieved. The forest department was not the sole agency
controlling seedling subsidies and therefore that objective was only partially achieved --
seedlinc subsidies were reduced but not eliminated.
6.   Financial objectives. The project had reliable fund flow and the Credit will be
fully disbursed.
7.   Institutional objectives. The major institutional aspects of the project
objectives comprised the departmental reorganization, the creation of a management
information system, the involvement of NGOs in JFM support, and the creation of
community-based organizations (forest protection committees). The reorganization was
accomplished, but the purpose of the reorganization was one-sided and neglected
specialized field work and reporting requirements. The main purpose of the
reorganization was to ensure that one beat officer would handle no more than six
FPCs, to distribute the work load more equitably, to have stronger concordance
betweern beats and panchayat boundaries. However, specialized work at the field level
in soil conservation and farm forestry work was neglected. Furthermore, the project
design entailed pilot reorganization in two districts, and then monitoring and design
adjustment prior to full-scale implementation. The monitoring and design adjustment of
the reorganization plan was not adequate. There was more concern about meeting
time deadlines than using lessons learned from the pilot to perfect the full-scale design
of reorganization. The MIS was achieved only partially due to delays associated with
approvail of a sole-source consultancy. There were two NGOs capable of providing
training, but there was a shortage at many localities of field level NGOs with skills in
conceptual planning and practical implementation. The project exceeded its original



39                            Annex 2
objectives in the creation of community.-based organizations, creating a total of 3,289
forest protection committees and 17 ecodevelopment committees. There is still room
for improvement in the functioning of the FPCs. However, for success in replication in
other areas, local parameters have to be studies carefully.
8.   Physical objectives. The projeict fully achieved the physical objectives for all
components except mangroves which rhad a minor reduction at mid-term due to a late
start. There was more than double the number of ha. protected under joint forest
management. Mid-term adjustments also included a substantial expansion of the
biodiversity component to include protection by ecodevelopment committees. For
details, see detailed table on key physical indicators. The criteria for judging the project
objectives was not systematically presented in the SAR. The SAR had gaps for some
components (e.g. modern nurseries), and did not list indicators for assessing quality
and processes, socioeconomic considerations, sustainability, and other factors.
9.   Economic and Financial Re-evaluation. There were difficulties in doing this
work in-house, and consultants could not be hired due to procedural difficulties.
10.  Social Impacts. The target group was forest fringe dwellers who were willing to
take part in forest protection. More than 95% of the FPC households are poor in
absolute and relative terms. To achieve success in protection, however, it was also
important to permit participation of the few relatively wealthier households who were
interested and influential. The poorest households generally received more of project-
financed jobs, which helped to offset the benefits forgone due to forest protection
restrictions. Participation of women achieved mixed success. There is full awareness
of the importance of women's participation, and women have a strong voice in some
FPCs. There is room for improvement, however, in many FPCs, and the role of cultural
factors affecting women's participation r equires further analysis. A large percentage of
the forest fringe dwellers are tribals and automatically formed part of the FPCs.
Wherever tribals are in the majority of an FPC, their concerns were adequately
addressed, but it has been more difficult to fully address tribal concerns in
heterogeneous FPCs. There has been some economic dislocation of people, mostly
women, who were full-time headloaders, which the project has attempted to address
with JFM support investments in alternative livelihoods.
11.  Environmental Impacts. The environmental objectives were substantially,
achieved. Large areas of formerly degraded forest have been regreened, and the
benefit sharing arrangements of JFM have established a collaborative system of natural
resource management. Research has improved the understanding of biodiversity and
other biodiversity investments have improved protected area management and
protection. The only difficulty experienced was in fodder intercropping. During the
initial project years, fodder was intercropped in areas where there were not adequate
investments in improved cattle nor demand for stall feeding. As a result, the fodder was
left in the field causing a fire hazard and inviting more grazing. This problem was
addressed at a later stage in the project by developing shade-bearing fodder cultivars
which can be planted in older plantations which can not be harmed by grazing.



40                            Annex 2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
12.  Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control. In the consultancy on
forestry research, the appointment of the experts was delayed, and as a result, the
Departnnent did not receive the final report until the end of the project period, when it
was too late to implement the recommendations. In consultancies for JFM support and
MIS, there was a shortage of local experts capable of both conceptual design and
practical field implementation. The project benefitted from regular monsoons and the
lack of severe droughts. The actual increase in the unit cost of labor was less than
projected at appraisal, which, together with the exchange rate depreciation of the rupee
meant that the IDA Credit could finance a larger quantity of physical works than
originally anticipated.
13.  Factors Generally Subject to Government Control. The mismatch between
the standard procedures for procurement of the Government and the Bank led to
difficultiies. For example, for purchase of vehicles, DGSD rate contracts are not
acceptable to the Bank. At times, the Government has had reservations about the
appointment of consultants and NGOs. Sector policies were supportive, and
governrnent was committed to the project objectives. Counterpart funds were adequate
and timely, except in the first year when there was inadequate budget due to
communiication gaps. Civil service procedures require periodic rotation of Indian Forest
Service officials but exceptions were made in important cases (e.g. research) for staff
continuity and specialization. There was an inadequate database on forestry at the
time of project preparation, which affected the allocation and phasing of project funds,
and also limited information on the baseline for project impact monitoring.
14.  Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control. Monitoring and
evaluation and its purpose was not always clear to users at various levels, and could
have been improved.
15.  Cost Changes (Actual versus Appraisal). The final data are not yet available.
16.  Implementation Schedule (Actual versus Appraisal). During the initial year,
there was a delay in overall project implementation due to the budget coristraint. There
were initial delays in the selection of consultants and contractors. Throughout the
project period, there were lags in disbursements due to procedural difficulties. The
forestry works, which were a major element of project costs, proceeded in accordance
with the original schedule, except for the first year.
D. Sustainability
17.  T he likelihood of sustainability is very high, provided that the incentives are
maintained, and local participation assured. For JFM, continued contact as also the
benefit sharing arrangement need to stay in place, marketing needs to be strengthened.
Other piroject components will require adequate funding. Modern nurseries will require
implementation of technical assistance recommendations. A follow-on project building
on this project's achievements and lessons learned would add to sustainability.



41                            Annex 2
E. World Bank Performance
18.  Identification and Preparation. Satisfactory. The Bank responded to
Government's initial proposal for a joint forest management project in the southwest by
suggesting that the project scope be expanded to cover all major forest areas and a
wider range of forestry works in different agroclimatic zones. The design of the policy
reforms and project activities in the north was done in a hurry. As a result, adjustments
in the joint forest management arrangements did not fully address the differences in
conditions (e.g., forest villages next to revenue villages, tea garden estates, etc.).
Moreover, the conservation awareness in the resource-scarce southwest amongst
fringe dwellers near scattered patches of forests did not exist in the north nor in the
mangroves, where forests are still in tact. It would have been desirable if Bank forestry
experts had had more background in multi-species forest management in tropical
settings (this was also true during appraisal and supervision). In the treatment models,
the spacing of seedlings was based on requirements for intercropping and for
productivity gains (as extrapolated fromn monocultural quick-growing species) without
adequate response to local conditions. During implementation, there was less demand
for intercropping than originally anticipated. The wide spacing resulted in additional
weeding costs, fewer trees to select from during thinning, and a lower quantity
(although not necessarily a lower value) of biomass.
19.  Appraisal. Satisfactory. There should have been a clearer specification of key
indicators corresponding to each project objective/component. For several of the JFM
support items (extension, studies, pilot action programs, and NGO development) in the
project cost estimates, there was no blueprint nor detailed planning guidelines. As a
result, department officials faced difficulties in implementation of these activities during
the initial years of the project.
20'.  Supervision. Satisfactory. During the project launch, the Bank should have
provided more guidance on procurement procedures. The Bank assumed that no
guidance was needed because the forest department had implemented the Social
Forestry Project. However, due to rotation of Forest Department staff and changes in
Bank guidelines, a refresher course in procurement procedures would have been
desirable. At the mid-term review the Bank mission inadvertently did not identify how
the changes in project costs would require a corresponding adjustment in the
procurement ceiling for force account civil works in the Development Credit Agreement.
It would have been desirable if the Bank's expert reviewing the modern nurseries had
supervised during May/June, when the nurseries were fully stocked.
F. Borrower Performance
21.  Preparation. Satisfactory. Stalceholder consultation during preparation was
limited because substantial time and project investments were needed first to establish
the credibility required for constructive site-specific dialogue with all participants.
22.  Implementation. Satisfactory. However, NGO involvement did not take place to
the desired extent. JFM studies were not undertaken (see paragraph 19). There is
room for improvement in the involvement of women (see paragraph 10). There was no



42                            Annex 2
time to implement recommendations of the forestry research, biodiversity, and
marketing studies. Hiring of consultants on MIS and GIS could not be done. There
were inadequate guidelines for monitoring and evaluation. The reorganization was
implemented in a hurry.
23.  Compliance with Legal Covenants. Compliance was satisfactory. There were
delays in several dated covenants. Full cost recovery of seedlings was not achieved,
due to the fact that other government entities such as panchayats, that are not subject
to the project, continue to subsidize their seedlings.
G. Assessment of Outcome
24.  The overall outcome of the project is satisfactory.
H. Plan for Future Operation
25.  Description and Evaluation. The forest department has a long term plan for
future operation (1996-2015). The current budget for the post project period only
partially covers the funds required for the physical maintenance of project treatments.
The Department is looking for further funds to address all required activities.
26.  Future Performance Indicators. Routine department monitoring will measure
expenditures and physical activities in creation and maintenance of plantations and
other silvicultural treatments. During the project, the FD has established an additional
annual survey monitoring report which measures functioning of FPCs, and the survival,
growth, and yield rates of various treatment models. This exercise will continue in the
post project period. Additional annual monitoring needs to be established to measure
the socioeconomic impact of JFM support investments, and to measure steps taken to
maintaini the assets created under JFM support. The FD has also compared remote
sensing data from 1991 and 1994 to assess extent and quality of vegetative cover (i.e.
trends in restoration and/or degradation), and is seeking funds to analyze 1997 data,
and to provide data for a proposed GIS database.
27.  Recommended Follow-up. The Department is working on a proposal for a
follow-on project to be funded by external assistance. Such a future project to greatly
increase the likelihood of the financial and institutional sustainability of the forest
development program that has been established under the first project. It would also
tackle outstanding issues. The earliest feasible time for OED to undertake a
comprehensive impact study would be five years from project closing, i.e. the year
2003.
I. Key Lessons Learned
28.  Rural people either individually or in groups are willing to participate in greening
of marginal and sub-marginal agricultural land through adoption of forestry and agro-
forestry models.
29.  Under farm forestry, individuals or communities are inclined to grow valuable
timber trees rather than fuelwood and small timber.



43                            Annex 2
30.  Development of stakes amongst user communities for conservation of forests is
necessary and efforts in this sector need to be sustained over the years. This feature
holds good equally for plantations raised in recorded land or other public lands.
31.  Treatment models for plantations need to be drawn up in conformity with
prescriptions of management plans and site parameters. Some amount of flexibility is
necessary as site parameters vary widely in the same agro-ecological zone.
32.  Adequate research back-up for increased forest productivity is a must. Such
research has to address the requirements of both forest and non-forest land.
33.  Organized database, monitoring and evaluation are absolutely essential for
having the desired impact of a project through mid-course correction and proper
management of forest resources.
34.  Soil and water conservation on micro-watershed basis and biodiversity
conservation issues need a stronger focus.






45                                    Annex 3
Annex 3: Economic: and Financial Re-evaluation
Introduction and Summary
1.    An economic re-evaluation of the completed project was undertaken based on realized field and
other project expenditures, reported physical conditions of forestry works, and assessments of future
circumstances attributable to the project and of those that one would have reasonably expected to prevail
in the absence of this or some similar project. The regeneration of sal and other forest areas in the
Southwest and production forestry in the North are primary focus of the re-evaluation.
2.     The assessment of forestry works in Southwest Bengal distinguishes between the performance of
efforts to regenerate sal forests through the eff-ective functioning of forest protection committees (FPCs)
and the afforestation of degraded, non-viable sal forest areas (these are referred to as plantations in the
Southwest as distinct from the 'production forestry' works undertaken by the project in the North). For
forestry works in North Bengal, the analysis likewise considers the separate implications of production
forest development in the plains and the hills.
3.     The re-evaluation also reviews models for farm forestry and strip planting, but does not
characterize the activities geographically. The degree to which farm forestry and strip planting would
have progressed in the absence of the project following the earlier implementation of the Social Forestry
Project is debatable. The analysis here assumes that much of the distribution of seedlings under the
project would have transpired anyway, but allows for the uncertainty of this estimate.
4.     The project's planned mangrove trealment appears to have been successfully implemented. The
returns to this sub-component, including the project's expenditures for a mangroves special action
program, are expected to be satisfactory if only on the basis of avoided loss of property over time. In
addition, there are likely to be biodiversity conservation benefits and derivative income benefits (e.g.,
from healthier fisheries) arising from the protection of coastal habitats.
5.    The re-evaluation does not include a separate economic analysis of the project's wildlife and
protected areas special action program, whose benefits are largely environmental and not easily
quantified
6.    Project expenditures for research and plant propagation, and joint management support were
fully apportioned in the analysis to the rehabilitation of degraded forests and production forestry
components of the project. The opportunity costs of communities providing watch and ward for forest
areas appear in the analysis as recurrent costs. The re-evaluation also includes the costs (and benefits)
of restocking areas over the next forty years, taking into account the impact of employing improved
nursery techniques that have been developed under the project. Most of the project's expenditures for
service support to the Forest Directorate, including training, are also accounted against the benefits
arising from the forestry works.
7.    The average economic rate of return (ERR) to the regeneration of Southwest sal forests through
viable rootstocks and joint protection has been estimated at between 27 and 29 percent depending upon
future constraints to the marketing of poles produced from the sal forests. The modeling of the
replanting of blank areas in the Southwest produces an ERR of about 7 to 12 percent, depending upon
how quickly improved nursery techniques are adopted in the future, and upon the scale of the future
restocking of harvested areas. The future development program is a crucial factor in overall project
results for forestry works in the Southwest. An aggregate ERR of less than 12 percent can be expected if



46                                       Annex 3
resources are not committed to an adequate future work program. If an adequate work program is
executed in the plantation areas of the Southwest, the expected overall ERR to the region's forestry
works is likely to exceed significantly the opportunity cost of capital.
8.     The expected ERR to forestry in the North is estimated at falling below 10 percent as about half
of the FPCs function effectively and, consequently, the overall survival of plantings is low. The impact
of the project can be stronger if in the future benefit-sharing arrangements with communities can be
reformulated to motivate better protection of forested areas against theft and of newly re-stocked
compartments. As in the case of the Southwest, the expeditious introduction and implementation of the
improved nursery techniques and planting material developed by the project has a significant effect
upon the outcome of project's investments.
9.     The expected return to farm and strip forestry is estimated at about 14 percent in allowing the
amount of planting that would have occurred in the absence of the project to range between 25 and 50
percent of the target achieved by the project.
10.    The base overall ERR of the project is estimated at 9 percent based on 85 percent of total costs.
Actions to consolidate project results are expected to raise the expected return to above 12 percent.
Table 1. Summary of Economic Analysis (average values)
Base Case                    Alternative Future Case
ERR      NPV          ERR        NPV           Main Features of
%    (Rs million)     %     (Rs million)        Alternative
Southwest
sal forests       28       42.1          29       82.7       Change of product mix;
improved marketing.
plantations        4      -124.8         8        -76.5
subtotal SW         6       -82.7          12        6.2
North                                    _            _
forests in plains  10      - 20.7        11       -10.9     future improved nurseries
forests in hills   6       -29.8         7        -27.5     future improved nurseries
subtotal North      9       -50.5          10      -38.4
Farm/Strip Forestry   13     12.9         14        45.9      future improved nurseries
Mamgroves           12        0.0         12         0.0
Supporting Works    12        0.0         12         0.0
Total Project       9      -120.3         12        13.7
Graphs of the probability distributions of these results appear in Working Paper 10 following the text.
Table 2 represents the project summary in constant 1992 financial terms.



47                                     Annex 3
Table 2. Summary of Financial Analysis (average values)
Base Case                   Alternative Future Case
IRR      NPV         IRR       NPV          Main Features of
%    (Rs million)    %    (Rs million)        Alternative
Southwest               __       _
sal forests      25       38.0         26       78.6      Change of product mix;
improved marketing.
plantations      3.5    -135.4   __   8         -85.6
subtotal SW        6       -97.4        12       -7.0
North _i_ _
forests in plains    10  -25.4         11       -15.6    future improved nurseries
forests in hills  6       -32.0        7       -29.7    future improved nurseries
subtotal North     8       -57.4        10       -45.3
Farm/Strip Forestry   12     3.3        14       36.5      future improved nurseries
Mangroves          12        0.0        12         0.0
Supporting Works    12       0.0        12         0.0
Total Project      9       -151.5       12       -15.8
Prices
11.    General. The prices used in the economic re-evaluation for inputs and outputs, expressed in
1992 border price terms for comparison to the SAR, are based on estimates of market prices occurring
during and at the end of the project's implementation. Sal poles, firewood, small timber, and non-timber
forest products (NTFP) and local sylvicultural inputs were considered essentially non-traded items. The
economic values for these outputs were estimated by applying a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.9,
which is the value employed in the appraisals of recent World Bank projects in India. Peeler log prices
are based on import parity values for comparable hardwood species. The economic values for teak and
other hardwood logs are based on their auction prices. The economic value of labor was estimated to
range from Rs 22 to Rs 27 per day, with Rs 25/day as being the most likely value. Project costs in the
analysis are based on actual expenditures that have been converted to 1992 values and adjusted using the
SCF.
12.    Actual financial expenditures were converted to their approximate equivalents in 1992 values by
using a set of deflators based on average annual domestic rates of inflation since the start of the project.
Table 3. Discount Factors Used to Convert Current to 1992 Financial Values
1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97   1997/98
annual domestic inflation   0.107     0.087     0.103      0.085     0.056     0.054
discount factor             0.949     0.866     0.790      0.723     0.675     0.640



48                                    Annex 3
13.    Sal Poles. The prices used in the analysis were based on 1996 financial values, converted for
poles of different girth classes and adjusted to arrive at economic stumpage values expressed in 1992
rupees. A weighted average price of Rs 1,270/m3, based on the distribution of pole girths expected at
the time of harvest, was calculated as a likely value for the volume of poles produced per hectare of
coppiced sal. In estimating a economic rate of return to forest regeneration in Southwest Bengal, the
analysis considers a distribution of sal pole values about this likely value, ranging from Rs 1150 to Rs
1400 per cubic meter.
Table 4. Calculation of the Economic Price for Sal Poles
Stumpage value                 diameter class (cm)
10       13        15
Rs/m3                          955      1909      1421
% of size class harvested in yr 10
diameter class (cm)
10       13        15
65%      31%        4%
average value of poles harvested in yr 10 (Rs/m3): 1270
14.   Firewood. The analysis' price for firewood was based on a series of depot prices between
1992/1993 and 1996/1997, which are adjusted to stumpage values by deducting estimates for harvesting
and other depot costs. The series suggests that in real terms the price for firewood is declining, probably
reflecting the impact that the large areas of regenerating sal forests are having, or are expected to have,
on local markets. The average stumpage value of firewood during the project's implementation period is
estimated at about Rs 179/r  (say, Rs 180/m 3) in 1992 values. Currently the price is the about Rs
128/mr3 (say, Rs 130/mr3), which is somewhat less than the average value originally suggested by the
SAR's datal. As demand for firewood within and immediately outside the state is not expected to fall
appreciably in the near future, but will probably increase with population growth, while supplies of wood
from the sal forests and other sources will now also continue to increase, the analysis uses a value for
firewood that ranges between the average price for the period from 1992 to 1997, Rs 180/mr, as an upper
bound and the current price as a long-term lower bound.
The SAR estimates a range of Rs 250-350 per metric ton for the financial value of firewood supplied to depots.
These data imply an average economic value at the time of the appraisal of about Rs 135/m3.



49                                    Annex 3
Table 5. Calculation of the Economic Value of Firewood
1992/93  1993/94  1994/95  1995/96  1996/97
Financial Depot Values                    266       361      375      373      297
Financial Depot Values in 1992 Rupees     257       326      316      294      219
Economic Value                            231       293      285      265      197
Estimated Harvest Cost                      50       50       50       50       50
Estimated Other Depo Costs                 23        29       28       26       20
Estimated Economic Stumpage Value          158      214      207      189      128
Average Economic Value 1992/93-1996/97     179
The value of scrub firewood was estimated as one half the value of marketed, stacked firewood.
15.   Coppiced Sal Timber. The economic value of small timber from coppiced sal in the analysis is
estimated to be in the neighborhood of lower grades of pulpwood, such as kadam, and less than half the
stumpage value of plantation sal. A mean economic stumpage value of Rs 3,000/m3 has been derived
for the analysis of the Southwest sal forests, using these estimates as limits of the range in which this
value could fall (as in a triangular distribution, where values away from the mean have a lower
probability of occurring the further the distance of the value from the mean). The following table
illustrates the derivation.
Table 6. Estimation of the Economic Value of Small Timber from Coppiced Sal
(Rs/m3)
Comparison to Plantation Sal
1996197
(current Rupees)
auction price sal logs, North 13engal         14000
(1992 Rupees)
auction price sal logs                        10319
economic value of logs                         9287
extraction,depot & FDC overheads (25%)         2322
economic stumpaye value                        6966
stumpage value of sal small timber             3483
Comparison to Lower Grade Pulpwood         1996/97
(current Rupees)
auction price kadam, North E,engal             5200
(1992 Rupees)
auction price                                  3833
economic value of logs                         3450
extraction,depot & FDC overheads (25%)          862
economic stumpage value                        2587



50                                     Annex 3
Modeling of the Regeneration of Sal Forests in Southwest Bengal
16.    Effective Protection of Areas with and without the Project. The analysis of the project's impact
in the Southwest hinges on an assessment on the number of incremental functioning FPCs that can be
attributed to the project. As noted elsewhere, NGOs and individual forestry officials had begun to
promote the formation of FPCs prior to the start of the project, and it would be reasonable to expect that
in the absence of the project formation of FPCs would have continued, perhaps slowly at first but
accelerating over time as results become well demonstrated and more widely known. The project,
therefore, represented an acceleration of a process that was already under way.
17.    This acceleration under the project had two consequences. The first is that a larger area of
degraded sal forest came under joint protection sooner than would have done otherwise. The second is
that areas of well stocked plantations in the Southwest also came under joint protection sooner than
otherwise, which means that over time a smaller area of this land is lost or degraded due to grazing
(primarily), theft and encroachment, and recurrent harvesting is higher. The following table presents
the situation on the ground prior to the start of the project.
Table 7. Irlitial SW Forest Conditions prior to 1992 (ha)
Viable Sal Forest                                        134000
% of Area with Adequate Canopy                            25%
Economically Unviable Sal Forest (other habitat)          43600
subtotal Sal Forest                                     177600
Area Requiring Afforestation (blanks)                     85100
Stocked Plantations                                      136870
Total Forest Area
18.    The analysis assumes that about half of the area effectively protected by FPCs consists of
stocked plantations. Data at the completion of the project suggest that registered FPCs now nominally
help protect all of the viable sal forest and about 155,000 ha of stocked plantations, including areas that
were afforested by the project. In general, about 70 percent of the FPCs formed under the project can be
expected to be functioning well enough to provide effective protection of the areas under their watch and
ward. In the modeling this translates as 70 percent of the area nominally protected by FPCs actually is
effectively protected, including 70 percent of the area added to stocked plantations.
19.    Without the project, the analysis assumes that FPCs eventually would have formed to protect the
same total area effectively protected by the project by the time of its completion. Whereas the project
has broug]ht an estimated 232,221 ha of land under effective joint protection in five years, the analysis
assumes that communities would have done this much without the project over a period of fifteen years.
Moreover, as a working figure, the analysis accepts that over the same five years of the project's
implementation about half of the number of effective FPCs existing by the end of the project would have
been operating without the project. The following table summarizes the initial conditions upon which
the projections of the economic analysis are based.
20.   In addition to viable and potentially productive but degraded sal forests, areas under FPC watch
and ward include other areas where sal is not viable, but where joint protection could allow the
regeneration of a mixed forest that would yield benefits primarily in the form of NTFPs. As a minor
point, FPCs formed on their own without the project are represented as wholly effective: without the
project, the formation of FPCs is a much slower process; those that form are more self-selecting in



51                                     Annex 3
anticipation of the potential forest benefits that would be available to them than those that were formed
through the impetus of the project. The inclusion of supporting works under the project opens the
possibility that some FPCs form primarily for interests other than forest protection. Here, according to
communications with the FD, a total of about 70 percent of the FPCs formed in the five years of the
project are protecting their areas effectively.
Table 8. Effective Protection of Areas with and wfthout the Project by the End of 1997/98
Conditions    Future wlo    Future w
at Start     Project       Project
(1992)       (1997)       (1997)
No of Existing FPCs                                   850          1100        3048
Area Nominally Protected (ha)                      118500        136538      331744
% of Well Functioning FPCs                           100%          100%         70%
Area Effectively Protected (ha)                    118500        136538      232221
% of Viable Sal Forest Effectively Protected          40%           45%         85%
Sal Forests
Total Sal Area Nominally Protected (ha)             59250         68269      177194
Total Sal Area Effectively Protected (ha)           59250         68269      124036
of which existing area with good canopy (ha)       33500         33500       33500
potentially productive degraded area (ha)   20100         26800       80400
other habitat (ha)                           5650          7969       10136
Total of Good and Regenerating Forest (ha)          53600         60300      113900
remaining area of viable but degraded sal (ha)      80400         73700       20100
remaining unprotected, non-viable habitat (ha)      37950         35631       33464
Plantations
Existing Stocked Area (ha)                         136870        136870      136870
Area Added (ha)                                                    8840       17680
Total Area (ha)                                    136870        145710      154550
Total Plantation Area Nominally Protected (ha)      59250         68269      154550
of which effectively protected (ha)                59250         68269      108185
of which effectively unprotected (ha)              77620         77441       46365
including newly restocked area (ha)                             2652        5304
Estimated Loss of Unprotected Stocked Arna (ha)         0         47200       35570
Remaining Unprotected Stocked Area (ha)             77620         30241       10795
Degraded Plantation Area (ha)                       85100        123460      102990
Productive Plantation Area (ha)                    136870         98510      118980
21.    Following the end of the project, the analysis estimates results while holding fixed the total area
of sal and other forests under effective joint protection. In the future without the project, FPCs forn
gradually, achieving the same total area under effective joint protection as the project by 2008
(accomplishing in fifteen years what the project did in five). By 2008 without the project 232,221
hectares of viable sal and other forests would have been effectively protected. About 10,140 ha of other
habitats (areas of forest cover, but non-viable sal) are eventually with or without the project. In balance,
with or without the project in the long term ab,ut 20,100 hectares of viable sal remains degraded. The
following table displays the year by year development of FPCs and sal areas under effective joint
protection with and without the project that used in the analysis.



52                                                                               Annex 3
Table 9. Formation of FPCs and Sal Forests under Effective Protection
Projection of Forest Protection in SW
In futures with and without project
FY      1992-93  1993-94 1994-95 1995-96  1996-97  1997-98  1998-99  1999-00  2000-01  2001-02 2002-03  2003-04 2004-05  2005-06 2006-07  2007-08  2008-09
project year     0        1        2        3       4        5        6        7        8        9       10      11       12       13       14       15       16
Registered FPCs
w/o                               850      900      950    1000    1050    1100    1175    1250    1350    1500    1700    1850    1900    1975    2050    2075    2134
w                                 850    1290    1729    2169    2608    3048    3048    3048    3048    3048    3048    3048    3048    3048    3048    3048    3048
Effective FPCs
w/o                               850      900      950    1000    1050    1100    1175    1250    1350    1500    1700    1850    1925    1975    2050    2075    2134
w                                 850      903    1210    1518    1826    2134    2134    2134    2134    2134    2134    2134    2134    2134    2134    2134    2134
Total Area Effectively Protected (ha)
w/o                            118500  122108  125715  129323  132931  136538  141588  147500  155250  165000  176800  188700  196350  200463  202438  202831  232221
w                              118500  141244  163988  186732  209477  232221  232221  232221  232221  232221  232221  232221  232221  232221  232221  232221  232221
II. Sal Forest Development
Distribution of Affected Areas (ha)
effectively protected productive area
w/o                             53600   54940   56280   57620   58960   60300   62101   64765   69267   75769   87366   99063  106510  110419  112191  112382  113900
w                               53600   65660   77720   89780  101840  113900  113900  113900  113900  113900  113900  113900  113900  113900  113900  113900  113900
effectively protected other habitat
w/o                              5650    6114    6578    7042    7505    7969    8172    8375    8578    8782    8985    9188    9391               9594    9797   10000   10136
w                                5650    6547    7444    8342    9239   10136   10136   10136   10136   10136   10136   10136   10136   10136   10136   10136   10136
remaining degraded but potentially viable sal
w/o                             80400   79060   77720   76380   75040   73700   71899   69235   64733   58231   46634   34937   27490   23581   21809   21618   20100
w                               80400   68340   56280   44220   32160   20100   20100   20100   20100   20100   20100   20100   20100   20100   20100   20100   20100



53                                  Annex 3
22.    Production Parameters. Degraded sal areas are assumed to provide an annual yield of
scrub firewood and other biomass. This production is estimated as 100 percent of the current
annual increment (CAI) of early sal foresil growth. Protected areas are expected to continue to
provide an annual yield of scrub firewood. This is estimated at about 10 percent of the CAI.
The current harvest of protected coppicing sal follows a ten-year rotation, yielding a quantity of
poles and firewood. A longer rotation of fifteen years allows for the production of small timber
from a sal stand, as well as a higher quantity of firewood. The key parameters of the analysis
appear in the following table. The table displays lower, likely and upper values for most of the
parameters. These figures define the ranges within which the parameters of the sal forest model
vary under a large number of simulations. In general, such ranges of values follow a triangular
distribution in the modeling. That is, the probability of a value following within a specified
range increases from the lower limit (having a very low probability) to the designated 'likely
value' and then declines as the value moves from the 'likely value' to the upper limit.
23.    The value of NTFPs in unprotected and protected sal forests are estimates based on
limited data from case studies and field obiservations. The limited data suggest that annual
NTFP income in economic terms from reg;enerated sal forests falls below Rs 1,500 per hectare,
mostly from the collection of sal leaves; a]lthough, the seasonal collection of mushrooms and
other items, including medicinal plants also contribute to this income. Degraded areas also
yield NTFPs, but they differ from forests that have a relatively closed canopy. The collection of
tendu leaves is one possibility; although, the occurrence of this activity does not appear to be
universal. Some mushroom collection is also feasible in some of these open, degraded areas. It
appears implausible to assume that value of NTFPs from degraded areas is negligible. At the
same time, it seems doubtful, given the responses of interviews with villagers, that this income is
closely comparable to the NTFP income from protected areas. As a starting point, the analysis
uses a working figure an incremental value of production from protected sal forests for NTFPs of
about Rs 500 per hectare (1992 constant values). The income of about Rs 1000 per hectare from
regenerated sal forests is comparable to the collection of about 16,000 sal leaves per hectare per
day over 300 days in the year. This yields about 1,780 stitched sal leaf plates using on average
nine leaves per plate. Netting out the cost of labor, the economic value of 1000 stitched plates is
estimated at Rs 2, or, equivalently, an economic net benefit of about Rs 3.5 per day per hectare.
Table 10. Principal Parameters of the Sal Forest Modeling for Southwest Bengal
Parameter                              unit   lower limit  likely value    upper limit
protected sal pole production (10 yrs)  n3/ha      1.2         1.44           1.68
protected sal firewood production (10 yrs)   m3/ha  12          15             18
degraded sal scrub firewood           m3/ha       0.3          0.3            0.3
protected sal scrub firewood           n3/ha      0.03         0.03           0.03
protected sal small timber (15 yrs)   mi3/ha       3            3.5            4
protected sal firewood (15 yrs)       m3/ha        20           21             22
degraded sal NTFP                      Rs/ha      450          500            550
protected sal NTFP                     Rs/ha      900          1000           1100
24.    Base Case and Alternatives. The amalysis considers three cases of project's future
outcome. In the base case, the harvesting and marketing of sal poles remains at much the same
level as at present: approximately 10,000 in3 a year from the Southwest. This implies that the
remaining wood harvested from the proteci:ed areas will need to be absorbed by other markets,
primarily the firewood market. Alternatively, future incremental pole production might be
channeled through existing markets, but this is not thought to be a realistic prospect. A third



54                                 Annex 3
possibility is that marketing development, such as improvements in the production and
dissemination of marketing information, prompts a change in the product mix that is made
possible by keeping a portion of the forests under a longer rotation. Maintaining sal for fifteen
years instead of ten means that some small timber production is possible in lieu of poles. This
preferred alternative case, with 25 percent of the protected forest held under longer rotation,
would yield results (in terms of net present value) that are as high as those obtained under
expectations of no constraints to the future marketing of sal poles. Table I of Working Paper 10
indicates the differences in the patterns of physical production implied by these three scenarios.
Table 2 of Working Paper 10 presents the value of forest production by scenario.
25.    Development and other community and project costs are accounted against benefits for
each scenario. It is assumed for the without project futures that the total costs of sal forest
regeneration from viable root stocks, FPC formation, and FD support would in real terms be no
less than was expended under the project, but spread out over a period of fifteen years. Of total
project costs for FD support, 60 percent is apportioned for the implementation of forestry works.
Of this 60 percent, 60 percent is allocated to the implementation of sal and plantation forestry
works in the Southwest. The analysis then allocates the cost of FD support evenly between the
regeneration and protection of sal forests and the re-planting and protection of stocked
plantations. Community watch and ward costs (of effective protection ) are calculated at the rate
of 10 days per hectare per year. Allocating by the total area of forestry works, the analysis
estimates that about 77 percent of the project's total expenditures on research were located in the
Southwest. Of this amount, the analysis attributes one half for the development of improved
nursery propagation and planting material for the region. Table 3 of Working Paper 10 provides
detaiils of the cost and benefit streams for each scenario.
26.    Results. The three scenarios imply different outcomes for marketed wood production
over time from the protected sal forests, as shown in the table below. Using multiple simulations
of the Southwest sal forest model, the analysis has estimated probability distributions for the
economic rates of return (ERRs) and net present values (NPVs) of each of the scenarios based on
the ranges within which production parameters and values have been specified to vary. These
calculated distributions are presented in Charts 1 through 6 of Working Paper 10. On average,
although scenario 3 implies a reduction over time in the quantity of the sal poles currently
marketed, the shift in the mix of wood products from the coppicing sal forests should produce
total net benefits that are significantly higher than the base case.
Table 11. Total Incremental Sal Forest Production 1992-2032 by Scenario (M3)
Scenario 1         Scenario 22        Scenario 3
Small Timber                  0                   0               288,690
Poles                          0                38,210             -47,500
Firewood                    436,220            398,010            295,490
27.    The average values, by scenario, of the estimated distributions for the ERR and NPV
arising from the project's interventions affecting the productivity of Southwest Bengal's sal
forests are the following:
2The without project future of scenario 2 also assumes ease of marketing of sal poles and is not
comparable to the without project future of the base case. The without project future of scenario 3 is
comparable to that of scenario I (the base case).



55                                Annex 3
Table 12. Economic Summary of Sal Forest Scenarios (Distribution Averages)
Scenario          ERR                NPV @ 12%
(1992 Rs million)
1              28%                   37.55
2              32%                    52.32
3              29%                    73.81
28.    As noted earlier, the incremental lproduction of scenario 2 is based on a somewhat
unlikely future without the project that assumes an easy marketing of sal poles. It might be
possible, that improvements in marketing and market information development might actually
improve the feasibility of scenario 2, but if that were the case, the feasibility of implementing
scenario 3 might also be implied, and so preferred. As it stands, the base case performance of
the project's regeneration of sal forests should be entirely satisfactory. The results for scenario 3
- an NPV that is double that for the base case - here suggest, however, that further marketing
development should deepen the project's ]long-term impact. The significance of pursuing this
option becomes more apparent when considering the expected returns to investments in
plantations in the Southwest and the overall performance of total project investments in the
regeneration of region's forests.
29.    As estimated here, the distribution of the ERR for scenario 3 admits a standard deviation
that is smaller than the base case (under 4% as compared to just over 5%).
Modeling of the Regeneration of Plantation (Mixed-Tier) Forests in Southwest Bengal
30.    As discussed in the previous section, the analysis adopts the working assumption that
half of the area under the joint protection of FPCs includes areas of existing and restocked
plantations in the Southwest. Given data of the area of existing stocked plantations at the start of
the project, the analysis has worked out progressions of protected and unprotected plantation
areas year by year with and without the project. For simplicity the areas coming under FPC
joint protection under the project are presented as having happened at a constant annual rate.
Without the project, the areas coming under FPC joint protection between 1992 and 1997 are
also phased in linearly, but more rapidly thereafter.
31.    The project affronted 17,680 ha of blank forest areas (non-viable sal areas). Given that
70% of the FPCs are functioning well, the analysis estimates that about 12,3 80 ha of this area has
actually survived with adequate stocking (that is, the overall survival rate of plantings is 70
percent). The analysis assumes that without the project, half of this area would have been
replanted over the same period. Following 1997, the analysis expects a continued program of
replanting with and without the project.
32.    Meanwhile, the degradation of unprotected areas of plantations is expected to continue.
In discussions with the FD, the mission estimates that possibly a fifth of unprotected plantation
area is degrades each year through theft, encroachment, etc. Consequently, the project, in
accelerating the formation of FPCs, decreases the potential total loss of productive area over
time. This implies that the areas restocked after 1997 with and without the project will differ as
it would be wasteful to replant areas that are not already effectively protected by FPCs.
33.    Although several species may constitute the multi-tier plantations, eucalyptus having a
seven year rotation may sufficiently characterize existing and added stocked areas. The species



56                                  Annex 3
coppices twice and is replanted after the third harvest. In working out future planting programs
with and without the project, the analysis assumes that at the start of the project about half of the
existing area falls in age classes of one to seven years, and half in classes of eight to fourteen
years. The analysis sets the start of the replanting of the latter age classes in fiscal year 1998/99
(project year 6). The replanting of the former age classes begins afterwards in 2005. Finally,
the areas planted in 1992-1997 are replanted following their third harvest starting in the year
2014 (project year 22), and the areas planted in 1998-2004 are replanted starting in the year 2019
(project year 27). The analysis proceeds on the basis that areas are restocked fully as they
become available under this schedule.
34.   In the base case scenario, FD establishes improved nurseries to supply the replanting
program, but expansion proceeds slowly as a consequence of the current dismantling of research
teams and reassignment of staff. Without the project, it is unlikely that much horticultural
research on propagation would have occurred. For the alternative case, the introduction of
improved nurseries proceeds more rapidly. In both cases the total planting capacity of the
nurseries eventually reaches 7,500 ha. Table 13 below displays the phasing used in both cases.
35.    Harvests are not expected to be constrained by budgetary considerations are difficulties
in obtaining forest plan approvals.
36.    The following box illustrates the approach used to estimate the loss of productive
plantation area over time due to the lack of adequate watch and ward.



57                                    Annex 3
Box. Method of Calculating the Degradation of Unprotected Plantation Area
total protected area at start of period 1 (ha)
ptot1 :=0
total degraded area at start of period I (ha)
ltot1 :=0
R := 0.2            rate of degradation as percentage of unprotected area
K := 9787           protect,ed area added each yr (ha); this parameter
differs with and without the project
SI =77620           initial unprotected area (ha)
n :=1.. 10         calculation ranges over 10 periods; at any point S, =
ptotn + [totn + Sn
SnFI= 10 if (I- R).Sn<K
I[Sn( I - R) - K] othierwise
the last remaining unprotected
APn    S  if (       nR)  <K       area (less than K) is saved
K otherwise                 entirely; otherwise, a portion of
the unprotected area is lost in
ALn    0 if (1 - R) 1<K            the period between n and n+1
S *R otherwise
n
ptot n+ I = pt°tn + Apn
Itotn +I =ItOtn +A Ln
S                      Itot               ptot               n
7.762n 0                   0                  0              1
5.23 1.io4 01.552104                      9.787d10           2
|3 .20G1 04            2.5991 04          1.957-104          4
1 .58GI04              3.24.104           2.93G104           5
2.902*103              3.557 104          3.915I04           6
0                  3.557*104          4.20510e           7
o                    3.5571l04.0S0                         8
0                                     4.08 
0                  3.557104           4.205-104          10
0                  3.557104           4.205.104
3.55710-e          4.205-l04
37.    Table 4 of Working Paper 10 displays the plantation areas of the Southwest that are
protected, harvested, restocked and degraded in futures with and without the project.



58                                  Annex 3
Table 13. Phasing of Additions to Southwest Improved Nursery Planting Capacity (ha)
yr.  1997/98   1998/99   1999/00   2000/01  2001/02   2002/03  2003/04   2004/05   2005/06
project yr.   6       7         8         9         10        11       12         13        14
base case                                                     0        50         100       150
alternative                               500       1000      3000     2000       1000
yr. 2006/07   2007/08   2008/09   2009/10  2010/11   2011/12  2012/13   2013/14
project yr.   15      16        17         18       19        20       21        22
base case    210      320       440       700       1020      1380     1550       1580
alternative
Table 14. Principal Parameters of the Plantation Forest Modeling for Southwest Bengal
Parameter                                  unit   lower   likely value     upper limit
limit
produiction from planting current stock   m3/ha     25          28             30
produjction from improved planting stock  m3/ha     63          70             77
replanting cost                           Rs/ha    4860        5600           5940
replanting cost using improved stock      Rs/ha    3645        4200           4455
nursery investnent (1000 ha planting capacity)  Rs'000    350  375            400
38.    The development of incremental production and its value from plantations in the
Southwest is presented in Table 5 of Working Paper 10.
39.    The development of plantations includes some provision for the costs of maintenance
treatments for areas planted during the last year of the project.
40.    In the analysis, JFM support costs and the cost of FD support are divided equally
between sal forest and plantation forest works. Community watch and ward costs are calculated
on the basis of 10 days per hectare of plantation area effectively protected (as in the case of sal
forest regeneration). Details of the costs of plantation works in the Southwest under the project
are given in Table 6 of Working Paper 10.
41.    Results. For the base cases, over a period of forty years, total incremental wood
production from jointly protected plantation areas should exceed 6.8 million m3, while the total
quantity of wood removed or lost illicitly declines by almost 0.5 million m3. This incremental
production, however, generates an ERR that on average falls below 4 percent. The NPV for the
plant-ation works in the base case averages to about- 111.4 Rs million. These results could
improve dramatically if in the future improved nurseries are rapidly established to accommodate
the restocking program. With a more rapid development of improved nurseries presented in the
alternative case, the average ERR for plantations in the Southwest rises to just over 8 percent,
and the NPV improves to Rs -68.3 million. Incremental wood production over the period in the
alternative case is estimated at 12.7 million m3. The probability distributions calculated for the
ERR and NPV of the two cases are presented in Charts 7 to 10 of Working Paper 10.



59                                 Annex 3
Overall Results for Southwest Bengal Forestry Works
42.    Together, in the base case of little marketing development, sal forest regeneration and
the planting program under the project are likely to have an ERR that averages about 6 percent as
shown in the Chart I 1 of Working Paper 10. The overall NPV in this case averages about Rs -
82.7 million. With marketing development accompanied by a change in sal forest product mix
that would provide a higher value return to keeping some area under a longer rotation, the overall
ERR for Southwest forestry works has a better likelihood of rising above 12 percent. See
Charts 11 to 14 of Working Paper 10 for graphs of the estimated distributions of the overall
returns to the project's forestry works in the Southwest for the two accounts of future
development.
Modeling of Forestry Works in North Bengal
43.    The approach used to the model the performance of FPC formation and forestry works in
North Bengal is similar to that used for modeling Southwest Bengal forestry works. Out of the
total number of FPCs formed under the project (or in the future without the project), an estimate
of the number of functioning FPCs providing effective joint protection determines the overall
survival rate of new plantings and the incremental benefits from the future harvests of existing
plantations.
44.    FD data and mission observations suggest that about 25 percent of formed FPCs in the
North are functioning well enough to provide effective joint protection of designated areas.
This estimate is also interpreted as indicating that about 25 percent of the total area under the
nominal joint protection of FPCs is effectively protected, including areas restocked under the
project. Overall, it is estimated that on average about 50 percent of new plantings under the
project have survived. In view of the percentage of FPCs providing effective protection, this
average survival rate would be consistent with a survival rate of about 80 percent in areas
effectively protected, and 40 percent in areas effectively unprotected.
45.   The areas effectively protected also extend to areas of existing plantations and other
natural forest areas. For areas of existing plantations, an incremental benefit from protection
was derived by estimating the amount of growing stock that would not be removed over time but
would contribute to a final harvest when the rotation is mature. If selective harvesting (i.e., not
dead or diseased wood) were an integral part of the management of natural forests, a similar
estimate for natural forest areas under the protection of FPCs would have also been incorporated
in the analysis. As selective harvesting is not a feasible operation at this point, and is not
expected to become so in the foreseeable fiture, it is not apparent in what form tractable
compensation can occur in exchange for the foregone removal of wood before maturity. The
foregone removal of wood might have a future biodiversity conservation value or might enhance
the productivity of NTFPs collected locally, but the data are not available to ascertain this.
NTFPs, moreover, are not perceived to be a very significant source of income in the North in
contrast to the situation in the Southwest. It may be the case that in some areas, formal, easier
access to scrub wood provides some incenl:ive for the effort in protection, but that convenience
would need to valued very highly if that protection were really occurring. The illicit removal of
wood does have a realizable economic value. The analysis deals with these difficulties in
valuation by ignoring both hypothetical incremental production benefits and the opportunity
costs of foregoing timber collection in natural forest areas falling under the joint protection of
FPCs.



60                                  Annex 3
46.    It is estimated that FPCs in the North now cover about 60 percent of the areas deemed to
be suitable for JFM. Given the difficulties apparent with the incentive structure for JFM in
North Bengal, the analysis does not assume that the fornation of FPCs will continue in the
future. The analysis does include in the future without the project the formation of an equal
number of FPCs as under the project, but these are phased in over a much longer period of time
and after a considerable lag.
47.    The analysis distinguishes between forestry works in the hills and the plains of North
Bengal. Plantations stocked under the project involve both long and short rotation production.
Although the project implemented several plantation models, the analysis here considers a
broader classification. Two production models are used to characterize plantings in the hills.
There is forest production under an average rotation of sixty years, and coppicing short-rotation
production on an average nine-year cycle. For the plains, average long-rotation production is
estimated to be about fifty years, while short-rotation production is estimated at seven years.
48.    The incremental benefits from jointly protecting existing plantations were estimated on
the basis of having about 10 percent more stems available per hectare at the time of final harvest
than there would be without effective protection over an extended period of time. Specifically,
the analysis considers the loss of about 60 stems per hectare between the mid-point of the
rotation and the final harvest. The quantity of wood this would involve is based on an estimate
of the difference between the mean average increment (MAI) of a fully stock hectare when the
rotation is mature, and the MAI of the stocked stand at the mid-point of the rotation. An
average of the quantity of timber realized in the gradually removal of 60 stems over this period is
then derived. This quantity is divided by the rotation age and appliecl over the entire area of
unprotected plantation area year by year. Existing plantations are considered as being primarily
of long rotation.
49.    The analysis develops two cases of future development. For the base case the future
development of improved nurseries to restock short rotation plantations established under the
project does not occur: the areas to be restocked are relatively small and not thought to be a high
priority. The restocking of long rotation plantations will likely proceed, but as these benefits
would accrue beyond the period of analysis, which is defined by the date of harvest of the long
rotation plantations established under the project, these costs are not included in the analysis, as
the benefits are also not. The alternative case introduces improved nurseries for the restocking
of short rotation plantations established under the project.
Table 15. Phasing of Additions to North Bengal Improved Nursery Planting Capacity (ha)
year 2013/14         2014/15        2015/16        2016/17        2017/18
project year 22            23             24             25             26
base case
hill           0               0              0                            0
plains         0              0               0              a            0
alternative case
hill          100            100            175            175
plains
year 2018/19         2019/20        2020/21        2021/22
project year 27            28             29             30
base case
hill          0               0              0              0
plains        0               0              0              0



61                                    Annex 3
alternative case
hill          50              50              50              50
plains         0               0              0               0
The following table summarizes the principal parameters used in the derivation of foregone loss of timber
over and the rest of the modeling.
Table 16. Principal Parameters of the Plantatioin Forest Modeling for North Bengal
Parameter                                     unit    lower limit  likely value    upper limit
final MAI - hills plantations, long         m3/ha/yr      2.5           3.0            3.5
MAI /4 of rotation - hills plantations, long  m31halyr    3.2           3.3            3.4
final MAI - plains plantations, long        m3/ha/yr      3.5           4.0            4.5
MAI 3/4 of rotation - plains plantations, long  m3/AlWyr  4.2           4.4            4.6
final MAI - hills plantations, short        m3/ha/yr      2.5          2.75             3
final MAI - plains plantations, short       m3/ha/yr      2.5          2.75             3
final MAI - hills plantations, short improved  m3/ha/yr    9            10             11
final MAI - plains plantations, short improved    m3/ha/yr  9           10            11
illicit removal - hills                     m3/ha/yr      0.25         0.27           0.28
illicit removal - plains                    m3/halyr      0.25         0.26           0.28
total existing plantation area                 ha        42490        42490          42490
Tables 7 through 12 of Working Paper 1 0 present details of the analysis for the two cases.
50.    Results. With only 25 percent of the FPCs effective and half of the plantings surviving,
the ERRs for forestry works in both the hills and the plains fall below 12 percent, but remain
significantly above zero. For the base case, the ERR for plantations in the hills is estimated at
about 6 percent with an NPV of Rs - 29.8 inillion. The estimated ERR for plains plantations is
somewhat better, having an estimated mean value of 10 percent. The NPV of the plains works
is estimated at Rs - 20.7 million. With the introduction of improved nurseries in the alternative
case, the performance of forestry works in the North improves, but a considerable lag in the
phasing of improved planting material for the restocking of short rotation areas, and the
relatively small area of these plantations established in the North precludes a substantial
improvement in the returns for the component. For the alternative case, the overall ERR for the
North Bengal plantations in the hills is estiimated to be about 7 percent and the NPV is estimated
at about Rs - 10.9 million. For the plains in the alternative case, the ERR is calculated at about
10 percent and the NPV is estimated at approximately Rs - 10.9 million. The distributions of
these results given the ranges defined for the parameters above are shown in Charts 19 to 22 in
Working Paper 10.
Overall Results for North Bengal Forestry Wlorks
51.    Results. The mean ERR to Southwest sal forest regeneration and plantation works is
estimated at just over 8.7 percent for the base case. The base case average NPV is estimated at
Rs - 50.5 million . The alternative case improves on these results: the mean value for the ERR is
calculated to be 9.8 percent and the average value of the NPV for the component is estimated at
Rs -38.4 million. The change is not very large due to the levels of FPC effectiveness and the
survival rate of plantings, but it does contribute to the overall performance of the project. The
distributions of these results are presented in Charts 23 to 26 of Working Paper 10.



62                                  Annex 3
Modeling of Farm and Strip Forestry
52.    Using FD data that express the total distribution of seedlings in terms of equivalent
stocked areas, the modeling of farm and strip forestry develops a projection of expected future
performance these plantings according to a 10-year coppicing rotation of plantings that produces
both pulpwood and firewood. About two thirds of final output is expected to be marketed as
pulpwood.
53.    Overall survival rates of these plantings is estimated at 60 percent in the base case
futures with and without the project. As alternative future scenario, the analysis considers the
introduction of improved planting stock following the end of the first cycle of production.
Given the large area planted out under this component - particularly in comparison to other
forestry works - this alternative would require substantial additional investment for the
establishment of improved nurseries.
54.    The analysis does not include any costs or benefits from any incidental intercropping of
plantings so that an assessment can be made on the merits of the works themselves. In any case,
there is little evidence to show that intercropping is a salient feature of farm forestry without
some subsidization of agricultural inputs.
Key parameters of the modeling are presented below.
Table 17. Principal Parameters of the Farm/Strip Forestry Modeling for the Project
Parameter                                     unit    lower limit  likely value    upper limit
survival rate of plantings without project    %           60           60           60
survival rate of plantings with project, base case  %     55           60           65
survival rate of plantings with project, alternative  %   65           70           75
final MIAI, base case with & without project  m3lWalyr    4.5          5.0          5.5
final MAI, alternative future with project  m3/ha/yr      6            7             8
replanting cost using standard stock         Rs/ha       4860         5400         5940
replanting cost using improved stock         Rs/ha       3645         4050         4455
Details of the development of physical production and of the cost and benefit streams for the base and
alternative future scenarios are given in Tables 13 and 14 of Working Paper 10.
55.    Results. For the base case, in which a future expansion of improved planting stock for
farm and strip forestry is not expected to occur, the average value of the ERR is estimated to be
about 13 percent and the average NPV is estimated at Rs 12.9 million over two cycles of
production. The incremental production of wood over this period is estimated to be over 1.9
million m3. If an expansion of improved nurseries accommodating the restocking of areas
starting around the year 2022 can be financed, the incremental production of wood over the
same period increases to over 22.7 million m3, and the average ERR for this component rises to
just over 14 percent with an average NPV calculated at Rs 45.9 million. The distributions of
these results are given in Charts 15 through 26 of Working Paper 10.
Modelling of Mangroves
56.    The extension of joint protection in mangrove areas under the project has been largely
successful; although the sharing of wood production benefits is not practically a factor
motivating participation. A detailed analysis of the mangroves has not been undertaken, but it



63                                Annex 3
has been estimated that the value of annual avoided loss of property due to flooding need only
be about Rs 500 per household to justify tlhe project's expenditures on this component. This
would represent about ten percent or less of annual household income, or about twice the
economic value of the average amount of time each household devotes to watch and ward over
the protected area.
Total Project Returns
57.    The average ERR to the project, given the particular distributions for the values of
parameters in all of the models, is estimated for the base case at just over 9 percent. The
overall base case NPV of the project is calculated at approximately less than Rs - 120.3 million.
For the alternative scenario, the project's ElRR is estimated at just over 12 percent with an
estimated NPV of over Rs 13.7 million., which would represent a substantial improvement in the
future impacts of the project's implementation Table 15 of Annex 15 presents the total
cost/benefit streams of the project for each case. Charts 31 through 34 of Working Paper 10
depict the calculated distributions for these results.
Income Flows to Households
58.    The project has provided income to FPC households through their employment by the
FD for the implementation of forestry works. On-going forestry activities will continue to
provide wage income for households providing effective protection of treated areas. Benefit
sharing arrangements in the Southwest will also be a source of periodic cash income to
participating households. The following table summarizes the expected present value of these
flows of income to participating households. The calculations appear to support the mission's
observations that cash income from employment and the sharing of proceeds from the sales of
harvested firewood from protected areas in the Southwest are not likely to be very significant
factors in motivating household participation as compared to the potential benefits derived from
greater production of NTFPs. In the North, the situation is different. Income from NTFPs is
insignificant and there is no significant benefit sharing to speak of from the final harvest of
protected areas. The generation of local vvage income could be a comparatively significant
motivation for participating households if the households of effective FPCs are given preference
in employment in forest operations. The evidence so far would suggest that the perception of
such potential employment alone has not resulted in widespread effective joint protection of
areas in the North. The average present value of wage income for harvests and other forest
operations per beneficiary household in the North will probably be as high as that per average
FPC household in the Southwest, but overall, households in the Southwest should, in the absence
of a revision of benefit sharing arrangements in the North, expect much higher flows of income
from their participation in protection than households in the North.



Draft April 16, 1998                          64                                        Annex 3
Table 18: Calculation of Income Flows to Households
Financial values are expressed in 1992 rupees.
Southwest Bengal
Future w,    Future w,
Present Vialue of Income Flows per FPC Household (Rs)       Future wlo    Base Case   Alternative
Income from the Establishment of Forest Works                     :311         404          404
Income from Harvests & Other Forest Operations                    1308        1871         2339
Income from Benefit Sharing                                       605          723          829
Income from Sales of NTFPs                                       4146         4632         4632
Equivalent Income of NTFPs Used in Kind                           1036        1158         1158
Total Household Income                                            7406        8788         9361
Future w,    Future w,
GovernmTent Income (Rs million)                             Future w/o    Base Case   Alternative
Total Depot Value Sal Forest Harvests                            695.8        832.3        954.1
Labor Costs of Sal Forest Harvest                              139.2        166.5       .190.8
Other Depot Costs                                               69.6         83.2         95.4
Net Revenue from Sal Forest Depot Sales                          487.1        582.6       667.9
FPC Share of Sal Forest Net Revenue                              121.8        145.6        167.0
Govt Share of Sal Forest Net Revenue                             365.3        436.9       500.9
Govt Net Revenue from Plantation Sales                           199.3        233.4       270.4
Net Present Value of Government Income from Depot Sales          564.6        670.3       771.3
North Bengal Plantations
Future w,    Future w,
Present Value of Income Flows per Beneficiary Household (Rs)   Future w/o    Base Case   Alternative
Income from the Establishment of Forest Works                     1013        2025         2025
income from Harvests & Other Forest Operations                   2173         2343         2438
Income from Benefit Sharing
Income from Sales of NTFPs
Equivalent Income of NTFPs Used in Kind
Total HoLisehold Income                                          3185         4368         4463
Future w,    Future w,
Governmrient Income (Rs million)                            Future w/o    Base Case   Alternative
Net Pres,ent Value of Government Income from Depot Sales        7840.6       7943.7      7957.1



Draft April 16, 1998                                65                                            Annex 3
North Bengal Plantations
Income from the Establishment of Works                     Future w/o      Base Case       Alternative
Total Labor Required (md)                                       1639125         3278250         3278250
Total Labor Income (Rs million)                                    45.9            91.8             91.8
Total Registered FPCs                                                 0             226             226
Total No of FPC Households                                        27197           27197           27197
% of FPC Households Participating in Works                                         80%             80%
No of Participating Households                                    10879           21758           21758
Average Household Income from Works (Rs)                           4219            4219            4219
(over implementation period)
Income from Plantation Work                                Future w/o      Base Case       Alternative
Effective FPCs                                                        0              57              57
Effective FPC Households                                              0            6799            6799
Total Wood Harvested (m3)                                       1888406         3237421         3601290
Total Labour Required (md)                                      6609423        11330975        12604515
Total Present Value of Wage Income (Rs million)                    28.6            49.0             54.5
Average Present Value of Income per Effective HH (Rs)         NA                   7211            8022
(over period of analysis assuming effective FPCs provicle labor for supervised plantations)
Income from Benefit Sharing                                   NA              NA              NA






67                                    Annex 4
Annex 41: Social Impact3
Evaluation of Project Objectives and Design
59.   The social objectives, though not explicitly stated as such, were to improve the living conditions
of the rural poor who live inside or at the fringes of forests, PAs and mangroves. The farm forestry
component was designed to improve the livelihoods of the landless and poorest farmers by focusing on
asset creation on formerly unproductive wastelands. The project aimed to benefit 400,000 people,
principally women and the poor, especially those from tribal or scheduled castes. The SAR anticipated
that 30% of the beneficiaries would be from scheduled tribes or castes (SAR paragraph 3.18 and 3.23).
The main benefits were increased production of forest goods, particularly NWFPs and firewood and farm
tree production. Furthermore, the forestry investments were expected to generate 34 million days of
employment which again was targeted to benefit the poorest and landless households living in villages
near forests.
60.    The project focused on social issues by addressing the social problems identified as the root
cause of forest degradation-- namely un-sustainable and un-managed harvesting of forest products,
particularly for fuel, poles, and NWFPs, uncontrolled and un-sustainable grazing and uncontrolled fires.
The project planning team developed a sociolegical strategy to-reverse this trend and to increase the
sustainability and productivity of the forests. This strategy outlined in the PIV (Annex 6) was designed
to:
* support the establishment of FPCs throughout the State through explicit agreements on benefit
sharing and joint management of public forest resources;
*  provide technology alternatives which increase the flow of intermediate and non-wood products on
an annual basis to FPC members..;
* re-orient the forest services to support this approach;
* mobilize NGOs and other local institutions ... to provide complementary and catalytic support;
-  encourage policy and procedural changes which facilitate greater participation of women and
disadvantaged groups in decision making and benefit sharing as well as greater economic returns and
simplified marketing to provide incentives for private tree growing.
61.    The project components were designedl to support this strategy, providing: support to formation
of village forest management bodies known as FPCs and to jointly planned and implemented forestry
investments; forestry treatment models designed to increase intermediary benefits through coppice
management and intercropping of marketable NWFPs in plantations; training and facilitation support
from NGOs in order to strengthen the capacity of the WBFD field staff and village forest protection
committees to manage forests jointly; policy initiatives to specify benefit sharing arrangements for JFM
in the north and mangrove forests, to ensure that both women and men are equal partners in JFM and
which would increase private tree growing on farms by simplifying marketing procedures for wood
grown on farms (PIV, Annex 6).
62.    Project activities were designed to improve local participation by increasing the flow of benefits
to the poorest, this was conceived as the mechanism for achieving the objective of increased
sustainability and productivity of forests, rather than as an objective of forest management. While this
may seem a pedantic point, it meant that the Performance Indicators and the system of monitoring was
geared to tracking and evaluating the extent of participation and resulting improvements to forest
Drafted by J Falconer



68                                     Annex 4
condition, rather than the benefit flows from forests to the poorest. The JFM policy framework was
designed to provide sufficient incentive for local people to assist foresters in improving and sustaining
forest conditions. It is in this light that the benefits from the project should be evaluated in an impact
study.
63.   The main weakness in the design of the project from the social viewpoint was in monitoring. At
the time the project was being developed there was an effective informal monitoring network of NGOs
who regularly reviewed and studied the progress of JFM in the southwest. In addition, there was an
effective monitoring system established under the Social Forestry project and the assumption was made
that this would continue. Unfortunately over the course of the project the working relationship with
NGOs did not develop as anticipated by the planners and the existing monitoring system suffered from
transfer of key personnel and from the re-organization of the Department (the reorganization did not
appear ltO have planned for the changes in reporting and monitoring inherent in dismantling and re-
assembling established programs). Participatory monitoring was never built into the design of the
microplans or the implementation of JFM. Thus, few FPCs have been involved in monitoring the impact
of their efforts on the forest or on their livelihoods.
64.   The strategy was important and relevant at the time (and remains so today) and in support of the
Government of West Bengal's forest policies. Since little attention was paid in monitoring the social
impact of these investments, the conclusions drawn in this Annex are based on brief monitoring visits
over the project period and case studies prepared by WBFD officers and local NGOs and as such it does
not do justice to the subject. JFM was "born" in West Bengal. The wealth of experience gained over
more than 15 years provides a remarkable opportunity to learn and reflect on the social impact of a
forestry program designed to benefit the poor while conserving and improving natural resources. A good
social impact evaluation would provide valuable lessons for planning future investments as well as
lessons for other States who are embarking on similar programs.
Achievements
Gender: improving the participation of women in forest development
65.    Women were targeted as the main beneficiaries of the project while scheduled tribes and castes
were to constitute about 30% of the beneficiaries (SAR, para 3.18). Forestry models and felling regimes
were designed to significantly increase the availability of forest produce which women collect to provide
household subsistence and secondary income. The SAR noted that effective participation of women in
JFM would be essential to reduce illicit harvesting. At the outset of the project WBFD changed its JFM
policy to ensure that women and men would be members jointly of FPCs. The project design did
consider and plan for the central role of women as users and managers of forests.
66.   The project strategy relied heavily on the involvement of NGOs to help WBFD to mobilize
women. At the time the project was designed this was a sensible approach since a number of well
respected NGOs were already working on an informal basis with the FD in this sphere. However, during
much of the project implementation period the working relationship between WBFD and these NGOs
could not be developed for administrative and political reasons. Unfortunately, the strategy was not
redesigned to address this problem. Thus, over the project period the field staff received insufficient
training in methods for improving women's participation. WBFD did create a position for a Women
Coordinator (WID) for a number of years of the project. The coordinator was able to provide practical
on-the-job coaching in working with women (staff who had this exposure concluded that it was more
useful than formal training programs) and to prepare guidelines and publicity material on working with
women in JFM.



69                                    Annex 4
67.   The project design also anticipated a change in WBFD hiring policies to encourage the
recruitment of women at all levels of the service. The intention was to facilitate improved
communication at the field level between wom[en FPC members and the WBFD. However, no explicit
project support was directed to achieve this airn and there was no monitoring to assess the extent to
which the WBFD was able to recruit women into the service, nor to assess the impact of more women
working in the lower ranks on the quality of JF M.
68.   Despite these difficulties field staff have been able in some places to improve the quality of
women's participation in FPC affairs. Many recognize the importance and value of encouraging greater
women's participation. There are even 20 FPCs which are managed entirely by women. However,
overall, most foresters conclude that a great deal more effort is required to increase women's
participation in the FPCs. WBFDs latest survey of JFM in the SW found that only 15% of the FPCs
involved a significant number of women in their meetings and decision-making (SMR,1996,p5).
69.    The Wildlife Wing has succeeded in promoting greater women's participation in the protection
of Protected Areas and the functioning of Ecodevelopment Committees. According to field staff, the GO
requiring a minimum of 30% representation of women on the Executive Committee has provided a
useful mechanism to facilitate greater involvennent. WBFD has proposed similar modifications to the GO
guiding JFM FPC committee formation.
Poverty: improving living conditions and livelihoods of the poor
70.    The project was designed to benefit at least 400,000 farmers and people living at the forest
fringes. The economic analysis assumed that beneficiaries of the JFM program would increase their
income from 10-30% mainly from the increased production and sale of NWFPs. In addition, it was
anticipated that the forestry investments would generate 34 million person days of employment which
would benefit the poorest and landless households living at the forest fringe. However, the monitoring
system framed in the project design and used by WBFD did not keep records of beneficiaries, nor of the
benefits they were getting from forestry investments. Therefore, from the information available to the
ICR mission, it is difficult to assess the impact of the project on the alleviation of poverty.4 5Under JFM
and farm forestry the monitoring system recorded the area of forest protected, treated or planted and the
number of village groups (FPCs) formed.
71.    The WBFD tracked the beneficiaries of the farm forestry program by recording the number of
people who received seedlings yearly (thus assuming that the seedlings were planted, grew well and
yielded good returns). These records suggest that more than a million people have benefited from the
farm forestry program, far exceeding the exFectations of project design. Unfortunately, there is little
information available on the impact of farm forestry on household incomes. However, discussions with
farmers and forestry extension workers and the monitoring surveys conducted by WBFD suggest that
poor farmers value the trees as a means of creating assets for the future and as insurance against calamity
since they are able to sell a few trees whenever they need cash in emergencies. Perhaps another
indication that farm forestry does successfully benefit the poorest is the burgeoning number and coverage
of NGOs promoting farm forestry (most notorious is the Rama Krishna Mission which has won national
acclaim for its program in farm forestry which was designed on the model developed by the WBFD).
However, as discussed in paragraph 17, the WBFI) field staff collect a substantial amount of information at the
field level about beneficiary households and about the benefits gained under the program. Unfortunately this
information is not aggregated at the District or State level.
The economic modelling presented in Annex 3 gives indicative averages, but several of the assumptions
(particularly on NWFP returns)are based on impressions from ICR field visits rather than data.



70                                   Annex 4
Targeting the poor
72.   Despite the shortcomings in monitoring, it is evident that the WBFD has successfully targeted
the poorest in this program. WBFD continues to capitalize on the State program of distribution of
wastelands to the landless and the poorest. WBFD surveys suggest that compared to social forestry in the
1980s an even greater proportion of poor have been involved over the last 5 years. Approximately 70%
of all those people benefiting from the farm forestry program are landless or poor farmers who own
less than 2 hectares of land The first generation of pioneering farmers have started selling their plantation
crop, this experience has served as an example to those who were initially skeptical about the benefits of
farm forestry. The WBFD has successfully capitalized on this experience and targeted those who were
unsure of the benefits to be gained from farm forestry and they are mainly amongst the poorest. The
strategy of grouping farmers together to plant on small blocks of wasteland which is then allocated to
individual households has proved highly successful. Individual woodlots are grouped together facilitating
extension, planting and protection (and presumably marketing in the future). In most regions, trees are
planted on wastelands, or around the homestead. A survey done by the WBFD in 1996 suggests that only
three percent of the farmers are growing trees on land which was previously under cultivation. What
remains to be seen is whether the investments reap the benefits anticipated in project design; since the
vast majority of farmers are planting on the most marginal land any income will be viewed as a gain.
73.   The main social objective of the JFM program was to improve livelihoods of the poor living at
the fringes of forests by rejuvenating the forests and ensuring that those people who participated in the
programr with the FD reaped the benefits from this regeneration. All the forestry investments financed by
this project on land owned and managed by the WBFD were implemented with the participation of
people living in or near the forest. The strategy was to help villagers organise themselves into FPCs
which could plan, implement and benefit from JFM with the WBFD. At the outset of the project the
Department had considerable experience with JFM in the southwest (already more than 1,700 FPCs were
functional in 1991) and the plan was to expand this program throughout the State. The SAR target was to
cover an additional 169,000 ha under JFM. In fact the WBFD far exceeded this goal and is now
managing more than 450,000 ha with the collaboration of more than 346,000 households who are
organised into 3295 FPCs.
74.   The JFM activities were targeted by the WBFD at the most disadvantaged groups living near the
forests-- primarily tribals and scheduled castes. In the formation of FPCs and the implementation of JFM
foresters have encouraged communities to include all disadvantaged groups in FPC decision making and
benefit-sharing. The GOWB policy on JFM encourages the full participation of disadvantaged groups
stating: " the beneficiaries ordinarily shall be economically backward people living in the vicinity of the
forest concerned. Every family living in the vicinity of the forest shall however, have the option of
becoming a member of the FPC, if such family including the female members is intersted in the work of
protection." The WBFD estimates that more than 95% of the households participating in JFM are
poor in absolute and relative terms. In northern Bengal WBFD's survey found that 30% of the FPC
members are landless while 66% have less than 2 ha landholding; 98% live in mud or thatch housing and
only 2%/c, are educated up to class 10. In the southwest the survey revealed that 55% of FPC members are
from scheduled tribes or scheduled castes and 27% of the FPCs are wholly made up of these
disadvantaged groups. While there is some variation between areas depending on the demographics of
the forest areas, across the entire state more than half the FPC membership is made up of the
disadvantaged tribal and caste classes (SMR, 1996 p30). This represents a significant achievement
since the statistics on SC and tribal population in these areas suggest that they represent one third of the
population (PIV, Annex 6) suggesting that the social targeting of these groups has been very successful.
75.   Unfortunately, it is difficult to demonstrate the impact of this successful targeting on poverty
alleviation since monitoring was not established with this in mind. However, since relevant information



71                                    Annex 4
was (and is) collected at the field level, it woiLld be possible to get a better picture of the impact on
poverty with minimal cost. For example, information was recorded on the number of person-days
employment generated from JFM investments, the returns per household from harvesting poles and
fuelwood auctioned by the FD or FDC, the social breakdown and economic standing of FPC members at
the time of microplanning (and presumably at the time of preparing new microplans). Many FPCs record
even more detailed information on the benefits generated from their efforts, notably the quantities of
NWFP produce collected from the JFM area and who benefited from it. However, none of this
information is aggregated at the District, State or project level.
76.    The JFM investments clearly have generated considerable employment and income from
plantation intercrops and NWFPs regenerating in protected forests. Foresters working at the field level
argue that the most important benefits for the poor FPC members have come from employment in
forestry operations (ie plantation establishment, coppice treatments and harvesting operations) and
NWFP collection and sale. Consistently in PELA exercises FPC members highlight the importance of
employment particularly during the off peak agriculture periods. The concern now for many foresters is
working out how to sustain the employment i n different forest treatments.
77.    Studies undertaken by Rama Krishna Mission, IBRAD and the WBFD suggest average earnings
of 1000-3000 rs per household from NWFP sales, but there is no baseline information or participatory
monitoring in place to assess whether the income earned from NWFPs has increased, been sustained or
has decreased. Since West Bengal is the birthplace of JFM there continues to be interest among the
academic and NGO community to study JFM. There are therefore quite a few case studies available
which provide insight into the impacts of JFM[. These will provide useful information for the GOWB if
they decide to conduct an evaluation of the social impact of the JFM program. For example, Pattnaik and
Dutta presented the results of a study of 6 FPCs in the Economic and Political Weekly.6 They found that
there had been a significant change in migration patterns suggesting that JFM has successfully generated
sufficient income earning opportunities to discourage seasonal out-migration: in all six case study
villages migration declined. They found considerable variation between the villages in the earnings
from NWFP sales: from an average 1,750 rs/ yr/ household to an average 8340 rs/yr/hh. This variation
mainly results from the relative importance of NWFP income earning between the villages (and the
availability of alternative sources of livelihood for the poor in these villages). Thus while in some
villages people supplement their income at forestry related activities for a month or two in other places
people rely on forestry-based income for more than 6 months in the year. These researchers concluded
that the JFM program is disproportionately benefiting the poor because "low income households with
low opportunity costs are gaining additional benefits from forests due to their ability to invest more time
and labour in forest exploitation."
78.   In addition to gains from employment and NWFP collection, the JFM policy is premised on
sharing the returns from timber and pole harvests between the FPC and landowner (the State in most
cases). In the design of the project and the economic analyses it is assumed that the profit sharing from
timber production will be an important incentive to sustain FPC interest in JFM in the long term. Over
the last two years the first harvests from the regenerating sal forests in the southwest have begun. The
returns from benefit sharing of the forest harvest varies considerably from FPC to FPC from as little as
100 rs/ household to as much as 9,000 rs/ household. Foresters interviewed during the ICR suggested that
6Pattnaik, BK & Dutta S. 1997. "JFM in South West Bengal: A study of participatory development" Dec 13 1997,
pp 3225-3232.
Seasonal migration dropped in all case study villages: from 70% to 20% in one village, from 60% to 47%, from
30% to nil, from 50% to 32%, from 35% to 20%, and 25% to 11%.



72                                     Annex 4
in many places people have earned more working as harvest labourers than from their share of the sale. It
is too early to assess the impact of low returns on the effectiveness of JFM. The variation in returns is a
reflection of differences in forest condition and productivity and the size of the FPC as it relates to the
area of productive forest. However, it is clear that despite the small profits the program continues to
grow in popularity: One problem now faced by the FD staff is that as the harvesting returns get
distributed, others are trying to join the FPCs; in other places FPCs are trying to break up into smaller
units in order to gain a larger share. The variation in returns may also result from variable costs of
harvesting (the benefit share is a percentage of the profits or net value of the harvest). Thus in the future
it may be possible to increase these gains by reducing the harvesting costs and auction overheads.
79.    The JFM program has clearly had a significant positive impact on the living conditions of the
poorest in areas where forests were previously highly degraded. The regenerating forests are producing
greater quantities of accessible fuelwood and NWFPs for home consumption. Many of the women
interviewed during the brief ICR field visits noted that this has had a considerable impact on their lives
as they now spend less time at the daily chores of firewood and fodder collection. In some places the
regenerating forests have resulted in significant improvements in water supplies (both for drinking water
and farming) reducing the burden, particularly on women of water collection. In some places farmers
have been able to introduce new crops or extend the growing season. The environmental benefits from
forest regeneration are noted by FPCs throughout the State, but in the Sunderbans the environmental
gains of reduced flooding is proving to be the most important reason for effective and enthusiastic
participation of communities in JFM. In the Sunderbans, FPC members also added that the WBFD
investments in "sweet" water systems have greatly improved their livelihoods as they are now able to
introduce new agricultural production. Unfortunately, neither the FPC or the WBFD monitoring systems
are recording the impacts environmental gains on people's livelihoods and thus evidence remains
anecdotal.
Strengthening social institutions to manage change and development
80.    The WBFD strategy of developing local village level institutions to take responsibility for the
joint management and protection of nearby forests has proved successful. In the southwest WBFD has
rehabilitated practically the entire forest estate through JFM involving almost all communities at the
8
fringes of forests . WBFD judges that 70% of these FPCs are functioning effectively which is testament
to the efforts of the local forestry field staff and FPC members9. The formation of FPCs builds from
existing village institutions, notably the Panchayat, and the dictates of the :forest area available for JFM.
81.    Discussions with village leaders, local Panchayat representatives and field staff of other
government services revealed that the joint planning and implementation of JFM activities have
strengthened the village's capacity to act together for their own development. Government service
workers and Panchayat leaders noted that it is easier to organise development activities where FPCs are
active compared to communities with no experience of JFM. At locations where the WBFD has secured
resources to meet community development needs, the microplanning process and involvement of FD
field staff has helped to de-politicize this activity. The experience of working in FPC has provided
experience in conflict resolution which has proved valuable for resolving disputes outside the sphere of
forestry. A number of members also remarked that the FPC has promoted better understanding within
the community between different groups. While the positive social impact of strengthening local level
8 Rough estimates by the DFOs in the southwest suggest that more than 95% of the forest in now covered under
JFM
In the North of the State JFM is less successful, the WBFD estimates that only 25% of the 226 FPCs are
functioning well



73                                      Annex 4
institutions is clearly very important, it is difficult to gauge from the brief ICR mission the extent of this
impact for the thousands of FPCs involved in JFM.
Relations between the FD staff and villagers
82.    One of the fundamental aims of the project was to improve the relationship between local
forestry staff and villagers living near forests. The increasing pressure on forests from a multitude of
users was contributing to the decline of the forests in the State. People living near the forests were seen
by foresters as the perpetrators of much of the forest destruction and the strategy to manage this problem
was policing. Foresters were seen by some villagers as corrupt officials who were determined to prevent
them from earning a living and eking out the poorest of existence. Conflicts between WBFD staff and
villagers were increasing, particularly in the Nqorth, to an extent where it was getting dangerous.
83.    One of the greatest achievements of the project is the fundamental shift in attitude of
foresters to people living in the vicinity of forests and the appreciable change in attitude of people living
at the forest fringes towards foresters. The GOWB set up an independent committee to review the
workings of FPCs, one of their observations after considerable field investigation was that "the new
philosophy of forest management is now seen by foresters at all levels as the only effective method of
forest development and improvement in the state." WBFD monitoring surveys show a significant
positive change in people's views of forestry personnel. Anecdotal evidence abounds: foresters are
welcomed by villagers where they once were chased away, foresters are invited to weddings and other
social and cultural events, foresters are provicding advice and support to people in a wide variety of
spheres, etc. It is unfortunate that no monitoring indicators were developed at the outset of the project to
assess this change. While there are still many problems with the implementation of JFM and the quality
of participation in forest management, particularly in the North, there is clear evidence that the
relationship between foresters and villagers has substantially improved. This change provides the
most promising indication that the social gains achieved under the project can be sustained and built
upon.
I0References:
SAR: Staff Appraisal Report
PIV: Project Implementation Volume
SMR: Survey Monitoring Report, Monitoring and E-valuation Wing, WBFD, 1997.






75                                    Annex 5
Annex 5: Environmental Impact"
1.    Project Objectives. The project was expected to provide substantial environmental benefits
through community-based protection of degraded forests and the rehabilitation of environmentally
important mangrove areas in the Sunderbans. The SAR target included forestry works on 290,000 ha by
regenerating or reafforesting of over 169,000 ha with multi-tier coverage under joint management,
plantation forestry on 7,000 ha, strip plantations on 5,000 ha, expanding farm forestry by about 109,000
ha, and rehabilitating 28,000 ha of mangrove areas. All of these activities were expected to improve
existing forest cover and conditions.
2.     Evaluation of Objectives. Although at MTR implementation targets for reforestation were
reduced, the overall area (457,970 ha) coming under joint protection by forest protection committees
greatly exceeded the SAR target (290,000 ha). Large areas of previously degraded forests were brought
under joint protection, including 331,747 ha in South West Bengal and 39,600 ha in the mangroves.
Forest change detection studies conducted by lhe Regional Remote Sensing Service Centre of Kharagpur
show the process of forest cover improvement created by the joint forest movement that began in 1980's
has been maintained through the 1990's with a concomitant reduction in the extent of degraded forest
and scrub land (see table below). The assessment of forest cover changes for 1997 are now in progress
and initial indications are that the major change has been in the improvement of the quality of the
existing forests.
Comparative Assessment of Forest Cover Changes
Districts            Forest Cover_(sq.kms.)          Degraded_Areas and Scrub
1988       1991        1994       1988        1991        1994
Mindnapore          2078.91     2230.67    2250.60      321.60     244.33      253.43
Bankura             1696.82     1815.22     1823.92    648.33      535.74      681.25
Purulia             1114.07     1158.56     1179.50    1129.74     1036.88     677.76
Bardhaman            297.12     370.34      366.77      324.29     268.86      266.20
Birbhum              171.57      174.67     196.74      394.55     291.03      279.49
24 Parganas         4045.33     4123.41     4122.05     551.93     425.40      404.86
Coochbihar           34.98       41.76      43.84       159.21      28.14      28.60
Jalpaiguri           1601.73    1640.15    1646.41     435.04      138.54      139,87
Darjeeling           1609.61    1670.52   1678.63       169.47     104.50      118.24
Others               62.00       62.00       62.00                           =
3.     Forests. The improved state of the forests coupled with a improved management regime for
these forests has resulted in a perceived improvement in biodiversity and a general improvement of
environmental conditions in the areas under joint protection. Although there is little quantitative data to
support this conclusion, there is sufficient anecdotal evidence to justify an improvement in
environmental conditions. In forests that have been protected there is a perceivable improvement of
natural regeneration of species and as indicated by some villagers in South West Bengal an improvement
in the ground water table in their villages. The incentives derived by local communities from joint
I I Drafted by M. Jansen



76                                  Annex 5
management of forests have greatly enhanced local appreciation of forests and a generated a greater
tolerance to wildlife.
4.    Working Plans. The modification of the working plans of the Forest Department has
strengthened environmental and social considerations in the working of the forests. Particular attention
has been given to minimize environmental impact including restriction of forest operation on slopes,
retention of buffer strips along streams, improved road design considerations, and specific considerations
on biodiversity.
5.    Protected Areas. In addition, through the wildlife and protected area component of the project
an additional area of around 100,000 ha. and 250,000 ha. in the protected areas of the North West Bengal
and the Sunderbans respectively have benefited by project support for park management works and
ecodevelopment. Both the northern part of West Bengal and Sunderbans are ecologically extremely
important areas in the state. The Northern part of West Bengal contains a mosaic of natural vegetation
types and represents an area of high species diversity, and supports limited populations of a number of
endangered and rare species. The limited park management support in the North has helped important
habitats for endangered species such as the tiger, rhino, elephant and red pandas. Project support has
helped in improving the communication system and enforcement efforts of the Forest Department and
improve(d the understanding for management of wildlife conflict. All of these activities have a positive
impact on the conservation of forests and wildlife in the protected areas. In addition, through the
ecodevelopment program and the cooperation of PA neighbors, there has been a perceived reduction in
some areas of grazing, tree cutting and poaching in the forest. There has also been a marked reduction in
the incidences of fires in some PAs due to the cooperation received from the local communities. The
erection of electric fences along PA boundaries and the improvement of cattle grazing in the PAs reduces
the opportunity for transmission of cattle-borne infection to wildlife. In addition, in some villages
adjacent to the Jaldapara sanctuary there has been no crop depredation by wildlife in the past two years
due to the erection of electric fences along the boundary. Consequently, there has been an increase in the
agricultural yields in neighboring villages and a less dependency on the forests.
6.    Sunderbans Flood Prevention. The environmental benefits from the participatory mangrove
rehabilitation and protection component of the project is considered to be substantial. The regular
flooding in the Sunderbans has often resulted in the breaching of embankments with the resultant erosion
and destruction of agricultural land, housing and other infrastructure, mariculture ponds, and other
productive assets of the local communities that have been settled in the past by the reclamation of these
hostile wetlands. The change to a joint management approach to mangrove rehabilitation brought about
by the project has resulted in a better targeting of the plantations and protection efforts to locations that
were most vulnerable to environmental hazards. The plantations and rehabilitated forests now serve an
important function in protecting vulnerable embankments around human settlements and agricultural
lands and have a positive impact on the livelihood of the local people. The mangrove rehabilitation thus
brings both environmental and economic benefits to the local population. This has resulted in substantial
good will towards the forests amongst the local communities and brought about improved collaboration
with the Forest Department in the control and regulation of grazing, fuelwood collection and
encroachment in the forests. There have been a number of instances where local people have prevented
outsiders from poaching and encroachment into the forests.
7.    Sunderbans Habitats. The improvement of protection of the forests in the Sunderbans
Biosphere Reserve, which is a World Heritage Site and represents an area with the largest and most
significant population of the endangered Bengal Tiger in the world is of major global value and
importance. The protection of the Sunderbans will have important significance for the future survival of
the Bengal Tiger in the wild. In addition, the protection and rehabilitation of the mangrove forests will
entail significant benefits to coastal fisheries, on which local people and a large part of the neighboring



77                                  Annex 5
populace depend on. A total of 2,950 ha. of mangrove plantations and around 39,000 ha. of degraded
mangrove forests have been regenerated under the project with the participation of local communities. .
The mangroves are known to be important grounds for the spawning and breeding of a number of
economically important fish species.
8.    Suggested Impact Studies. However, the ecological impact of the protection and plantation on
the mangrove ecosystem is not fully understood. It is unclear to what extent the plantations have
affected (positive or negative) the ecology of the mudflats and associated habitats. As a follow-up to the
project, sustained program of research is required to better understand and manage the mangrove
ecosystem. In addition, it is necessary to establish a monitoring program to confirm existing anecdotal
evidence related to the environmental benefits of the joint forest management and protection programs.






79                                Annex 6
Annex 6: List of Working Papers in ICR Volume 11
Volume II: Working Papers
1. Institutional Development of Joint Forest Management
2. Regeneration, Afforestation, and Supporting Works
3. Farm Forestry
4. Mangroves
5. Technology and Nursery Improvement
6. Wildlife and Protected Areas
7. Fodder Development
8. Sector Reforms, Organizational Development and Project Management
9. Marketing of Forest Products
10. Supporting Tables and Graphs for Economic and Financial Re-evaluation



