Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
;,MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10011-IN
Report No. l0011-IN   Type: (SAR)
CLARK, A. / X80296 / E10007/ AS4AG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
WEST BENGAL FORESTRY PROJECT
FEBRUARY 25, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



"                                           (
CflRUNCX RO1JTVAtENTS
(as of July 1, 1991)
Currency Unit - Rupees (Rs.)
US$ 1  -  Rs. 26.0
WEIGHTS AWn MEASR"ES
The metric system is used throughout the report
AA~RRVJATIONS ANM ACRONYMS
FPC     -   Forest Protection Committee
GOI     -   Government of India
GOWB    -   Government of West Bengal
LCB     -   Local Competitive Bidding
NGO     -   Non Government Organization
NWFP    -   Non-Wood Forest Products
FISCAL YEaa
GOI, GOWB - April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
WEST BENGAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Table of Contents
CREDIT AND PBOJECT SUM ,RY                                                   
1. THE FORESTRX SECTOR. .                                                            1
Forestry in the in the National Economy.                                   1
Forestry Development in West Bengal State.                                 2
Lessons from Past Bank Lending.                                            5
II.   THE PROECT ........................................... 6
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Origin ................... 6
Project Area .......................................... 6
Objectives and Strategy ................................. 6
Project Components ..................................... 7
Project Costs and Financing .............................. 9
Procurement .......................................... 10
Disbursement ......................................... 12
Accounts and Audit .................................... 13
III.  PROJECT TMPLEMENTATIO ................................... 13
Organization and Management ............................. 13
Pricing and Marketing .................................. 16
Project Benefits and Justification ....................... 17
Project Risks ........................................ 19
IV.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ............... 19
ANNEXES
Annex 1  Project Cost Tables
Annex 2  Financial and Economic Analysis
Annex 3  Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
Annex 4  Supervision Plan
Annex 5  Contents of Implementation Volume
Annex 6  Documents Available in Project File
MAPS      IBRD Nos. 23248-9
The report is based on the findings of a Bank Appraisal Mission which visited
India in June/July 1991. The mission consisted of Messrs./Mmes. A. Clark
(Task Manager), S. Ahmed, P. Guhathakurta, T. Estoque, N. Raman, V. Kumar,
(Bank), and K. Gould (consultant). Additional contributions were made by
Messrs. J.G. Campbell and M.S.S. Varadan. The report is endorsed by Mr. H.
Vergin (Director) and Mr. J. Wijnand (Division Chief). Assistance was also
provided by peer reviewers Messrs. 0. Baykal (Forestry), W. Beattie
(Forestry), and R. Slade (Economics).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDIA
WEST BENGAL FORESTRY PROJECT
STAF ARPPA L REPORT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                India, Acting by its President
-areUting Agencies:      The Forest Department (FD) and Animal Resources
Development Department (ARDD) of the Government of
West Bengal (GOWB).
Amnount:                 IDA Credit of SDR 24.4 million (US$34.0 million
equivalent).
la=s:                    Standard, with 35 years maturity.
On-lenaing Terma:        From GOI to GOWB as part of central assistance to the
state for development projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time. GOI will assume the foreign
exchange risk.
Ben>eficiaries:          About 400,000 households of fringe forest dwellers and
small farmers.
roQject Description:    This project would finance a 5-year program to
support: (a) forestry works on about 290,000 ha. This
would consist of regenerating or afforesting degraded
forest areas over 169,000 ha with multi-tier coverage
under joint management arrangements with local
populations; plantation forestry on 7,000 ha; strip
plantations on 5,000 ha; and expanding farm forest
coverage by about 109,000 ha. Provisions are also made
for some ongoing forestry development works; b)
supporting works including survey and demarcation of
forest land, roads, small earthern dams, ponds, and
wells; c) special action programs geared to: improve
forestry research and plant propagation, train all
forestry staff, support the joint management process
through training and funding to NGOs, improve
wildlife and protected areas management, and afforest
or rehabilitate about 28,000 ha of mangrove areas; d)
buildings, vehicles, equipment, incremental staff and
operating costs for the FD; and e) fodder development
in forest and non-forest areas with the FD and the
ARDD.
Risk,g:                  The main project risks would be the long term
sustainability of the joint management model for
southwest Bengal, and failure to attract local
participation under the models for north Bengal and
the Sundarbans.



- - - - US$ Million -   - -
Forestry Plantation
Rehab. Degraded Forests                 10.7           0.5        11.2
Production Forestry                      1.7           0.1         1.8
Farm Forestry & Strips                   6.1           0.3         6.4
Supporting Works                           3.6           0.2         3.8
Special Action Programs
Research & Plant Prop.                   1.1           0.2         1.3
Training                                 0.6           0.2         0.8
Joint Management                         0.9           0.1         1.0
Wildlife & Frot. Areas                   0.9           0.1         1.0
Mangroves                                1.5           0.1         1.6
FD Service Support                         2.4           0.1         2.5
Fodder Development                         1.1           0.1         .2~
Base Cost                          30.6          2.0         32.6
Physical Contingencies                       2.0           0.1         2.1
Price Contingencies                           4.0          0.3         4.3
Total Project Costl                36.6           2.4        39.0
Firnancing Plan:                           - - US$ Million - -
Local       goreiom         To-11
Government                        5.0             -            5.0
IDA                              31.6           2.4           34.0
TOTAL                            36.6           2.4           39.0
Estimatgd Di.sbursenentR:
(US$ million)
EY     EM.   FY94   V          m9 A ES96   FX97   Em
Annual                     2.0     4.4    5.5       6.8    6.4    6.5    2.4
Cumulative                 2.0      6.4   11.9   18.7   25.1   31.6   34.0
onomirC RatU  of RpetUn:  20%
MaH: 1BRD Nos. '3248
23249
1 Including taxes and duties equivalent to US$ 1.2 million.



I. THE FORESTRY SECTOR
ForeAtry in the National Economy
1.1   Forestry is very important for village economies and pressure on forest
lands is high. India's forest resources cover 64 million ha or about 19% of
the country's land area. Due to their considerable geographical extension and
the lar¢ number of people depending on them, forest resources play an
important role in the conservation of environmental quality, the welfare of
the rural poor and the productivity of agricultural lands. Forests are the
main source of household energy in India and by far the main depositories of
genetic diversity. Forest resources protect water and soils and provide a
number of industrial materials. Although the contribution of the forestry
sector to GNP often has been estimated at less than 2 percent, this figure
does not take into account its numerous non-market and external benefits or
the vast amounts of fuelwood and timber that are harvested illegally and are
therefore unrecorded. The country's forest resources consist of tropical
moist and dry deciduous forests. Only about one half of the forests have a
crown density of over 40%. The average growing stock is about 65 m3/ha and the
annual production of wood 0.5 m3/ha, compared to world averages of 110 m3/ha
and 2.1 m3/ha, respectively.
1.2   While India's forests are relatively rich in flora and fauna, these
resources are rapidly declining due to pressure from local populations, cattle
and theft. Deforestation is believed to be in excess of one million ha/year.
Wood demand was 264 million m3 in 1988, of which 90% was for fuelwood (46% of
India's household energy). Between 1980-88 forest product exports decreased
from US$ 26 to 16 million, while imports increased from US$ 204 to 300
million. Forests are also a main source of fodder and non-wood forest
products (NWFP), such as oils, medicinal plants, silk, resins, dyes, fibers
and leaves. About 75% of India's population live in rural areas, and many
particularly women are employed in forestry or collection of NWFP.
Deforestation and degradation is a subject of growing concern, with far-
reaching environmental, social and economic consequences. Less than 1% of
total public sector Plan outlay during 1951-90 was for forestry development.
1.3   The Government is addressing deforestation through legal means and
afforestation. The Forest Conservation Act of 1980 controls diversion of
forest land for non-forestry purposes. During the 1980s country-wide
wasteland afforestation and social forestry programs were launched covering
about 1.5 million ha/year (40-50% farm forestry). The National Forest Policy
was revised in 1988 to improve environmental stability and maintenance of
ecological balance. The Policy advocates increasing the forest or tree cover
(to 33% of the land area) and allows use of forest areas to meet requirements
of rural and tribal populations for fuelwood, fodder, and NWFP, while
industries as far as possible are to arrange for raw materials from farm
forestry. In an attempt to force forest departments to pay attention to
social concerns, the policy focusses heavily on such issues. The unfortunate
result has been that commercial and economic considerations have not been
realistically integrated with social goals. The draft Eighth Five Year Plan
(1992-97) emphasizes in-estments for rehabilitation of degraded forests (10
million ha), including farm forestry and the promotion of NWFP, fuelwood and
fodder. It also supports forest and wildlife management, research, extension
and training.
1.4   GOI and state governments are facing some major issues in the sector.
The issues vary by state depending on their particular agro-ecological and
socio-economic conditions. The West Bengal government has recognized that



- 2 -
major changes in the forest! sector administration are needed to meet these
challenges. Some general forestry issues in India are mentioned in this
paragraph while the state specific situation is discussed below. Existing
forestry departments can no longer protect public forests in the traditional
authoritarian way. Instead they must ercourage local participation in forest
management (joint management). Forest departments also need to improve their
efficiency, develop more specialized manpower streams, and allow the private
sector, NGOs and user groups to move soon in forest development. Better
technology is needed for soil and moisture conservation, seed production,
nursery development and better extension to raise India's low level of growing
stock and fodder production. Some legal restrictions and rights governing
access to forest land and handling of produce need to be revised to promote
forestry development. Benefit sharing arrangements need to be formulated for
joint management with local populations.
Eorestry Developnment in West Benffal State
1.5   Eoest Resources.  Many types of forests are found in West Bengal and
most suffer from degradation. The recorded forest area is 11,879 km2 (13.4% of
the total land area), which translates to a per capita forest area of only
0.02 ha compared with a national average of 0.12 ha. All forest lands are
owned by GOWB. The state can be divided in five agro-ecological zones: the
Darjeeling Himalayas; the sub-himalayan West Bengal; the central alluvial
tract; the south-west lateritic tract; and the coastal saline zone. All areas
except the central alluvial tract have important forest resources. North
Bengal with about 25% of state forest lands, contains the most productive
forests. The southwest has 38% of state forest lands, mostly comprising
relatively small and widely scattered blocks of degraded sal interspersed with
farmland. The mangrove forests of the coastal saline zone which account for
36% of state forest lands - although around 40% is made up of numerous rivers
and creeks that cut into the area. Only 70% of the designated forest areas
contain actual forest cover and over one-third are open forests with a crown
density of less than 40%. Nearly two-thirds of the forest area in the
southwest consists of rooted wastes and scrub, and severe losses have occurred
in the last two decades in the good forests of north Bengal and in the
mangrove forests.
1.6   Wildlife and Protected Areas.  Wildlife conservation requires the
reversal of forest degradation and further study to formulate action plans.
About 30% of West Bengal forests have been set aside as national parks,
wildlife sanctuaries or protected areas, and most are under the direct control
of the Chief Wildlife Warden. Species conservation mostly depends on
successful habitat conservation which in turn requires remedies to several
problems that threaten the survival of all forest areas. Many of the wildlife
concerns need further study before effective action programs can be defined.
People-elephant confrontations (82 deaths last year) and tiger attacks in the
Sundarbans area, have become a major preoccupation of forestry staff.
1.7   Role of Forgst Sector in the Pconomy.  Forestry plays an important role
in village economies but a more limited one in the state. Since 1986/87 the
forest sector has contributed about 0.4% of state GDP annually. Earlier, when
larger tracts of forests were harvested, forestry made up about 0.75% of GDP.
Political unrest in north Bengal and the new GOI Forest Policy, has greatly
reduced the harvesting of natural forests. In 1989/90 about 6.5 million
mandays of employment in planting, maintenance and harvesting were generated
from FD schemes. Processing timber, collection, marketing and processing of
NWFP and private forestry creates many additional jobs. The larger wood based



- 3 -
industries in West Bengal mainly saw timber and manufacture veneer and
plywood, prefabricated door and window frames, and paper and pulp.
1.8    4od Pama3nd anid Supply.  Supply of forest produce is much less than
demand. In 1984, the FD commissioned a wood balance study which provided
estimates of consumption and supply of wood in the state. It revealed that
total supply amounted to little more than 20% of consumption, the absolute
deficit being about 15 million m3 annually. Fuelwood accounted for nearly 90%
of total consumption. It is likely that the supply is underestimated since
the deficit exceeds the amount that could be explained by unauthorized
extraction. However, survey investigation of the sources from which fuelwood
is obtained suggest that 49% is collected from non-forest areas, 13% from
forest areas and 38% is purchased. A large part of the industrial timber
comes from neighboring Meghalaya and Nagaland, and imports.
1.9   Institutions.   The public forest estate is managed by a forest
administration, consisting of two main units: the Forest Department (FD) and
the West Bengal Forest Development Corporation (FDC). The FD is responsible
for the protection, conservation, management and development of the forest
estate, including the national parks and wildlife sanctuaries in the state,
and for social forestry activities on non-forest lands. The FD has four main
wings: territorial, soil conservation, social forestry and wildlife. The FD
is also concerned with extraction and sale of timber and other forest produce.
While the number of staff in the FD is generally adequate, it lacks a well
developed manpower policy, and there is little specialization. Forestry
research which also falls under the FD is very weak and is not coordinated
with the Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education, the agricultural
universities and other research programs. In the coastal saline zone forestry
activities are also carried out by the Sundarbans Development Board and the
Sundarbans Biosphere Reserve. The FDC was established in 1974 to convert
mixed natural forest of low economic value in hitherto inaccessible hill
tracts of north Bengal into valuable plantations. With the new forest policy
the FDC's timber extraction/planting has declined from 900 to 200 ha annually.
The FDC operates some woodbased industrial undertakings.
1.10 Forestry activities are also undertaken by other departments and local
institutions. The Rural Development Department has been providing a large
volume of funds for forestry development on non-forest lands, mainly strip
plantations and common lands through its rural employment programs. Funds for
forestry related activities are also provided through the Agriculture
Department for the GOI's National Watershed Development Program. There are a
number of NGOs involved in tree planting and associated activities in the
state. While the majority of the NGOs are very small, some of them have a
clear edge in motivation and extension activities, particularly regarding
formation and planning at the local level (microplanning) for village forest
protection committees which are discussed in para. 1.19.
1.11 Tachnology. Significant improvements are needed in forestry research
and nursery management. Lack of attention to productivity in West Bengal
forests is evident throughout the growth cycle. The most fundamental
deficiencies are in research support and nursery management with the result
that sub-standard planting material is widely used. Restrictions on cost per
plant have encouraged nurseries to produce mainly species which are cheap to
raise and retain stock that should have been culled. Genetic recession is
widely observable. These problems have proved difficult to correct due to the
low status and priority attached to research. Another importart factor is the
rotat.ional system of staff transfers and promotions.



-4-
1.12  Past Dev tlomnt Strategie2.  Traditional foreat stratecy includes a
focus on plantations to maximize timber production and enforf: dd forest
protection coupled with supply of forest products at subsidized rates through
public market depots. These have approachea failed to control unauthorized
exploitation and relationships between local people and forestry personnel
became inoreasingly strained. The majority of the fringe population are unable
to pay for fuelwood and continued to collect for their own use and sale. Other
poor rural dwellers obtain their fuel from twigs, leaves, agricultural
residues and cow dung off private lands and dwindling commons.
1.13  Social Foregt=y.   To increase the supply of fuelwood GOWB promoted
social forestry on non-forest lands. The IDA-supported West Bengal Social
Forestry Credit (Cr.1178-IN), was appro-jed in 1981 for US$29 million
equivalent and closed in March 1991. The project supported village woodlots
and strip plantations, and established over 150,000 ha of farm forastry
(notional area based on seedling distribution). By cap.talising on the state
program for distribution of wastelands to landless households, the FD
developed an innovative group farm forestry approach which involved poor
households in tree planting to a far greater extent than was achieved in other
states. Social forestry fostere& the development of a more positive
relationship between forestry personnel and rural households. The project
also supported efforts to regenerate sal coppice forests (para. 1.13). Some
lessons are: (a) that ,nore attention needs to be given to research and plant
propagation, training, extension, operational direction, monitoring, and local
participation in planning and management of plantations; (b) benefit sharing
arrangements should be worked out in advance; (c) more species should be
included in plantations in the southwest; and (d) that attempts to involve
people in protection of plantations through the local government did not work.
1.14  VillagAe  ore_t Prot-etion Comm ittees  (PCl.  An innovative and
experimental approach to the problem of people and cattle pressure in natural
forests was started in the Arabari range in Midnapore District in 1972. This
involved local villages in protecting public sal coppice forests through the
formation of FPCs in return for free usufruct of all NWFP, first preference
for employment, and a promise of 25% share in the net cash benefits from sale
of short rotation sal poles. Initial success led to a gradual spread to
neighboring areas and increased support from the FD and NGOs. So far 1,726
FPCs have been formed covering 237,000 ha in the southwest. State government
orders have provided administrative legitimacy to the benefit sharing
arrangements and specified norms for committee membership and registration.
With support from the Ford Foundation (still on-going), two regional NGOs (the
Indian Institute of Biosocial Research and Development and the Rama Krishna
Mission) have worked with the FD to conduct studies and develop staff training
and micro-planning procedures.
1.15 The FPC model has proved effective in further improving the relationship
between forestry staff and local people and in increasing sal forest
regeneration and economic returns both to FPC participants and GOWB. The key
factors that have motivated villagers are regular incomes and explicit benefit
sharing arrangements with identified user-groups. The supply of NWFP increases
in protected forests which is particularly important, both as an income source
and as a way to bridge the gap until longer gestation products mature. While
the degree of protection varies by FPC, the amount of sal poles now coming to
final harvest has increased substantially. Even after deducting the FPCs 25%
share, the financial returns to Government have increased. The increased
canopy closure also provides improved soil protection, although soil erosion
and poor moisture conservation remain as major problems.



1.16  Euture Rtratggy.  Forest strategy in Viest Bengal should focus on
protection through joint management. West Bengal forest and waste lands do
not have the capacity to match demand for forest products. This problem
extends beyond the forest sector and the immediate aim should be to replace
purchased fuelwood. Unless protection of forest areas is firmly in place,
degradation is likely to continue unabated despite improvements in alternative
energy supply. Since unauthorized extraction presently provides an important
income source for forest fringe dwellers they need to be rmiade target of
employment and income generation schemes if the protection strategy is to be
effective. There is no simple solution to the problem of overgrazing.
However, progress can be made. Improved cattle are mostly stall-fed and
experience shows that one crossbred replaces three unimproved animals.
Together with the FPC movement towards joint management of forest lands this
would provide a positive environment for sustainable improvements in forage
productivity and for managing the movement of cattle in forest areas.
LesaQns from Past Bank Lending
1.17 Forestry has accounted for US$ 350 million of the total US$ 9.9 billion
of Bank lending for agriculture development in India. In all eight projects
have been supported including one project for social forestry in West Bengal
(para. 1.13). The Bank has taken stock of experience gained through PCRs and
special reviews including a recent OED review of Bank experience in forestry
development. Problems of a general nature include: delays in project
mobilization; institutional weaknesses; and inadequate local funding. The
major lesson from forestry projects in India is that it is time to move to a
more comprehensive approach to the sector, based on in-depth country and site
specific sector analysis. Other important lessons include a need for:
improved seed and extension services, more emphasis on the planning,
erviron.ental and management dimensions of plantations and existing natural
forests; solutions to deal with the problems of common property rights through
a better local participatory process;-and inter-agency coordination in the
execution of the various project components. Experience under the West Bengal
Social Forestry Project was discussed in para. 1.13. In addition, a
comprehensive analysis of the forestry sector in West Bengal was undertaken as
part of project preparation. The above lessons have been taken into account
in the design of the proposed project which covers the entire forestry sector
(management of public forests, farm forestry, forestry research and planting
materials, training, wildlife and protected areas, fodder, institutional
arrangements, policies and regulations, etc.).



II. THE PROJECT
Bationale for Dank Invmolvzement,-and Origin
2.1   The strategy for Bank assistance to the agricultural sector in India is
to support policies and investments that promote economic growth and social
development in the context of macroeconomic restructuring. The emphasis is on
effioient resource allocation, increased efficiency in the public sector and
appropriate targeting and delivery of support systems to the poor. The
proposed project fits well within this framework. It also fits well with the
objectives of the Bank's new forest policy, and the Asia Region's strategy for
forestry lending which emphasizes an ongoing policy dialogue with borrowers
concerning key forestry issues, coupled with investment in afforestation. As
forestry development must be coordinated at the local leval asid needs vary by
region, a state-by-state approach is advocated for India. This parallels
current strategy for statewide agricultural and irrigation development
projects. The project follows India's forest policy (para. 1.3) and addresses
forestry issues in West Bengal including: (a) protection and afforestation of
degraded lands; (b) clear benefit shazing arrangements for FPCs all over the
state; (c) improved forest technologies and extension; (d) streamlining and
strengthening the forest administration; and (e) reirised policies on seedling
pricing and transit passes. The proposed project was identified in June 1990,
and its objectives and design are based on an April 1991 Final Project
Preparation Report, and an appraisal mission in June!July 1991.
Project Area
2.2   The project would cover all of West Bengal State, which has an area of
88,752 km2 and a population of about 68 million. Nearly half of the people in
West Bengal live below the poverty line compared to an all-India average of
about 40%. Scheduled castes and tribes account for al;nost 30% of the total
population. Agriculture accounts for 35% of state income and 60% of
employment. About 80% of farms are smaller than 2 ha. The state's forest
resources were discussed in para.1.4.
ObjeCtives and Stratgy
2.3   The main objective of the project is to support GOWB's forestry
development program. The key in West Bengal, as in most of India, is to
prevent continuing degradation of forest lands since all other forestry policy
objectives ultimately depend on this. The project aims to install a
sustainable protection system in all regions of the state, to enhance forest
productivity and conserve biodiversity.
2.4   The main strategy is to protect forest areas by working with local
communities based on the FPC experience in the southwest which would be
adapted (paras. 1.14-15). The successful group approach would be followed for
farm forestry where contiguous areas are involved (para. 1.13). The serious
overgrazing problem would begin to be addressed in a fodder development
program. Project design emphasizes improving the organizational efficiency of
the FD and improving research and technologies to improve the quality of
planting material and silvicultural management. The vulnerable boundaries of
the Wildlife Protected Areas would also be protected through joint management
arrangements with local communities.



7-
2.5   The main oomponents of the project are: forest regeneration and
afforestation; supporting works (roads, watershed works): special action
programs in areas of particular concern (research, training, joint management,
wildlifea, and .';ngroves); service support for the FD; and fodder development.
2.6    genfieratin and afforestation.  This component (US$ 19.4 million; 59.5%
of base costs) would support forest regeneration and plantation on 208,000 ha
of new areas plus an additional 82,000 ha of lands which the FD has started to
develop. Project costs for forestry field works are based on a total of 16
forestry models (Implementation Volume Annex 10), that reflect the wide range
of agro-ecological conditions in the state and include soil and moisture
conservation measures. The models fall into three broad categories:
a) Bohabilitation of Degraded Forest Lands - 108,000 ha new and 61,000 ha
ongoing areas constitutes 58% of the land covered under the project. All
areas would involve develDpment under joint management arrangements with
FPCs. Nearly two-thirds of the target area concerns regeneration through
protention of degraded sal areas with viable roots in southwest Bengal
btc also includes 1,500 ha of similar topology in north Bengal.
Enrichment plantings totalling 2,000 ha would be undertaken in severely
de raded pockets within these areas. The balance of the area covers
treatment of larger severely degraded forest areas (<20% canopy
density), and includes 27,000 ha in southwest and north Bengal. These
areas would be covered under multi-tier reforestation (a mixture of
trees, shrubs and grasses), fuelwood plantations, and a small provision
for reforestation with tasar (wild silk-worm) host plants which would be
specifically targeted at women FPC members. The rehabilitation of about
28,000 ha of mangrove forests is discussed in para. 2.9 (e).
b) Production Forestry on Forest Lands - 5,000 ha new and 2,J00 ha ongoing
works are planned covering 3% of the total area. These treatments are
mainly oonfined to replanting of mature government plantations that will
be felled during the project period, but include some severely degraded
areas. Plantations would produxce timber. Sal, teak, riverain timber,
miscellaneous and hill timber plantations would incorporate mixtures of
associate species.
c) Forestry-Development on Non-Forest Lands - 95,000 ha new and 19,000 ha
ongoing works are planned covering 39% of the total area. For the most
part this would be farm forestry directed towards small farmers and
would include promotion of boundary plantings and agro-forestry systems
on private lands. The balance of the area would go to strip plantations
on public lands. Other sources of funds are available for this type of
development, thus the coverage (5,000 ha) under the project is modest.
2.7   Supporting Works (roads. watersheds. etc.).  This component (US$ 3.8
million; 11.5% of base costs) would support necessary works not accommodated
in the plantation models. Forest lands in southwest Bengal are still not fully
surveyed and mapped, and approximately 1,000 km of boundaries require demar-
cation and live fencing. A similar length in north Bengal also requires
installation of concrete demarcation pillars. Internal survey and demarcation
of FPC areas will be needed over a length of approximately 5,000 km.
Provision is included for maintenance and improvement of 150 km of forest
roads Jn the southwest, 150 km in the north Bengal plains and 15 km in the
hill areas.



-8-
2.8   Many watershed sites in the degraded forest area will require small dams
for purposes of soil conservation and groundwater recharge. In addition, these
facilities will serve as social amenLties and can generate income through fish
raising, etc. Better access to water can also be an important incentive for
mobilizing community effort. Hence drinking water supplies, pond excavation
and related works are also provided for areas that do not require soil
conservation works.
2.9   Spcial Action Programs. This component (USS 5.7 million: 17.5% of base
costs) includes several key activities that have been identified for
strengthening under the project: research and plant propagation, training,
joint management, wildlife and protected areas, and mangrove rehabilitation.
a) Research and Plant Propagation. This program (US$ 1.3 million; 4% of
base costs) would address deficiencies in forestry research and
silviculture management, seed sources and handling and plant
propagation. Infrastructure would be provided for seed storage, handling
and testing, as well as a specific budget for research work. Research
staff strengthening is also envisaged, including provision for contract
staff in the specialized fields of tree genetics and tree physiology,
backed up by technical assistance from local and international sources.
b) Trainingr  This program (USS 0.8 million; 2.5% of base costs) would
support appropriate in-service training in technical, managerial/human
resources and extension subjects to all forestry staff. Support would
also cover training centers, preparation of training materials,
publications & journals, audiovisual equipment, and a publicity van.
Specialized training abroad would be provided for two people per year
and participation in international conferences for one person per year.
International study tours are included for mangroves, seed and tree
breeding/cloning. Provisions are also made for inter- and intra-state
study tours and regional workshops.
c) aoint Management. This program (US$ 1.0 million; 3% of base costs)
Includes a package of measures for transforming the problem of biotic
interference into cooperative government-people partnerships. Training
for FPC leaders and FD staff in microplanning and group organization,
production management, and processing and marketing would be supported.
Various multi-disciplinary research-needs are accommodated, particularly
in NWEP processing and in methods of reducing fuelwood consumption.
Theae are coupled with funding provisions for pilot action plans based
on the findings of the studies. Support is included for NGOs to assist
the ED in joint management activities (training/workshops, technical
support, institutional development, information/networking, and
transport support). Provision is also included for and publicity for
tree growing and back-up support to other (non-FD) institutions engaged
in tree planting programs. An NGO Coordinating Committee would guide and
oversee implementation of the activities.
d) Wildlife anei Rndlterassf.  This program (US$ 1.0 million; 3% of base
costs) would provide assistance to the state's conservation program in
addition to the improvement in forest habitats provided through the
21ore3try treatments. Project funding includes studies (some would be
contracted to specialized institutions) and action plans based on the
sttdies. Elephants create the biggest challenge and consequently
constitute the largest single study-cum-action plan component of the



- 9 -
project. Other studies-cum-action plans include those for rhino,
leopard, and wetlands. A new wildlife research unit to be based in north
Bengal is proposed and would be supplied with staff, buildings,
equipment and vehicles.
e) Mangrove Rehabilitation. This program (US$ 1.6 million; 5% of base
costs) would support afforestation of embankments with mangrove species
(3,300 ha) and protection of degraded mangrove forest lands (25,000 ha)
through FPCs. The latter would be provided with rented patrol boats.
The project would also create 100 fish/shrimp ponds (.25 ha) to provide
inccme to poor families who have lost family members to tigers, and
provide some 1,500 beehives to demonstrate domestic apiculture as a
viable alternative to wild honey collection, 5,000 smokeless chullas and
50 solar lights to keep tigers away. The project allows for a small
laboratory, mangrove field trials and studies, and a small number of
incremental staff, vehicles and boats.
2.10 Service Support. This component (US$ 2.5 million; 7.5% of base costs)
covers about 100 staff quarters, 24 divisional and range offices, 4 seed
stores, rehabilitation of existing buildings, vehicles, equipment, incre.nental
staff and operating costs of the FD which have not been included under other
components. Among other things this component would improve the MIS system,
extension work, monitoring and evaluation, and publicity.
2.11 Fodder Development. This component (US$ 1.2 million; 4% of base costs)
would support fodder research and fodder development programs by the Animal
Resources Development Department in collaboration with the FD in forest
fringes. FPC members would grow forages on forest lands that they protect and
their own lands. Funding would be provided for research on forages (to be
contracted out), seed multiplication, extension, training, and monitoring and
evaluation for the program. Also included are seed godowns, seed
store/laboratory, training centers, offices/staff quarters, vehicles,
equipment, imported seed, extension materials, and incremental staff and
operating costs.
Project Costs and Financing
2.12 Total project cost is estimated at US$39.0 million, including physical
and price contingencies, of which US$ 1.2 million is local taxes. The direct
and indirect foreign exchange is estimated at US$ 2.4 million, or 6.2% of
project costs. Base costs have been calculated using unit prices prevailing
in June 1991. Physical contingencies of 6.5% have been allowed for plantation
works, and 10% for civil works, goods (except vehicles) and incremental
operating costs. Price contingencies of 3.9% per year were added for the
foreign exchange component. For local costs, price contingencies were added
at 7% for 1992, and for the following four years are 6.5%, 6.0%, 5.5%, and
5.5%, respectively. A summary of project costs is provided below. More
details on project costs by components and summary accounts are in Annex 1.
2.13  Financing.  The proposed IDA Credit of US$34.0 million equivalent would
finance 90% of total project costs, net of taxes, or 87.2% of total costs
including taxes. The Credit would finance 100% of the direct and indirect
foreign exchange costs and 86.3% of local costs. The Credit would be to the
Government of India, which would carry the foreign exchange risk. The Credit
would be on standard terms with 35 years' maturity. At negotiations
asurances were obtained that GOI/GOWB would promptly make available to its
implementing entities all funds required for project expenditures.



10
- - - - US$ Million - - - -
Lnal        orin        Ttal
Forestry Plantation
Rehab. Degraded Forests                10.7          0.5        11.2
Production Forestry                     1.7          0.1          1.8
Farm Forestry & Strips                  6.1          0.3         6.4
Supporting Works                          3.6          0.2         3.8
Special Action Programs
Research & Plant Prop.                  1.1          0.2         1.3
Training                                0.6          0.2         0.8
Joint Management                        0.9          0.1         1.0
Wildlife & Prot. Areas                  0.9          0.1          1.0
Mangroves                               1.5          0.1          1.6
FD Service Support                        2.4          0.1         2.5
Fodder Development                        a.1          .Ll
Base Cost                         30.6          2.0        32.6
Physical Contingencies                      2.0          0.1          2.1
Price Contingencies                         A.0          0.3         A.2
Total Project Costl               36.6          2.4         39.0
proncurment.
2.14     The project supports forestry plantation valued at US$ 25.7 million
and civil works valued at US$ 5.6 million.  Such plantation would not be
suitable for competitive bidding because of the need for community
participation. Furthermore, the works would be taken up in small areas, all
over the state, over the five year project period. Civil works comprise
roads, buildings, land development and survey/demarkation works. As the works
are small, scattered and spread throughout the project period they would not
attract foreign bidders. Works would be procured following local competitive
bidding (LCB) or force account procedures as follows:
(a) LS would include civil works for upgrading/constructing rural roads,
office/residential buildings, seed stores/godowns, laboratories,
training centers, etc. The works would be grouped into convenient
packages for bidding and necessary land would be acquired prior to
bidding. All works contracts would be let using a standard LCB
document and following procedures, satisfactory to the Association.
(b) Xogep.A c-ount would include all plantation, and all small civil works
located in remote areas valued at US$ 10,000 equivalent ox less, up to
an aggregate amount not exceeding US$ 3.5 million and would be
undertaken by the line agencies. These civil works are not suitable
for competitive bidding due to the small amounts and remoteness of
location.
1 Including taxes and duties equivalent to US$ 1.2 million.



- 11 -
Suimmagy of Prgpomagi prg!ur1MQent, Arrangamnnts
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method               Total
Project Element                                    LCB       Other                 Cost
1. Plantation Costs                                          25.7                  25.7
(23.1)                (23.1)
2. Civil Works
2.1 Buildings lncl. Rehabilitation              1.3        0.1                   1.4
(1.2)      (0.1)                 (1.3)
2.2 Roads                                       0.8        0.1                   0.9
(0.7)      (0.1)                 (0.8)
2.3 Other Works                                            3.3                   3.3
(3.0)                 (3.0)
3. Goods
3.1 Equipment and Vehicles                      0.1        1.3                   1.4
(0.1)      (1.1)                 (1.2)
3.2 Construction Materials                                 0.4                   0.4
(0.3)                 (0.3)
3.3 Seeds, fertilizer, supplies                            0.4                   0.4
(0.3)                 (0.3)
4. Consultancies
4.1 Technical Assistance                                   0.3                   0.3
(0.3)                 (0.3)
4.2 Studies                                                0.5                   0.5
(0.5)                 (0.5)
4.3 Contract Research                                      0.4                   0.4
(0.4)                 (0.4)
5. Miscellaneous
5.1 Training                                               0.8                   0.8
(0.8)                 (0.8)
5.2 NGO Services                                           0.5                   0.5
(0.5)                 (0.5)
5.3 Incr. Salaries & Operating Costs                       3.0                   3.0
(1.5)                 (1.5)
Total                                           2.2       36.8                  39.0
(2.0)     (32.0)                (34.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
"Other" methods include force account and local and international shopping.



- 12 -
2.15     The project would require about 206 vehicles including 167
motorcycles and 5 boats valued at US$ 0.5 million. The vehicles are to be
used in rural areas where ready availability of spare parts and maintenance
facilities are a necessity. For operational efficiency it would be necessary
to procure the vehicles in installments of types that can be easily maintained
and serviced locally. Similarly, equipment, seeds, ferti 'zer, field supplies,
etc. would be procured in small lots by different implementation agencies,
over the five year project period. Individual contracts are not expected to
exceed US$20,000 and as such will be procured following local shopping
procedures satisfactory to IDA, up to an aggregate amount of US$1,500,000.
Computers valued at US$150,000 would be procured following LCB procedures.
Construction materials for force account works valued in aggregate at
US$350,000 would be procured following local shopping procedures. Imported
seeds and equipment, valued at US$200,000 in aggregate, would be procured
following international shopping procedures acceptable to IDA.
2.16     Consultancy services estimated at US$1.2 million (overseas USS
110,000) would be contracted on terms and conditions in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants. Civil work contracts valued at US$
100,000 and above, consultant's contracts valued at US$10,000 and above, all
computer contracts and the first five goods and works contracts would be
subject to prior IDA review.   All other contracts would be subject to post
review in the field by visiting missions. Although this will result in only
about 6% of project procurement being subject to prior review, the nature of
the project, which consists mostly of plantation works is such that a higher
level of IDA review would not have a significant impact on procurement
quality. The implementing agency is experienced in IDA procurement.
Disbursements
2.17 The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed against:
a) 90% of expenditures on plantation costs;
b) 90% of expenditures on civil works;
c) 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local ex-factory costs or 80%
of other local costs of equipment, vehicles, construction materials,
seeds, fertilizer and field supplies;
d) 100% of expenditures on consultants' services, training, NGOs'
services, and studies; and
e) 50% of expenditures on increment4l salaries and allowances for staff
of FD and ARDD operation and maintenance of offices and vehicles,
boat rental, laboratory services, and report preparation and
publication, on a declining basis as follows: 60% until March 31,
1994, 50% until March 31, 1996 and 40% thereafter.
2.18 Disbursements against civil works and equipment, seeds, fertilizer,
construction materials and supplies' contracts exceeding US$100,000 equivalent
would be fully documented, as would disbursements for all vehicles,
consultants, and overseas training/conferences/study tours. Disbursements for
other expenditures would be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by GOI and GOW3 and be
made available to Association staff during supervision. Plantation costs
include: (i) cost of nurseries, land preparation including labor inputs for
tree planting, maintenance and protection; and (ii) direct supervision cost
related thereto not exceeding 7% of the total costs under Ci). The actual
supervision costs have been estimated at a higher level. Expenditures
incurred from July 1, 1991 to the date of Credit signing for project



- 13 -
activities would be eligible for retroactive financing up to a maximum of SDR
2.4 million (US$3.4 million equivalent). All contracts and items to be
financed retroactively will have been procured in a manner consistent with
above arrangements and acceptable to the Association. To facilitate
disbursements a Special Account in US dollars would be established in the
Reserve Bank of India with an authorized allocation of up to US$2.0 million,
which is equal to the estimated four monthly average disbursement. A
disbursement schedule is in Annex 3. At negotiations an assurange was
obtained that GOI would release about three months anticipated project
expenditures in advance to GOWB throughout the life of the project. Promptly
after such release, GOWB would make similar advances for project expenditures
to the project departments in accordance with its normal procedures for
financing state expenditures. Availability of these advances would tend to
speed up otherwise slow disbursements in forestry projects. The implementing
agency is familiar with IDA disbursement procedures from the previous project.
The Closing Date of the Credit is September 30, 1997.
Accounts and Audit
2.19 The participating entities would establish separate accounts for the
project. These accounts, together with supporting documentation, including
contributions from the GOWB, and the Credit, would provide a comprehensive
record of project financing and expenditures. At negotiations assurances were
obtained that: these accounts including the special account would be
maintained and audited annually in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to IDA;
certified copies of the SOEs, together with the auditor's report, which would
include a separate statement on the SOEs, would be submitted to IDA not later
than nine months after the close of each fiscal year.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Organization and Management
3.1   The project would be under the overall control of the Principal Chief
Conservator of Forests, GOWB. The Chief Conservator of Forests (Development)
would be the Project Coordinator and field level implementation would be
channelled through the established networks of the Territorial, Social
Forestry and Wildlife Wings of the FD. The fodder component to be implemented
by ARDD would be under the control of the Director of Animal Resources with a
senior officer appointed as Project Coordinator. Since the project, with the
exception of wildlife development, constitutes a major part of the development
work that will be undertaken by the FD over the next five years, it is neither
necessary nor desirable to create separate project management structures.
3.2 FD Organizational Structure. The current organization is based on the
concept of functional specialization. The overlapping of the functions in an
area has led to role conflicts, increases in resource requirements, and
diverse approaches to the same beneficiary groups. With the growth of the FPC
institutions the workload of territorial forestry has increased manifold and
the conventional demarcation between territorial and social forestry is
becoming increasingly blurred. There is also a marked lack of uniformity in
the temporal and geographical workloads of existing staff.



- 14 -
3.3   A restructuring of the service organization is proposed to ensure
optimal use of manpower. Instead of having separate staff for the territorial
soil conservation and social forestry functions, the field staff at and below
district level would be integrated into one service which would be sub-divided
on geographical lines as determined by the workloads in each area. It would
take place in Purulia and Kurseong districts first and gradually be spread
throughout the state. A government order to implement the reorganization in
the pilot districts has been issued and a revised action plan for the first
three years of the reorganization would be reviewed by IDA at the project
start-up workshop. The action plan should also identify potential actions in
the areas of career development and specialities within the forest
administration for such tasks as research, wildlife management, and monitoring
and evaluation. At negotiations assurances were obtained that the FD would
promptly implement the reorganization as per the Government Order dated
November 20, 1991 and a timebound action plan satisfactory to IDA to be
adopted by June 30, 1992; and that FD no later than January 31, 1994 would
adopt and implement a time bound action plan satisfactory to IDA to extend
such reorganization to additional districts. As more districts are covered
changes in the organization above the district level would also be required to
obtain full benefit of increased coordination and support field activities
efficiently (Implementation Volume Annex 5). These changes would be expected
to be incorporated in time for the next triennial review of Indian forest
service staff.
3.4  2ePsgarxh.  The project would strengthen forestry research.  There are
currently two research divisions: Silviculture (North) and Silviculture
(South). A third division would be created for research on agro-forestry.
Additional staff and back up technical assistance, in the form of contract
staff (genetics, plant physiology and agrostology) and consultancy inputs, is
provided under the project. A small research unit has been included for the
wildlife wing. A separate Chief Conservator post has been created for
services support (research, planning, training, monitoring & evaluation, and
market information) and a Conservator of Forests would head the research wing.
3.5   The FD is reviewing results from existing research (to be completed by
January 1992) and identifying research topics to be contracted out to
universities and other institutions. The review mechanism for research
proposals would be strengthened as well as the process for reviewing progress
and results.  Minimum qualifications for personnel (preferably a bachelor's
degree of science) engaged in research need to be established. AL
neggtiations assurances were obtained that: consultants to assist in the
design of the research program (five year and perspective plans including
staff and fund requirements)and seed handling be contracted by June 30, 1992,
the resulting programs including the timetable be discussed with IDA by
December 31, 1992, and taking into account IDA's comments promptly implement
such programs; and research staff remain in post for at least five years to
develop and contribute their expertise.
3.6   Trainin2.  Training needs were identified through a workshop with staff
at all levels. Each officer would have at least a week of training per year.
Two weeks would be devoted to external training and three to in-house training
in technical, managerial and extension related subjects. Internal workshops
of 1-2 days duration with invited expert faculty were felt to be the most
useful format for the training programs. The workshops would coincide with
the regular quarterly reviews at the state, circle and district levels. A
senior level officer would be heading the training effort. An assurance was
obtained at negotiatinsj that staff selected for specialized training overseas
would have at least five years to retirement, and would be posted upon



- 15 -
completion of such training for at least three years in areas in which such
training has been received.
3.7    ore2js;ry Treatments.  It is important that appropriate forestry models
and improved nursery practices be followed. At negotiations assurances were
obtained that: the FD would follow forestry models satisfactory to IDA as
detailed in the Implementation Volume Annex 10 including basic soil and
moisture conservation treatments and fodder species; and (ii) the FD would
follow improved nursery practices satisfactory to IDA as outlined in the
Implementation Volume Annex 4. All forestry operations to be supported under
the project should be included in the working plans which govern the FD
activities in managing the forest estate. A number of these plans have
elapsed and the FD is updating and extending them - a process which will be
completed shortly. The provisions for limited felling to facilitate
replanting of degraded natural forest areas will be considered by GOl in a
timely manner so as not to hold up project implementation. Use of a limited
range of intercrops has been approved by GOI.  At negotiations assurances were
alAo obtained that: (i) GOWB would obtain all clearances and approvals as may
be required from GOI to carry out its actions under the project; (ii) GOWB
would adopt all appropriate means as may be required to promote farm forestry
in the state; and (iii) extension services necessary to implement the project
would be provided.
3.8   Joint Management.  User adapted forestry models and NGO services would
greatly strengthen community participation in forest protection. Basic
criteria for achieving effective joint management arrangements were stated in
para. 1.15, and further refinements would depend on social science research
and experience gained during project implementation. The forestry models are
designed to foster multi-tier canopy cover and multi-product outputs to meet
the needs of diverse user groups. The FD would provide technical and economic
guidance on a range of treatment options from which user groups would choose.
The FD will assign NGO nodal officers in each district and GOWB has agreed to
provide advances to NGOs where necessary. Satisfactory benefit sharing
arrangements for north Bengal and the Sundarbans, as well as guidelines for
benefit sharing in buffer zones of protected areas, have been issued; the
government order has been amended to enable women to be joint members (with
their husbands) for south-west Bengal FPCs; and an NGO Coordinating Committee
has been established. An aasurance was obtained at negotiations that the
benefit sharing arrangemeiits would be maintained and not changed without prior
IDA approval.
3.9   The FD has worked extensively with FPCs in the southwest but there are
still many practical problems to resolve. Some important aspects to be
addressed in FPC formation and the microplanning exercise are: (a) organizing
groups in as small homogenous units as possible taking account of traditional
forest-use patterns and fair boundary adjudication; (b) presenting FPCs with
genuine treatment alternatives advising FPC members on their implications; (c)
incorporating social control for protection and harvesting; (d) ensuring that
all members (eg. women, landless, tribals) are adequately heard; (e) preparing
mechanisms for distribution of produce and revenues from sales; and (f)
arranging harvesting on an annual or biennial basis to help smooth the flow of
income.
3.10  EQfii. Fodder development requires research, seed multiplication and
extension. Research would be contracted to the State Agriculture University,
NGOs, and other interested organizations; and would cover the southwest, the
central plains, and north Bengal hills and plains. Basic seed multiplication
would be undertaken by the Animal Resources Development Department (ARDD) at



- 16 -
two sites (Salboni in the southwest and Siliguri or Jalpaiguri in the north).
For production seed the ARDD would rely primarily on contracts with private
farmers. Self-employed animal husbandry technicians (who provide extension and
services to farmers) would be trained in fodder development.
3.11 Collaborative fodder developrment programs involve both the FD and the
ARDD. Activities would be taken up where the FPC system is well established
and ARDD infrastructure and field services for cross-breeding are fully
operational. The objective would be to balance fodder supply and demand for
livestock owners and herders who utilize the forest lands protected by the
FPC. It is anticipated that 10-20% of the FPCs in the southwest would be
covered. Progress would be slower in the north since the FPC program has only
recently started there. The FD would also include fodder species in its menu
of available treatments for other FPCs and the ARDD would promote fodder
development on non-forest lands funded from its on-going programs. A
Resolution for project activities has been issued between the ARDD and the FD,
and a revised three-year action plan will be prepared by ARDD for IDA review
at the project start-up workshop.
3.12 Studies and Mid-Term Review. At negotiations assurances were obtained
that draft terms of reference for project studies under the wildlife and joint
management components would be submitted to IDA for its comments by June 30,
1992 and that the studies be completed before July 31, 1994. A mid-term
review would be carried out to evaluate project experiences, particularly with
respect to joint management arrangements in new areas of the state, the
working of the reorganized FD, the new plantation models, and the wildlife
studies. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that a mid-term review
would be undertaken by September 30, 1994 and that the resulting
recommendations, agreed with IDA, would be promptly implemented during the
balance of the project.
3.13 Monitoring and Reporting. The responsibility for project monitoring
rests with the Conservator of Forests (Monitoring) in the FD and the Special
Officer (Monitoring) in the ARDD. Effective monitoring requires a well
functioning management information system. The FDs current management
information system is rather weak and requires computerization to ensure a
timely information flow. This would also relieve staff of tedious
record-keeping and enable them to devote their time to field activities. The
project would provide support for hiring consultants to assist the FD in
developing a suitable management information system. Both the FD and the ARDD
would maintain records of the project's progress regarding implementation of
physical and financial targets to be used both by project management to
monitor progress and to meet IDA reporting requirements. An assurance waA
obtained at ne-otiations that semi-annual progress reports would be submitted
by FD and ARDD to IDA by June and December each year starting December 1992.
The reports would draw on information from the monitoring and evaluation cell
and elaborate on the constraints and how problems are being solved. Detailed
reporting requirements would be finalized during the project start-up
workshop.   A project completion report would be prepared by the FD and the
ARDD on the basis of IDA guidelines within six months of the closing date of
the Credit.
Pricing and Marketing
3.14 Forest products from the project would be marketed through the following
current arrangements: Produce from government forests would be harvested by
the FD or the FDC (except in the Sundarbans), and most would be auctioned in
the producing areas. (About 30-40% of the timber is currently sold directly



- 17 -
to allottees, mostly forest industries including those owned by the FDC, at
prices equal to 50-60% of auction rates). Farm forestry produce would be sold
as poles or fuelwood mainly to private timber merchants or their agents. Most
non-wood forest products would be used by FPC members or sold to private
traders or tribal cooperatives (kendu leaves and sal seeds).
3.15 Segdling P-ricing. Most seedlings in West Bengal are given to farmers.
All growers should be charged for seedlings, even if full cost recovery is not
achieved. This promotes better care of plants, responsible species selection
(less wastage), quality incentives (noone would buy weak seedlings), greater
accountability in the FD, and opportunities for private nurseries to competed
with public ones. GOWB has recently approved a new pricing policy in which
the price of general purpose seedlings would be Rs. 0.1 each for target groups
(<2ha) and Rs. 0.7 (full cost) to other farmers and institutions. Grafted
plants and other more expensive plants such as coconut, bamboo, etc. would be
sold at full cost to everyone.  At negotiations an assurange was obtained that
seedlings would not be distributed free of charge and that the prices would be
increased each year to reach full cost recovery by March 31, 1997.
3.16 Transit Paseas. The current system for issuing transit passes for all
forest products entails high transaction costs in marketing farm forestry
produce. The system may act as a deterrent to future private plantations, and
has put a large and increasing administrative burden on divisional level
forest officers. The FD has proposed a simplified system through which
growers would obtain transit passes from 'beat' officers. A government order
has been issued to institute the simplified transit pass system. The
performance of the revised system would be monitored during the course of
project supervision.
3.17 Marketing Information. The development of farm forestry calls for
marketing support. Farmers need information on prices of different produce in
local and more distant markets, and advice on spacing, species choice,
rotation length, and other treatments for maximum profit. New producers would
also need education in assessing the true value of their crops and the best
time to sell. Linking farm forestry producers with industries and forming
cooperatives or informal groups for collective bargaining, which has been
successfully demonstrated in other states, would be tried. A Conservator of
Forests would be put in charge of market information and would also coordinate
extension to farmers. Market information experts would identify demand
sources and prices, and a develop an appropriate information system.
kraiect Benefits and JustifiCationa
3.18 Beefits. The project would bring about 290,000 ha of degraded forest
and uncultivated land under sustainable management. Approximately 400,000
households should receive direct benefits from the project. The annual value
of benefits to FPC members is expected to average between 10-30% of annual
household income (a sample survey in southwest Bengal found mean returns of
Rs. 2,815 per household). Women would be the principal beneficiaries and
scheduled castes and tribes would constitute over 30% of beneficiaries. About
33.8 million person days of employment would be generated in plantation
establishment, a benefit which is almost wholly captured by the poorest and
landless households. Processors and marketers of wood and NWFPs would benefit
through increased supply of raw material.
3.19 Financial Analysis. Most treatment models yield FRRs of between 12 and
25%, and returns from sal coppice regeneration exceed 50%. The NWFP have a
major influence on the overall net benefit stream. The models which yield



- 18 -
relatively lower FRRs are those in which NWFP cannot be realistically
accommodated, and all of the high FRRs are largely attributable to annual NWFP
benefits arising in what is otherwise a long term treatment. This confirms
the prevailing view that NWFP are major contributors to net benefits from
forest lands and serve as a key incentive for local participation. Details of
the analysis are given in Annex 2. Individual treatment models are in the
Implementation Volume Annex 10. Although benefit sharing reduces the
proportion of revenue accruing to the exchequer, a significant enhancement in
absolute terms is expected since local protection prevents degradation.
3.20 Economig and Sensitivity Analysis. The economic rate of return for the
project as a whole is estimated at 20% over 30 years. Due to the long-term
nature of the benefit streams, the ERR is only moderately sensitive to
standard variations in the cost and benefit streams. If all benefits would
decrease by 30% and costs simultaneously increase by 20% the ERR would
decrease to 12%. If all benefits were lagged by 5 years (very unlikely since
NWFP benefits are annual in nature) the ERR would decrease to 12%. Details of
the analysis are given in Annex 2.
3.21 Environment4l Impact. The project would be very beneficial for the
environment. The orientation of the project is heavily weighted towards
environmental improvement through community-based protection of forest areas.
The project has a separate component for afforestation/rehabilitation of the
environmentally important mangrove areas in the Sundarbans. Specific
proposals for wildlife and oiodiversity and fodder development are also
included. The project investments would not cause any resettlement. Forestry
management and works practices in West Bengal have been reviewed and found to
follow environmentally sound principles. The protection of any forest land
will depend much more on a contented fringe population than on legal prescrip-
tions. The forestry models are therefore designed to accommodate factors that
would foster a strong community stake in forest protection. The main features
of the models which enhance the environment are:
<------- Beneficial Impacts from Alternative Standpoints -------->
Silvi-     Soclo-    Soil/Moisture Livestock  Wildlife &
KEY TREATMENT SPECIFICATIONS  culture     E£conmic   Coservaion  & Eodder   B1oiversity
Recommended spacing between planted  Less  More NWFP  More ground  More fodder Improved
seedlings has been increased  competitionLower Cost    vegetation        habitats
Greater variety of species, multi-   Better use   More NWFP  More ground  More fodder Improved
tier mixtures of tree, shrub and    of light and  Lower Cost vegetation  habitats
ground story vegetation       nutrients
Contour cultivation with installa-   Better growth Fuelwood t Reduced soil Fodder from Improved
tion of vegetative contour bunds    from moisture NWFP from  erosion, low vetiver and habitats
conservation  shrub lines maintenance  browse plants
3.22  Institutional Impact.  The project would foster a major change in forest
policy from enforced protection to cooperation with local communities. The
state is strongly committed to this change which is based on experience from
the southwest that has attracted a lot of interest. The project would provide
important lessons for forest departments in other states in working with NGOs
and the FPC concept would be replicable both within and outside India.   Moves
towards a restructuring of the FD organization to respond to the challenges
ahead are already underway. An added institutional feature is the start of a
coordinated fodder program involving the FD and the ARDD, with high long-term
potential for expansion and spin-off.



19 -
3.23 Tmgast Qn women. Women are the predominant collectors of fodder,
fuelwiood and NWFPa and would benefit considerably from the project. The
foreatry models and felling regimes proposed would significantly enhance
availability of the forest products which women collect to provide household
subsistence and secondary income. One forestry treatment, Arjun planting for
tasar silk cultivation, has been set aside for women. Effective participation
of women in joint management of forests would be critical to reduce illicit
removals. NGOs would be responsible for ensuring that the efforts to mobilize
women have effective suppqrt in the initial years. The provisions for
household membership in FPCs would be revised to include women as full members
and women's subcommittees would be established for managing NWFPs. The
efforts to incorporate women in all aspects of the project would be supported
by a new FD hiring policy to encourage recruitment of women as forest guards,
foresters, and range officers - currently staffed 100% by men.
xnj;t, sks
3.24 Technical risks are not high although marketing risks remain an area of
concern. A significant downturn in market prices could discourage farm
households from replanting and FPCs f;om providing adequate protection. Since
this could only occur as a consequence of otherwise sur3cessful development, it
must be judged in that context. The proposed restructuring of the FD
organization is important for efficient project implementation. It will be
key that the initial momentum in rationalizing and reorganizing use of
manpower resources be maintained. Progress in this respect would be reviewed
during supervision missions with the assistance of expert consultants. The
principal risks are that FPC joint management in the southwest proves
unsuccessful in the longer term, and that effective modes of joint management
cannot be installed in other areas of the state. The without project scenario
would almost certainly lead to continuous deforestation and land degradation.
Conversely, the potential of the FPC joint management approach has been
demonstrated in southwest Bengal. More complicated scenarios would be
encountered in other areas. The north, in particular, has a broader range of
competing interests due to its immensely more valuable timber reserves, richer
biodiversity, and the added problems of teagarden laborers and forest
villagers. However, the expansion of the FPC concepts into new areas has the
advantage of being based on experience.
IV. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.1   At negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
a) GOI/GOWB would promptly make available to implementing entities all
funds required for project expenditures para. 2.13);
b) (i) project accounts including the special account would be
maintained and audited annually in accordance with sound auditing
standards consistently applied by independent and qualified auditors
acceptable to IDA; and (ii) certified copies of the SOEs, together
with the auditor's report, which would include a separate statement
on the SOEs, would be submitted to IDA not later than nine months
after the close of each fiscal year (para. 2.19);
c) the FD would implement the reorganization: (i) as per the Government
Order dated November 20, 1991 and a timebound action plan



- 20 -
satisfactory to IDA to be adopted by June 30, 1992; and (ii) no later
than January 31, 1994, adopt and implement a timebound action plan
satisfaotory to IDA to extend such reorganization of FD to additional
districts (para. 3.3);
d) li) consultants to assist in the design of the research program (five
year and perspective plans including staff and fund requirements) and
seed handling be contracted by June 30, 1992; (ii) the resulting
programs including the timetable be discussed with IDA by December
31, 1992, and taking into account IDA's comments promptly implement
such programs; and (iii) researoh staff remain in post for at least
five years (para. 3.5);
e) staff selected for specialized training overseas would have at least
five years to retirement, and would be posted upon completion of such
training for at least three years in areas in which such training has
been received (para. 3.6);
f) (i) the FD would follow forestry models satisfactory to IDA
including basic soil and moisture conservation treatments and
incorporation of fodder and legume species; (ii) the FD would follow
improved nursery practices satisfactory to IDA; (iii) GOWB would
obtain all clearances and approvals as may be required from GOI to
carry out its actions under the project; (iv) GOWB would adopt all
appropriate means as may be required to promote farm forestry in the
state; and (v) extension services necessary to implement the project
would be provided (para. 3.7);
g) the benefit sharing arrangements would be maintained and not changed
without prior IDA approval (para. 3.8);
h) (i) draft terms of reference for project studies under the wildlife
and joint management components would be submitted to IDA for its
comments by June 30, 1992, and that the studies be completed before
July 31, 1994; and (ii) a mid-term review would be undertaken by
September 30, 1994 and that the resulting recommendations, agreed
with IDA, would be promptly implemented during the balance of the
project period (para. 3.12);
i) semi-annual progress reports would be submitted by the FD and the
ARDD to IDA by June 30th and December 31st each year. (para. 3.13);
j) seedlings would not be distributed free of charge throughout the year
and that the prices be increased each year to reach full cost
recovery by March 31, 1997 (para. 3.15).
4.2   With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable for an
IDA Credit of SDR 24.4 million (US$34.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms with 35 years maturity.



INDIA
REST 8ENGAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Project CoMDonants by Year
lotals Including Contingencies                           Totals Including Contingencies
IRS. '000)                                               (US$ '000)
92/93     93/94     94/95     95/96     96/97     total       92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96   96/97   lotal
A. FORESIRY IORKS
1. REHABIIITAIION OF OEGRADED FORESTS      48,907.3  79,878.9  86.826.6  88,964.8  93,639.9   398,217.5  1,811.4 2,832.6 2,953.3 2,916.9 2,963.3 13,477.4
2. PRODUCTION FORESTRY                      9,320.9  11.626. 1  13,638.8  15,111.1  16.056.5    65,753.3    345.2  412.3  463.9  495.4  508.1  2.225.0
3. FARM FORESTRY AND S1RIP PLANTATIONS     37,935.2  42,051.9  45.648.4  48,318.3  51,030.7   224,984.5  1,405.0 1,491.2 1.552.? 1,584.2 1,614.9  7.648.0
Sub-Total fORESTRY WORKS                      96. 63.4 133,556.9 146 113.8 152,394.2 160.727.1  686.955.3  3.561.6 4.736. 1 4.969.9 4,996.5 5,086.3 23.350.4
8. SUPPORTING WORKS                           15. 703.3  27,274.1  31,270.6  32,085.8  31, 182.9   137,516.8   581.6  967.2 1,063.6 1,052.0  986.8  4,651.2
C. SPECIAL ACTION PROGRAMS
1. RESEARCH AIID SEEDS                      8,990.4   9.971.3  8,619.7   8,003.3   7,829.9    43,414.5    333.0  353.6  293.2   262.4  247.8  1,489.9
2. TRAINING                                 4, 813. 7  5 560.0  5.226.8   4 937.4  5. 237.0   25. 776.8    178. 3   197.2   177.8   161.9   265.7    880.9                 ,
3. JOINT MANAGEMENT SUPPORT                 3,825.1  6,162.5   6,877.8   7,286.9   7,802.5    31,954.8    141.7  218.5  233.9  238.9  246.9  1.080.0
4. MANGROVES                                9,916.3  10,988.5  11,826.8  11,591.3  12,646.6   56,969.6    367.3  389.7   402.3   380.0  400.2  1.939.5                     1
5. IIILDLIFE AND BIODIVERSITY               7,380.7  6,479.7  6,245.4   6,681.4   7,055.4    33,842.6   273.4  229.8   212.4   219.1  223.3  1,157.9
Sib-Total SPECIAL ACTION PROGRAMS             34.926.1 39.162.0  38.798.6  38.500.2  40.571.4   191.958.4  1.293.6 1.368.7 1,319.7 1,262.3 1.283.9  6.548.2
0. SERVICE SUPPORT                            15,649.5  21.077.3  21.661. 4  14. 100.8  12.831.6   85 320.6   579.6  747.4   736.8  462.3  406.1  2,932.2
E. AROD FORAGE DEVELOPIENT
1. RESEARCH                                 3, 222. 5   2,699.8   1. 151. 3   1,227.0  1. 295. 4  9,596.0    119.4   95.7    39.2    40.2    41.0   335.5
2. STATE AND FARMER PROGRAMS                7. 581. 1  9. 336 7   5,485.6   5. 458. 6  5 751. 8    33,613.8   280.8  331. 1   186.6   179.0   182.0  1. 259. 4
Sub-Total ARDO FORAGE DEVELOPMENT             10. 803. 6  12,036. 5   6, 636.9  6.685.6   7.047. 2    43, 209. 8    400. 1  426.8  225.7  219.2  223.0  1,494.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                            173,246.0 233 106.a 244,481.3 243,766.6 252,360.2 1. 146. 960. 9  6, 416. 5 8, 266. 2 8,315.7 7,992.3 7. 986. 1 38,976.8
=z==-= = ==m==.=== ===== ===      ==:z =-----=====  ======    ====== ===2==.= =_==== ======= == ---  --------=
December t3. 199t  11:32
mx
IP6 



INDIA
NEST BENGAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Sunnary Accounts by Year
Totals Inciuding Contingencies                             Totals Including Contingencies
IRS. '0001                                                 CUSS '0001
92/93     93/94      94/95     95/96     96/97      Total        92/93   93/94   94t95   95/96   96/97   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL NiORES                                      28, 293. 1 40,953.9  40,617.5  33,787.8  33, 136. 7   176, 789.1 1,047.9 1. 452. 3 1 381.5 1. 107.8 1.048.6  6 038. 1
8. PLANTATION ESTABLISHMENT                         103,861.2 144.089.7 163,234.3 169.545.3 178,973.4   759,703.8  3,846.7 5 109.6 5,552.2 5558.9 5,663.7 25. 731.0
C. EQUIPMENT AND GOODS                                9,535.5   7,621.6   3.821.7   2. 779.5   2, 4A2. 4    26.170.6    353.2   270.3   130.0    91. 1   76.3    920.9
0. VEHICLES                                           4,732.4   8 769.5   2,316.5   1,682.9           -    15.501.3    175.3   240. 1    78.8    55.2         -    549.3
E. TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTAKCE
1. LOCAL                                          11,091.7  13,701.9  12,313.0  13.056.1  13. 793.2    63,955.9    410.8   485.9   418.8   428.1  436.5  2,180.1
2. OVERSEAS                                        2,575.4   2.829.0   2,693.1   1,824.8   1,783.0    11,705.3        95.4   100.3    91.6    59.8    56.4    403.6
Stb-Total TRAINiNG AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE          13,667. 1  16,530.9  15.006. 1  14.880.8  15,576.3    75.661.2    506.2   586.2   510.4   487.9   492.9  2,583.6                 1
5                                                                                    t.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)
Total INVESTHENT COSTS                                 160,08S.2 215. 965.7 224. 996. 1 222,676. 2 230,098.8 1. 053. 826. 0  5.929.2 7,658.4 7, 652. 9 7.300.9 7,281.6 35.823.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. INCREMENTAL SALARIES AND ALLOWIANCES              7.890 9   9.544.6  10.858.3  11.508.7  12,141.7    51,944.2    292.3   338.5   369.3   377.3   384.2  1,761.6
8. INCR. OPER. COSTS                                 5.265.9   7,596.4   8,626.9   9,582.6  10, 119.7    41.190.6    195.0   269.4   293.4   314.2   320.2  1,392.2
total RECURRENT COSTS                                   13. 156.8  17, 141. I19,485.2  21,090.4  22,261.4    93, 134.8    487.3   607.8   662.8   6CI.5   704.5  3. 153.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     173,246.0 233. 106.8 244.481.3 243 76. 6 252, 360.2 1 146,960.9  6,416.5 8,266.2 8.315.7 7,992.3 7.986. 1 38, 976.8
December 13. 1991 11:32
03
Cl



- 23 -                         Annex 2
Page 1 of 6
INDI
WEST BENGAL FORESTRY PROJECT
FINNCIAL ANQ ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.    Finannial Analysis.  Financial returns have been estimated for each
representative forestry treatment model using local prices for inputs and
outputs (Table 1). An overview of the returns from the different models is in
Table 2. The returns on most models range between 12-25%. Returns from
regeneration of sal forests exceed 50%. The distribution of benefits between
the Government and joint management beneficiaries is also shown in Table 2.
2.    Economic Analysis.  The economic rate of return for the project has been
estimated at 20.0% over 30 years. Costs and benefits were expressed in
economic prices in constant 1991 rupees. Costs and benefits for forestry
development were derived from the treatment models and adjusted to eliminate
taxes and price contingencies. Costs for all other project components were
taken from the project cost tables. The results are summarized in Table 3,
with sensitivity atialysis in Table 4. Cost and benefit flows by year are
shown in Table 5.
3.    Costs include all project costs and incremental recurrent costs for
services that would continue after project completion. The standard
conversion factor of 0.8 was used for all costs and benefits. Costs also
include physical contingencies. Benefits include incremental production of
timber, poles, fuelwood, and a number of important non-wood forest products
521ch as kendu leaf, sal leaves and seeds, mahua flowers, mushrooms, etc. Most
benefits from forest produce are not tradable (poles and fuelwood have no
international markets). All incremental production from the project is
expected to be consumed domestically.
Produeiilt-        Unit              Production
('000)
Timber             M3                  2,860
Poles              No.               146,765
Poles/Pulp         MT                 10,295
Bamboo             No.                 2,500
Fuelwood           MT                 12,418
NWFP:
Edible prod.      Kg                 24,773
Sal leaves        Bundle             16,772
Sal seeds         Kg                 23,440
Medicinal prod.   Kg                  3,410
4.    Benefits which could not be quantified but which add significantly to
the value of the project include: increased production from existing and new
farm forestry plantations as a result of improved technology emanating from
demonstrations and on-farm trials; increased production of agriculture crops
attributable to reduced soil erosion; incremental employment generated from
infrastructure development under the project; reduction in fuelwood use from
improved stoves; and benefits from the new and improved roads beyond those
related to incremental production of forest produce.



24 -                          Annex 2
Page 2 of 6
5.    A standard with-without approach was used for the analysis and results
wire calculated in terms of Net Present Values (NPV) and internal rates of
return (IRR). Analysis was done from four accounting perspectives to attempt
to capture the incentives for participation afforded to different groups by
the various treatment models. The perspectives are (three are financial):
-     an overall perspective that includes all benefits and costs at
financial prices;
-     the perspective of GOWB that considers only costs and benefits as
borne or received by GOWB;
-     the perspective of forest users; and
-     an overall economic analysis conducted using economic prices after
subtracting the estimated without project costs and benefits.
6.    Prgiect Costg and Benefits.  The project supports investments in
forestry treatments and supporting works, research and training, strengthening
the joint management institution, wildlife and protected areas, FD service
support and fodder development. All project costs are set against benefits
from forestry treatments for the economic analysis since the other components
do not generate easily quantifiable benefits. While the forestry works to be
supported will vary slightly with site conditions, 16 basic treatments have
been identified and pro forma one hectare models have been prepared and costed
(Implementation Volume Annex 10).
7.    Supporting works consist of survey and demarcation of forestry treatment
areas, maintenance and upgrading of forest roads including a minor component
of new roads, and ponds and wells for participating FPC villages. Some income
generating schemes such as shrimp-culture ponds and beehives are also included
for mangrove areas. Quantified benefits have not been estimated for these
components.
8.    Improvements in technology through research, improved genetic planting
materials, seed collection and handling, and nursery practices will yield
significant benefits over the longer term for all forestry and agro-forestry
plantations in West Bengal.  Genetic material available internationally yields
considerably more than locally available seeds, and improved management
practices in nurseries and plantations also increases yields and
profitability. These benefits are difficult or impossible to quantify.
However, the costs of these investments have been included in the overall
economic analysis.
9.    The fodder development component is largely experimental at this stage.
Like the research/technology component it is expected to generate significant
benefits in the longer term but it is difficult to quantify them. All costs
for the component have however been included in the economic analysis of the
project. Similarly, the costs for improvements in wildlife and protected
areas management have been included in project cost. Benefits from investments
in wildlife and protected areas are difficult or impossible to quantify and no
attempt has been made to estimate them. The costs of strengthening the joint
management institution and FD service support including recurrent staff and
vehicle operating costs continuing after the project have also been included
in the economic analysis.



- 25 -                          annex 2
Page 3 of 6
10.   External environmental costs or benefits could not be quantified.  Weed
growth in north Bengal is prolific and should provide a reasonably complete
ground cover and thus protect soil from erosion. The project does not include
any major infrastructure investments. Although all treatment models include
basic soil and moisture conservation measures no external benefits are
attributed to the project since reliable estimates for reduction in siltation
levels and/or improved productivity in the project watersheds due to reduced
soil erosion are not available.
11.   Prl;es. Prices used in the financial analysis are estimated market
prices for inputs and outputs. The government norms for wages (Rs. 25/day)
were used where FD pays for labor. Labor costs for protection of forests and
for farm forestry operations were also valued at Rs. 25 per day since most of
the operations are performed during the agricultural planting season. Rapid
rural appraisals conducted in different project areas revealed a labor rate of
Rs. 20-22 plus food (worth Rs. 5) during the high season.
12.   The project will produce additional poles, fuelwood and timber and
replace some supplies from other lands and states. In this case it is
appropriate to utilizo market prices for the products. Prices for the various
timber species and other products and inputs based on GOWB auction data and
mission estimates are shown in Table 1. All timber prices have been converted
to stumpage prices by subtracting GOWB estimates of felling, transport and
other depot costs (Rs. 350/M3). Timber prices are distorted by government
policy -- 30-40% of production from GOWB forests is allocated to certain end
users at prices that are 50-60% of the auction rates. Timber prices would
likely rise if these concessional arrangements were phased out but probably
not by much. Therefore, the auction prices were used as the best current
proxy of free market prices. Given the large supply-demand imbalance it is
likely over the long run that forest produce prices will increase in real
terms. This would be exacerbated by rises in international price levels, as
the long-run trend worldwide may be to reduce timber exports.
13.   Without Project S*enarios.  The treatments will mainly be applied to
degraded or severely degraded land. Four types and qualities of land were
distinguished: (i) Moderately Degraded Sal Forest; (ii) Severely Degraded Sal
Forest; (iii) Degraded Other Forest; and Degraded Mangrove Forests. Each type
of land provides some flow of benefits in the without project case which is
discussed below. These scenarios are best estimates based on judgments by FD
staff and mission members.
14.   Moderately Degraded Sal Forests produce fuelwood of various qualities,
fodder, edible products, sal leaves and seeds, kendu leaves and various
medicinal products. In the absence of intervention the forests will
deteriorate further from over-exploitation. The volume and value of the
products that can be gathered from them is assumed to decline linearly over a
ten year period. In the case of fuelwood, output is assumed to fall from 300
Kg/ha/yr to zero over the period, and shrub fuelwood (small diameter and lower
value from 1,000 Kg/ha/yr to 700 Kg/ha/yr. Fodder yield, will similarly fall
from 2000 Kg/ha/yr to 1000 Kg/ha/yr (some unaccounted quality decline would
also be expected). After ten years without intervention output is assumed to
have fallen to a level comparable to that of severely degraded sal forests,
after which no further declines are assumed to occur. On degraded other
forest land it is assumed that shrub fuelwood yields fall from 1,500 Kg/ha/yr
to 1,000 Kg/ha/yr over ten years and fodder yields are constant at 1,000



- 26 -
Page 4 of 6
Kg/ha/year. On degraded mangrove forests the yield of poles, fuelwood and
shrub fuelwood is estimated at 2,6, and 7 MT, respectively, every 15 years.
15.   Regeneration of sal forests from viable rootstocks will take place on
moderately degraded sal forests, and reforestation on severely degraded sal
forests in South Bengal and degraded forest/waste lands in North Bengal.
Production forestry will take place on lands assumed to have an alternative
output similar to degraded forest lands, this also applies to farm forestry
and strip plantations. About 75% of the farm forestry plantations in south
Bengal are expected to take place on previously fallow land and most farm
forestry in central and north Bengal would be established on farm boundaries.
Results of Analysis
16.   Trgatment Models.  Results of the financial and economic analysis of the
treatmlent models are detailed in Table 2. The results are favorable for
essentially all treatment models from all relevant accounting perspectives.
The financial returns for most models range from 12-25%. Returns from
regeneration of sal forests through protection are very high - exceeding 50%.
This is due both to the low investment cost per ha for the treatments and to a
wide range of natural associates producing NWFP which accompany sal coppice
regeneration.
17.   The general pattern of benefit-sharing arrangements planned for the
project correspond to the type of treatment and the degree of overlapping
tenure and joint management involved. The treatment models specify the
distribution of cost and benefit shares to the Government and local people
(either FPC or individual farmers) for each of the inputs and outputs. The
resulting rates of IRRs and NPVs to the two groups are included in Table 2.
The financial rates of return to each group should be high enough to justify
their individual investments. Given the high transaction costs and greater
risk of coordinated community action in FPC models, the returns in these
models must be higher than that required by the Government, where individual
risk is extremely low and individual returns are not directly related to the
investment. Depending on the discount factor applied most models would be
acceptable from both Government and beneficiary point of view. However, the
mangrove and strip plantation models give very low returns to Government at
4%, and 3%, respectively. Returns to mangrove plantations would be higher if
specified planting densities were reduced. Although the multi-tier
reforestation models in north Bengal (R5 and R6) have good overall returns the
benefit shares to Government do not allow it to recover all expenditures.
18.   One complexity in the analysis is the intercropping activities in
several plantation and reforestation treatments where weed control is
essential to the production of timber crop. The FD's practice is to allow
(encourage) cultivation of crops between trees as a means of improving the
quality of weed control and to reduce costs. The models involving
intercropping show very high returns. If the technical parameters underlying
these calculations are reasonably accurate, the returns suggest that the land
would more profitably be shifted out of forestry into sustained agricultural
production. This, of course is administratively infeasible, even if true.
Average returns to users are high, but this is because of the generally low
initial investment by users. The results have been specified with and without
intercropping to allow comparison. GOI has tightened its ban on agriculture
intercropping in forest areas since the time of appraisal. Only grasses and
legumes (including grasses for rope making and essential oils) legumes and
indigenous medicinal herbs would be allowed. If no intercropping were



- 27 -                                2
Page 5 of 6
undertaken financial returns on the models concerned would decrease by about
50% but the economic returns would still be acceptable.
19.   The treatment specification for sal regeneration from viable rootstocks
assumes a 10 year coppice cycle. Data from West Bengal trials show that an
increase in the rotation length from 10 to 15 years increased the average
diameter of the poles by 1.4 inches. Since the price is strongly related to
increasing diameter a longer rotation crop would produce a better return. Most
poles in the 10 year rotation would be about 3-4" in diameter. Sal poles of
3" diameter bring about Rs.15, 4" poles Rs.50, 5" poles Rs.110, 6" poles
Rs.150, and 7" poles Rs.180. The price difference is likely to widen in the
future since the large volumes of poles which are expected from FPC areas and
farm forestry plantations will tend to depress prices particularly for smaller
dWmension poles. Assuming a conservative increase of 1 inch with a rotation
length of 15 years the financial NPV/ha of the model at a 12% discount rate
would increase from Rs.17,810 to Rs.20,110. The rotation lengths could
similarly be lengthened for other short rotation coppice models such as R4,
R5, Si and Fl.
20.   A theoretical farm forestry model (Fl) was constructed which includes
coppicing pole/fuelwood species (major part) as well as fruit trees, coconut
and bamboo to mirror the expected plantings. The returns to this model with a
spacing of trees at 4xlm on a 10 year coppice cycle is estimated at 21
percent. In a purer coppice model the returns would be about 17 percent
(compare R4 without intercropping). This compares with a 12 percent return
from the current practice (F2) of planting eucalyptus at 2xlm and harvesting
on a 5-year cycle.
21.  Project.  The economic return of the project as a whole is estimated at
20 percent. The results of the analysis are summarized in Table 3 with
sensitivity analysis in Table 4, and yearly cost and benefit flows in Table 5.
The return is quite stable to changes in area for the largest project
components and to changes in cost and benefit streams. If the areas to be
regenerated under sal coppice or farm forestry where to decrease by 30% the
return would be 18.8 and 20.2 percent, respectively. Similarly, even if
villagers would not be willing to take up intercropping specified for north
Bengal models the return on the project as a whole would decrease by one
percent only. If all costs would increase by 20% &nd the benefits decrease by
30% the return on the project would decrease to 12.1 percent. The return on
the project is more sensitive to lags in benefits streams than to changes in
magnitude. If all benefits would lag five years the return on the project
would decrease to 11.8 percent. However, this is not likely for a large part
of the benefits consist of NWFP which are collected on an annual basis.
22.   In addition to the forest areas to be regenerated/established under the
project period the project provides support to complete areas planted/taken up
for regeneration during the last few years. This refers mainly to regeneration
of sal forests from viable rootstocks. A very conservative view would be to
include the project costs for these areas but no benefits in which case the
ERR for the project would decrease by 3%. Taking both costs and benefits for
these areas into account would increase returns to the project significantly
since expenditures to date on those areas could be regarded as sunk costs for
the purpose of overall economic analysis.



- 28 -                          Aan 2
Page 6 of 6
Other Benefit5
23.   EMIg=ent. The project would finance 22.8 million persondays of labor
in establishment/regeneration of forests on public lands, another 10 million
persondays would be generated in establishment of farm forestry plantations,
and an unquantified amount for protection and harvest of the forest produce.
Project works (roads, spoil conservation dams, ponds, and construction of
quarters and training centers) would also generate employment.
24.   Halting and reversing forest degradation will also bring many other
benefits. Local people depend heavily on forest products for their farm and
household economy as do forest based industries and the State Exchequer. The
high levels of soil erosion which accompany forest degradation, particularly
in the southwest, have been undermining the basis for future investments as
well as continuing to reduce biodiversity. The loss of productive forest
lands in tribal areas is hastening potentially disruptive cultural changes
among these groups. The mounting scarcity of subsistence fuel and fodder has
also increased the work burden of women, who are the predominant collectors.



-29 -                               Ann&X 2
Table 1
4INANCIAL PRICE
Inputs/Outputs                       Unit               Unit Price
(Rupees)
Fence/shrub Lines                    Kg                   20
Vetiver slips                       1000 No.               12
Gen Purpose Seedlings                No.                   0,7
Direct Seeding                       No.                   0.2
Labor                                Md                   25
Non-Wood Forest Products:
Fodder                               MT                    120
Edible Products                      MT                   2000
Sal Leaves                           Bundle               1.5
Sal/Mahua Seeds                      Kg                   4
Kendu Leaves                         Kg                   2
Medicinal products                   MT                    2000
Wood Products:
Poles                                No.                   10-30
Pulp                                 MT                    650
Fuelwood                             MT                   250-350
Shrub fuelwood                       MT                   150
Timber:
Sal                                  MT                   5550
Teak                                 MT                    6650
Riverain Species                     MT                    3700
Misc. Species                        MT                    1350
Hill Species                         MT                    1200



- 30 -                                                  Ane
Table 2
BESULTS  OT  FTINANCIAL  AND  !CONOMIC  AMALYAIS  OF  :CB                          NT  MgpELS123
Model                                                FINANCIAL RESTURNS (l and Rs/ha)                    ECONOMIC
bAdQLx&,                     Overall              GOWO                 Users             Overa11
IRR      NVP        IMR       NPV       IRR       NPV        IRR       NPV
Rl  Regeneration Sal Forests           >50    17,810          30    6,940          -   10,906          50   11,809
15-year cyal*                     >50    21,111          26    8,023          -   12,083          44   13,319
R2  RPgsneration by Enrichment           28    7,585          26    5,907         39    1,478          22    3,983
R3  Reforestation Tassar Host            13    3,886           -  -19,099         45   22,9a5          13    3,588
R4  Multi-tier Plantations Si4           21    7,441          13       524         -    6,917          20    5,548
w/o intercropping                   17    3,943          14    1,247         39    2,696          16    2,749
R5  Multi-tier Plantations Plains    21    4,794               -   -6,949          -   11,742          30    6,592
w/o intercropping                     9   -1,452          -   -6,137          -    4,684          16    1,595
R6  Multi-tier Plantations Hills         12         9          -   -8,232          -    8,241          19    2,641
w/o interoropping                    7   -3,439           -   -7,509          -    4,070          12      -118
R7  Fuclwood Plantations Plains          14    2,130          10   -1,464       >50      3,593         19    4,828
Pl  Sal Plantations                      20    6,780           -         -         -         -         27    8,032
w/o intercropping                     9   -5,997          9   -5,997          -         -         11   -2,189
P2  Teak Pl.ntations                     22    9,986           -         -         -         -         30   10,563
w/o interoropping                   11   -2,791          11   -2,791          -         -         12       341
P3  Riveraine Plantations                11   -3,194          11   -3,194          -         -         12        15
P4  Misc. Plantations                    25   12,083           -         -         -         -         31   12,220
w/o intercropping                   12      -570         12     -570          -         -         14    2,098
PS  Hill Timber Plantations              10   -1,849           -         -         -         -         12       929
w/o intercropping                     8   -5,593          8   -5,593          -         -         10   -2,066
S1  Strip Plantations                      9   -2,732          3   -5,664          -    2,932          11      -846
MI  Mangrove Plantation                    6   -5,086          4   -5,942         23       855         12       278
M2  Mangrove Protection                   22    2,490         25    2,359         13       131         24    2,078
Fl  Farm Forestry                        21    7,697           -         -         -         -         18    4,680
F2  Farm Forestry                        12        31          -         -         -         -          9   -1,261
1 NPVs are calculated using a 12% discount rate.
2 Due to the structure of the benefit as,d cost flows, for some models and
accounting perspectives IRRs were either multiple or undefined.
3 The F2 model is for comparison only - not a project treatment.



- 31 -                              Annex 2
Table 3
SET DENEEIS
Present Value at 12%
(Rs. Million)
Benefits from:
Regeneration Sal Forests               585.1
Regeneration Other Forests             375.3
Production Forestry                     59.6
Mangroves                               85.4
Farm Forestry & Strips                 694.0
Total Be~nefits                       1799.4
Costs for:
Regeneration Sal Forests                97.6
Regeneration Other Forests             206.7
Production Forestry                     57.6
Mangroves                               43.2
Farm Forestry & Strips                 408.4
Supporting Works                        59.6
Special Action Programs                 69.4
FD Service Support                      39.4
Fodder Development                      21.0
Recurrent Costs after Project           40.8
Total Costs                           1043.7
Net Benefits                           755.7
Base Case ERR 20.0%



-32                                Ane-
-32-
Table 4
SZNSITTIVTX ANALYSIS
Overall proieot FER
Base case                                    20.0%
aansiti3Zity Analysia_
sal regeneration area -30%                   18.8%
farm forestry area    -30%                   20.2%
total benefits -20% and costs +10%            15.1%
total benefits -30% and costs +10%            13.2%
total benefits -30% and costs +20%            12.1%
forestry benefits lag 5 years                11.8%
Switching Values                     Appraisal   Switching  Percentage
(Rs. Million)                         value*       value*       change
BanAfita:
Regeneration Sal Forests               585.1       -170.5         -129
Regeneration Other Forests             375.3       -380.3         -201
Production Forestry                     59.6       -696.1        -1268
Mangroves                               85.4       -670.3         -885
Farm Forestry & Strips                 694.0        -61.7         -109
Coate:
Regeneration Sal Forests                97.6        853.2          775
Regeneration Other Forests             206.7        962.3          366
Production Forestry                     57.6        813.3         1312
Mangroves                              43.27        789.9         1749
Farm Forestry & Strips                 408.4       1164.1          185
Supporting Works                        59.6        815.3         1267
Special Action Programs                 69.4        825.2         1088
FD Service Support                      39.4        795.1         1917
Fodder Development                      21.0        776.7         3604
Recurrent Costs after Project           40.8        796.5         1852
Total Benefits                        1799.4       1043.7          -42
Total Costs                           1043.7       1799.4           72
*In present value terms at 12% discount rate



INDIa
14tSI gllGit FORESIRT PEOJICI
YE I 9ENE I IS
Rs (0005
1992    5993   1994    1995    1996    1997    t9ga    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005   2006   2007    2001    2009   2010    2011   2012
SENEf MS
REGENERAT ION SAL SORESIS         7217    4863    2676    8553    6062    5308   60584   46545   33281  16070  502871  352s40  256367  101112  25777   14096  61771  52185   37515    U35 s5s4215
REGEr4ERA7tON 011eER FOSISs       542   10991  21518   30599   36838   59976   59864   54155   55625   54256   54859   53667   53786   53655   53644  10721  103764  112526  111202  111248  4C6C
PRONCIION 1fORESIFY               -132    1783    3882    5445    6526    9260    8125    6815    6044    5757    7417    7438    7450   7460    7467   52287   12287   12287   i2287   1227-  YtIS
HASIGROVES                            -       -     132     132     132    2332    2332    2200    2200    2200    3850    3850    3850    3850    3850   97250  97250  97250  91352   9732    . 32
FARNIFoRESRY AND STRIPS          -5251   -2857    -936    4270    9335   19258   2t477   24547   24251   23998  396970  406161  415013  423946  432517  68612  68128   67584   67040   61496  2399
TOTA 5ENEFIIS                    2375   14780   27273   45098   55894   96094  1523831  134262  121401  102281 965568i  853657  736465  590027  523715  300025  349200  341835  325426 306245  1978,S
COSTS
3EGfNER*IION SAt fONES5          11589   18613   16772   20665   14260   10226   15849   12317    5860    690S    7825    5446    1544    6463    5693   5454    542s   5429   5429    5429   lCS1
REGENEAI110N Ot31(  ORESIS      5141   31156   43035   51283   56110   53737   29608   19615   13254   10313   9557   s597    9597   10002   11718   12038   12248   12300   11895   10179   95W
PROCUIION 10fORESIRY               SS    5418    7684    9275   10455   10394    s835    3845    2528    3678    1376    1376     1176     1376     1376     3376 37076    37076            37076   37015
mN!CROVES                         2121    5282    6548    7398    8249    6978    4668    4253    4253    4253    4253    4253    4253    4253    4253    4253   5523   7133   8249    3249           249 
(ARM FOREslRY MD SIRIPS          20480   67370   82569   92975   s88u   84312   43332   3374t  29544   29544   29544   2ss44   29544   28687   27830   26972  26115   25258  25258  2525s   22221   W
£51130ED UORS                     11032   17936   19337   18745   17249        -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
SPECIAt ACTION PSOGCR415         20564   21168   19106   17321   16987             -       -       -       -       -            -       -           -       -       -       -       -       -       -
10 SERVICE SUPPORI                50911   13740   13317    6193    7112        -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
1D0I0 DEVEIOPIENI                 7836    8641   4114    3364    3562                  -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -           -       -       -           -       -       -
tECOIIEIENI COSS lfTIED PROJECI       -       -       -       -        -   5700    9700    5700    9200    9700    5700    9700 s     700    9700    9700    7800    7800    7800    7800    780    78
------   --  --   -- - -   -  - - . . . . ..                 ... .   .. . .   .. . .   ...... ..... -- - -   - - -   - - -   - - -   - - -   - - -   -  -   - - -   - - -   - - -
101*1 COSTS                      90259  589323  212781 229219  232863  175347  508992   83470   69538   62346   62295   62915  62014  60480   60569   57892   S4190  95695   95707   93990   n2818
::=::=~~ ~~ ==:=:=  ====   =:=  =S=   ====::===::=:====- -==::  ::::::  =:=:=_= ===5:: :======  ==:=== ==::=:  ===:=S  ====: ====  ====  =
NET 5fN3EFIS                     -57583 -174544 -585505 -150121 -173969  -79253   43390   50792   52263   39934  903673  790742  674453  529547  453346 242133  255050  246540 229739  212258  74
70 r
0
t- .



INDI A
NESI Bf GAt fORESIRT PROJtEC I
hiEI BENEFITIS
.. .... ..... .
RS 90009
2013    2014    2015    2016    2017    2018    2019    20         2021   2022-2056'
8E14EfI IS
REGENERAIWI1  SAL fORESIS        383044  256480  10122   25777   14096   67771   52188   37515   18835          $m1
RfEGENRAIION OI1ER fORESTS       46462   37711   33561   37786   28908   33076   35547   34631   29538    11064
PR0OWC10tN fORESIRY                6815    6815    6815    6815    597S    5975    5975    5975   25175         43478
NUAGROWES                          2332    2332    2200    2200    2200    3850    3850    3850    3850         3164
fARNFORESIRM  AND SIRIPS         239998  239998  239998  239998         66496    86496    66496    68496 689     0137
--..          ..      .-..---- -- - -   -- - -   - - -- - - --   --  -   --   -- - -     -- - -  . ..    ..
101U1 8ElEFITS                   678651  543336  383695  312575  117675  177168  164056  148467  143893   342334
COSTS
-----                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4335.
RLEGNERATION SAL fCRESIS           8446    7544    6463    5693    5454    5429    5429    5429    5429         1784
REGENERAI9ON OIHER fORESIS         9650    9597    9s7    9597    9431    9431    9262    8809    8355 
PRODUCIION fORESIR7                1376    1376    5376    1376    1416    1416    9416    1416    1416
MANGROVES                          6978    4668    4253    4253    4253    4253    4253    4253    4253
FAR91 fORESIRY tND SIRIPS         22227   22227   22227   22227   2S258   25258   25258   25258   25258
AL1E0 WORKS                           -       -       -
SPECIAL AC1101  PROR1R5             -                         -       -            -           -                                                                                            J
ED SfRVICE SUPPORI                     -       -       -        -       -        -       -       -        -
fODER DEVELOPIE-NI
RECURRENI COSIS A1f[IR PROJECI     7800    7800    7800    7800    7800    7800    7800    7800    7800
-- - -   -- - -   -- - -   -- - -   --- --   -- - -   -- - -   --- --   -- - -  ...   .... ..
TOTA COSIS                       51476   53212   51715   50945   53691 53586   53417  52964   5210    2036
zz==zz=====:   zz-   - =-           2-----z    --====-== :-===:: .:::::: .. ::::....':-=:::., _
NET BElEfITS                     622175  490124  331980  261631   64063  123582  110I40   95504   91383   322025
PSMm  vae .      i  ru      6 far lam    bI              pu ph k m         W"li d  VMS 31_44.
rlb 10
IQa 5
(D  t-3
0
N)3 



- 35 -                               Annex 3
1NDTA
WEST BENGAL FORESTRY PROJECT
SCHSnUtgL OF ESTTMATED DISBURSEMENTS
FY/Semester                Disbursement    Cumulative    % of Total
Disbursement      Credit
(US$ million) (US$ million)
FY92 - I
II                            2.0             2.0         6
FY93 - I                            1.7             3.7         11
II                            2.7             6.4        19
FY94 - I                            2.8             9.2         27
- II                           2.7            11.9        35
FY95 - I                            3.4            15.3         45
- II                           3.4            18.7        55
FY96 - I                            3.4            22.1         65
- II                           3.0            25.1        74
FY97 - I                            3.3            28.4         84
- II                           3.2            31.6        93
FY98 - I                            2.4            34.0        100



- 36 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
WEST BENGAL FORESTRY PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.    Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities.  The staff input indicated in
the table below is in addition to regular supervision needs for the review of
progress reports, procu:ement actions, correspondence, etc. (estimated for this
project to require three staff weeks during the first year and two staff weeks
per year thereafter). Detailed comments on each treatment model and some
suggestions for supervision prepared by the forester on the appraisal team are
available in the Project Implementation Volume Annex 10.
2.    Borrower's Contribution to Supervision.  Progress reports are to be
submitted as follows: a) in a form to be agreed during the project launch
workshop; b) at the end of April and October each year; c) by the West Bengal
Forest Directorate (FD) which will incorporate the information provided by the
Directorate of Animal Resources (DAR) into a consolidated project report.
3.    Project monitoring and evaluation will be the responsibility of the Chief
Conservator of Forests (Development) and the Conservator (Monitoring), FD and
the Special Officer (Monitoring) of DAR. Review meetings with the participation
of both project agencies will be held normally in early May and October of each
year. The meetings will be chaired by the Secretary Forests and Environment
(GOWB).
4.    The Chief Conservator of Forests (Development) will be responsible for
coordinatin, arrangements for bank Supervision missions, and for providing
information required by missions.
5.    Mission briefing meetings with GOI will normally be chaired by the Joint
Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Forests (GOI) with the participation of
the Undersecretary, in the Ministry of Finance, and representatives of the
project agencies.



-37 -                            Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
BANK SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
Approximate
Dates                                        Expected Skill       Staff Input
(FY/semester)      Activity                    Requirements          (staff-weeks)
92-II             Supervision Mission          Economics/Finance   5
(Project Launch Workshop)  Forestry
Procurement
Disbursement
MIS Specialist
93-I              Supervision Mission          Forestry             9
Research/Genetics
Sociology/NGOs
Fodder Spec.
Organization
93- II            Supervision Mission          Forestry             8
Sociology
Microplanner
Organization/Training
94-I              Supervision Mission          Forestry             8
Research/Genetics
Sociology/Women
Alt. Energy
94-Il             Supervision Mission          Forestry             5
Sociology
Wildlife
95-I              Mid-Term Review              Economics/Finance   15
(All aspects of project    Forestry
esp. treatments R3,5,6,7   Sociology
and M1,2)                    Organization/MIS
Wildlife
95-II             Supervision Mission          Forestry             7
Sociology
Fodder
Organization
96-I              Supervision Mission          Forestry/Research   6
Sociology/Women
Alt. Energy
96-II             Supervision Mission          Forestry             4
Sociology
97-I              Supervision Mission          Economics/Finance   6
(Initiate PCR work)         Forestry
Sociology



- 38 -
Annex 5
INDIA
WEST BENGAL FORESTRY PROaECT
CONTENTS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME
Annex 1   Forestry in West Bengal
Annex 2   Marketing of Forest Products
Annex 3   Forest Policies and Legislation
Annex 4   Research and Planting Materials
Annex 5   Institutional Aspects and Training Program
Annex 6   Sociological Issues and Joint Management
Annex 7   Forestry and Allied Works
Annex 8   Wildlife and Protected Areas
Annex 9   Fodder Development
Annex 10  Treatment Models incl. Cost/Benefit Sharing
Annex 11  Species for Treatment Models
Annex 12  Project Accounts and Monitoring
Annex 13  Detailed Project Cost Tables



- 39 -
WEST BENGAL FORESTRY PROJECT
DQCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
Project Implementation Volume
Final Preparation Report Apr-91
appraisal MissiQn Working DocuMents
Report on Aspects on Forestry Technology
Assumptions for Financial and Economic Analysis
ereparation Mission Working Documents
Forestry Technology
Soil Conservation and Land Use
Review of Forest Information Systems
Livestock and Fodder Development
Reconnaissance Survey and Energy Options
Wildlife Component
Pilot Mangrove Management Component
Local Inst., Tribes, Scheduled Castes, Women and NWFP
Forest Legislation Review
Institutional Aspects:
Interim I+I1, Workshop Brief, Final Note
Training Needs Assessment
Marketing of Major and Minor Forest Produce
Collection and Sale of Minor Forest Produce
Forest Industries
Other
GOWB - Wood Balance Study 1987
GOWB - State Report on West Bengal Forests 1989-90
GOWB - Background Papers on Forestry Oct -90



I
MAP SECTION



IBRD 23246
This mop has been prepared by
The World Bank's staff exclusively                                                                                BHUTAN
for the convenience of readers                              A'' 
and is exclusively for the           N       E       P      A L
internal use of The World Bank                                                 I
Group. The denominotions used
and the boundories dshown                                                         tst
on this mop do not imply, on the
part of The World 8ank Group,                                                 /        _                             _
any judgnment on the tegol
status of any territory or any
endorsement or acceptance of                                                                                                - - - - _-
such boundories. 
S      I     H      A      I t
26n
I N D I A                                     l ,                               
WEST BENGAL
FORESTRY  PROJECT                                   TatiharK'  7(
SOILS                                                  D.AlPV.
SOILS:
HILL ZONE
TERAIZONE
OLD ALLUVIUM ZONE
NEW ALLUVIUM ZONE
LATERITE ZONE
COASTAL SALINE ZONE                                      B   A    N   G    L   A    D    E   S   H
O       SELECTED TOWNS                                              BA        N        I   A    D          S
II   RAILROADS                               Ae\tl
- -  -  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
STATE BOUNDARIES                                     '-.          x
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-24                           RIVERS                  ti  /                                     ' t                                      24-
~~~~~ A.
B A # A # X    $i) ~~..... .. -.. .... gA   ...
OR  S $ A                                                                                                             J/J
o  2     40    60    80  KILC)METERIS (~
0 10  20  3040       OMILES                                                            f 
L              zz"                               Ir          B~~~~~~~~~~~~Loy  of 3cts-Jl                           9
SEPTEMBER 1991



IBRD 23249
88-     (Nsl/KK4f  ~
This mop hos been prepared by                                     Do;jeeling q    0 Kolinipong
The World 8onk's staff exclusively                                                    N                 BHUTAN
frteconvenience of readers     N      E      P       A      L      '%DR'.
and s exclusiYly for the          N      E      P      A       L
intemal use of The World Bonk
Grou  The denominotions used                                            )Siligiri        .
and heboundaries shcssn
on this mop do not imply, on the   ,JAPAI GtTRI
part of The World Bank Group,.A 
ony judgment on the legal
stotvs of any territory or any _
endorsement or acceptance af
such boundaries.                 B                                           * H  A             s -        -.i
O H{  #  A   R          .   1./   8tt,$.O °° .HAR.
26                                                                                                                           26!
I N  D  i A                         g>g 8vf ;
WEST BENGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT                                To              Kra                                                (
NORMAL ANNUAL RAINFALL                                                T)NAJPUR
tDA~~~t~
rf'9 !,  Al  D A ~
13'-      . ISOHYETS IN MILLIMETERS    ?'
0      SELECTED TOWNS            '          "     .
- t-- *- SRAILROADS
-   DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
STATE BOUNDARIES            "                         B   A   N   G    L   A   D   E   S    H
- *     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                       H
RIVERS                              |
-24'                                                                                                                         24-
)x MURSHIDABAD  A
)BHU          \
P^D1F~~~.
)                       I \    X h 4    /24 4PAtANAS\
o    20   40    60   80 KILOMETERS  Jl>9s          '                         
O 0      20   30  40  50 MIIES                                />       Nonhn I1 ,e\ 4s     
So              f.~~~~~~~~   UX~e8                                                                        90@
SEPTEMBER 199



