D0eCU[CENTS
CREDIT NMER 2341 IN
Project Agreement
(Vest Bengal Forestry Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF VEST BENGAL
Dated           (      2          , 1992


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2341 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      l4f4    2              , 1992, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and STATE OF
WEST BENGAL, acting by its Governor (West Bengal).
WHEREAS by the Developm.nt Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between INDIA, acting by its President (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-four
million    four   hundred   thousand    Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 24,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that West Bengal
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS West Bengal, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) West Bengal declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
Parts A, B, C and D of the Project through FD, and Part E of the
Project through ARDD with the participation of FD in accordance with
the Resolution, all with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and forestry practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.


﻿-2-
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
West Bengal shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
pzocurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. West Bengal shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) West Bengal shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b)   West Bengal shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by West Bengal of its obligations under
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) West Bengal shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
the Project of the departments or agencies of West Bengal respon-
sible for carrying out the Project.
(b)   West Bengal shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;


﻿-3-
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts as well as
the audit thereof, as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of West Bengal thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i)   the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 20 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify West
Bengal of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified
or at such other address as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                  197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
For West Bengal:
Chief Secretary
Government of West Bengal
Calcutta
West Bengal, India
Cable address:               Telex:
CHIEFSEC                 021-2222
Calcutta
West Bengal
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of West Bengal may be taken or executed2 by its


﻿-5-
Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as West Bengal shall
designate in writing, and West Bengal shall furnish to the Associa-
tion sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF WEST BENGAL
Authorized Representative


﻿-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultantst Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     Procurement Procedures
1.    Except as provided in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 hereof, civil
works, computers and other goods shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    All forestry plantation, and civil works estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $10,000 per contract up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $3,500,000, may be carried out through force
account using labor from local communities.
3.    Imported seeds and equipment estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $200,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers from at least
three different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.    Equipment, vehicles, seeds, fertilizers, and field supplies
locally available and estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $1,500,000 in aggregate, and construction materials
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $20,000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $350,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part B:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, all computer contracts
and the first five contracts for goods and civil works, the


﻿-7-
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Whe-e payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
In order to assist West Bengal in carrying out the Project,
West Bengal shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.    West Bengal shall:
(a)   promptly implement the reorganization of the field staff
of FD at and below the district level in the districts of Purulia
and Kurseong in accordance with the Order dated November 20, 1991
issued by West Bengal and a time-bound action plan to be adopted by
West Bengal no later than June 30, 1992, satisfactory to the
Association, for such purpose; and
(b)   no later than January 31, 1994, adopt a time-bound plan
of action satisfactory to the Association for the purpose of
extending such reorganization of FD to additional districts and
implement such plan in accordance with such time schedule.
2.    For the purpose of implementing Part C.1 (a) of the Project,
West Bengal shall:
(a)   employ consultants by June 30, 1992 to assist FD in the
preparation of the research program to be carried out under such
Part of the Project;
(b)   discuss with the Association by December 31, 1992 such
research program, including a timetable for implementing such
program, and, taking into account the Association's comments, if
any, relating thereto, implement such program in accordance with
such timetable; and
(c)   take steps to ensure that the research staff of FD
engaged in such research program remain in their respective
positions for at least five years from the commencement of such
engagement, except under circumstances acceptable to the Associa-
tion.
3.    West Bengal shall: (a) select such staff of FD for overseas
training under Part C.2 (a) of the Project who have at least five
years to retirement; and (b) take steps to ensure that such staff
receiving such overseas training are posted for at least three years
upon completion of such training in areas in which such training has
been received, except under circumstances acceptable to the
Association.


﻿-9-
4.    In carrying out Part A of the Project, West Bengal shall cause
FD to:
(a)   follow such treatment models, including basic soil and
moisture conservation treatments and incorporation of fodder and
legume species, satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)   follow improved nursery practices satisfactory to the
Association.
5.    West Bengal shall:
(a)   adopt, or cause to be adopted, all appropriate measures
as may be necessary or required to promote the development of farm
forestry;
(b)   obtain, or cause to be obtained, in a prompt and
efficient manner, all approvals and clearances from the Borrower or
its relevant departments or agencies as may be necessary or required
for the purpose of implementing the activities under the Project;
and
(c)   provide, or cause to be provided, in a prompt and
efficient manner all appropriate extension services as may be
necessary or required for the purpose of implementing the activities
under the Project.
6.    For the purpose of strengthening community participation in
forest protection, West Bengal shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, Lenefit sharing arrangements with community members,
satisfactory to the Association, in the Sunderbans, the northern
and southern areas of West Bengal, and in the buffer zones of
protected forests, and shall not change such arrangements without
the prior approval of the Association.
7.    West Bengal shall:
(a)   furnish to the Association by June 30, 1992 terms of
reference, satisfactory to the Association, for the studies to be
carried out under Part C.4 (a) of the Project; and
(b)   complete such studies in accordance with such terms of
reference by July 31, 1994.


﻿- 10 -
8.    Without limitation to the generality of Section 9.06 of the
General Conditions of the Association, West Bengal shall cause FD
and ARDD to furnish to the Association by June 30 and December 31
of each year beginning on December 31, 1992, reports on the progress
of Parts A, B, C and D, and E of the Project respectively.
9.    West Bengal shall adopt appropriate measures, satisfactory to
the Association, to ensure that seedlings are not distributed free
of charge and to increase seedling pricing each year so as to
achieve full cost recovery, in accordance with methodology satisfac-
tory to the Association, no later than March 31, 1997.
10.   West Bengal shall, in consultation with the Association and
in accordance with terms of reference and methodology satisfactory
to the Association, undertake and,complete by September 30, 1994 a
mid-term review of the Project, and, shall, promptly thereafter,
carry out the agreed recommendations of such review in a manner
acceptable to the Association.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


