Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT No. 17372-TUN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCIJMENT
FOR A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUAL TO FRF 476.1 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM SUPPORT
PROJECT
February 20, 1998
Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Tunisian Dinar (TND)
US$1,00 = TND 1.08
TND 1.00 = US$0.91
US$1.00  FRF 5.95
FRF 1.00 =US$0.1680
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB          African Development Bank
ANPE         Agence Nationale pour la protection de l 'Environnen2ent
AY            Academic Year
BEPP          Bureau des itudes, de Il planification et de la programmalion
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
DBE          Direction des bdtiments et de 1 'equipement
ISET          Institut superieur d 'etudes technologiques
MHE           Ministry of Higher Education
PHRD          Population and Human Resources Development (Japanese Governiment grant)
Vice President: Kemal Dervi§
Country Director: Christian Delvoie
Sector Director: Jacques Baudouy
Task Manager;  Benoit Millot



FOR OMCIUL USE ONLY
Republic of Tunisia
Higher Education Reform Support Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Project Financing Data ...................................................1I
Block 1: Project Description
1. Project Development Objectives ....................................................2
2. Project Components ....................................................2
3. Benefits and Target Population ....................................................2
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements ..................................................3
Block 2: Project Rationale
5. CAS Objectives Supported by the Project ............................................3.......3
6. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy ....................................................4
7. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices ....................5
S. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection .................. ..............5
9. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and Other Development Agencies 6
10. Lessons Learned and Reflected in Project Design ...............................................6
1 1. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership ........................................7
12.Value Added of Bank Support .............................     . : .7
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments
13. Economic Assessment .............................8
14. Financial Assessment ............................8
15. Technical Assessment .............................8
16. Institutional Assessment ..............................9
17. Social Assessment ..............................9
18. Environmental Assessment ..............................9
19. Participatory Approach ............................  10
20. Sustainability .............................                                  10
21. Critical Risks ............................                                   10
22. Possible Controversial Aspects ............................                    11
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions ............................  12
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies ............................ 13
List of Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design summary
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4: Economic Analysis
Annex 5: Financial Summary
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
Annex 9: Statements of Loans and Credits
Annex 10: Tunisia at a Glance
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Human Development Sector
Project Appraisal Document
Republic of Tunisia
Higher Education Reform Support Project
Date: 02/17/98                                    [ ] Draft            [X ]  Final
Task Manager: Benoift Millot                      Country Director: Christian Delvoie
Project ID: 5741      Sector: Education                    POC:
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment and Maintenance Loan    PTI:  [X] Yes        [ ]    No
Project Financing Data              [X] Loan    [   Credit    [] Guarantee
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: FRF 476.1 million (US$80 million equivalent)
Proposed Terms:                       [ ]  Multicurrency    [X] Single currency
Grace period (years):  5        [X] Standard Variable  [   Fixed          [X]  PIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: NA
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                            Local             Foreign          Total
Government                                              25.8               0.8             26.6
IBRD/IDA                                                26.0              54.0             80.0
Borrower: Republic of Tunisia
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: Ministry of Higher Education
Estimated disbursements (Bank              1999      2000       2001      2002      2003   2004
FY/US$M):
Annual       2.5       9.6       18.7      19.3      18.8   11.1
Cumulative      2.5       12.1      30.8      50.1       68.9   80.0
IExpected effectiveness date: 06/01/1998                      Closing date: 12/31/2003



Block 1: Project Description
1. Project development objectives (see Annex 1 for key performance indicators): The objectives of the Project are to:
(i) promote access to, while preserving quality of, higher education, (ii) improve internal and external efficiency as well
as the coherence of the public higher education sector; and (iii) enhance the financial sustainability of public higher
education institutions.
2. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Componnt                             Category                   Cost Incl.         % of
Contingencies (US$M)    Mad
Supply Response : extension of public     Civil works/equipment                  81.0             75.9
facilities and encouragement to private  Technical Assistance
provision                                 Policy measures
Quality and Relevance: more flexible      Equipment                               0.5              0.5
organization to increase internal efficiency  Training & Technical Assistance
and quality of teaching                   Policy measures
Governance and Management: increased      Training & Technical Assistance          1.9             1.8
devolution of responsibilities to universities    Policy measures
Intensified use of new technologies : more    Equipment                          22.8             21.4
systematic reliance on new technologies for    Training & Technical Assistance
both pedagogic and management purposes
Financing: implementation of a sustainable    Technical Assistance                0.4              0.4
financing plan including increased       Policy measures
users 'contributions
Total         106.6           100.0
3. Benefits and target population
Benefits: (i) By allowing larger cohorts of students to enroll in and to graduate from higher education institutions, the
Project will respond both to demographic pressure and to the growing needs of the opening market economy for highly
skilled labor, thus contributing to the enhancement of Tunisian competitiveness; (ii) by making the pedagogic
organization more flexible and more efficient, the Project will both contribute to lower unit costs of graduation and make
tertiary education more relevant to changing needs; (iii) by making higher education institutions more responsible for
managing their resources, the Project will promote initiative and accountability in a sub-sector still under high central
control, and will allow the State to concentrate on strategic planning and on creating-enabling conditions for institutions
to grow and to adapt; (iv) by encouraging cost-recovery and improving targeting of the scholarship scheme and
management of the loan scheme, the Project will both increase the financial viability of public higher education, and
alleviate financial constraints for poorer students, hence introducing greater equity of access to more efficient university
education.
Tar&gt population: (i) short-term beneficiaries: existing and future public providers of higher education, i.e. state
universities and specialized schools; (ii) medium-term beneficiaries: current (130,000) and additional (16,000 per year on
average) users of the higher education institutions, i.e. students; and (iii) long-term beneficiaries: employers and other
private higher education providers.
2



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
(a) Implementation period:    1998-2003
(b) Executing agency: Ministry of Higher Education. The Project will be implemented using the existing structure of
the Ministry of Higher Education (MHE), which, through the implementation of the ongoing Higher Education
Restructuring Project (3456-TUN), has demonstrated its capacity to run complex, externally-funded operations.
Individual departments within the MHE will be in charge of relevant components or sub-components of the project, and
no central project implementation unit will be needed to manage this sectoral investment project which supports
activities already planned by the MTE. A first package of operations (civil works) to be implemented during the first
two years of the Project has been agreed upon at appraisal, and technical documents were ready at negotiations, which
should allow a quick start.
(c) Project coordination: A full-time Project coordinator selected from the Minister's office will be appointed to
ensure that the various activities and measures are undertaken in a synchronized way, and to monitor the critical path of
implementation. The coordinator will be responsible for planning, controlling and evaluating Project activities.
(d) Project oversight: Given the sector-wide nature of the Project, and the importance of programming reforms and
expenditures, an oversight committee has been established with responsibility for all aspects of the Project, including
political and operational ones. The director of studies, programming and planning, the director for financial affairs, other
concerned high ranking MIE officials, a university president, representatives of other concerned departments and a
person selected from outside the Government will be members of the committee, which will be headed by the chief of
staff of the MHE. The committee created to guide preparation of the Project will be reshuffled and its mandate
reinforced for this purpose. The Project coordinator will act as the secretariat of the committee, and will be the interface
between the committee and donors (including the Bank).
(e) Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The unit responsible for the financial follow-up and
for disbursement activities of the ongoing project has been assessed and found overall satisfactory. It will be maintained
for the purpose of the new project, strengthened, and will be in charge of accounting, financial reporting and auditing
arrangements. it will report to the Project coordinator. Annual audit reports will be completed by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, and forwarded to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
(f) Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: They will be under the direct responsibility of the Project coordinator.
Annual progress reports will be prepared for civil works by the Department of Building and Equipment, under the Project
coordinator's responsibility. Annual progress reports on implementation of policy measures spelled out in an Action
Plan (incorporated in a supplemental letter of the Loan Agreement) including performance indicators, and on the
financial situation of the Project will be prepared by the Department of Studies, Programming and Planning under the
direct supervision of the Project coordinator.
Block 2: Project Rationale
5. CAS objective(s) supported by the project   Document number and date of latest CAS discussion: Report
No.15799-TUN June 25, 1996
Human resources development is a cornerstone of the Bank's assistance strategy. The Project will be a central element
of this strategy whose objective is to move Tunisia towards middle income country standards of education attainment
rates and qualified manpower, and in particular, to achieve a financially sustainable higher education system. The Project
will pursue these objectives by addressing the issue of the role of the State in the provision and management of higher
education, as well as the issue of cost-recovery, both on equity and financing grounds. The Project's contribution will be
monitorable with the performance indicators selected by the CAS for the education sector, and project-specific
indicators. The Project will also build on the main recommendations of recent sector work (see para. 6).
3



6. Main sector issues and Government strategy
Main sector issues
The situation and main issues of the higher education sector have been described in the recent sector work (Higher
Education in Tunisia: from challenges to opportunities. Report No 16522-TUN, Grey cover issued on May 8, 1997, Red
cover in press). Higher education in Tunisia is an overwhelmingly state-owned, state-operated and state-funded sector; it
is currently relatively well organized, well staffed and oriented towards quality. However, the current policy that permits
all secondary education graduates automatic access to higher education, combined with the effects of demographic
pressure and increased internal efficiency at the pre-university level, will result in the doubling of enrollments --currently
130,000 -- within the next 10 years. As the Government is not currently prepared to reconsider this policy, such an
expansion will require adjustments in the financial, managerial and pedagogical conditions in which higher education
services are provided.
Emerging issues are as follows: (i) low internal efficiency, which manifests itself by high repetition and drop-out rates,
especially in the first years, and which is linked to rigid branching at entry, inflexible streaming throughout, and
insufficient student monitoring by faculty whose career depends more on research than on teaching; (ii) lack of
responsiveness to changing demands of the market, which manifests itself in a distribution of courses and students
skewed in favor of general, long and academic-oriented streams, and limited contacts between institutions, faculty and
staff on the one hand and the economic environment on the other --except for ISETs; (iii) inappropriate emphasis given
to research as opposed to teaching, leading to the misuse of scarce resources; (iv) limited autonomy at the decentralized
level (e.g. very little freedom on staffing decisions) and limited accountability at all levels, as the result of a managerial
and institutional set-up which does not encourage initiative, defeats optimal allocation of resources and their efficient
use, and is not subject to systematic evaluation of performance; (v) a non sustainable funding base with only marginal
cost-recovery, a poorly targeted scholarship system and few incentives for the private sector to participate, and which
will be unable to cater for the dramatic expansion of enrollments, let alone for improvements in the quality of services.
Already, and even though the shares of higher education expenditures in the education sector and in the state operating
budgets are slowly increasing (19 and 5%, respectively, in 1996), unit expenditures per student are declining, an
evolution which probably reflects more quality erosion than efficiency gains.
Goverment strate
Public policy in Tunisia has focused on human resources since Independence. Education was seen both as the engine for
economic development and the vehicle for social mobility. Tunisia has adopted a progressive approach to develop and
modernize its education system, starting in the 1980s from the base of the edifice (basic education), and striving not to
sacrifice quality to sheer increase of number of students enrolled. So far, this approach has been successful; primary
education is nearly universal, girls' participation rates are high. However, repetition and drop-out rates remain high,
while enrollment rates at the post-basic level are still relatively low. Following reforms at the primary and secondary
levels, the Government has started to introduce changes in higher education, responding to both enrollment increases
and the changing environment created by the opening of the economy to Europe and to the rest of the world. These
changes parallel the mise ii niveau strategy launched in 1995 to modernize the Tunisian economy, and are the logical
continuation of efforts supported by a long-standing partnership with the Bank.
The main recent innovations were: (i) the organization, in 1989, of all existing teaching institutions (more than 60
departments and schools) into six universities, but without a clear vision of the respective role of each institutional layer
vis-a-vis the central government; (ii) the creation of the higher institutes of technology (ISET) geared towards labor
market needs and offering short programs aimed at training technicians and middle managers; (iii) the introduction of a
partial modular system of credits at the undergraduate level, and attempts to modernize post-graduate studies; and (iv)
the launching of a loan scheme in 1988, and a first increase in fees (virtually nil before) in 1995, followed by another one
in 1997, a twofold, irreversible move. The ongoing Higher Education Restructuring Project (Ln 3456-TUN) has played
an important role in the creation of the ISETs, and has also buttressed efforts to upgrade programs and to introduce the
basis for a management information system.
4



The Government is now ready for the more comprehensive reforms that are reflected in the IXth Plan, which devotes an
entire chapter to higher education. The Plan calls for: (i) pedagogic reforms, including true modularity and transferable
credits, allowing flexibility between streams, and recasting curricula and a bolder use of new technologies, (ii)
institutional reforms conducive to more autonomous post-secondary schools and departments, (iii) financial reforms,
including substantial increases in cost-recovery, a larger recourse to income-generating activities at the institution level
and a more significant role for private sector provision and financing of academic and ancillary services. A National
Observatory of Employment and Education will be activated to provide information on institution performance and
students' access to the labor market. In support of a more sustainable financing basis, and recognizing that the current
financing system will lead to a fiscal impasse, the Government is preparing a revision of the current public subsidy/loan
and scholarship mix and is conducting a study to reshape its cost-recovery policy.
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
Reforms envisioned in the IXth plan would certainly be critical steps toward addressing issues highlighted in the Higher
Education Sector Report, and they need to be operationalized. The Project would be an adequate conduit to encourage
these reforms, while contributing to the financing of capital investments required by the expansion.
The Project will support the Government's efforts to reform the higher education system by addressing the following
issues: (i) lack of flexibility and diversification, which is apparent both in the type and organization of courses and
streams, as well as in the quasi monopoly of the State in the higher education sector and in the still highly centralized
management of the sector, (ii) low internal efficiency, which stems from a sub-optimal use of the mix of inputs and
results in a high wastage rate, and (iii) lack of sustainability of the financing system, which relies almost exclusively on
public subsidies, does not guarantee social equity (an explicit objective), and will not suffice to cover the future needs of
the rapidly expanding sector. The Project will tackle these issues by supporting inter alia: (i) the
decompartmentalization of academic paths and the development of modular courses within common core programs at the
first cycle level; (ii) an emphasis on the teaching and coaching functions in staff careers, and the introduction of
systematic staff evaluation; (iii) a progressive devolution of decision power from the central level to the university level,
through the introduction of a management system allowing more freedom for universities to use internally-generated
revenues, and increased accountability at all levels; and (iv) a re-engineering of the financing system, combining
budgetary operating grants, students' contribution and a larger share of private provision. Simultaneously, the Project
will finance facilities and equipment, training and technical assistance selected by the Government, included in the IXth
Plan, eligible on the basis of pre-agreed criteria, and reviewed on an annual basis.
The Project will not address directly quality issues related to curriculum contents. However, implementation of the
Project should indirectly help through the modularization of studies at the first cycle level. Likewise, although the
Project will not directly tackle the issue of research, project implementation will induce greater emphasis on doctoral
studies, which in turn will have a positive effect on research.
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
(a) Altemative Iget: The task team considered the option of targeting the Project on undergraduate (first cycle)
studies only and introducing on an incremental basis both institutional, pedagogical and financial reforms in this
particular segment of the higher education sector, leaving the rest of the sector largely unaffected. This approach was
rejected by the Government as running the risk of (i) being opposed by most stakeholders, on the grounds that it would
create a two-track system, incompatible with the national united vision of education, and (ii) leaving unsolved issues and
open inefficiencies in the portion of the sector not affected by the Project.
(b) Atermative Deign: A specific investment loan was considered, addressing the physical needs of the sector, with a
special emphasis on ISETs, and accompanied by a package of measures to improve the efficiency and sustainability of
the sector. This would have been the direct continuation of the ongoing Higher Education Restructuring Project (Ln.
3456-TUN). However, this alternative was rejected for the following reasons: (i) a too rapid expansion of the ISETs
might undermine their credibility; (ii) restricting the Project mainly to the ISETs would have limited Bank capacity to
support MHE's attempts to address more comprehensive sectoral issues related to the expansion of the system; (iii) the
5



level of institutional capacity in the Tunisian higher education sector (among others) makes traditional lending no longer
appropriate; and (iv) finally, Tunisian authorities have clearly expressed their preference for a sectoral investment
approach, which would both give them more responsibility to manage the project and more flexibility to implement it,
while facilitating arrangements for additional financing by other agencies.
Similarly, a specific investment loan focused on distance education was considered and rejected, as not a viable
alternative at present. Instead, the Project will include an in-depth analysis of the conditions, modalities and
consequences of reaching additional students through distance education in the future; it will also support immediate
investments in new communication technologies for educational purposes.
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(a) Tunisia (Bank-financed):
(i) Higher Education: The ongoing Higher Education Restructuring Project (Ln 3456-TUN, signed 4/11/1992) was
designed to address the low cost-effectiveness and the lack of responsiveness of the higher education sub-sector to the
needs of the country. The US$75 million loan supports the creation of a new generation of ISETs (already enrolling
almost 8% of the annual intake), the creation of a national program for university improvement and the strengthening of
the planning and managerial capacities of the higher education system. Both implementation progress and development
objectives of the project are rated satisfactory despite a transitory slowdown in disbursements (Form 590 dated
11/07/97).
(ii) Secondary Education: The ongoing Secondary Education Support Project (Ln 3786-TUN) aims at improving the
quality and efficiency of basic and secondary education, and at accommodating the increase in upper-basic and secondary
school enrollments. The US$98.3 million loan supports the improvement of educational delivery mechanisms and
extended access. Rating for both overall development objectives and implementation is satisfactory (Form 590, dated
10/30/97).
(iii) Vocational Training: The ongoing Second Training and Employment Project (Ln 4036-TUN) supports the
Government's strategy to modernize training services, with a view to increase the competitiveness of the Tunisian
economy. To this end, the US$60 million loan supports the creation of a labor market information system, the
development of employment services and the development of training services. The most recent supervision mission
rated this project satisfactory both from the point of view of implementation and against the criteria of development
objectives (Form 590 dated 12/29/1997).
(b) Other countries:
Worldwide, about 30 Bank-financed projects are currently being implemented in the higher education sector (and over 22
new operations are under preparation). A retrospective assessment of these projects suggests that reforms in higher
education are more likely to occur if a comprehensive vision of the sector and a strategy to implement it are adopted.
10.  Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
Lessons learned from the ongoing Higher Education Project in Tunisia and from other projects in other countries are
related to both sectoral issues and implementation aspects.
(a) Sectralaspect
(i) World-wide experience suggests that lending for systemic reforms is more successful if policy changes are taken up-
front; however, it also suggests that more reliance should be given to positive incentives to bring about change, and that
consensus-building and involvement of all stakeholders should be truly sought. The Project consists of interrelated
measures that tackle the most important issues faced by the sector, while it will support the Govermment's policy as
defined in the IXth Plan, which has been widely discussed in the country;
6



(ii) Taking into account country-specific constraints is key in the design and dosage of reform packages. This is
reflected by the incorporation of the findings and recommendations of two successive sector studies;
(iii) Adequate attention should be given to improving management capabilities of training institutions if they are to be
empowered. This is embedded in the sub-component devoted to the training of staff at the university level; and
(iv) In Tunisia itself, the lack of follow-up (so far) on the Bank's report on private provision of education services
(Report No. 20064-TUN) has indicated that, despite a genuine intention to open up the sector to private interests (as
recommended by the report), the Government follows a gradual path to take action on this politically sensitive issue. The
same gradualism applies to all reforms entailing gains and losses (cost-recovery issues), and changing the current
patterns and channels of decision-making (decentralization issues). Firm on the principle to introduce reforms and on the
overall implementation program, the Government adapts the pace of change, and its packaging, according to political,
economic and social circumstances.
(b) Implementation aspects
(i) The ongoing operation shows that initial Government ownership of the project's concept and firm political
commitment to implement measures are critical for the project's success.
(ii) It also demonstrates that personal commitment, competence and leadership of the head of the implementation team
(and of its members) and clear designation of responsibilities are necessary prerequisites.
(iii) Finally, it shows that qualitative and institutional actions are more difficult to launch, implement and enforce in a
durable manner than civil works and equipment.
11. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
(i) The Government has endorsed the recently completed Bank higher education sector work. There is complete
convergence on the diagnosis and overall agreement on the main recommendations. The MHE recently gave its
clearance for issuing the report in red cover.
(ii) Management of the PHRD Grant for Project preparation has shown MHE's eagerness to engage in activities leading
to the definition of a sound and well articulated project, and the MHE's ability to manage consultants' selection,
contracting and monitoring.
(iii) An oversight committee was appointed on May 12, 1997 to monitor project preparation, and has met regularly
since then.
(iv) The MBE has recently taken a series of initiatives which fit with the recommendations of the Bank sectoral report.
The first is to increase students' contributions to the costs of schooling, meals and rooms, and the second one is the
restructuring of the programs in the second cycle. In addition, the Minister has renewed his commitment to provide the
private sector with a legal framework within the next months.
(v) The MHE has transmitted to the Bank a Letter of sectoral policy that includes all the major reforms upon which the
Government is going to embark, in more detail than the IXth Plan. The MHE has also forwarded an action plan which
operationalizes the Letter of sectoral policy.
(vi) The MHE has sought --and garnered-- consensus around the proposal reforms (e.g. decentralization at the university
level, opening to the private sector) from other concerned departments (e.g. the Ministry of Cooperation and Foreign
Investments, the Ministry of Finances, and the Ministry of Economic Development).
12. Value added of Bank support
The value added of the Bank's involvement in higher education includes: (i) the world-wide Bank experience in the
sector as well as the Bank's familiarity with the Tunisian education sector allow Bank support to go far beyond the
financial aspect, and to support the reform of Tunisia's higher education institutions; (ii) continuity in dialogue (several
sector studies), and in partnership (prior operations in pre-university education, vocational training, and in higher
education --most of them successful) as well as close relationship with the donor community active in the country, allow
the Bank to provide advice from a broad perspective that comes from an awareness of sectoral and macro-economic
issues; and (iii) a contribution of about 20% to the investment program in the sector for the 5-year period of the IXth
Plan.
7



Block 3: Summary Project Assessments (Detailed assessments are in the project file. See Annex 8)
13. Economic Assessment                      Cost Effectiveness        [X]   Fiscal Analysis:  [X]
(see Annex 4)                                 Analysis:
(a) Rationale for public intervention in higher education. This has a threefold basis: economic growth, social mobility
and political stability. On none of these grounds, can the private sector at present offer satisfactory answers, and on each
of them, both market failure and externalities make public provision (not only public financing) still very important.
(b) Rationale for the project. Because public institutions at the post-secondary level will predominate in the medium-
term, and because budgetary pressures to finance public higher education will intensify, it is essential that these
institutions function with maximum efficiency, and be empowered and equipped to compete with a growing domestic
private sector. A sector investment project is the most straightforward way to reach this objective, while contributing to
the accommodation of a rapidly increasing student body (including through the promotion of a more active private
sector).
(c) Costs and effectiveness of the operation. Cost analysis is conducted at three levels: (i) individual, (ii) aggregate --or
fiscal-- and (iii) social. At the first level, there is evidence of high positive rates of return. At the second level, weighing
the costs of the project against the impact of the measures to be taken during project implementation period also yields
net benefits. Efficiency gains derived from higher pass rates could reach 6% of total sector expenditures; similarly, a
10% increase in the level of cost-recovery could yield 6% for academic services and 8% for non-academic services, while
a progressive take-over of enrollments by the private sector could alleviate the public budget by 4%. At the third level,
externalities point to even greater returns. Market failure and arguments drawn from political considerations reinforce
the rationale for the project.
(d) Fiscal impt. Incremental recurrent costs associated with the project are within the capacity of the Government's
higher education budget. Strictly speaking, additional costs associated with the new facilities to be financed under the
Project would stay within 10% of the current (recurrent) budget. However, the impact of a sectoral investment project
must be assessed, taking into account sector-wide cost-saving and cost-recovery measures to be implemented through the
Project. Assuming a constant share of higher education in the state budget (4%), implementation of all measures
envisaged under the Project could bring the sectoral budget from a projected deficit of about 20% to equilibrium within
four years. Projections are sensitive to internal parameters (e.g. the speed and extent of internal efficiency
improvements), and even more to revenue-side external parameters (e.g. growth rate and share of budget funds allocated
to the sector).
14. Financial Assessment (see Annex 5)
The Government will finance 25% of the Project, and the Bank 75%. No other donor is currently planning to formally
co-finance the project. However, it is expected that other donors (possibly the African Development Bank, French and
Qatari contributions) will finance other parts of the Government's investment budget in higher education. About 30% of
the higher education sector during the IXth Plan will be financed from external sources,- of which 66% from the Bank.
External funding issues are directly dealt with by the Ministry of International Cooperation and External Investments.
15. Technical Assessment
(a) Project's first year operations: these operations, which consist solely of civil works, were reviewed during the
appraisal mission and have been assessed positively. They are based on site studies, pedagogical programs and
construction standards as currently and successfully elaborated by the Departnent of Buildings and Equipment within the
MHE. These constructions will not cause any resettlement.
8



(b) Following vyars: technical assessment for the following years cannot be performed ex ante for a sector investment
project. Sub-projects will be selected during annual reviews. Eligibility criteria for civil works include the following
parameters (agreed upon during the pre-appraisal mission): pedagogical, site selection, environmental (as spelled out in
para. 18), architectural, technical, and economic. Appraisal for other items will be completed using standard methods.
16. Institutional Assessment
(a) Executing agenmy: The MHE has been restructured and reinforced under the ongoing Higher Education Restructuring
Project, and as a result, now has the institutional capacity to implement a sectoral project. Two sources of weakness still
exist, however: (i) the Department of Studies, Planning, and Programming is not sufficiently staffed, and this is a
particular concern as this department is supposed to play an important role in the monitoring of the project. Further
strengthening is called for. It was started under the ongoing project, and will continue during the proposed Project; (ii)
high-ranking staff of the ministry overwhelmingly come from academia, some of them with little administrative
experience. This contributes to resistance to change, especially when issues regarding the academic profession are at
stake. Advocacy and exposure to international experience are important elements to overcome change-aversion; (iii)
management capacities at the university level are still weak; the recently created program in university management
should produce a first generation of managers better equipped to hold responsibilities at this level.
(b) Project coordination and oversight: Even though project management will be the responsibility of each concerned
unit within the MHE, a full-time coordinator with direct access to the Minister will be needed to ensure that sub-sectoral
operations are completed in an orderly and timely manner. In addition, a sector investment project also needs a
permanent body with political vision to make sure that sectoral decisions are taken and to monitor issues of sectoral
relevance. This role will be held by an oversight committee which will be closely linked to the Minister, while open to
the outside world.
17. Social Assessment
The Project's social impact has been assessed mainly through meetings and discussions with representatives of most
stakeholders (faculty unions and members, students, university presidents and staff, department heads, individual
employers and employee unions) both during the sector work which preceded preparation of the proposed Project and
during preparation itself. In addition, the PHRD project preparation Grant provided support for surveying over 2,000
students, 500 faculty and staff, and a sample of about 200 firms, on an array of issues regarding higher education (both
internal and in relation to the outside world). The Project will have a positive social impact by allowing additional
student enrollment and better conditions of teaching and learning in the public sector, and also through a more active
participation by the private sector in delivering academic services. In parallel, however, the Project will encourage
increased contributions from users to the costs of education. While this will be done for reasons of equity, it might affect
students' perception of the benefits that the Project will bring about. To mitigate this reaction, awareness and education
campaigns will be strongly encouraged. They will be focused on the long-term, collective benefits to be expected from
the Project. Changes to upgrade faculty career paths, and decentralize decision making may bring both enthusiasm from
stakeholders seeing improved conditions of work and resistance from those who will anticipate some kind of short-tertn
losses. In general, employers should welcome all initiatives aiming at more flexibility, relevance and openness to the
outside world.
18. Environmental Assessment   Environmental Category   A  []     B   [X]       C  []
As the Project will involve substantial construction, disbursement for construction of any higher education facility will be
conditional, each time deemed necessary, on the submission of an environmental analysis and/or mitigation measures
acceptable to the Bank carried out by an independent firm to be reviewed and approved by l'Agence Nationale pour la
Protection de l'Environnement (ANPE) and subsequently by the World Bank. Furthermore, written confirmation that
these constructions do not cause any resettlement will be provided by the Government to the Bank at the time of selection
of subprojects during the annual reviews.
9



19. Participatory Approach        Identificationl         Implemeatin                  Operation
Preparation
Beneficiaries/community groups      CON                     CON                        CON
Academic institutions   CON/COL                  CON/COL                   CON/COL
Local government        N/A                     N/A                        N/A
Other donors      IS/CON                  IS/CON                     IS/CON
Other (faculty/employers)     CON                     CON                        CON
Project preparation was rooted in the continuous dialogue that the Bank maintains with the Tunisian administration at all
levels of the education sector. It was also grounded in the sector work recently completed (two Bank sector studies and
four studies executed under a PHRD Grant by local and international consultants). There had all relied on discussions
(and surveys) with (and between) most stakeholders, including civil servants from the MHE and from other ministries,
teaching staff, university presidents and department heads, as well as students, and representatives of employers
(chambers of commerce, private sector associations, etc). In addition, the project will support sectoral policies which
have been spelled out in the IXth Plan which has been also widely discussed by a large array of stakeholders.
20. Sustainability
(a) Project financial sustainability will be achieved through:
- increased cost-recovery (for both academic and ancillary services),
- increased internal efficiency,
- improved efficiency of public institutions (both at the central level and at the level of universities), and
- more reliance on private involvement in higher education.
(b) The measures that the Project will promote are expected to lead to the sustainability of the whole sector. In turn, their
durable implementation will depend on the resilience of political decision-makers and their will to introduce change even
when it causes temporary losses for some groups.
(c) Institutional sustainability will also depend on the gradual reinforcement of the planning department of MHE, and on
a permanent, manager-style project coordinator to keep reforms going.
21. Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex 1)
Project outputs to development objectives
lRisk                    BilkRisk Minimization Measure
Ratin.*
- Teaching staff opposes changes leading to  S    - Involvement of staff in preparing measures
career reforms
- Central Government officials resist     M       - Exposure of decision makers to experiences in other
empowerment of universities and retain            countries
most of their control                             - Training and introduction of new responsibilities at the
central level
10



- University leaders are not ready to fully  N    - Training and workshops for university presidents and staff
take on new responsibilities                      - Better staffing
- Opposition to substantial increase in the  S    - Increase to be introduced progressively and incrementally
level of students' contribution                   - Equity aspects to be carefully respected and explained
- Staffing and technical norms for new    N       - Agreement on sub-project parameters at appraisal
facilities are not respected                      - Close follow-up of MHE spending and programming
Project components to outputs
B,isk                    Risk                  Risk Minimization Measure
- Sites of new infrastructure are not     N      - Parameters of selection were agreed upon at appraisal, and
selected on the basis of objective criteria       proposed sites will be reviewed during annual sub-project
appraisal
- Technical expertise of the teaching staff is  M  - Training programs for the teaching staff
insufficient to make proper use of the new
technologies equipment to be installed in
universities
- The sub-sector is not able to attract, train,  N  - measures to increase training, incentives and to improve
and retain qualified teaching staff               career development
- University and department heads do not  M       - contents and implementation agenda of the reforms are
embark in the reform                              discussed with main stakeholders
Overall project risk rating        M
*Risk Rating - H(High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
22. Possible Controversial Aspects
Tunisia is facing the doubling of higher education enrollments in the next decade. The country is planning to absorb this
expansion mostly in public facilities, and mostly with public funds, while encouraging a more substantial role for both
financing and provision by private sources. The Government is aware of the financial pressures put on the sector, but it is
ready to face this challenge without compromising education quality. By supporting this approach, the Bank is taking a
risk which is justified by the strong political will of the Government to take up the challenge, and to implement a package
of reforms aimed at improving the efficiency and the sustainability of the sector. Implementation of the measures
referred to in the Letter of Sectoral Policy and spelled out in the Action Plan will be reviewed on an annual basis, which
would enable the task team at the time to (a) determine whether actions have been carried out as agreed during the year
under review, and (b) identify with Governnent the succeeding year's activities. Key indicators of reform progress that
are critical to project success have been identified in Annex 1, and are included in the Loan Agreement as dated
covenants. In addition, the mid-term review will make a general assessment of progress made on the various reforms to
be undertaken and will recommend any action needed to ensure optimal use of the Bank's support (enabling mid-course
corrections as necessary). Reforms are identified in the Action Plan, and monitorable (inter alia) through a battery of 30
indicators, among them the key indicators mentioned above.
11



Three clusters of specific measures might trigger controversies in a politically sensitive sub-sector: (i) decentralization,
(ii) increased cost recovery and (iii) introduction of systematic evaluation procedures for academic staff. Stakeholders
fearing that they will lose from these measures (academic and administrative staff and students alike) may resist, even
actively oppose measures. Reactions to the package of reforms may also be influenced by outside factors such as the
overall political situation, graduate unemployment or economic slowdown. Anticipation of strong reactions may lead the
Government to decide to stop or to slow the pace of reforms. In any event, a gradual approach is likely to be followed,
and in the past it has turned out to be an effective one, attuned to specific local conditions. In addition, however, broad
agreement on the reforms will have to be gained through a more pro-active dialogue with and involvement of the
stakeholders.
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions
23. Conditions
(a) Prior to negotiations, the Government transmitted the following documents to the Bank:
- Letter of Sectoral Development
- Technical specifications for first-year sub-projects
- Criteria for appraising sub-projects
- Action plan and project indicators
- Institutional arrangements for project management, coordination and oversight
(b) Prior to Board Presentation, the following actions had been completed:
- Appointment of the Project coordinator
- Appointment of the oversight committee
24. During Negotiations, the following agreements were reached:
(a) Prior to disbursing for the construction of any higher education facility, the Government will submit to the Bank an
environmental analysis and/or mitigation measures acceptable to the Bank.
(b) Confirmation that no construction on selected sites to be financed by the loan present any resettlement issues.
(c) Before May 31 of each year, transmission to the Bank of the draft higher education sectoral investment budget, and a
detailed description of the activities selected thereunder to be financed under the Project during the following year (to
start in 1998).
(d) Before May 31, transmission to the Bank of a report on the progress achieved the previous year in the implementation
of Project activities, including the sectoral measures identified in the Action Plan (to start in 1999).
(e) Within six months of the end of each fiscal year, transmission to the Bank of an annual audit report.
(f) Before October 31, 2001, transmission to the Bank of a mid-term review report assessing overall progress in
implementing the Project on the basis of the measures laid out in the Action Plan (along with a draft of the Xth Plan for
the sector), as an input to the Mid-Term Review to be conducted jointly with the Bank by December 31, 2001.
(g) Submission to the vote of the Chamber of Deputies, no later than December 31, 1998, of a draft law defining the legal
framework organizing and promoting private higher education.
(h) Submission to the vote of the Chamber of Deputies no later than July 31, 1999, of a draft law vesting universities with
a new legal and administrative status granting them autonomous management power through the operation of a global
subsidy mechanism and a more flexible financial control system (or, if applicable, publishing in the Journal Officiel, of a
decree undertaking the aforementioned action).
(i) The Bank may withhold further approval of investment activities if overall progress in carrying out the measures set
forth in the Action Plan is not satisfactory.
12



Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies
[xl  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
T M r n it Millot   Sector Director: Jacques Bactor: Christian Delvoie
Task Manf r: Ben: it Millot
13



I



Annex 1
Republic of Tunisia: Higher Education Reform Support Project
Project Design Summary
E_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ...................._ ..
.       ......... ...   .  -
Move Tunisia towards middle income    Increased cost recovery                 MHE Reports and data       A. Modernization and global integration
country standards of education                                                                           remain GOT's long-term objectives and will
attainment rates and qualified      Competition in provision of higher                                   be conducted at a sustained pace
manpower, in particular through a   education.
financially sustainable higher education
system
:v  A   ,.......... .. ................                                                                      .... ........................................... ,,. n
(i) promote access to, efficiency and  (i) Enrollment rates (by gender)       MHE Reports and data       A. Demand for higher education is strong
quality of, higher education        (ii) Retention rates (by gender)                                     and durable
A. Regular evaluation of teaching staff and
more emphasis on teaching function is
accepted by staff; and will increase quality
(ii) improve coherence, management,    (i) Degree of devolution of managerial  ..                        A. Decentralized organization and
and flexibility of the higher education    responsibilities from ministry services to                    empowering decision-making at the
sector                              universities                                                         institution level increase management
(ii) Criteria for staff career decisions                            efficiency
(iii) Level of institutions' responsibility and
accountability
(iii) enhance financial sustainabiLity of   (i) Level of cost-recovery for academic  . .                 A. More reliance on loans and user fees
the higher education sector         services                                                             ensures system's sustainability and equity
(ii) Level of students'contribution to non
academic services                                                   A. Increased participation of the private
QQ0
(iii) Existence of an incentive regulatory                          sector to both provision and financing of    0
framework for private initiative                                    higher education promotes diversification,
competition and respond to excess demand,   0
while alleviating budgetary burden



~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -.
(i) Pedagogical reforms              (i) Reorganization of first degree programs  MHE official texts        A. New rules are made transparent and
around common streams                                                 explained to students, who accept them
(ii) New criteria for staff career decisions,                         A. Staff cooperate with the reforms
including recruitment, promotion and
assignment
(iii) Systematic staff evaluation and training                        R. Active resistance to the reforms develop
R. Bureaucratic procedures prevent
appropriate and timely implementation of the
reforms
(ii) Institutional reforms           (i) Redefnition of respective responsibilities   MHE and Ministry of   A. Central administration accepts and
at each level of the higher education system  Finance official texts  encourages devolution, and local
administration takes up new tasks willingly
(iii) Financial reforms              (i) Global redesign of the financing strategy,   MHE official texts    A. Students'ability to pay increase, and
including state/student contributions and                             private investors are attracted by the sector
private provision of services
R. Intersectoral allocation of the budget
._____________________  changes at the expense of higher education
(iv) Additional facilities and better  (i) Additional places in planned sites and  MHE reports              A. Students and staff accept new sites
equipment                            streams
(ii) Availability of new technologies to                              A. Equipment is user friendly and induces
students, teaching & non teaching staff                               frequent use
OQ 0
0(
I-4



F:          .                   .                               .          .                               Ciponeats to Outp...
A.;:.Su  ,es e ::.: ::           :  E  :::::    :
A.l Additional infrastructure in the  1. Implementation rate: 10% in 1998, 30% in  Project files and reports  A. Sufficient building capacity
public sector                        1999, and 70% in 2000                     MHE reports and data
A. Rational selection of sites
2. Budget linefor preventive maintenance  Budget documents
open in 1999                                                         A. Sustained demand
3. Gross enrollment rate: 14% in 1998,   MHE statistics              R Employment prospects worsen and
20% in 2001                                                        demand for public higher education levels
off, creating an over-supply
A.2 Renewing scientific equipment in    4. Project implementation rate         Project progress reports
existing science-oriented institutions
A.3 Initiate library stocks in new   5. Project implementation rate              ;
facilities
A.4 Increased participation of the   6 The draft law defining the legal        Government official records   A. Private investors' confidence is restored
private sector in the provision of  framework organizing andpromoting higher                              by sufficient incentives and reduction of
academic and ancillary services      education, Is submitted to the Chamber of                            uncertainty regarding the rules and
Deputies by December 1998                                            regulations applying to the sector
R. Private investors are interested mostly in
7. At least 5% of students 'meals are sub-  MHE and industry data    providing services to the very low-end of the
contracted to the private sector in A Y                              clientele (poor quality at low costs) and/or at
1999/2000                                                            the very upper end (elitist education at high
price)
8. A pilot program ofprivatization of student   MHE documents                                                      e 
meals is launched in AY1998/99, and                                                    .                   .
appraised within 6 months
.         o~~~~~0



B. 1 More efficient and flexible    9. Completion of the reform introducingfull   MHE reports           A. Module design is made in a collaborative
pedagogic organization       modularity in Ist cycles in AYI999/00                               way with faculty staff
IO.Freedom of institutions to select at least    "                A. Modularity has a positive impact on
25% of the modules starting as ofAYI 999/00                        quality and internal efficiency
11. Enrollments in doctoral studies increase
by 10% annually on average as of AY
1999/00
A. Faculty staff understand the interest of
12. Initial and in-service training for teaching                   the centers and make use of them
staff starts, and centersfor pedagogic
resources open as ofAYl999/00
13. Budget linefor teaching staff training is   Budget documents
open as ofAY1999/00
14. Tracer studies to follow students leaving    MHE statistics
higher education are launched in
collaboration with universities, as of 1999
15a. Aggregate repetition rates by cycle and
stream
15.b Aggregate pass rates by cycle and stream
B.2 Improved faculty staff          16. A minimum average of 900 new teaching   Budget documents        A. High caliber candidates are attracted by
development and management      positions are open annually as of AY1999/00                        the teaching profession
17. Recruitment procedures are changed as of  MHE documents        R. Graduation at the soctoral level is
June 1998                                                          insufficient to turn out the necessary number
of faculty staff to be recruited/quality of new
18. Budgetfor doctorate research is increased  Budget documents    staff diminishes
annually by 5% in real terms as of 1998
19. A systematic and transparent system of   MHE documents                                                     OQt
staff evaluation is in place as of AY1998/99                                        .                              x
0



* *............ ... ......S4~   .lf.ZU.. .. F ....
C.l  Decentralization of Management   20. Submission to the Chamber of Deputies    Government legal texts  A. Commitment to projected reform does
Responsibilities                     of a draft law (or, ifapplicabk, publication                          not falter
in the Journal Officiel of a decree), vesting
universites with a legal and administrative
status which grants them autonomous
management, and makes moreflexible the
control system, by July 1999                                         A. Various stakeholders understand and
accept new rules of governance and are able
21. Timely implementation of the new legal    MHE documents          to solve differences of interest at the
texts                                                                institution level
R. University presidents and staff, individual
department heads and staff do not embark in
the reform, try to block it, and trigger a
reversal to more centralized management
style
C.2  Capacity Building at both       22. A recruitment planfor new staff and a  ..
centalized and decentralized levels  training planfor existing staff is adopted in
AY 1998/99
C.3  Support to Project Management    23. Project Implementation rate          Project progress reports
(D (D
x
Ln
0 I
t-h
-'



M - 
D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... ...:...:.::... :...  ...:;:: t-
D.1 Equipment                        24. Completion of a study on hardware     MHE documents              A. Commitment is made to open the country
(including cabling) and software needs for all                       entirely to international networks, and follow
public higher education facilities by March                          up so that scientific community can establish
1999                                                                itself through multimedia technology
25. At least 20 PCs are available for 1000  Cs                       R. Insufficient technical coordination with
students andfaculty staff by end of 1999, and at                     other departments preempt a rational and
least 40 (out of which half connected to the                         rapid equipment of facilities
national and/or international network) by the
end of 2001
26. Sufficient resources for the maintenance and  Budget documents
replacement of hardware are available in the
budget as of AY2000/01
D.2 Training and Support for         27. Completion of a strategy aiming at    MHE documents              R. Lack of technical expertise preempt an
pedagogic purpose              developing new technologyfor pedagogic                                optimal use of new technologies by staff
purposes, and laying out a training program
before December 1999
28. At least 15% of instittons enrolling 1000   MHE documents
students and more are equipped with one
conputer center by A Y1999/00 and at least
25% by A Y2000/01
29. The center for experimentation of new  MHE documents
interactive and multimedia technologies
(including Internet) is open by December 1999
30a. Free access to Internetfor pedagogic and
scientific purposes forfaculty staff, by December
1999
30b. Free access to Internet for pedagogic
purposes to students, by December 1999
31. Launching pilot experiments with new
technologies by June 2000                                                                                         lb
D.3 Training and Support for management  32. A computerized management system is put in  MHE documents    _                                 X
purposes                             place in universities, as they start implementing                                                                   '
new rules                                                                                                         o



B. Financing~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ...
E. 1 Global financing strategy      33. Completion ofprojection models leading   Bureau of Studies, planning
to a globalfmancing scheme (including   and programming
students 'contributions) before December
1999, and use of the modelfor budget
preparation                                 _
E.2 Student contribution to the costs  34. Implementation of cost-recovery measures  MHE documents      A. Students, their families, and politically
of training                   for academic services will continue as                              active groups understand and accept a
required by budgetary constraints                                  progressive increase of their contribution to
both academic and non-academic costs
35. The ratio of scholarships to loans will  MBE documents         A. Capacities of the system to track down
change from its current 70/30 level to 45/55                       former students for loan repayment increase
by AY2000/01                                                       enough to make the mechanism worthwile
R. Employment prospects dwindle and feed
resistance to increased contribution
E.3 Cost recovery for non-academic  36. The proportion of students accommodated  MEE documents
services                       by the public boarding scheme is decreased
from its current 33% level to 25% in AY
2001/02
MME documents
375. Implementation of cost-recovery
measuresfor non-academic services will
continue as required by budgetary constraints
Notes (1) AY = Academic Year
(2) Indicators in italics are introduced in the Action Plan (to be included in a Supplemental Letter)
(3) Indicators in bold are the key indicators (to be referred to in covenants of the Loan Agreement)
P
x
-4
0
1h
-4



I



Annex 2
Page 1 of 6
Annex 2
Republic of Tunisia: Higher Education Reform Support Project
Detailed Project Description
Project Component A - Supply Response
US$81.0 million total cost including contingencies
Introduction   During the period of the IXth and Xth Plans (1997-2006), enrollments in higher education are expected
to increase by an average 10% annually, and to reach 250,000 by 2005/2006. The Project would contribute by supporting
the required supply response to this unprecedented increase in order to absorb these additional flows of students without
sacrificing academic quality. The response would be two-pronged: first, it would support the expansion and maintenance
of facilities and equipment in the public sector, which will continue to be the most important provider of higher
education services; but it would also support the encouragement of the private sector to enter the market of both
academic service and ancillary service provision. The component would be divided into four sub-components.
Sub-component A. 1   Additional infrastructure in the public sector
Objective:    This sub-component would allow the extension of academic and non-academic public facilities in both
existing and new sites, to absorb additional students.
Activities:
(a)    Buildings:    New facilities selected for the IXth Plan and eligible for financing by the Loan as of
1998 include: a School of Management and Economic Sciences (with 5,000 students) and a School of Fine Arts (with
800 places) in Nabeul, as well as a School of Sciences (5,000 students), a cafeteria and a dormitory in Gabbs.
(b)    Goods':      Education materials, equipment, and furniture for these new facilities.
(c)    Services:    Technical assistance would be provided to the Ministry of Higher Education as needed
in the areas of architecture, technical supervision, and preventive and curative building and equipment maintenance2.
Criteria: In order to be eligible for financing by the loan, sub-projects will have to:
(a)    Be included in the MHE investment budget
(b)   Be appraised by the MHE, using criteria agreed upon with the Bank, included in '"fiches de sous-projet',
and listed in a supplemental letter to the loan. Criteria will be (i) technical, (ii) pedagogic, (iii) economic, (iv) land
availability, (v) environmental, (vi) site servicing, (vii) architectural, (viii) procurement, and (ix) consensus building.
Sectoral Measures3:
(a)   Implementation of construction program as well as procurement of necessary equipment.
(b)   Development of a program to ensure appropriate maintenance for preventive purposes.
Sub-compent A.2   Upgrading scientific equipment in existing science-oriented institutions
Objective:    To upgrade the equipment in existing institutions to avoid a widening gap in the material endowments
between these and new institutions.
Activities:    Purchase of scientific equipment
'Computer equipment is included in component D
2Technical assistance will be provided through the association of foreign experts and local teams
3Sectoral measures are detailed in the Action Plan



Annex 2
Page 2 of 6
Measures:    Elaboration of maintenance and upgrading system.
Sub-component A.3   Establishment of new, and restocking of existing libraries
Objective:    To renew and supplement stocks of libraries in all universities
Activities:   Purchase of textbooks
Measures:    Procurement of books; dissemination to all universities.
Sub-component A.4   Increased participation of the private sector in academic and ancillary service provision
Objective:    To develop private sector interest in the higher education sector in pedagogic service provision as well as
in ancillary service provision (such as cafeteria, dormitory or other non-academic services). The development of a
private higher education sector is expected to alleviate the State budget and to offer differentiated academic services.
The increased participation of private operators in the provision of ancillary services is expected to improve the
efficiency through the association of experimental partners from industry.
Activities:   For higher education provision, this subcomponent would finance: (a) a study of private sector interest
and incentives; and (b) a study tour to countries where public/private partnerships work well in higher education that
would be designed for major decision-makers in Government. For ancillary service provision, a pilot operation would be
financed that would look at several scenarios for private sector involvement, including the granting of concessions or
sub-contracting by public institutions.
Measures:    Their aim is the development of private investment in the higher education sector. There will be two
types:
(a) Academic services: enactment of necessary legal framework provides minimum guarantees to private
sector investors.
(b) Ancillary service: identification and involvement of private sector partners in the management of
cafeterias and dormitories (cites).
Project Component B - Quality and relevance
US$0.5 million total cost including contingencies
Under this component, the Project aims to support improvements in the quality, internal efficiency and relevance of the
higher education sector. In particular, the Project would support adaptation of curricula and pedagogic methods and the
enhancement of faculty qualifications and motivation.
Sub-component B.1    More efficient and flexible pedagogic organization
Objectives:    To support the implementation of reforms already started by the Government, aiming at:
(a)    reducing repeater and dropout rates in the first cycle of higher education by: (i) introducing the concept
of standard introductory courses across all fields of study; and enabling easier reorientation from one course of study to
another; (ii) consolidating similar courses; and (iii) offering an education that qualifies students for employment.
(b)    introducing flexibility in the second cycle through the introduction of modular courses and the
accreditation of masters' programs in order to enable individual institutions to define their own requirements for course
content.
(c)    modernizing pedagogic methods through the introduction of pre- and in-service training programs for
faculty, and the creation of pedagogic resource centers.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 6
Activities:  Study tours and technical assistance, particularly for (a) study of systems in other countries where
master's degrees are recognized, where pedagogic resource centers function effectively, and where training programs for
trainers as well as for faculty in didactics by discipline have been put into place.
Measures:    Introduction of standard initial cycles and definition of reorientation possibilities between courses of
study; introduction of modules in the second cycle, the expansion of higher education institutions' autonomy in awarding
masters' degrees; training of newly recruited faculty-researchers; introduction of faculty in- and pre-service training
programs; and creation of pedagogic resource centers; adoption of required regulations/decrees and allocation of
necessary counterpart funds in the budget.
Sub-component B.2  Improved facult development and management
Objective:    It is twofold:
(a) Quantitative aspects:  To recruit qualified faculty (900 per year on average) for the newly constructed
establishments, including encouraging external training for faculty members, and improving the functioning of the
recruitment juries with the regular rotation of jury members and the introduction of transparent selection criteria.
(b) Qualitative aspects:   To improve faculty morale and productivity through giving greater importance
to teaching rather than to research in faculty career development, and through the development of a systematic and
transparent evaluation system.
Activities:    Study tours and technical assistance, particularly to study international experiences with quantification
and evaluation of faculty tasks; seminars and conferences to discuss objectives of this reform and to ease acceptability by
major stakeholders.
Measures:    Annual recruitment and training of faculty needed for new establishments as well as to fill existing
faculty vacancies; encouragement of doctorate studies in other countries to improve the quality of faculty recruits (these
can also be studies offered jointly by local and external partners); modification of legal texts and regulations regarding
recruitment jury composition and tenure with a view to introducing transparency and to rotating membership; increase in
credits given to/by centers training doctoral candidates.
Project Component C - Governance and management
US$1.9 million total cost including contingencies
A recent reform has created six universities headingfacultes and ecoles. The relatively new universities are often not up
to the monumental task of managing their various faculties, schools, and institutes. The Project aims to train and
empower the managers of the new universities with a view to enabling them to make appropriate and timely decisions
regarding material, financial and human resource use. This would be achieved through increased autonomy and
flexibility in decision making.
Sub-component C. I   Decentralization of management responsibilt
Objective:    To renew the universities' role as the principal managers of the financial and administrative functions of
the higher education system; to remove existing a priori fmancial controls, and to enable universities to determine how to
use self-generated revenues. The universities would be granted a new status allowing them to manage block grants. They
will also bear sole responsibility for their administrative personnel as well as those of their institutions. Finally,
alternative systems of financing that provide incentives for improved resource use and for revenue generation would be
studied, with the possibility of eventual implementation.
Activities:    Study tours, seminars and technical assistance, particularly for the design of a decentralized management
system as well as a mechanism for assuring accountability.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 6
Measures:    Introduction of a new status for universities; preparation of an action plan to implement this new status,
new management and budgetary control procedures; measures to pass responsibility for managing administrative staff to
universities; completion of a study and the implementation of an improved financing system.
Sub-component C.2   Capa ity building at central and decentralized levels
Objective:    To encourage -he recruitment of qualified managers and administrative staff at the university level and
the training of existing manag. -s and administrative staff (using in particular graduates from the new higher education
management stream). To equij t the central services of the MHE directly involved in the Project implementation and
follow up with required office and computer equipment.
Activities:    Technical assistance to formulate a personnel plan and training program, to support central departments
responsible for equipment and buildings, and to assist in planning and programming reform actions. Some equipment
purchase for the coordination unit, the MHE unit responsible for civil works and equipment, and the MHE unit charged
with financial follow up of project activities.
Measures:    As part of the decentralization, projection of staff needs and adoption of recruitment plan and of training
program, and --if necessary-- transfer of posts from ministry to universities.
Project Component D - Intensified use of new technologies
US$22.8 million total cost including contingencies
The Project aims to (a) encourage the daily and routine use of computers and informatics in general by students
and faculty, (b) to progressively introduce the use of new technologies in teaching and learning, and (c) equip
decentralized administrative units with computerized tools.
Sub-component D. I   Computer networks and material
Objective:    To equip computer centers for use by students and faculty, to provide computers for management and
administrative use, and to link universities to local and international networks by providing the necessary software and
hardware. To ensure sustainability of centers through adequate financing of upgrading and maintenance activities.
Activities:
(a)    Technical assistance to help define specifications for networking hardware and software, to design
training programs.
(b)    Purchase of appropriate equipment and software.
Measures:    Completion of studies for the conception of a plan for equipping computer centers and for encouraging
routine use of new technologies through the introduction and training of, and continued assistance to, new users.
Purchase of required equipment and peripherals, and completion of cabling. Recruitment of qualified staff to support
centers. Availability of budget for maintenance and updating of equipment.
Sub-cmpnent D.2   Technology training and uWort for pedaggogy
Objective:    To encourage faculty and students in the use of new technologies as teaching and learning tools,
including but not limited to the daily use of computers for writing reports, running calculation or statistical procedures, to
access national and/or international databases, and to use new technologies as an integral part of the teaching program.
Activities:
(a)    Technical assistance to create help centers for users in each establishment and to design training
programs for users, and study tours for those in charge of these centers to see similar facilities elsewhere.



Annex 2
Page 5 of 6
(b)    Technical assistance for the creation of a study center to introduce the use of new technologies as a
teaching/learning tool. Twinning agreement signed with one or more foreign institutions that already have extensive
experience in this area (including study tours to twin institutions).
Measures:
(a)    Elaboration of a strategy for use of new technologies as teaching/learning tool.
(b)    Creation of help centers for users;
(c)   Implementation of a training program,
(d)    Creation of a study center for the use of new technologies as a teaching/learning tool. Identification and
(e)   Implementation of pilot programs for interactive tele-teaching (distance education) and for computer-
aided instruction through the use of Internet or through the use of CD or DVD.
Sub-component D.3   Technology training and support for management
Objective:    To introduce a computerized management information system (MIS) that would assist ongoing efforts to
endow universities with the ability to manage their own human, material and financial resources.
Activities:  Technical assistance for the introduction and implementation of an MIS. Purchase of equipment and
software as needed.
Measures:    Study of MIS needs and current practices. Implementation of MIS.
Project Component E - Financing
US$0.4 million total cost including contingencies
Projected twofold enrollment increase within the next 10 years, combined with the heavy dependence of the higher
education system on the Government budget bring into question the sustainability of this system. Parallel to its support
to efficiency and management improvements and to encouragement of private participation initiative in the sector, the
Project will support existing efforts aimed at enhancing the financial sustainability of the sector through (a) elaboration
and implementation of a comprehensive financing strategy, and (b) increased and equitable cost-recovery for tuition
services and non-academic services by users.
Sub-component E. 1   Global financing strategy
Objective:    The efforts already made by the State (including external resources) for the higher education sub-sector
justifies that full consideration be given to the financial impact of this effort (recurrent expenditures, amortization,
maintenance, debt). The Project will help develop statistical models to project future enrollments, estimate investment
and operating costs as well as fiscal resources and cost-recovery expectations. In turn, these models will allow the
formulation of a global financing strategy for higher education.
Activities:    Technical assistance for the development of a financial model for the long-term development and
sustainability of the higher education sector.
Measures:    Development of a valid long-term financial model allowing the formulation of a global financing
strategy for higher education.
Sub-component E.2   Equitable participation of students in education costs
Objective:    The growing financial deficit in higher education as projected during the preparation of the IXth Plan
requires an increase in the share of education costs borne by students. However, to prevent all financial barriers to entry
and to ensure equal access to higher education, a more efficient student loan system would be developed and
implemented.



Annex 2
Page 6 of 6
Activities:   Technical assistance for feasibility studies. Study tours for decision-makers.
Measures:    Gradual increase in share of education costs borne by students.
Sbcomponent E.3    Cost recovery for non-academic services
Objective:    To improve current poorly targeted system of subsidization of ancillary services with one that is more
efficient while remaining equitable. To gradually increase share of such costs borne by students with a view to eventual
fnancial sustainability without subsidy. To improve efficiency and management of such service through the
involvement of the private sector4
Activities:   Study tours to countries where private financing of such costs has been introduced successfully.
Technical assistance for implementation of a realistic and equitable pricing policy.
Measures:    Progressive reduction of Government's share in financing of these activities.
4Encouragement of the private sector in the provision of ancillary services is included in sub-component A.4



Annex 3
Page 1 of 1
Annex 3
Republic of Tunisia: Higher Education Reform Support Project
Estimated Project Costs
(US$'000)
Local         Foreign            Total
Project Componen
Adapting access to demand           32,804.6         31,306.6        64,111.2
Improvements in quality and relevance   74.6           364.0            438.6
Strengthening university management   731.2            973.8          1,705.0
Intensified use of new technologies  5,479.6         14,061.5         19,541.1
Financial sustainability               68.2            332.8            401.0
Total Baseline Cost                 39,158.1         47,038.8        86,196.9
Physical Contingencies             3,322.6         4,334.1          7,656.8
Price Contingencies                9,364.6         3,367.3         12,731.9
Total ProjectCo                     51,845.4         54,740.2       106,585.6
* totals may not add up due to rounding



I



Annex 4
Page 1 of 15
Annex 4
Republic of Tunisia: Higher Education Reform Support Project
Cost Effectiveness Analysis
A.    Background
1.    The proposed Project comes at a critical juncture in Tunisia. The projected influx of
new students into the higher education system in the next 10 years is enormous: current
enrollment stands at 136,000 students, but this is projected to almost double (253,000) by 2006
(Attachment, table 1). This increase is the result of two parallel trends: demographic growth and
greater efficiency of the education system at pre-university levels. As 97% of students are
currently enrolled in the public sector, such an increase puts a formidable pressure on public
finances: under the current economic and budgetary conditions, and using the current production
ftmction, enrolling the projected number of students would entail a deficit of 22% of
expenditures over revenues in the sub-sector by 2006 (Attachment, table 2).
2.     The approach followed by the Government is to disengage the State from industrial and
other activities where it does not have a comparative advantage, and to channel resources thus
freed to buttress the infrastructure needed by private firms to compete in a world-open
environment. Human resources are the main focus of such a redeployment. Higher education
will, in particular, benefit from this shift in emphasis. Promotion of higher education is a course
which is followed by other countries such as Malaysia in order not only to raise labor
productivity, but also to help the economy to move towards the forefront of new technologies
which are knowledge intensive . Increasing budgetary allocations for this sector is therefore part
of the overall approach. As the share of higher education is still relatively modest in the overall
state budget, and as pre-university enrollments will start leveling off, such a scheme appears
plausible, and it is this approach that the proposed Project is requested to support.
3.    However, the size of the projected sectoral budgetary deficit is substantial, and it is
therefore critical that investments in this sector, such as those included in the proposed Project,
not only constitute an adequate supply response to demand, but also help to alleviate this
pressure. To justify these investments, a three-step approach is followed: (a) benefits expected
from the Project are estimated at the individual, sectoral and social levels; then (b) these benefits
are weighted against the costs at the samne three levels; and finally (c) market failure arguments
are briefly presented, as further rationale for public investments in the sector.
B.    Benefits
B.1   Individual level
4.    Individual benefits expected to derive from the Project include incremental earnings to
be derived from students investing in higher education. Estimating such incremental earnings is
Malaysia Seventh Economic Plan



Annex 4
Page 2 of 15
always difficult, since they will accrue in the future. Therefore, estimates must be based on
current earnings, which raises the question of the stability of the earnings structure. In Tunisia,
data on salaries according to education level are scarce, and those on other forms of earnings are
unreliable. In the civil service, salaries are administered prices which remunerate graduates
automatically. Senior staff generally begin their careers at a salary equivalent to about 2.5 times
that of a civil servant at the bottom of the hierarchy (Attachment, table 3). For the private sector,
fragmentary data obtained from the 1990 annual enterprises survey point to a ratio between
professionals (the category in which most higher education graduate are found) and unskilled
personnel of 3.5:1 in offshore business and 3.5 in the rest of the sector. Therefore, in both
sectors, the wage premium appears to be quite substantial; it is not clear in which direction the
differential might evolve: on the one hand, it might dwindle in the future, as scarcity of highly
skilled manpower will diminish; but on the other hand, abundant skilled labor and lower wage
rates --at all skill levels-- are likely to attract more foreign direct investments in Tunisia, and lead
to greater demand for skilled labor, which in turn will push earnings upward. In any case there
are good reasons, based on international experience, to believe that the premium linked to higher
education will be durable.
B.2   Sectoral level
5.    Benefits expected from the Project at this level come from two sources: on the cost side,
they are efficiency gains, and on the revenue side, they can take either the form of cost-recovery,
or of a diversification of supply. These quantifiable benefits will be brought about by the
package of measures to be implemented under the proposed Project. These measures will
produce system-wide improvements which are prerequisites for capturing the measurable
benefits identified and estimated further below:
(a)    Regulatory reforms condition a bolder participation of the private sector, which
in turn will alleviate the financial burden on the public budget (1st component).
(b)    Organizational reforms, such as the introduction of a genuine modular system in
the 1st cycle and a more flexible system of transfer between streams, condition
improvement of internal efficiency (2nd component).
(c)    Pedagogical reforms and improvements, such as better staff training and career
development and a more systematic use of new technologies also condition improvement
of internal efficiency, while promoting quality (2nd and 4th components).
(d)    Management reforms, such as devolution of administrative powers --including
decision power on allocation of funds-- to universities, condition efficiency gains at the
sectoral level (3rd component).
(e)    Financial measures and reforms, such as the reshaping of the system of students'
contribution scheme are key inputs in the cost-recovery gains expected from the Project
(5th component).
B.2.1 Cost-savings measures
6.    The largest component of the budget for higher education is accounted for by salaries
and operating expenses. Even though changing the faculty/student ratio or the statutory number
of classes taught per faculty member are both numerically feasible, neither is a viable option



Annex 4
Page 3 of 15
politically and even pedagogically or from a management standpoint2. However, an indirect
reason for the relatively high cost of education in Tunisia is the high rate of repetition and
dropouts by students, especially in the first cycle. In 1995/96, repeaters accounted for 31% of
enrollment, which represents a substantial waste of resources, and a burden both.n the MHE
budget, not to mention a high opportunity cost to the repeaters themselves. High repetition and
dropout rates exert a strong pressure on both physical and human resources, and produce negative
effects on the overall educational environment. The magnitude of the waste can be estimated using
four kinds of measures3:
(a) the number of years to a diploma for a student who does not drop out (but may
repeat)
(b) the actual number of student years required to produce a diploma (including
dropouts)
(c) the total years of actual study per expected year
(d) the inverse of the third measure - as a measure of efficiency
7.     Measure (a) is obtained by taking the total number of diplomas produced by a given
cohort. Measure (b) is obtained by dividing (a) by the number of student years which would
have been required had there been no dropouts and no repetition - that is, had each student taken
exactly the required number of years to gain the diploma. As an example, the average number of
years to get a diploma for a continuing student in Liberal Arts Faculty was 5.7 years, while the
total number of student years per diploma was 9.6. Since this is nominally a four year degree, it
means that it takes 2.4 student years on average to complete one year in the program (measure c).
This yields an efficiency rating (d) of 41.5% (Attachment, table 4).
8.     Then the contribution of each faculty to the cost component of the MHE is estimated.
Let us focus on just the three faculties which are both the most crowded (they enroll 49% of the
entire student body in 1977) and are the least efficient -- Liberal Arts Faculty, Law Faculty and
Science Faculty -- Their combined cost is almost one third of the total cost to the Ministry, in
spite of low per unit costs. These three faculties produce 40% of all diplomas granted in that
year. Combining the cost per student and the actual number of student years required to produce
a diploma gives the cost per diploma: the institutions in which the annual cost per student is the
highest ("Grandes Ecoles") are often those which produce graduates at the lowest price, thanks
to the combined effect of shorter cursus and lower wastage (Attachment, Table 5).
9.     Finally, we simulate the impact of a gradual increase of internal efficiency by
demonstrating the effect of changes in the three selected faculties. In the scenario presented
(Attachment, Table 6), it is assumed that the number of years of study per expected year drops
by half in the three key faculties in 2006: Liberal Arts, to 1.2; Law and Sciences to 1.4. The
impact of this, quite a theoretical assumption, would be essentially to halve the number of
students at any time, and hence to halve the student dependent component of the budget. The
impact would be quite dramatic in terms of budget deficit reduction: as a proportion of the higher
education budget, the deficit would drop from over 20% to less than 5% by 2006.
2
It is to be noticed that even though the statutory number of hours is low by international standards, these hours are topped by
"complementary hours", negotiated department by departnent with regular and part-time faculty, at a much lower rate than the
statory hours.
3
Historical repetition, dropout and pass rates by yea by faculty were factored in the estimates



Annex 4
Page 4 of 15
B.2.2 Cost-recovery measures
10.    On the revenue side, the first set of measures to be implemented through the Project
to alleviate the pressure on the public budgets is a gradual increase in students' contribution to
both academic and non-academic costs. The low level of current cost-recovery for academic
services should leave some margin of maneuver, and the recent increase in fees should be only
the start of a new trend. Taking into account this increase, revenues from collecting the fees
represent about 2% of the total current budget for academic services. Although the pace of
increase cannot easily be decided ahead of time, and will depend both on budgetary constraints
and political opportunity, it is possible to simulate the impact of reaching a cost-recovery level of
10% (i.e. the average of Asian countries in 1985). In addition to this measure (the impact of
which is recorded in Attachment, table 7), the MHIE will commission a study to devise a
comprehensive financing strategy, which will examine the feasibility of launching a pre-
financing scheme both more consistent with budgetary constraints and more equitable.
11.    The other source of cost-recovery lies in students'contribution to non-academic services.
The current level of this contribution is about 11% for meals and 22% for accommodation. The
gradual increase of the contribution is also part of the long-term plan of the Govermment. Even
if it affects a budget item which represents less than 10% of the overall operating budget of the
MHE, rising the contribution to the costs of meals and lodging to respectively 50 and 25% would
free up about between TND20 and 30 million each year, and could also have a clear pedagogic
impact (Attachment, table 8).
12.   In parallel, the MNIE will revisit the current scholarship and loan scheme, whose real role
is to subsidy living expenses, without a properly functioning targeting system. The MHE will
start to reverse the current scholarship/loan ratio (65/35), but the positive impact of such a
measure will show after the period.
B.2.3 Diversification of providers
13.    The second set of measures consists in promoting a more important role for the private
sector as a provider of higher education services. This will be achieved through passing a law
which will provide a clear legal framework and give to potential investors in the sector some
reassurance regarding the business environment. The law will regulate conditions of entry,
specify some of the parameters of the production function (quality and security) as well as those
regarding the labeling of the output and the advertising of the institution. As the reaction of the
private sector is by nature nonquantifiable4, only an arbitrary simulation can be done to show the
potential transfer of a portion of the incremental enrollments. Even if the private sector was to
absorb a more substantial share of the expansion than the sector as a whole, the strain on the
public budget would be lightened by a rather modest coefficient, by no means large enough by
itself to offset the projected deficit (Attachment, table 9).
14.   In addition, the MHE will reduce the current proportion of students being accommodated
in public facilities specialized in providing lodging and food. Such a transfer to professional
operators should relieve the State and free up public service personnel for other purposes. It
4
A quick look at local joumnals shows frequent advertising by almost a dozen private institutions.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 15
should also reduce the total costs of operating these services. Finally, as it will likely improve
the quality of the services, the gradual transfer might ease greater students'contribution to the
service. Even though the impact of such a transfer has not been estimated, it is nevertheless clear
that it would entail further efficiency gains.
B.3.   Social level: Externalities
B.3.1 Private side
15.    Positive externalities benefitting to individuals have been discussed and documented in
quite diverse national environments. They include both monetary and non-monetary elements.
Contribution of higher education to private benefits accrue to (i) students themselves: improved
health and nutrition, increased likelihood of matching partners --which in turn reinforce positive
effects on children, (ii) and within the household: improved health and education of one's
children.
B.3.2 Society at large
16.    Second, there are also external benefits to the society, which include contributions to
democratic freedom, building socially acceptable norms, increase in social cohesion, etc.5 These
effects push higher education closer to the area of public goods, and help to explain why in
virtually all countries in the world, higher education remains predominantly financed by public
money. Indeed, in addition to these non-market effects, there are indirect benefits which have to
do with increases in productivity through research and innovation. Even though none of these
effects have been estimated in Tunisia (but in other countries), there is little doubt they are
present, and therefore reinforce the case for public investment, whether through domestic
resources or from external sources. In particular, the availability of a pool of well-educated,
highly skilled technicians and graduates ready to take up executive-level responsibilities, if
combined with other factors (such as a flexible labor market, a reliable judiciary system and a
responsive administration), clearly constitutes a clear incentive for foreign investments. In turn,
the latter have an impact on the employment and wage level.
C.     Weighing costs and benefits
C.1    Individual level
17.    Even though positive private returns to a public investment are not enough to justify
such an investment, they signal a potential for it, and a basis for further, non quantified benefits.
Deriving these returns from a Mincerian human capital regression requires micro data on
individual education, age, marital status, family income, gender, and other factors possibly
affecting earnings, such as experience and a measure of the likelihood of participation in the
labor force.
18.    Data of this type are not available in Tunisia. Instead, three sources of data were used to
get around the problem: (i) a household consumption survey of 3,500 households performed in
The literature is abundant on the subject. It was initiated mainly by Weisbrod (1964), given a new impulse, inter alia, by Haveman and
Wolfe (1984), and revived again by Wolfe and Zuvekas (1997)



Annex 4
Page 6 of 15
1995, (ii) a non-random survey performed in 1991 of 1,000 employed individuals, and (iii) a
survey of over 1,000 studentsferformed during Project preparation under the instruction of the
Ministry of Higher Education . From the first survey (in which consumption is used as a proxy
for earnings), annual consumption of households where the head has superior education is be
increased by about 28 to 29% relative to households where the head has secondary education.
Similar results are found from the survey of income data - where an individual with the highest
level of education earns between 33 and 34% more than those with secondary education. These
results must be interpreted with some caution - in particular, no correction is made for selection
bias-- but the similarity is encouraging. They also follow the results from the third set of data,
which show that students expect a 25-30% increase in earnings as a result of the superior
education. Finally, the findings are of the same magnitude of those estimated recently for
countries such as Malaysia and Morocco (24% for a four year degree in the latter case).
C.2    Aggregate level
C.2.1 Balance sheet
19.    In order to get an overall picture of the net effects of the Project at the sectoral level, all
benefits expected at the sectoral level (cost-saving and cost-recovery) have been aggregated on
an annual basis, and weighted against costs of the measures to be taken under Project life (and
referred to in the Action Plan agreed upon during negotiations). These are indeed very
approximate figures which are intended to give an order of magnitude. On average, benefits are
more than double the size of corresponding costs on a 6-year period (table 1).
Table 1: Project Costs and benefits associated with selected measures, 1998-2003
(TND million)
Components                                               Costs   Measurable        Cost Total Gains
Efficiency    recovery  associated
Gains            with sectoral
measures
.........................~ ~..................    .......... .................................................................. S............................ ...................................................
Component A.1 and D Infrastructure and equipment         151.8
Component A.2 Increased private participation              0.1         60.7                    60.7
Components B & C Increased intemal efficiency              2.4         65.1                    65.1
Component D2 Increased tultion cost recovery               0.4                    113.0       113.0
Component D3 Increased food and room cost recovery         0.1                    135.4       135.4
Total                                                    154.8        125.8       248.4       374.2
The respective surveys are described in Zaien (1991), INS (1995), and ARMA (1997)



Annex 4
Page 7 of 15
20.     Because the proposed Project will be financed through a sectoral investment loan, the
precise components to be financed under the loan are not well-defined at the time of appraisal;
therefore, it does not lean itself to cost-benefit analysis. Instead, it is interesting to push the
analysis of the sectoral measures further, and to assess how the aggregate impact of all these
measures may contibute to alleviate the projected sector budget deficit. Such an analysis was
completed by using the projection model developed in the Planning Department of the MHE, and
adapted by the Bank team. It can be easily seen that none of the measures envisaged can by
themselves suffice to reduce the deficit (table 2). It is only a combination of measures which can
yield such a result. Implementing all measures simultaneously would produce a surplus.
Table 2: Aggregate Impact of sectoral measures 1998-2003 (TND million)
1998       1999       2000        2001       2002       2003         Total
Scenarii
.............................................................................................................. ............................................................................................ ........................................................................
Base scenario
Total revenues                    234.3      248.6       263.8      279.8      296.8       314.6      1637.9
Total expenditures                266.2      297.8         329      360.8      385.5       405.5      2044.8
Total Deficit                      31.9       49.2        65.2         81        88.7       90.9       406.9
Deficit/expenditures (%)           12.0       16.5        19.8       22.5       23.0       22.4         19.9
Increased intemal efficiency
Gain                                4.7        10.3       16.9       24.5       32.6        41.1       130.1
Total Deficit                      27.2       38.9        48.3       56.5        56.1       49.8       276.8
DeficitlexpendRtures (%)           10.2       13.1        14.7       15.7       14.6        12.3        13.5
Cost recovery of tuition costs
Gain                               12.7        14.6       16.4       18.4        19.8       20.9       102.8
Total Deficit                      19.2       34.6        48.8       62.6       68.9        70.0       304.1
Deficlexpenditures                  7.2       11.6        14.8       17.4       17.9        17.3        14.9
Cost recovery of food and room services
Gain                               17.6        19.3       21.5       23.7       25.8        27.5       135.4
Total Deficit                      14.3       29.9        43.7       57.3       62.9        63.4       271.5
Deficit/expenditures                5.4       10.0        13.3       15.9        16.3       15.6        13.3
Increased private participation
Gain                                6.9          8         9.2       10.5         12        13.9        60.5
Total Deficit                      25.0       41.2        56.0       70.5       76.7        77.0       346A
DeficiVexpenditures                 9.4       13.8        17.0       19.5       19.9        19.0        16.9
All measures
Total Deficit(+) or Surplus (-)   -10.0        -3.0        1.2        3.9        -1.5      -12.5       -21.9
All scenarii: economic growth = 6%; share of budget in GDP= 27%; share of higher education in state budget 4%
Increased internal efficiency: number of years of study per expected year drops by half
Cost recovery of tuition = 10%
Cost recovely of non academic services = 50% (meals) and 25% (rooms)
Increased private participation = annual increase is 15%



Annex 4
Page 8 of 15
C.2.2 Sensitivity analysis
21.    The above results are only theoretical, and their simultaneous occurence would require
exceptional conditions. In addition, these results are highly sensitive to factors from both the
financing side and the cost side. On the revenue side, the single most powerful parameter is the
growth rate. Were the growth rate to be 3% over the period instead of the projected 6%, the
deficit would reach 43% (table 3). On the expenditure side, assumptions regarding the
acceptability of efficiency gains and increased cost recovery are critical, Overall, assuming a 6%
growth rate, and no sectoral measures to be taken, a one-point increase in the share of the total
budget of the state allocated to higher education would allow to sustain the projected incremental
enrollments. Under such conditions, this share would have to be increased by one point from its
current level of 4.5% for the higher education budget to remain close to a balance. Table 3
shows the other side of the coin, i.e. the impact of a fall of the growth rate by half of its current
value and that of a one point loss in the share of the MHE in the state budget.
Table 3: Impact of Alternative Critical Assumptions
Alternative critical Assumptions                   Adverse impact on revenues or
benefits
Growth rate is half its projected value (from 6 to 3%)  The deficit/expenditures ratio increases
from 22 to 38% by 2003
Budget share of HE in the state budget falls by 1.25 points (from  The deficittexpenditures ratio increases
4.25 to 3%)                                        from 22% to 41% by 2003
C.3    Market failure
22.    Even though returns at both the individual and the sectoral levels make the investment in
public higher education worth it, there are other reasons to justify such an investment --and an
associated loan--, which have to do with considerations which all point at market failures. As a
brief reminder, one can mention three main sets of issues. The first aspect is to be found in the
imperfections of the capital market which is non equally open to all students, and forbid an equal
access to loans to finance one's university studies. The Government is in a position to counteract
this form of rationing by providing poorer students with scholarships. However, the remedy
carries perverse effects which are potentially as detrimental as a whole as the issue it is supposed
to solve. This is why, as a second best, the Govermment is engaging in a policy aiming at
encouraging a better targeted loan scheme, to ensure no students are denied credit simply on the
basis of their own present financial situation.
23.    A second aspect lies in the fact that, until recently, private institutions were neither
interested nor equipped to offer quality oriented products, and they did not offer reliable
services. Lack of a stable legal framework was indeed a strong disincentive for serious investors
to enter the higher education enterprise. It is precisely the aim of the proposed Project to change
this environment, and to bring about more transparent perspective and to restore confidence from
both sides. In addition, the private sector does not invest in fundamental science, and this lack of



Annex 4
Page 9 of 15
interest leaves state-controlled universities with a unique role in the creation of a core knowledge
in areas which, eventually are important for the development of more applied fields.
24.   Finally, the State is likely to continue to oversee very closely the operation of any higher
education institution, for at least two reasons. The first one is rooted in the strong cultural
tradition of a republican state which has, as a duty, to make sure that every citizen may climb the
social ladder thanks to his/her own ability, and not be prevented to do so for any reason not
related to ability. The second reason is linked to the historical and geopolitical situation of
Tunisia: the threats to society posed recently by integrism and the reality of fundamentalism in
the neighboring countries necessitates heavier controls than required in other, less politically
sensitive environments.
References:
ARMA (Association pour la recherche en Microeconomie Appliqu6e). Le financement de
l'enseignement superieur en Tunisie. Rapport 6tabli a la demande du Ministere de
l'Enseignement Sup6rieur. Tunis, juillet 1997
INS (Institut National de Statistique). Enquete int6gr6e sur le niveau de vie des menages, 1995
WEISBROD, B. Education and investment in human capital. Journal of Political Economy 70
(5), 1962
HAVEMAN R, WOLFE B. Schooling and economic well-being: the role of nonmarket effects.
Journal of Hwnan Resources 19(3), 1984
WOLFE b, SUVEKAS S. Nonmarket Outcomes of Schooling. Unpublished mimeo. 1997
ZAIEM H. et al. Etude sur l'epargne en Tunisie. Rapport etabli a la demande de la Bourse des
Valeurs de Tunis, 1991



Annex 4
Attachment
Page 10 of 15
Table 1: Projected Enrollments by Streams and Type of Institution (1998-2006)
Sedor         I______ L 1998         1999     2000     2001     2002     2003      2004     2005     2006
ocial Sciences   Faculties  34,38    35,66    37,02    38,59    39,83    40,95      42,13    43,40    44,71
Liberal Arts    nstitute     6,81     7,45     8,09     8,76     9,25      9,58     9,89    10,19    10,55
ISFM           2,03     2,03     2,03     2,03      2,03     2,03     2,03      2,03     2,03
nub-Total    43,23    45,15    47,15    49,39    51,13    52,57      54,06    55,64    57,30
Legal Sciences    aw          14,62    15,32    16,05    16,86    17,51    18,12     18,78    19,49    20,22
Economics &     aculty    X 
Management      conomic      17,39    19,40    21,52    23,77    25,59    27,10      28,51    29,85    31,17
_______ _____ Facuity   _ _ _ _   _ _ _
I_________   nstitute  17,92    21,24    24,08    26,66    28,43    29,65  30,74    31,82    32,97
I____________  SET  2,38  2,79   3,12     3,44      3,65     3,80     3,92      4,07     4,24
Sub-Total     52,33    58,76    64,78    70,74    75,19    78,68     81,95    85,24    88,61
Medical Sciences  aculties    8,79      8,96     9,14     9,31     9,45     9,57      9,66     9,74     9,83
E____________  SSTS  2,11  2,31  2,54     2,79     2,96      3,06     3,15      3,25     3,39
nb-Total      10,91    11,27    11,68    12,11    12,42    12,63      12,81    13,00    13,22
Applied Sciences  aculties   21,02    24,42    28,07    31,81    34,92    37,41      39,60    41,64    43,51
& Technology    ub-Total     21,02    24,42    28,07    31,81    34,92    37,41      39,60    41,64    43,51
ENI           3,90     4,82     5,85     6,96      8,04     9,10     9,83    10,31    10,63
l____________ PEI  6,22  7,47    8,56     9,55     9,96    10,15      10,50    10,98    11,41
I_____________ SET  6,12  7,58   8,93    10,32    11,33    12,05      12,59    13,13    13,69
Oth___________   er  4,01  4,86  5,76     6,72      7,56     8,28     8,93      9,52    10,04
S__nb-Total   20,26    24,74    29,11    33,56    36,89    39,59     41,86    43,94    45,78
Agronomic       nstitute      2,75      3,06     3,35     3,67     3,88     4,06      4,21     4,38     4,55
Sciences        nb-Totl       2,75      3,06     3,35     3,67     3,88     4,06      4,21     4,38     4,55
rOTAL  X         ___ l_ 150,51   167,44 l  184,18 l 201,30 r  214,45   224,97    234,52   243,86   252,99
Projections of the Bank team on the basis of MHE data, base line 1996
Table 2: Projected Public Expenditures and Revenues in the Higher Education Sector: Base Scenario
(1998-2006)
1998     1999     2000    2001    2002    2003   2004   2005    2006
(en US$ m)
Expenditures (1)           266.2    297.8    329.0   360.8   385.5   405.5   423.1   439.9   455.8
Wages                       117.2    133.1    148.8   164.8   177.2   187.1   195.8  204.1   211.8
Faculty                    89.9    102.3    114.4   126.8   136.3   143.9   150.7   157.1   163.1
Administrative            27.3      30.8     34.4    38.0    40.9    43.2    45.2    47.0    48.7
Operating costs           41.6      47.0     52.5    58.0    62.3    65.9    68.9    71.7    74.3
Ancillary services          107.5    117.7    127.7   138.0   146.0   152.4   158.3   164.1   169.7
Revenues (2)               234.3    248.6    263.8   279.8   296.8   314.6  333.3  353.1   374.0
MHE Budget (Title I)       226.4    240.0    254.4   269.6   285.8   303.0   321.2  340.4   360.8
Students fees                 3.2      3.4      3.7      3.9      4.2     4.4      4.6     4.8     4.9
Students'contributions        4.7      5.2      5.7      6.3      6.8     7.3      7.6     7.9     8.2
Deficit (3)=(2)-(1)         -31.9    -49.2    -65.2   -81.0   -88.7   -90.8   -89.7  -86.8   -81.9
% Deficit/Surplus         -13.6%   -19.8%   -24.7%   -29.0%   -29.9%  -28.9%  -26.9%  -24.6%  -21.9%
1(4)=(3)I(2)
Projections of the Bank team on the basis of MHE data, base line 1996



Annex 4
Attachment
Page 11 of 15
Table 3: Civil Service: Annual Salary and Total Remuneration,
by Corps and Grade (1995)
Corps and Grade                       Salary            Remuneration*
(TND)                 (TND)
1.      Administrative staff
Minimum (temporary staff, grade D)                  790                   2766
Senior staff (a)                                   2208                  7645
Maximum (administrateur general)                   2999                  9297
2.     Library staff
Minimum (library attendant)                          790                 2866
Senior staff (librarian, documents officer)        1888                  5956
Maximum (chief librarian)                          2140                   7190
.      Technical staff
Minimum (technician)                                885                   3733
Engineer (b)                                       1887                   7966
Maximum (senior engineer)                          2999                  11715
4.     Miscellaneous technical personnel
Minimum (statistician)                              885                  3733
Architect (regular staff and principal)            1886                   7990
Maximum                                            2622                  10738
Soww: Based on a series of decrees concerning civil service remuneration.
*        Remuneration = basic salary + various allowances.
(a)       Simple average of the emoluments of chief administrators, administrator-advisers,
public services advisers and administrators.
(b)       Simple average of the emoluments of chief, principal, public works and assistant engineers.



Annex 4
Attachment
Page 12 of 15
Table 4: Nominal and actual time to graduate, measures of internal
efficiency by sectors (1997)
Field            Institution      Average      Number of   Nominal   Years of    Efficiency
number of  student years to  years to  study       Rating
years for a   produce    produce a per expected
diploma     a diploma    diploma      year
Social Sciences    Faculties        5.7           9.6          4          2.4        41.5%
& Liberal Arts    INSM              4.4           5.4          4          1.3        74.1%
Institute          2.2          2.5          2          1.3        79.0%
ISFM               2.2          2.2          2          1.1        89.1%
Law, Economics,  Law Faculty        5.4           11.2         4          2.8        35.7%
Management       Economic           5.0           7.0          4          1.8        56.8%
Faculty
. Institute         4.6           7.0          4          1.8        56.9%
Medical          Faculty            7.8           9.8          7          1.4        71.4%
Sciences         ESSTS              3.5           4.0          3          1.3        75.1%
Sciences         Faculty            5.4          11.4          4          2.8        35.1%
Applied Sciences & ENI(ITAR)        2.2           2.3          2          1.1        88.0%
Technology
ENI(IDAR)          3.1          3.2          3          1.1        94.0%
ISET(TSAR)         2.2          2.4          2          1.2        83.0%
ISET(Tech)         3.4          3.9          3          1.3        77.3%
DIV(ENAU)          7.8          9.7          7          1.4        72.0%
DIV(ESSTT)         4.7          6.2          4          1.5        64.8%
Agronomic        TS                 3.2           3.6          3          1.2        82.4%
Sciences         ITAR               2.5           3.1          2          1.5        65.4%
Table 5: Cost per student year and cost per diploma (1997)
Stream                       Institution       Cost per    Cost per
student    diploma
year
TND         TND
Social Sciences & Liberal Arts           Faculte               1084       10455
Ecole                1214       3072
Law, Economic Sciences and              FaculfA                 922      10332
Management                        ISE'                 1235       7366
Sciences                       Faculte               1632      18628
Ecole (ENI)             3954       8891



Annex 4
Attachment
Page 13 of l5
Table 6: Cost saving impact of improved internal efficiency (1998- 2006)
Baseline                    1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003    2004    2005    2006
Number of students                                          _
Social       Faculty       34,385 35,664 37,029 38,598 39,837 40,952   42,139   43,409   44,715
Sciences &
Liberal Arts   Law         14,622 15,323  16,054  16,863  17,517  18,128   18,783   19,490   20,223
FacultyI                         II
Sciences     Faculty       21,022 24,429 28,079 31,816 34,928  37,412   39,602   41,642   43,516
_Total       70,030 75,416 81,163 87,277 92,282  96,492  100,524  104,541  108,453
Operating Budget
(TND million)                                                   .
Social       Faculties      37.28  38.66  40.12  41.80  43.13   44.32    45.60    46.96    48.36
Sciences &
Liberal Arts   Law          13.48  14.12  14.78  15.52  16.11   16.67    17.27    17.91    18.58
Faculty                                       _                       _
Sciences     Faculties      34.56  40.37  46.57  52.93  58.22   62.44    66.16    69.63    72.82
_Total        85.33  93.14 101.47  110.25  117.46  123.43   129.03   134.50   139.75
Adjustment to 2006          1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003    2004    2005    2006
Number of students
Social        Faculties    32,475 31,701 30,858 30,021 28,771  27,301   25,752   24,116   22,357
Sciences &
Liberal Arts   Law         13,810  13,620 13,379  13,116  12,651  12,085   11,478   10,828   10,111
Faculty                   I_ I
Sciences     Faculties     19,854 21,715 23,399 24,745 25,226  24,942   24,201   23,134   21,758
Total       66,139 67,036 67,635 67,882 66,648 64,328   61,431   58,078   54,227
Operating Budget
(TND million)
Social        Faculties     35.21  34.36  33.43  32.51  31.15   29.55    27.86    26.09    24.18
Sciences &
Liberal Arts   Law          12.73  12.55  12.32  12.07  11.64   11.11    10.55     9.95    9.29
Faculty
Sciences      Faculties     32.64  35.88  38.81  41.16  42.05   41.63    40.43    38.68    36.41
Total         80.59  82.79  84.56  85.75  84.83   82.29    78.85    74.72    69.88
Efficiency    (TND          -4.74  -10.35  -16.91  -24.50  -32.63  -41.14   -50.18   -59.78   -69.88
Gain          million)          I       I _
Projections of the Bank teatn on the basis of MHE data, base line 1996



Annex 4
Attachment
Page 14 of 15
Table 7: Impact of increased cost-recovery of operating costs, 1998-2003
(TND Million)
1998      1999       2000      2001       2002         2003
BASE SCENARIO
Current expenditures                      266.2      297.8     329.0      360.8      385.5        405.5
Revenues                                  234.3      248.6     263.8      279.8      296.8        314.6
Deficit                                   -31.9      -49.2     -66.2      -81.0      -88.7        -90.8
SCENARIO with 10% cost recovery on tuiton
Current expenditures                      266.2      297.8     329.0      360.8      385.5        405.5
Revenues                                  247.0      263.2     280.2      298.2      316.6        335.5
MHE Budget                               226.4     240.0      254.4     269.6      285.8        303.0
Tuition fees                              15.9      18.0       20.1       22.3      24.0         25.3
Contribution to food and room              4.7       5.2        5.7        6.3       6.8          7.3
Gain from the measure                        13         s5        16         18        20            21
Deficit                                   -19.2      -34.6      48.8      -62.6      -68.9        -69.9
% Deficit                                 -7.8%     -13.2%    -17.4%     -21.0%    -21.8%       -20.8%
Table 8: Impact of increased students'contribution to meals and room services, 1998-2003
(TN!D million)
1998        1999         2000        2001    2002      2003
BASE SCENARIO
Current expenditures                      266.2        297.8        329.0       360.8   385.5    405.5
Revenues                                  234.3        248.6        263.8       279.8   296.8    314.6
Deficit                                   -31.9        -49.2        -65.2       -81.0   -88.7    -90.8
SCENARIO wth increased cost recovery
on food and room
Current expenditures                      266.2        297.8        329.0       360.8   385.5    405.5
Revenues                                  251.9        267.9        285.3       303.5   322.6    342.1
MHE Budget                               226.4       240.0         254.4       269.6   285.8    303.0
Tuition fees                               3.2          3.4          3.7         3.9     4.2       4.4
Contribution to food and room             22.3        24.6         27.3        29.9    32.6      34.7
Gain from the measure                       17.6        19.4         21.5        23.6    25.8      27.5
Deficit                                   -14.4        -29.9        -43.7       -57.4   -62.9    -63.4
% Deficit                                 -5.7%      -11.1%        -15.3%     -18.9%   -19.5%    -18.5%
Assumptions: students' contribution to meals Is 50%
students' contribution to lodging is 25%
Plejtiops of the Bank team on tihe basi of MHE data, bae line 1996



Annex 4
Attachment
Page 15 of 15
Table 9: Impact of an increased participation from the private sector, 1998-2003
([ND million)
1998      1999      2000       2001       2002     2003
BASE SCENARIO
Current expenditures                      266.2      297.8     329.0      360.8      385.5   405.5
Revenues                                  234.3      248.6     263.8      279.8      296.8   314.6
Deficit                                   -31.9      -49.2     -65.2      -81.0      -88.7   -90.8
SCENARIO with increased participation from
the private sector
Current expenditures                      259.3      289.8     319.8      350.3      373.5   391.6
Revenues                                  234.3      248.6     263.8      279.8      296.8   314.6
Gain from the measure                       7.0        8.0        9.2      10.5       12.1    13.9
% Gain (8)=(7)/(1)                        2.6%       2.7%       2.8%      2.9%       3.1%     3.4%
Deficit                                   -25.0      -41.2     -56.1      -70.5      -76.6   -77.0
% Deficit                               -10.7%     -16.6%     -21.3%     -25.2%     -25.8%   -24.5%
Assumption: enrollments In law, liberal arts and social sciences Increase by 15% annually
Projections of the Bank team on the basis of MIFE data, bue line 1996



I



Annex 5
Page lof 1
Annex 5
Republic of Tunisia: Higher Education Reform Support Project
Financial Summary
Table 1
Project Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31
(US$'000, 1997 base year)
-Imnpmtatlon Perod
108       199"       2000       2001      2002       2003       ToWl
PMWct osts 
Investment Costs            13,605.5   19,849.5   14,536.1   24,303.4   24,881.3    8,734.7  105,910.6
Recumrrent Costs                0.0      124.9      129.8      134.8     140.1      145.5      675.0
Total base cost          13,605.5   19,974.4   14,665.9   24,438.2   25,021.4    8,880.2  106,585.6
Financlna Sources
(% of total roblct costs)
IBRD/IDA                          0        114        61         48         95        145         75
Government                      100        -14        39         52          5        -45         25
Total                          13        19         14         23         23         8        100
Table 2
Project Impact on Government Higher Education Project
(TND million)
Incr4mental Recurrent Costs
Implementason I   Operational period
._________________________ _  !  period  (1998-2002)  1   (2003-2006)
Incrased enrollments             1             28,400.0               86,620.0
Sectoral Measures                                 595.0                  476.0
Total                            s                 29.0                   87.1
MHE Budget wthout Project        1               1323.3                 1375.0
Share of recumrrent Increneontal                    2.2                    6.3
cot(%)                                               



I



Annex 6
Page 1 of5
Annex 6
Republic of Tunisia: Higher Education Reform Support Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
A.    Procurement
A.1   Procurement methods (Table A):
1.    Project inputs and their estimated costs, as well as the procurement arrangements
and schedule for all components-to.be financed by the Bank, are given in Table A below.
2.    All Bank-financed civil works and goods would be procured in accordance with the
Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995,
revised January and August 1996, and in September 1997). Procurement of consultant
services and technical assistance would be in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for the
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997,
revised in September 1997).
3.    Interational competitive bidding (ICB) procedures would be used to procure
approximately 50 percent of the total value of works and goods (including computer-related
equipment and materials) for this project. For the construction of the three university
faculties, works would be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost US$5,000,000
equivalent or more each. Goods to be procured using ICB procedures will be grouped into
bid packages of US$$350,000 equivalent or more each; after testing this threshold with the
first three packages, future adjustments may be necessary. Invitation to prequalify or bid for
each contract estimated to cost US$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in
accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the
Guidelines mentioned above.
2.    National competitive bidding (NCB) procedures would be used for the procurement
of works contracts below US$5 million equivalent each, for an aggregate amount of US$13
million, and goods contracts that do not exceed US$350,000 and are not below US$50,000
equivalent each, for an aggregate amount of US$50 million. Bid openings will be according
to Bank guidelines and (a) will take place in public in the presence of all bidders interested
in attending; (b) standard bid documents will be used, outlining bid evaluation criteria; and
(c) no preference will be granted on the basis of the national origin of the bidder, of the legal
status of the bidder, or of the financial facilities offered by the bidder such as export credit or
supplier's credit.
3.    National shopping would be used to procure goods and other sundry items, such as
office equipment and supplies, for all such items/contracts valued at less than US$50,000
equivalent, for an aggregate amount of US$300,000 equivalent.
4.    Direct contracting: Pedagogical materials and customized computer programs (such
as for the networking of computers), which must be purchased from the original supplier to



Annex 6
Page 2 of 5
be compatible with existing equipment, will be purchase through direct contracting, for an
aggregate amount not to exceed US$1 million equivalent.
5.    Consultant services, including architectural services and construction supervision,
would be contracted according to the Bank's guidelines as mentioned above. Training
fellowships and stipends would be paid directly to the service provider or to the beneficiary.
6.    Standard documentation: To ensure smooth implementation of project activities,
standard bidding documents developed by the Bank will be adapted for use under this
project. It was agreed during negotiations that the standard documents currently used under
the Higher Education Restructuring Project would be updated and transmitted to the Bank
for approval.
A.2   Bank Prior review (Table B)
7.    Goods and works: For all contracts exceeding US$350,000, documentation will be
sent to the Bank for approval, as set forth in the Bank's guidelines.
8.    It is estimated that this review process would cover 50 percent of the works contracts
and approximately 50 percent of the goods contracts. The remaining 50 percent of goods
contracts would be subject to selective post-award reviews.
9.    Consulting services: Services to provide architectural and engineering services
through contracts costing less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured
through short lists comprising entirely national consultants in accordance with provisions of
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. For other consultancy assignments financed by
the World Bank, there would be prior review of contracts worth US$100,000 and above for
contracts with consulting firns, and US$50,000 and above for contracts with individual
consultants. For training, the prior review would be for contracts worth US$50,000 and
above. Finally, all contracts for which sole source contracting is envisaged will require prior
approval by the Bank. For all contracts requiring prior review, draft terms of reference
(TOR), a short list of consultants and firms, selection procedures, letter of invitation, and
draft contracts would be reviewed by the Bank prior to inviting proposals. The minutes of
the selection committee, the winning proposal and the negotiated contract will also be
reviewed by the Bank prior to contract signature. Contracts under US$ 100,000 for
consulting firms and under US$50,000 for individuals would be subject to selective post-
award reviews.
B.    Disbursement
B.1   Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
10.   The proposed project would be disbursed over a period of about five years. Project
completion is expected by June 30, 2003, and the loan accounts are expected to close on
December 31, 2003. The following are the major disbursement categories:



Annex 6
Page 3 of 5
(a)    Construction and other works would constitute 57 percent of disbursements from
the loan; 70 percent of total project costs in this category would be covered by the
loan.
(b)   Both computer and non-computer goods (including all equipment, furniture,
vehicles and materials) would constitute 33 percent of loan disbursements; 100
percent of all foreign costs, 100 percent of local expenditures ex-factory costs, and
80 percent of all local costs would be covered by the loan.
(c)    Consultant and other services (including training and study tours), both
construction- and non-construction-related, would constitute 9 percent of loan
disbursements; 100 percent of all costs net of taxes would be covered by the loan.
(d)   Operations and maintenance O&M expenses associated with buildings (which are
expected to occur after the project implementation period of 5 years) would be borne
by Government. The loan would cover the O&M associated with equipment until
project closing, after which the Government would assume those costs.
(e)    Salaries: All salaries and benefits paid to personnel of the Ministry of Higher
Education would be borne by the Government.
B.2   Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
11.   Full documentation for expenditures under contracts requiring Bank's prior review will be
submitted with the corresponding application. Disbursements for works and good contracts valued at
less than US$350,000, US$100,000 with consulting firms, US$50,000 with individual consultants
and US$50,000 for training services, as well as for stipends, allowances and training expenses will
be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). During negotiations, assurance was
obtained that documentation to support expenditures financed under SOEs, or otherwise, will be
maintained and made available for review by auditors and by Bank visiting missions. Use of SOEs
will be submitted to annual audits, as detailed in block 1, paragraph 4 above.
B.3   Special account (SA):
12.   To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government will open a
Special Account (SA) in French Francs (FRF) at the Central Bank under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. The Authorized Allocation is fixed at FRF 29,800,000. The initial deposit
would be limited to FRF 9,000,000 until disbursements reached FRF1 79,000,000 at which time the
full Authorized Allocation could be claimed. Applications for the replenishment of the Special
Account would be submitted monthly or when one third of the initial deposit has been utilized,
whichever occurs earlier. The replenishment application would be supported by the necessary
documentation, including bank and reconciliation statement of the Special Account. The SA would
be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. During negotiations agreement
was reached on the provisions for the operation and auditing of the SA.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 5
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Total Cost
Expenditure Category                                                           Procurement Method                                                      (including
contingencies)
ICB                 NCB             Other (*)                  N.B.F
1. Civil works
32.6                  32.6                    0.0                   0.0                        65.2
(22.8)                (22.8)                                                                   (45.7)
2............. ..........................................................................................................................................................................................................2
Goods including computers                                        18.6                  12.1                    1.3                   0.0                        32.0
(16.1)                  (9.9)                 (1.1)                                            (27.1)
........ .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................3....
Services (including architectural
services, consultants and                                         0.0                   0.0                    8.8                   0.0                          8.8
training)                                                                                                   (7.3)                                               (7.3)
................ ~  ~...................................................................................................................................................I.....................................................
4. Mhlse1neouW
Salaries                                                          0.0                   0.0                    0.0                   0.5                          0.5
(0.0)                        (0.0)
..................................................................................................................................................................................................... ................................................................... 
To.tal                                                      51.2                  44.7                  10.1                    0.5                       106.6
e£whichJIBS12                                (38.9)                (32.7)                  (8.4)                  (0.0)                      (80.0)
Notes:
(*) Other = National shopping and direct contracting
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Amounts and totals have been rounded.
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit



Annex 6
Page 5 of 5
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Civil Works      > US$5,000,000                   ICB         All contracts.> US$350,000
<= US$5,000,000                 NCB         All contracts > US$350,000
2. Goods            >  US$350,000                    ICB         All contracts > US$350,000
<= US$3 50,000>US$50,000        NOB         No prior review
<= US$50,000                     NS          No prior review
3. Services
*  Firms          > US$100,000              Consultant         TORs, Short list, LOI and
<= US$l00,00              Guidelines         contracts
TORs only
*  Individuals    > US$ 50,000              Consultant
<= US$ 50,000             Guidelines         TORs, Short list, LOI and
contracts
Training      > US$ 50,000              Consultant         TORs only
<= US$ 50,000             Guidelines
TORs, Short list, LOI and
contracts
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                Amount in           Financing Percentage
FRF million
Civil works                           238.1    70%
Goods                                  148.8    100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
80%/ of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Consultants' services, training and study  41.8    100%
tours
Unallocated                            47.4
Total                                 47..1



I



Annex 7
Page 1 of 1
Annex 7
Republic of Tunisia: Higher Education Reform Support Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$'000)                     Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
222                 219
B. Project Schedule                             Elanned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        11
First Bank mission (identification)            01/17/1997           02/10/1997
Appraisal mission departure                    12/01/1997          09/29/1997
Negotiations                                   01/15/1998           01/19/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  06/01/1998           __/_/19
Prepared by: Ministry of Higher Education (MHE)
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant 02 95 06 (US$438,600), managed by the MHE
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Core team: Benoit Millot (task manager), Anne Marie Leroy (MNSED), Meskerem Mulatu,
Claire Voltaire, Christian Rey, Betty Garcia (MNSHD), Claudia Pardiffas-Ocaffa (LEGMN),
Thu-Ha Nguyen (LOAEL)
Peer reviewers: Lauritz Holm-Nielsen (LASHD), Peter Moock (EASHD), Quentin Thompson
(Coopers and Lybrand)
Consultants: Luc Weber (University of Geneva), Julia Lane (American University), Olivier de
Messieres, Claude Ghouzi (C2G Conseil)



I



Annex 8
Page 1 of 1
Annex 8
Republic of Tunisia: Higher Education Reform Support Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
PCD (May 20, 1997)
PID (December 30, 1997)
C. Other
Aide-m6moire, Identification Mission (February 27, 1997)
Aide-memoire, Preparation Mission (May 31, 1997)
Aide-memoire, Pre-AppraisalVAppraisal Mission (October 16, 1997)
Action Plan (December 1997)
Letter of Sectoral Policy (November 1997)
Terms of reference of the oversight committee
Terms of reference of the project coordinator
Reports of the studies undertaken under the PHRD Grant (July 1997):
1.    Les interactions de 1 'enseignement superieur avec
1 'environnement
2.    Le developpement du corps enseignant
3.    Lefinancement de 1 'enseignement superieur
4.    L 'organisation et le contr6le de la qualite
*Including electronic files



I



Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
Status of Bank Group Operations in Tunisia
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
As of 31-Dec-97
Original Amount in US$ Millions
Fiscal
Project ID    Year                Borrower                       Purpose
IBRD             Undisbursed
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 103
Active Loans
TN-PE-50418    1998                                      ASIL 2                          42.00             40.75
TN-PE-42287    1997   GOT                                ECAL I                          37.50             32.04
TN-PE-46832    1997   CPSCL                              MUNICIPAL DEV. II               80.00             74.83
TN-PE-5731      1997   GOV. OF TUNISIA                 _GREATER TUNIS SEWER              10.00              9.42
TN-PE-5731      1997   GOV. OF TUNISIA                   GREATER TUNIS SEWER             50.00             46.77
TN-PE-5736      1997   GOV. OF TUNISIA                   NATURAL RESOURCE MGM            26.50             24.79
TN-PE-40208    1996   GOT                                IND. SUPPORT-INSTITU            38.70             33.05
TN-PE-5745      1996   GOVT. OF TUNISIA                  2ND EMPL. & TRG.                60.00             58.90
TN-PE-5680      1995   GOVERNMENT/SONEDE                 WATER SUPPLY AND SEW            29.00             17.21
TN-PE-5680      1995   GOVERNMENT/SONEDE                 WATER SUPPLY AND SEW            29.00             21.95
TN-PE-5720      1995   BNA                               RURAL FINANCE                   65.00             45.31
TN-PE-5743      1995   GOV. OF TUNISIA                   SECONDARY EDUCATION             98.30             64.98
TN-PE-5749      1995   GOV'T OF TUNISIA                  RURAL ROADS                     51.50             29.30
TN-PE-5721      1994   GOVERNMENT                        AGRICULTURAL SEC INV           120.00             41.40
TN-PE-5733      1994   GOVT.                             DEV.OF MTS NW REGION            27.50             15.94
TN-PE-5748      1994   BANKS OF TUNISIA                  PRIVATE INVESTMENT              50.00             12.17
TN-PE-5748      1994   BANKS OF TUNISIA                  PRIVATE INVESTMENT              12.00              9.36
TN-PE-5748      1994   BANKS OF TUNISIA                  PRIVATE INVESTMENT               8.00              3.01
TN-PE-5748      1994   BANKS OF TUNISIA                  PRIVATE INVESTMENT              10.00               .04
TN-PE-5748      1994   BANKS OF TUNISIA                  PRIVATE INVESTMENT               6.00                .57
TN-PE-5687      1993   GOVT. OF TUNISIA                  MUNICIPAL SECTOR INV            75.00                .11
TN-PE-5725      1993   GOVERNMENT                        SECOND FORESTRY                 69.00             56.19
DEVELOPMENT
TN-PE-5726      1992   GOVT. OF TUNISIA                  HIGHER EDUCATION                75.00             46.00
TN-PE-5717      1991   GOV. OF TUNISIA       A           POPULATION & FAMILY             26.00              1.17
TN-PE-5738      1991   GOV. OF TUNISIA                   HOSPITAL MGT. & FIN.            30.00             13.68
Total                                                                                 1,126.00            698.94
Active  Loans        CloAs Lotans           Tttal
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                403.99            2,743.41           3,147.40
of which has been repaid:                 13.25           1,589.28            1,602.53
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              1,112.74            1,154.13           2,266.87
Amount sold                     :                0.00               39.56              39.56
Of which repaid              :                0.00              39.56               39.56
Total Undisbursed               :              698.94                0.00             698.94
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of
Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system will be used (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U -
unsatisfactory, HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating
Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
Tunisia
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Dec-97
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1973/75               Sousse-Nord             0.00      .63    0.00    0.00    0.00     .63    0.00    0.00
1986/92/98            SITEX                    1.56    2.92    0.00    0.00    1.56    2.92    0.00    0.00
1991                  SOMOTEX                 2.87    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.87    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                  Ideal Sanitaire         0.00    1.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.02    0.00    0.00
1995                  Maghreb IM Bank         0.00     .33    0.00    0.00    0.00      .33    0.00    0.00
1997                  Aminex TUN              0.00     .61    0.00    0.00    0.00      .61    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                    4.43    5.51    0.00    0.00    4.43    5.51    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
LQan   Equity  Quasi  Eadc
Total Pending Commitment:           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Gnerated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on February 19, 1998



Annex 10
Tunisia at a glance                                                             91o97
PVRYand SOCIWAL                                          Ndbmi-
TUI:S1-    Af- .. - T _ - O8   Delopmea dimd
Population mld.~1 996 (mEk  )                         9.1      270    i.125
GNP:percapta 19o (SOOO                                        2,090 2.070 1750  . 
GNP.19906(bik(ns I                                   18.3      562    1,967
Average anmwal grwth, 1
Populliation (                                        1.9       2.6      IA      GNP                              Gru
Labor brc (S)                                         3;0       3.3      1.8       P                              Grosp
per                            primaiy
most recet eimae a       Oe    Ab        1089)                                   Capita                       enrollmet
Poverty: headcount Wiexd(%opopLuLaUo                  14          -
Urban population (% c(tolpOpudltn)                    67:       57       56
0s1 pscww   batbet  (yea)                             so         66      67
hnfant mortally (perl.OOOhe b )                       39        54       41               Acc to "t watr
Chid mainubtrito (% of  d undr 5J                      ..        .        ..)
Aoeaalo s1 fwater(% pcpuf Ponp tB                                65      7S
Illte r    opacuytNae 1 I                    -+)  *   33         39
Gro  primary enroln tt (% of school-age population)  118        97      104          -     Lwr-ma
Male                                               123       104      106              L Wvb I              op
Femal                                              .113       91      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATiOS nd LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1"6        9115    106
Economic ratle
GOP (b  onsUSS)                              4.3    -8.4       1.0    19.5
Groa domesc invament/GOP                    28.0    30.2       24.0    24.6              Opennez d somy
Exporto Of goods and servIDs/GDP            31.0    32.1       44.8    42.0
Gros domestc savingDGP                      26.1     24.1      20.3    22.5
Grossnational sevkngGDP                     27.4    23.6       t3.7    21.1i
Curent account balanc/GDP                   -34.     4.-6 .0    -2.7                            t \\
Intere paymentsGP                            0.8      3.0       2.7      3A      Savings                     In ment
Totnl debtGODP                              25.6    56.1       65.1      5.e6
Toal debt srvice/exports                     7.0    24.7       18.8    t9.9
Presnt vau of debUGOP                         ..       ,,      49.5
Praent v o d exports                          ..       ..    too.         ..e
193716  1086.6    1906        1996  199706
(aDeage annul gr                                                                     -     hTurid
GDP                                 5.1      4.2      2.5       0.9   -43.3                Lowr-       _      np
GNP per capita                      2.4      2.1      1.5       5.1   -43.8
Exportsofgoods and srvcs            4.7      6.7      1.7      0OS       7.0
STRUCTURE of th ECONOMY
1976                                 Growth 1nU  of oS1  utpu and  sw nt (%)
Agrkulture                                  18.5    15.8       11.8    15.8      30.
Industry                                    25.9    32.7       29.4    32.3      2e
Manufacturng                               9.1     15.1      18.8    20.6      t0
Services                                    55.6     51.4      58.8    51.9
Private consumption                         59.2    58.8       63.3    61.3      10      91   *2               95    9
Geal govenment consumption                  14.6    17.0       16.4    16.2                    GDI     a       GDP
Imports odgoods and servIes                 32.9    38.1       48.5    44.1
107146  10S-0        1006    1006 
(averae annual growth)                                                           Growth nata of expots and imports (%)
Agriculture                                  2.1      3.9      -9.7    29.5      Is
Industry                                     6.5     4.6        4.3      3.6
Manufacturing                               .9      20        4.9      2.8
ServIce                                      5.2     4.0        4.5      4.2
Private consumption                          6.3     3.4        3.2      4.3      e . - v                           "Il e
Genral govemrment consumption                S.4      3.5       4.4      3.5                .
GOrs domestc Invesmnt                        4.4      6.5       2.8      6.3      ..          -
Imports of goods and servIces                6.5      6.3       3.4    -2.9                    EkpoO
Gross national product                       5.1      4.2       3.2      6.9                             I
Note: 1996 data ar preliminary estimates. Figures in talks are for yer othr than thowe specfd.
* The diamonds show four key Indicators In the country (in bold) compared with Its bnome.group avenge. I d a are mIssIn, the diamond wEi
be hcompnte.



Annex 10
2 of 2
Tunisia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    996       1996    1996
Domestic                                   17s6                                  Inlnatton (%)
(X change)                                                                      10
Consunmr prke                                 ..      7.3       6.2      3.7     a
Impbct GDP deflator                          5.0      3.6       4.8      4.2     4
4
overnment fina                                                                   2-
(N Of GDP)                                                                       0            I    I    I
CumSflt revue                                 ..       ..      26.2    23.1             el   92   93   94   95    9
Current budget balance                        ..       ..       3.4      2.3                  GDPdf.  CF1
Overali surplustdeicit                        ..       ..      -4.1    -4.0
TRADE
1975    1988      1996    1996
(mi/Ions USS)                                                                    Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (lob)                         859    1,729      5,470    5,519     soco
Fuel                                       374      723       462      578
Agricutture                                 38       97       243      416     8,000
Manufactures                               332      877     4,701    4,293
Tol imports1 (i)                                    2,741     7,718    7,323     4,0CI
Food                                        ..      333       815     629
Fuel and energy                                     370       496      647     2,01 
CapItal goods                                ..  - 603      1,516    1,562
Export price index (1987=100)                 ..      98       146      166           90  91  92  93  94  9f  9r
Import prie index (1987=100)                  ..      89       146      166                  oExports   m Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                     ..    110        100      100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1978    1986       1996    1996
(mnlions US$)                                                                    Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services              1,286    2,700    7,954    8,125      0      1                               1
lmports of goods and services              1,512    3,207     8,561    8,381                        93       95
Resource balance                           -226    -507        -607    -256
Net income                                  -118    -352      -976   -1,066
Net current transfers                       174      307       -223     783
Current account balance,
before offical capital transfers          -170    -552    -1,806    -528    10
Financing items (net)                       153      440      1,825     837
Changes in nd reserves                       17      113        -19    -309    -15
Memo:
Reseves including gold (mil US$J            398      294      1,694   1, 970
Conversion rate (/ocal/USS)                  0.4      0.8       0.9      1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    1988      1995    1S96
(frnons USS)                                                                     Composton of total debt, 1995 (milL US$)
Totl debt outstanding and disbursed        1,109    4,884     9,938   10,836
IBRD                                      110      558      1,717    1,610                    G        A
IDA                                        55       65        50       47                    S        1717
F                     B
Totaldebtservice                            103      746      1,490                  1807                    50
IBRD                                       15       8S       332      303                                    c
IDA                                         0        1         3        2                                    293
Composiffion of net resource flows
Offiil grants                              49       30        58       70                                   D
Offcial creditors                         104      210        99      634                                  1928
Prinvat creditors                          20      109       487
Foreign direct investment                  45      108       264      256                  E
Portfolio equity                            0        0         0                          3.5
Wobdd Bank program
Commitments                                37      169       117      174      A-18RD                     E- Bjat     |
Disbursement                               40      109       138      202      B-IDA    O - Oth muflateral  F - PFiVta
Principal pyments                           7       48       205      190      C-IMF                      G - shtot-tsmi
Netflows                                   32       61       -67       12 121
Intestpayments                              8       41       130      116
Nottranafem                                24       20      -197    -103
Deveoopment Economics                                                                                             9/9/97



