               Document of
            The World Bank




                                         Report No: 32523

   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
               (SCL-42970)

                  ON A

                  LOAN

    IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR 72.5 MILLION
       (US$80 MILLION EQUIVALENT)


                 TO THE

           REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                 FOR A
HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM SUPPORT PROJECT




               June 27, 2005

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective March 17, 1998)

                                 Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (TND); French franc (FRF)
                                         TND 1 = US$ 0.855
                                       US$ 1.0 = TND 1.169
                                      US$1 = FRF 6.13
                                      FRF 1 = US$0.163


                         (Exchange Rate Effective January 1, 1999)
                                 Currency Unit = Euro (EUR)
                                      EUR 1 = US$ 0.85
                                      US$1 = EUR 1.17
                                   (EUR 1 = FRF 6.5596)




                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                   January     - December

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BDE     Direction des Bâtiments et de l'Equipement (Department of Civil Works and Equipment)
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA    Canadian International Development Institute
DGRU    Direction Générale de la Rénovation Universitaire (Department of University Reform)
DSPP    Department of Statistics, Policy and Planning
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction for Development
ISET    Institut Supérieur des Etudes Technologiques (Higher Institute of Technology)
IT      Information Technology
MoHE    Ministry of Higher Education
OECD    Organization for Economic and Co-Operation and Development
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
VU      Virtual University



                               Vice President:      Christian Poortman
                            Country Director:       Theodore Ahlers
                              Sector Manager:       Regina Bendokat
                           Task Team Leader:        Linda English

                                           TUNISIA
                          Higher Education Reform Support Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            25
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              26
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            58
Annex 10. Borrower's Report

Project ID: P005741                                                  Project Name: Higher Education Reform Support
Team Leader: Linda K. English                                        TL Unit: MNSHD
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: June 28, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Higher Education Reform Support                          L/C/TF Number: SCL-42970
   Country/Department: TUNISIA                                                            Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Tertiary education (90%); Central government administration (5%);
                            Sub-national government administration (5%)
                  Theme: Education for the knowledge economy (P); Technology diffusion (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/14/1997                                     Effective: 07/20/1998                07/01/1998
     Appraisal: 12/30/1997                                         MTR: 12/31/2001                  04/08/2002
      Approval: 03/17/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF TUNISIA/MINISTRY OF HIGHER EDUCATION;
                                           GOVERNMENT OF TUNISIA/RESEARCH & TECHNOLOGY
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christian Poortman                             Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Theodore O. Ahlers                             Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:                 Regina Bendokat                                Marlaine E. Lockheed
Team Leader at ICR:             Linda English                                  Benoît Millot
ICR Primary Author:             Soriba Sylla


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the Higher Education Reform Support Project were to: (i) promote access to higher education
(public and private institutions alike) while ensuring its quality; (ii) improve internal and external efficiency of the
public higher education sector as well as its cohesiveness; and (iii) enhance the financial sustainability of public
institutions of higher education.

The objectives of specific project components were to: (i) support the required supply response to absorb the huge
anticipated increase in enrollments without sacrificing quality; (ii) adapt curricula and pedagogic methods and
enhance faculty qualifications and motivation; (iii) train and empower managers of the universities to make
appropriate and timely decisions regarding materials, financial and human resource use through greater autonomy;
and (iv) support efforts to enhance the financial sustainability of the sector.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The development objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
Component A · Supply Extension of Public Facilities and Encouragement of Private-Sector Supply (US$81.0
million). The component consisted of: (i) constructing and extending academic and non-academic facilities; (ii)
purchasing equipment and furniture for new infrastructure; (iii) improving laboratory equipment and material in
science-oriented higher education institutions; and (iv) acquiring collections and equipment for new and existing
libraries. This component also included the promotion of private-sector participation in delivering academic and
non-academic services.

Component B · Quality and Relevance (US$0.5 million). The component aimed to reduce repetition and dropout
rates with technical assistance in the first cycle of higher education by: (i) introducing a credit system; (ii)
improving university autonomy in managing academic affairs; and (iii) establishing quality assurance mechanisms
for the evaluation and accreditation of curricula and learning institutions. In addition, this component sought to
revamp the system to evaluate teachers, weighing teaching over research activities as a means to enhance teaching
competencies and to guide professional careers.

Component C · Governance and Management (US$1.9 million).                      The component aimed to delegate
decision-making responsibilities for financial, administrative and academic matters from the central administration
to universities and build capacity at the central and decentralized levels, including recruitment of qualified
managerial staff in universities and improving the skills of existing staff. The component financed training and
technical assistance.

Component D · Intensified Use of New Technologies. (US$22.8 million). The component consisted of increasing
the number of computers and setting up IT centers, including Internet services for students, teachers and
administrative staff; providing training programs for users of new technologies to enhance skills; and
computerizing university management information systems.

Component E · Enhancement of Financial Sustainability (US$0.4 million). This component financed technical
assistance to produce a comprehensive sector and budgetary simulation model. This technical assistance aimed to
develop a financing strategy and system for higher education which would include greater cost-recovery and
introduce increasing student loans relative to scholarships in order to attain a more efficient and equitable
utilization of public resources.

3.4 Revised Components:
At the mid-term review, the Borrower and the Bank agreed to add four activities intended to boost project
performance. The legal agreement was amended on July 25, 2002. The activities are the following:

Component A · Pilot demonstration of public-private partnership in delivering academic services (US$0.16



                                                         - 2 -

million). This activity sought to promote the participation of the private sector in the delivery of academic services
through workshops and seminars.

Component B · Teacher Training for Higher Institutes of Technology (ISETs) (US$1.7 million). The expansion of
ISETs, which successfully adapted training to labor market needs, led to a shortage of qualified teachers. This
activity financed training of qualified teachers in order to meet the demand in ISETs.

Component D · Additional activities were to: (i) upgrade support to distance learning through the Tunisian Virtual
University (US$0.9 million) and (ii) purchase IT equipment (US$0.9 million) for traditional and distance learning
(computers and video projection equipment) in order to better promote the use of information technologies in
teaching and management activities. At the time of the mid-term review, the implementation of Component D was
unsatisfactory. Supporting the Virtual University (VU) was introduced as an opportunity to boost the activities
leading to greater use of new technologies in higher education. The VU has the mandate to produce multimedia
materials, train teachers for such production and become a center of excellence in developing these communication
tools for educational purposes.

Overall, the new activities were in line with the original objectives of the project and were integrated into existing
components. The rationale for these additional activities aimed to improve project performance in line with quality
enhancement and efficiency gains in public resource management to ensure financial sustainability of the sector.
In September 2004, the government decided to cancel EUR 12.5 million, of which EUR 7.5 million represented
funds for IT equipment and university networking activities that had been delayed or cancelled due to procurement
difficulties.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5       Quality at entry is rated satisfactory.

Relevance to country strategy. The project development objectives were consistent and relevant to the
government's development strategy and the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS Report No.
15799-TUN). Both emphasized human resource development as a key element to improve economic growth and
attain social equality. These documents share the view that higher education plays a major role in the training of
highly skilled manpower and is linked to achieving economic and social goals. Expansion of private institutions
and greater beneficiary contributions as a means of covering the additional associated costs was an integral part of
the Ninth and Tenth Development Plan. The project was a relevant part of the Bank's portfolio in Tunisia's
education sector, which also included basic education and vocational training. The project design benefited from
the Bank's experiences in previous projects, including the Higher Education Restructuring Loan (LN 3456-TUN)
and two ongoing partnerships oriented to support Secondary Education (LN 3786) and the Second Training and
Employment Project (LN 4036-TUN).

Project design. The project's strength stemmed from its comprehensive scope to expand physical capacity, improve
quality and re-engineer financing structures.       Prior to the project, expenditures for higher education were
increasing, reaching 1.4 percent of GDP in 1994, surpassing the level observed in most OECD countries and
middle-income countries where enrolment rates were much higher. This situation pointed to problems associated
with low efficiency and risks for long-term sustainability given the forecasts for huge increases in enrolments. The
search for solutions justified the project's orientation towards improving cost-effectiveness and diversifying
financing sources. The project acknowledged the importance of greater management flexibility for universities as
a means to improve quality and set out to strengthen university autonomy in budget management, student
orientation and curriculum development and in teacher and staff management.

A Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review performed two years after effectiveness rated quality at entry as
satisfactory in large part because preparation involved extensive and high quality sector work and a process of
consensus-building during appraisal.        Beneficiary input was sought through the participation of university
presidents and teachers' associations as well as involving Ministry of Higher Education (MoHE) senior staff and
representatives from other ministries in the design and appraisal of the project.




                                                          - 3 -

Readiness for implementation. Insufficient attention to implementation capacity, such as no manual of procedures,
augured that implementation would be slow, which was in fact the case.         The QAG Quality at Entry Review
identified implementation problems associated with weak coordination and oversight, as well as understaffing and
a lack of equipment in key implementation structures. Once solutions to these problems were implemented
(following the mid-term review) implementation did improve.

Risks. The major risks related to implementation were identified during preparation and integrated into the project.
One of the main risks was the resistance of students and teacher to reforms, which were viewed as detrimental to
their respective interests. Reforms affecting teachers did occur but the major cost-recovery reforms did not. In
hindsight, more attention to developing a communication strategy and building support for financing reforms could
have strengthened project design.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of the project's objectives is rated Satisfactory based on the following outcomes.

Promoting access to higher education was measured in terms of enrollments and enrollment rates. Overall
enrolment numbers reached 360,342 students in 2004, up from 155,120 students in 1998. The key indicator for
improving access is improvement in enrolment rates (for the 19-24 age group) which doubled from 14.6 percent to
29 percent over the same period. Women's enrollment rates increased from 13.5 percent to 32.4 percent, growing
faster than those for men which increased from 14.6 percent to 24.6 percent. By the end of the project, women
accounted for 58 percent of all university students. Between 1998 and 2004, an additional 84,700 places in
universities and ISETs were made available, of which 25,200 places were the result of new construction.

Furthermore, under the project, a combination of other factors improved the responsiveness of supply to strong
demand. Increasing student teacher ratios from 11:1 to 22:1 accommodated increased enrollments. Other factors
included the expansion of short, professionalized cycles and streams in universities as well as at ISETs (accounting
for 23.1 percent of the students in 2003/2004, up from 10 percent in 1998) and the improved flexibility of the
pedagogic system with the introduction of a modular credit system that allowed students to change courses at the
beginning of the year and required students only to repeat failed subjects and not the entire year. These two
reforms led to a significant increase in pass rates, a shorter duration to complete programs and an overall lower
repetition rate, thereby alleviating pressure on both physical and human resources (as discussed below).

Internal and external efficiency. Pedagogic reforms, including the extension of shorter-term professional
programs, the introduction of the credit-system, along with greater student choice, as well as teacher training and
curriculum development, provided tangible positive results in terms of improving the internal efficiency of higher
education. The average pass rate improved from 45 percent in 1996 to 60 percent in 2003.          Average repetition
rates were halved, from 48 percent to 24 percent during the same period. About 31 percent of all students repeated
in 1996, representing a substantial loss of government expenditures.           The impact of internal efficiency
improvements is estimated to represent 9.4 percent of the government's total operating budget between 1998 and
2003.    There are definite variations in performance with students enrolled in agriculture, medical sciences and
short-term professional streams (including the ISETs) performing better than in traditional medium or long-term
programs and faculties. Small class size, teacher qualification and greater choice by students seem to be reasons
that explain better performance. The results of the beneficiary assessment carried out for the ICR confirmed that
the pedagogic and curricula reforms had a significant impact on the quality of education as did the expansion of
ISETs and professional programs in universities. The 2004 tracer study shows that graduates of ISETs and
professional programs have greater success rates than other undergraduates in finding employment (94 percent as
opposed to the average 86 percent).

Significant results were achieved in granting greater autonomy to universities. In this area of institutional reform,
qualitative objectives, which are better suited to assess progress, were assigned: transfer of decision-making to
universities, increased management capacity, and better use of autonomy for institutional improvement. The
project focused on advancing decentralization in the sector through endorsing reforms geared to empowering



                                                         - 4 -

universities to manage their pedagogic, administrative and financial matters. The 2000 Decentralization Law
began a process of devolution of responsibilities from the MoHE to institutions of higher education. Above all, the
decision-making power of university presidents was enhanced on academic and financial issues. With greater
autonomy, universities and their establishments had greater flexibility and were enabled to carry out pedagogic
reorganization (enlargement of modular courses, facilitating student reorientation, creating post-graduate programs
and modifying the teacher evaluation system to promote teaching activities and career development). The effect of
these academic changes contributed to reducing repetition rates.

Enhanced financial sustainability. Achieving outcomes related to enhancing financial sustainability was less
satisfactory than expected. Promoting private-sector service delivery proved difficult. A law was passed in 2000
intended to support the development of the private sector and providing incentives through subsidies for
investment and operating costs, but the response from the private sector was tepid. Although no quantifiable target
was created, the level of student enrolment in private institutions stands very low: 2,000 students for 15,000
available places in 2003, representing only 3 percent of the student population. Limiting foreign partners to 49
percent of investment has hindered high quality foreign universities set up credible processus attrative to students
and parents.

In terms of improving cost-recovery and restructuring scholarship and loan schemes, the impact was negligible.
The overall implementation of financial reforms of higher education rested on timid measures that did not change
the existing structure of relying heavily on state expenditures. Reforms were introduced to limit student housing
and as a result the proportion of students benefiting from subsidized housing fell from 30 percent to 19.2 percent.
The loan program was expanded and the number of students receiving loans increased from 16,127 in 1998 to
51,245 in 2004. Nevertheless, the percentage of students receiving scholarships continued to rise, increasing from
24.7 percent to 30.4 percent between 1998 and 2003.          To finance the expansion of the sector, government
expenditures on higher education rose from 1.4 percent of GDP to 2.0 percent between 1998 and 2003, higher than
in middle-income and almost all OECD countries. Recurrent expenditures on scholarships (increasing from 9.7
percent to 11.4 percent of total expenditures between 1998 and 2003) and those for dormitories and cafeterias
(increasing from 4.5 percent of expenditures to 4.8 percent ) effectively squeezed out expenditures on non-wage
operational expenditures, which fell from 12 percent to 5 percent of total expenditures. With the demand for
higher education forecast to once again double in the next seven years, the government will inevitably be
confronted with the tough question of how to finance this rapid expansion and improve quality.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component A · Extension of Public Facilities and Encouragement of the Private Sector (rated satisfactory)
(A1) Additional infrastructure in the public sector (rated satisfactory). Eleven out of twelve planned sites were
completed (one site is to be completed by December 2005), adding 5,000 new places for ISETs and 10,800 new
places for universities. Benefiting institutions include: the Faculty of Sciences at Gabes, Fine Arts Institute and
School of Management and Economic Sciences at Nabeul, Higher Institutes of Technology at Jendouba, Kef and
Kairouan, dormitories and cafeteria in Gabes Kairouan and Le Kef. Expenditures were 17 percent higher than
planned due to the construction of the Institute of Technology in Jendouba, planned but not completed under the
Higher Education Restructuring Loan (LN 3456-TUN).

(A2) Upgrading scientific equipment in existing science-oriented institutions (rated satisfactory). Forty-two lots of
laboratory equipment amounting to TND 2.4 million out of the 47 planned were purchased under the project,
including materials for physics, chemistry, biology and computer laboratories. The remaining packages were
cancelled because of difficulties in preparing technical specifications and following procurement procedures.
Implemented by the Departments of University Reform (DGRU), the goods purchased benefited students and
teachers of several engineering schools, science faculties and ISETs throughout the country.

(A3) Stocking and restocking libraries (rated satisfactory). Nine thousand titles (textbooks, books and reviews)
were distributed to many universities and benefited students and teachers. This activity cost TND 1.24 million. The
objective of the sub-component was achieved.

(A4) Increased participation of the private sector in academic and ancillary service provisions (rated satisfactory)


                                                        - 5 -

. A law was passed to regulate private-sector participation in higher education and define incentives that the State
could provide for its development. A seminar on constraints to private-sector involvement was organized in 2003
bringing together private operators, presidents of universities, senior government officials and the media.
Regarding private-sector participation in non-academic services, contracting out maintenance of informatics
equipment and security and cleaning services to the private sector did occur but only one university cafeteria was
subleased to private operators, less than the target of subcontracting 5 percent of cafeterias. Experimentation of
private-public partnerships as envisaged at the mid-term review did not materialize.

Component B · Quality and relevance (rated satisfactory)
(B1) More efficient and flexible pedagogic organization (rated highly satisfactory). Pedagogic reforms were
implemented as expected and covered various areas of curricula reform, teacher training and evaluation.
Distinctive elements of these reforms included the introduction of common streams in the first cycle in addition to
giving universities the authority to decide on one-third of the curricula and generalization of the credit system.
Modernizing pedagogic methods with the introduction of pre-service and in-service training programs for teachers
achieved positive results. The Master's programs were adapted to include one semester of pedagogic training out
of the three required semesters. Nine centers for pedagogic resources were opened to provide in-service training
for teachers, and hundreds of young teachers attended a seminar on pedagogic methods. Enrolment in graduate
studies showed a rapid growth: from 14,736 students in academic year 2001/2002 to 18,241 in 2002/2003, with
those in Master's programs rising from 10,603 students to 15,942 students, increasing the availability of potential
teachers.

The project supported the diversification of programs with the creation of short, professionalized streams, and the
expansion of 2.5 year ISET programs. As a result, the number of students enrolled in these programs grew from
1,760 students in 1998 to approximately 25,000 new students in 2003/2004. ISETs introduced numerous
innovations within the system: a five-semester program, internships with enterprises, and an end-of-program
project. Repetition and dropout rates were low and success in finding jobs was remarkable as demonstrated in the
tracer study which was completed.

(B2) Improvement of faculty development and career (rated satisfactory). The project aimed to hire 900 new
teaching staff annually. The numbers hired went well beyond the target with an average of 1,000 per year, with
1,470 in 2004 and 1,275 in 2003, sufficient to meet demand and keep the student/teacher ratio at a reasonable level
of 22:1. Changes in recruitment procedures and the evaluation system of teachers and establishments, introducing
more relevancy and transparency, were instituted. Under new criteria for recruitment, promotion and assignment of
professors, emphasis was put on teaching activities and introducing a culture of quality assurance. In addition, 40
establishments voluntarily undertook internal evaluations and four establishments were evaluated externally. The
results of the latter have not yet been fully discussed among the stakeholders. The overall project performance in
the area of quality improvement was significant, even though the issue of follow-up was not quite resolved.

Component C · Governance and Management (rated satisfactory)
(C1) Decentralization of management responsibility (rated satisfactory). The Decentralization Law was passed by
Parliament in 2000 which was subsequently reinforced by a Presidential Decree in 2002. Universities were granted
greater autonomy for pedagogic, administrative and financial management responsibilities to carry out their
mandates under the Decentralization Law.         Structures of decentralized management have been put in place,
processes have been defined and human resources to manage the process were made available as was planned
under the project. Universities have been entrusted with greater decision-making responsibilities on academic
(design of curricula and new programs), financial (procurement, budgeting) and human resources management
(hiring of contract and administrative staff).

(C2) Improving management capability at centralized and decentralized levels (rated satisfactory).             The
management capacity of public universities and central services was buttressed through the recruitment of some
300 qualified young managers, graduates of the special training program for higher education management. This
specific graduate program launched under the previous project was continued in order to satisfy the growing
demands for talented managerial staff. In addition, short-term training seminars were given to existing staff to
update their skills. All of these activities improved the working of the financial and administrative structures of


                                                         - 6 -

the sector. However, an independent study of the program for higher education managers should be carried out to
assess its impact and introduce improvements if necessary.

(C3) Support to project management (rated satisfactory). Twenty project managers and their staff received
short-term training geared to project management and procurement arrangements, and two qualified assistants
were recruited in the project director's office to carry out specific responsibilities in the areas of project
implementation. All of the structures involved in project management were provided with computers and
communication equipment. Project management improved after training, demonstrated by improved procurement
management and better communication of documents to the Bank.

Component D · Intensified Use of New Technologies (rated unsatisfactory)
(D1) Equipment (rated unsatisfactory). A Master Plan for connecting each of the universities to national and
international networks was completed as a prerequisite for purchasing and installing informatics equipment. The
indicator set at appraisal was to ensure institutions comprising more than 1,000 students and teaching staff would
be equipped with at least 20 computers and connected to Internet services. This result was far from achieved.
Apart from the cabling of the University of El Manar and the University of the Center and La Faculté des Sciences
de Bizerte, none of the other 50 planned sites were connected. Moreover, the purchase of equipment for 217
computerized centers for student and teacher use was cancelled at the government's request. Implementation
delays, the lack of respect of procedures and the difficulty of mastering frequent changes in bidding procedures
contributed to the weak results and subsequent cancellation of a significant portion of the loan (approx. US$12.5
million) with an additional US$5.2 million not disbursed. On the positive side, though done outside the project,
the Borrower funded the cabling and purchase of informatics equipment for many institutions of higher education.
Also, funding was made available for maintenance and replacement of hardware.

(D2) Training and Support for Pedagogic Purposes (rated satisfactory). The goal of facilitating access to and use
of computers and the Internet for teaching and learning activities was partly achieved. Two-hundred sixty-four
video projectors were purchased and delivered to establishments of higher education as part of the activities for the
Tunisian VU.      Slow start-up at project outset prompted a decision to integrate the implementation of this
subcomponent into the program of a newly created Tunisian VU that had the following objectives: (i) promoting
distance learning; and (ii) integrating information technology in public institutions of higher education. Hundreds
of courses in the sciences and humanities were produced and twelve learning resource centers were established
within universities, but very few courses have yet to be offered. A study initiated by the Prime Minister's office and
financed by CIDA pointed to the need for the Tunisian VU to develop a clear business plan, to proceed by
experimentation of projects, and to create the capacity to develop programs and test the sustainability of the
approach before going into full-scale virtual university operations.

(D3) Technology training and support for management (rated satisfactory). The feasibility study to develop a
computerized management information system (concerning management personnel, material and financial
resources) for public universities was completed. Results and recommendations need to be implemented during the
next phase.

Component E · Elaboration and Implementation of a Global Financing Strategy (rated unsatisfactory)
(E1) Global financing strategy (rated unsatisfactory). A study on financing higher education in Tunisia was
completed in December 2004 which included a financial simulation model and cost-sharing recommendations
based on focus group discussions and a capacity-to-pay analysis. Late completion of the study hindered the ability
to use the findings to generate greater awareness and acceptance of policy changes among students and their
parents during project implementation. This study could be still relevant to develop future policy reforms. The
study showed that the gap between the growing needs engendered by increased demand on the one hand, and the
availability of resources on the other, will continue to worsen unless reforms are introduced to alleviate the burden
of continued increase in demand on the public budget. Recommendations include increased private-sector service
delivery and cost-sharing by parents and students. The report also proposed measures to preserve social equality by
improving targeting of student assistance schemes to poorer segments of society.

(E2) Increasing students' share in the cost of education (rated unsatisfactory). The project aimed to increase


                                                         - 7 -

contributions made by students in public institutions of higher education by a gradual increase of tuition fees. This
was not realized as the last increase in tuition fees occurred in 1997. The second policy target aimed to improve
the ratio of scholarships to loans. Positive progress was registered, reaching 63:37 by 2003, down from 70:30 at
appraisal, but not enough to reach the project target of 45:55. Data shows that students receiving scholarships
represented 30.4 percent of the total student population in 2003, up from 27.4 percent in 1998. As for student
loans, the numbers of beneficiaries grew from 16,127 in 1998 to 51,245 in 2004. While the scheme is attractive, it
needs to address the serious problems of improving loan repayments and the inability to target the neediest
students.

(E3) Increasing fees for non-academic services (rated unsatisfactory). Increasing fees for dormitory and cafeteria
services was another strategy to reduce financial pressures on the public budget by moving the prices paid nearer to
their real costs. This measure was not applied since the per capita fees for housing, for example, remained at the
level of TND 10 per month whereas the real cost was estimated at TND 40 on average. The percentage of students
housed in public university dormitories did decline to 19.2 percent in 2003, surpassing the 25 percent target.
Nevertheless, the number of students benefiting from housing facilities and subsidies increased over the period.
Privatization of non-academic services did not fare well either.      Only one cafeteria was subleased to a private
operator while the target aimed to subcontract management of all new non-academic facilities constructed under
the project.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
At appraisal, economic and financial assessments were conducted through cost-effectiveness analysis of the project.
This analysis predicted that at an individual level, the project will bring about incremental earnings to be derived
from students investing in their education. By comparing the levels of salaries paid to skilled workers against the
salaries of unskilled workers, the analysis shows ratios of 2.5:1 in the public sector and 3.5:1 in the private sector.
The superiority of skilled labor coming from higher education will continue in the long term, as an economy
integrating technology-based production and services increasingly requires a qualified workforce. At a sector level,
efficiency gains were anticipated because of improvements in internal efficiency resulting from the implementation
of pedagogic, institutional and financial reform measures. Subsequent analysis shows that internal efficiency gains
resulted in savings of 9.4 percent of the MoHE budget between 1998 and 2003.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
n.a.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Three main strategies were pursued for achieving project objectives: (i) decentralization of more responsibility
from the MoHE to the institutions of higher education; (ii) development of private-sector participation; and (iii)
reinforcement of implementation capacity within the MoHE. The overall impact of the project on institutional
development is rated as modest.

Strengthening decentralized management of higher education. The overall impact of the project on institutional
changes and capacity building in the framework of decentralization is substantial. New kinds of relationships now
exist between the universities and the central administration, in striking contrast to the former, top-down approach.
The new relations are based on discussion, negotiation and shared governance on issues with regard to the
operations of public institutions of higher education.      The role of the Council of University Presidents has
expanded and provides a mechanism for these discussions. Now universities decide on curricula (now more than
50 percent the program of a given cycle), select and manage non-academic staff and contractual and junior-ranking
teachers. Autonomy is leading to attitudinal changes and the obligation for results and good governance within
universities. Undertaking internal evaluations by 40 establishments and their openness to external evaluations
demonstrate new thinking about accountability. The stakeholders' workshop acknowledged the important role that
autonomy has played in improving the quality of programs, but that greater autonomy will be necessary to give
universities the flexibility needed respond to changes in their environment and the needs of the labor markets.

Improving the role of the private sector. Despite negligible results in increasing private-sector participation, this




                                                         - 8 -

policy choice has gained in strength as a priority objective to respond to the demand for post-secondary education
in the Government's recent strategy documents. Several solutions have been proffered, such as allowing students
with scholarships to enroll in private institutions, creating partnerships between public and private universities and
revising regulations attractive to foreign participation, but the move to implement these solutions has not
materialized.

Improving the strategic management capacity in higher education. Greater university autonomy calls for a change
in the role of the MoHE, with the focus shifting from the day-to-day management of universities to strategic
planning, setting policy priorities, and monitoring and evaluation. Some activities benefited the MoHE such as
carrying out studies evaluating the impact of policy reforms and the emerging issues facing higher education which
helped to develop a framework for future policy choices. A policy seminar to discuss studies stimulated proactive
and constructive thinking from the government and beneficiaries. Study tours and training intended to expose
high ranking officials and other staff to international experiences and advanced project management practices, and
procurement procedures have reinforced MoHE management capacity. The overall impact of improving MoHE's
management capacity has been modest as its role in quality assurance and evaluation did not materialize and the
oversight role of the steering committee was not used to its full extent. The MoHE has indicated that it intends to
undertake a systematic institutional evaluation and develop an operational plan to strengthen its capacity to
manage a system defined by greater autonomy for universities.

4.6. Beneficiary survey and workshop:
A beneficiary survey and a stakeholders' workshop were carried out from October to December 2004. The
objectives of the survey were to collect opinions and information from beneficiaries on their assessment of the
strengths and weaknesses of the project, as well as their suggestions for improving a future project. Focus groups
were set up with representatives from 10 establishments (7 public and 3 private), including 32 students, 56
teachers, 54 university presidents, and senior staff of universities and the MoHE.

The findings of the survey identified project achievements as having a significant impact in the following areas:
(i) pedagogic and curricula reform; (ii) maintaining the size of pedagogic groups at reasonable levels; (iii)
expansion of short, professional programs at universities and ISETs; and (iv) contracting out maintenance, security
and cleaning services to the private sector. Contrary to these positive results, the survey indicated that there were
insufficient quantity of educational equipment (laboratories and IT equipment), limited Internet coverage, slow
development of the private sector in providing training and constraints to university autonomy with respect to the
hiring of professors, student enrollment, and budget and financial management. The survey pointed out other
concerns such as skepticism of students and parents concerning private-sector participation in higher education
because of perceptions of poor quality and high cost; concerns about reduction in course time, complexity of exams
under the credit system, poor diversity in specialties within recruitment juries, complaints by deans of faculties and
schools that their new reporting relationships to universities rather than directly to the MoHE has reduced their
management flexibility; and the resistance of students to greater cost-recovery.

A stakeholders' workshop was held in December 2004 to validate the survey findings and to make suggestions for
a future project. The workshop was attended by students, teachers, presidents of public and private universities,
senior staff of the MoHE and experts from the World Bank. There was a consensus that a more autonomous
university was necessary to have the flexibility and adaptability to respond to changes in the sector. Universities
still lack adequate autonomy for managing their own budgets, even those resources they have generated. This lack
of financial autonomy is one of the main factors undermining their ability to purchase and maintain IT equipment,
which is a crucial element in the pursuit of excellence.          University presidents acknowledged that effective
decentralization will demand stronger accountability mechanisms, including quality assurance and monitoring of
processes and results according to the rules of good governance. Other conclusions of the workshop were: (i) the
reforms implemented under the project improved higher education in terms of accessibility, quality and
governance; (ii) the impact of the project on beneficiaries was significant in several areas, as reflected by the
survey; (iii) efforts to improve accessibility to information technology, Internet and laboratories need to be pursued;
(iv) the diversification of short streams and ISETs has had a significant positive impact on the quality of tertiary
education and needs to be extended; (v) greater private-sector involvement in higher education was endorsed as a
good path to follow; and (vi) the participatory approach to assess project performance was useful.


                                                          - 9 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
None.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Improving the financial sustainability of higher education was an important aspect of the program. Political
commitment to implement these reforms would have been the main force to bring about the expected changes to
re-engineer the financing of the system using a combination of improving efficiency in using public resources,
greater private-sector participation and increasing student contributions. Government actions in ensuring financial
sustainability remained limited. Two principal reasons explain why financial reforms did not happen: (i) the
political sensitivity to increasing student contributions to the cost of education in a society accustomed to a
generous subsidy; and (ii) a deliberate practice of the government to guarantee free access to higher education,
regardless of the cost, to as many as possible in order to demonstrate its commitment to social equality.

The government acted clearly and consistently on: (i) accommodating rising enrollment through a combination of
policies; (ii) decentralizing management to universities; and (iii) sanctioning pedagogic reforms. These actions
offered opportunities for significant strengthening of university autonomy and pursuing academic improvements.

The role played by the Commission Nationale des Marchés was rather counterproductive in many instances of the
procurement process with some undesirable outcomes particularly for IT purchases. These problems included
confusion between the procedures for national bidding and those stipulated in the loan agreement, long delays due
to questions relating to technical specifications after bidding documents had been received and long delays in
processing documents.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
During the mid-term review in April 2002, the Bank and the Borrower agreed to correct serious implementation
problems aimed at improving the performance of those departments responsible for implementation.             These
changes included: (i) naming a full-time coordinator devoted to coordinating the project, whose concentration on
project management proved to be an important boost to reverse the negative performance trends into positive ones
during the last 18 months of the project; (ii) appointing administrative assistants to the coordination unit which
helped enormously in transmission of documents to the Bank; (iii) nominating heads of components and
subcomponents with clearly defined responsibilities; (iv) restructuring some components in order to focus better on
results; (v) providing all management structures with logistical support and training in project management and
procurement procedures; and (vi) establishing an internal procurement review process which improved the
management and quality of procurement documents. By September 2004, the disbursement rate reached 70
percent with an 80 percent disbursement rate for civil works, up from 20 percent in 2002.

The Steering Committee was supposed to have played a major role in seeking solutions to the sector problems
addressed by the project. However, it met infrequently and was unable to address implementation problems early
on or fill the gap of a lack of political vision and cohesiveness of actions when needed.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project was implemented between May 1998 and December 2004 at an original estimated cost of US$106.6
million, of which US$80 million, or FRF 476.1 million, represented the loan amount. In January 2001, when the
Euro (EUR) became effective, the loan amount was converted into the new currency. By the project's closing date,
EUR 53.1 million was disbursed out of the total loan amount of EUR 72.5 million; EUR 12.5 million was cancelled
in October 2004 and EUR 5.43 million was not disbursed. The undisbursed amount corresponds to invoices that
were not sent to the Bank by the project closing date, uncommitted funds for equipment, and cancelled
procurement activities.

The original closing date was December 31, 2003. However, it was extended by one year to December 31, 2004.
This extension was granted at the request of the Government of Tunisia to enable the MoHE to achieve its



                                                          - 10 -

development objectives. Given the fact that the project had improved its implementation and had achieved
most of the development objectives, the extension was warranted.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The results of the project are likely to be sustainable.

The project financed investments in construction, rehabilitation of public facilities, equipment and furniture which
are likely to be sustainable for the following reasons: (i) the budget for higher education makes provisions for
maintenance of public buildings and their equipment; however, this budgetary line is executed at the central level
whereas its delegation to the universities could improve its efficiency; (ii) scientific and IT equipment is the
responsibility of universities. Availability of funds enhances ownership and could facilitate the maintenance and
repair or replacement of this equipment, especially with greater financial autonomy.

Pedagogic and institutional reforms have made steady progress under the project. Their impact is likely to be felt
after the project since practices have become entrenched within the higher education institutions. Other reasons
for the continuity of these impacts are attributable to: (i) the political commitment of the government to pursue
decentralization; (ii) the proven experience that universities and their establishments are able to make good
management decisions and to take advantage of the autonomy in the sense of implementing positive changes in
academic matters as well as in management activities (such as improvements made through the introduction of
modular systems, the reduction of internal inefficiency and the implementation of some attractive curricula with
market-led orientations); (iii) albeit slow to be fully materialized, the pattern of role change within the central
administration is perceptible as MoHE senior staff are inclined to leave more daily management responsibilities to
university managers. Not all universities have the capacity to take advantage of the opportunities that come with
decentralization. Discrepancies between universities in terms of implementation capacity may slow the move to
greater autonomy. Systematic efforts at capacity building for weaker institutions should be actively pursued while
a criteria-based system granting greater autonomy to stronger universities could be envisaged.

The financial sustainability of the system improved through: (i) increasing student:teacher ratios to internationally
accepted levels and thus lowering unit costs by 47 percent; (ii) improving repetition and pass rates which incurred
savings representing 9 percent of government recurrent expenditures; and (iii) increasing higher education's share
of government resources to 2.0 percent of GDP. The long-term sustainability of the system is still questionable
because there will not be enough public resources to finance the inputs necessary to respond to the growing
demand for higher education over the next five years. The government currently finances 98 percent of all
expenditures in higher education (representing 2 percent of GDP). It is unlikely that the public effort can go
further than this. Strategies to increase cost-recovery and for universities to generate additional resources were
developed in the studies financed by the project. With effective communication and risk management these
strategies could be implemented.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
There is no need to establish transition modalities as project activities are part of the reform program carried out by
the MoHE.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The Bank's performance during preparation was satisfactory. The Bank engaged in a very fruitful
dialogue with the Borrower based on extensive and participatory sector work as well as consensus building
activities. The project design was in accordance with the government's development plan and the CAS. The
project laid emphasis on resolving the emerging issues of higher education in order to make the sector more
efficient. Project design helped to identify these issues and to assign objectives which were well adapted to the
goals of the Borrower. One of the reasons for not giving a highly satisfactory rating is that the Bank did not fully



                                                        - 11 -

ensure readiness for implementation as roles and responsibilities of the coordinator and the Steering Committee
were not understood and a manual of procedures was not prepared. These factors explained for the most part the
initial weak implementation of the project.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. Bank supervision is rated satisfactory. The Bank team developed good relations and understanding
with the Borrower (authorities and staff), fostering constructive dialogue and shared views on major issues and
their solutions. The mid-term review was of high quality and extremely effective as it identified major problems
and proposed solutions that led to improve project performance. The Bank team was competent and dedicated, and
the transition of task team leaders (three in total) was smooth, favoring continuity of project activities. A QAG
supervision review in FY05 rated supervision as satisfactory but noted that greater use of world class experts
during supervision could have pushed ahead the policy dialogue on financial sustainability and greater support in
procurement and financial management.        In retrospect, the Bank team could have pushed much sooner for
improvements in implementation arrangements rather than wait until the mid-term review.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory for the following: (i) using participatory approaches
in sector work and consensus-building to prepare the project; (ii) good team work and good communications and
relations with the Government; (ii) making numerous field visits and meetings with universities and other
stakeholders; (iii) undertaking an intensive learning ICR that was praised by beneficiaries and stakeholders; and
(iv) maintaining excellent files and information.     The Bank could have been more active in promoting the
implementation of cost-recovery and private-sector participation, as well-reputed experts could have helped to
increased decision-makers' awareness about the dynamics of change.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The government performance is rated satisfactory during preparation and appraisal due to involvement in sector
work and consensus building workshops but lack of a manual of procedures and clear responsibilities for the
coordinator slowed down implementation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall government performance is rated unsatisfactory. The difficulties impeding the implementation of the
reform agenda on financial sustainability meant that there were insufficient resources for quality improvement and
the long term sustainability of the systems was not adequately addressed. Its strengths rested on support to achieve
objectives related to expanding access, reforming and modernizing the pedagogic system and pursuing
decentralization.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementation performance until the mid-term review was weak as reflected in low disbursements and weak
performance of the project coordination unit to carry out activities. The Steering Committee did not play the role it
should have played in monitoring performance and resolving problems.       On the other hand, project managers and
staff demonstrated openness to accept changes that were needed to enhance their working capacity. Project
implementation improved significantly after recommendations provided during the mid-term review were
implemented; this was recognized in the beneficiary survey. The overall performance of the implementing agency
was satisfactory because of this improvement.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Borrower performance is satisfactory. Satisfactory progress was made with the introduction of major reforms to
accommodate increasing enrollments and maintain quality. However, the project suffered major implementation
problems which were not dealt with by the Steering Commitee.                    After the mid-term review, the
Borrower/implementing agency applied the bulk of measures intended to accelerate the project implementation,
explaining why more progress was made in the latter part of the project.




                                                       - 12 -

8. Lessons Learned

The beneficiary and stakeholder workshops, discussions of the findings of the ICR with the client and the policy
workshop held in March 2004 (to discuss the studies financed under the project (on decentralization, quality
assurance and financing) provide valuable lessons and perspectives that are being taken into account in the
preparation of a new project. These lessons learned are summarized below.

Implementing sensitive policy reforms requires political commitment, careful sequencing and an effective
communication strategy. Policy reforms and institutional changes are protracted processes calling for continued
strong political leadership to ensure that sector reforms such as cost recovery are implemented. There are tensions
and sequencing issues between cost-recovery and quality and maintaining social equity that need to be made
operational. The functions of policy advocacy, canvassing support, policy oversight and the monitoring of reforms
need adequate support.       Departments in charge of financial reforms should have clear responsibility and
accountability to carry out the demanding and influential tasks pertaining to politically sensitive reforms. Staff
involved in the conception and implementation of reforms should receive appropriate training to be able to perform
their duties with efficacy.

Greater university autonomy is integral to improving the relevance and quality of higher education.
Universities and their establishments are the actors responsible for improving program quality.           The more
autonomy they have the better decisions they will be able to make to meet the accountability criteria for quality
enhancement and to respond flexibly to changes in their operating environment. In Tunisia, universities performed
well in implementing the pedagogic and curriculum reforms that led to system-wide improvements in internal
efficiency because of increased autonomy in these areas.        However, a more complete vision of autonomy is
required if universities and their institutions are to respond to the new challenges to improve the quality and
relevance of their services.

Enhancing the financial sustainability of the higher education system, which ultimately will include introducing
some cost-recovery, depends on universities' capacity to deliver programs of good quality and relevant to the job
market because consumers are more willing to pay for services if they are satisfied with their quality. Today,
computers, Internet connectivity and IT equipment need to be integrated into teaching to improve the quality of
post-secondary education. The main constraint confronting universities and their institutions is not only the lack of
financial resources but also an incentive system for universities to generate and manage their own resources so that
adequate maintenance, replacement and upgrading of systems can occur.             Both the beneficiary survey and
stakeholders' workshop confirmed the notion that greater autonomy would enable university leaders and
administrators to be more responsive to the reality of IT.

Participation of beneficiaries and stakeholders in monitoring will strengthen accountability mechanisms and
project performance. Effective monitoring systems will develop approaches to improve accountability of project
implementation units to beneficiaries and stakeholders. Involving beneficiaries in feedback sessions, sharing
impact analysis with stakeholders and disseminating information about project implementation provides built-in
accountability mechanisms allowing groups to demand improvements, offer solutions and have greater buy-in to
the reform process.

Better assessment of the Borrower's implementation capacity can prevent implementation delays and improve
project design. Systematic evaluation of institutional capacity for implementation allows better diagnosis of
implementation weaknesses and the design of remedies for reinforcing implementation structures and ultimately
project implementation.      Operations manuals are essential for clarifying roles, responsibilities, reporting
relationships and systems and procedures.

Strong coordination and project oversight ensures good communication and problem solving. The backbone of
successful implementation for complex sector projects involves a dedicated steering committee and strong project
coordination when different institutions and departments are involved. A strong steering committee should meet
on a regular basis to provide guidance for implementation and make collective decisions to address and solve
issues. In addition, the project coordinator should ensure fluid information flow between implementing units as



                                                        - 13 -

well as with the Bank. She should be available and qualified to take on operational functions. She should also
have the necessary authority and receive adequate support to ensure effective collaboration among monitoring and
implementing units.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's own report is presented in Annex 10. The Borrower informed the Bank that it found the Bank's
assessment of the project satisfactory. In general the ICR reflects the project achievements. However, the MOHE
felt that the rating for government performance should be satisfactory rather than unsatisfactory because the project
disbursed 75 percent of the loan amount which, in fact, was a significant achievement over the previous project.
Regarding lessons learned about autonomy, the MOHE argues that as a first step, more attention needs to be
directed to reinforcing the management capacity of univerisity and in particular, training staff to understand
existing procedures.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable.

10. Additional Information

None.




                                                        - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Enrollment rates (by gender)                    2002/03: total enrollment 224,972             2004: Total enrollment : 360,342 Rate: 24.0
1998: 155,120 enrolled; 14,6% (male of age                                                    per cet (58 per cent female).
group 19-24), 45.9% (women of age group
19-24).

Retention rates (by gender) [calculated as      --                                            2003/04: 69.5 per cent pass rate: 60 per cent
average undergraduate retention rate] 2004.                                                   (minimum); 99.4 per cent (maximum)
With the introduction of credit system, it was
decided that retention rate is no longer
relevant, and pass rate should be used as the
indicator (64.5% in 2001).

Degree of devolution of managerial                                                            Texts promulgated in 2000 and largely
responsibilities from ministry services to                                                    applied. Universities have acquired
universities. Baseline was to introduce new                                                   significant academic autonomy (in developing
status to universities.                                                                       new programs and in developing local
                                                                                              courses), but have limited effective
                                                                                              administrative and financial autonomy
                                                                                              (subject as they are to prior review for most
                                                                                              budgetary decisions).

Set up selection panels (juries) to use criteria                                              New criteria have been adopted with regards
for staff career decisions                                                                    to recruitment, promotions and appointment
                                                                                              of staff. Training plan set up.

Level of institutions' responsibility and                                                     Universities can make decisions for one-third
accountability                                                                                of the teaching modules. Greater authority for
                                                                                              hiring of staff and financial management.

Level of cost-recovery for academic services                                                  No increase of academic fees for regular
                                                                                              courses: fees introduced for evening courses
                                                                                              "a la carte".

Level of students' contribution to                                                            Ratio scholarship/loans reached 63/37 by
non-academic services and increase of                                                         2003.
scholarship / loans from 70/30 in 1998 to
45/55 at end of project.

Existence of a regulatory framework to                                                        Regulatory framework created. Creation of 18
provide an incentive for private initiative                                                   private universities and 148 private
                                                                                              non-academic services.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Civil works (sub-component A1) and              100% of civil works completed                 100% completed. 5000 seats were added in
equipment implementation progress                                                             the ISETs and 10800 seats were created in
                                                                                              faculties and institutes (representing 56% of
                                                                                              the total increase or 5% of total capacity
                                                                                              estimated in 2004)

                                                Introduction of the use of new technologies   Acquisition of pedagogic tools and new
                                                by students, faculties (20 computers for 1000 technologies (52 computers for 1000
                                                students and teachers at the end of 1999), as students and teachers in 2003, among which
                                                well as by management and administration.     85% are connected). Networking of 1
                                                Networking of 3 universities.                 university out of 3.
Teacher assessment system abandoned in          External evaluation completed.                External evaluation completed, but action
favor of institutional evaluation system; first                                               plans to implement recommendations not yet
phase (self-evaluation) tested in April 2002 in                                               discussed.
40 volunteer institutions, to be followed by




                                                                   - 15 -

second phase (external evaluation) in 5 to 10
of these institutions
Development of sector financing strategy                   No strategy in place to meet costs of rapidly
                                                           expanding HE system. Contributing study
                                                           was completed in November 2004 and will
                                                           provide a good basis for the Government to
                                                           diversify sources of financing for higher
                                                           education.


1End of project




                                                 - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                Appraisal       Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                                 Estimate          Estimate     Appraisal
                       Component                                US$ million       US$ million
A. SUPPLY RESPONSE                                                 64.10              64.60         100.7
B. QUALITY & RELEVANCE                                               0.43              1.50         348.8
C. GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT                                           1.70              0.90          52.9
D. INTENSIFIED USE OF NEW TECHNOLOGIES                             19.54              12.63          64.6
E. FINANCING                                                         0.40              0.07          17.5

Total Baseline Cost                                                86.17              79.70
 Physical Contingencies                                              7.60
 Price Contingencies                                               12.70
                          Total Project Costs                    106.47               79.70
                   Total Financing Required                      106.47               79.70


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                          1
                                                   Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB              NCB                   2         N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                       Other
1. Works                             32.60             32.60            0.00            0.00       65.20
                                    (22.80)           (22.80)          (0.00)          (0.00)      (45.60)
2. Goods                             18.60             12.10            1.30            0.00       32.00
                                    (16.10)           (9.90)           (1.10)          (0.00)      (27.10)
3. Services                          0.00              0.00             8.77            0.00        8.77
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)           (7.30)          (0.00)      (7.30)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00              0.00             0.00            0.50        0.50
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00              0.00             0.00            0.00        0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00              0.00             0.00            0.00        0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
    Total                            51.20             44.70           10.07            0.50       106.47
                                    (38.90)           (32.70)          (8.40)          (0.00)      (80.00)
(*) Other = Selection based on Consultants' qualification and single source selection.
The figures in parentheses indicate amounts financed by the Bank loan.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                          1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB              NCB                   2         N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                       Other
1. Works                             15.44             34.19            0.00           0.00       49.63
                                    (12.34)          (26.93)           (0.00)          (0.00)     (39.27)
2. Goods                             18.40             5.67             0.00           0.00       24.07
                                    (12.60)           (2.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)     (14.60)


                                                   - 17 -

   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              6.00             0.00              6.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (5.00)            (0.00)           (5.00)
   4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               33.84             39.86              6.00             0.00             79.70
                                          (24.94)           (28.93)            (5.00)            (0.00)           (58.87)
   (*) Actuals were not received by Government. Figures are approximate.
    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
A. SUPPLY RESPONSE            60.00        20.00                    52.28         14.10                 87.1      70.5
B. QUALITY &                   0.40         0.03                     1.30         0.70                  325.0    2333.3
RELEVANCE
C. GOVERNANCE &                1.20         0.50                     0.55         4.70                  45.8     940.0
MANAGEMENT
D. INTENSIFIED USE OF         18.00         6.10                     4.67         1.33                  25.9      21.8
NEW TECHNOLOGIES
E. FINANCING                   0.40         0.03                     0.07         0.00                  17.5      0.0

   (*) Actuals were not received by Government. Figures are approximate.




                                                          - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

1. Principal results of cost-effectiveness analysis. The cost-effectiveness analysis focuses on the impact of
reforms on the sector. Results were achieved from efficiency gains and a greater degree of cost-recovery and
diversification of programs being offered. Specifically, reform measures that were taken and implemented during
the project allowed for the following results:

·        A reduction in government expenditures in higher education, caused by greater private sector provision
following legislative and regulatory
reforms (Component A)
·        An improvement in internal efficiency (lower repletion and drop-out rates) due in part to: (i)
organizational reforms such as the introduction of the credit and modular approach in under-graduate programs
(Component B); (ii) greater articulation between programs and greater ease for students to transfer from one
program to another (component B); as well as (iii) pedagogic reforms such as teacher training, career development,
and using more systematically new technologies (Component B and D).
·        Strengthening cost recovery for tuition and cafeteria and dormitory services (Component E)

Other measures, which are more difficult to quantify, could have been generated by the project, such as reforms
aimed at improving governance by strengthening university autonomy (Component C). Figure 1 illustrates the
distribution of costs and benefits of the project as appraised for the period 19998-2003. Quantifiable project
benefits concerned three areas; (i) improvement in internal efficiency; (ii) improvement in contribution from the
private sector; (iii) increases in tuition and fees. The sector benefits were estimated to be 2.8 times greater than the
costs of the project due primarily to greater cost recovery for cafeteria and dormitory services, accounting for 31.6
percent of benefits, and improvement in internal efficiency accounting for 30.3 percent. From a component
perspective the benefits were distributed as follows:

·        Component A2 (private sector involvement)                                 14.1%
·        Components B and C (internal efficiency gains)                            30.3%
·        Component E2 (increases in tuition fees )                                 24.0%
·        Component E3 (greater cost recovery for cafeteria and dormitory fees) 31.6%

                                         Figure 1 : Costs and Benefits of Project

   150                                                    130                                      135

                                                                              103
   100
                                        61

    50


      0
                                                            -2

    -50


  -100                                                          Costs
                                                                Advantages, gains of efficiency measurable
  -150
                 -152                                           Advantages, recovery of the costs

  -200

 M TD    Com ponents A1 & D       Component A2      Components B & C     Components E2        Component E3




                                                          - 19 -

2. Economic Analysis of the project.
2.1 Project Impact on improving internal efficiency. The reforms that were implemented since the beginning of
the project have given tangible positive results in terms of improving the internal efficiency of higher education.
Improvement in pass rates which began in the mid-1990s was consolidated under the project. The average pass
rate increased from 45 percent in 1996 to 60 percent in 2003. Average repetition rates were halved from 48
percent to 24 percent during the same period. About 31 percent of all students repeated in 1996, representing
inefficient usage of Government expenditures, without counting for the loss in opportunity costs of repeter
students. The proportion of students repeating declined to 18.8 percent in 2003. The impact of internal efficiency
improvements are estimated to represent at TND 176 billion or a saving of 9.4 percent of the Ministry of Higher
Education's operating budget between 1998 and 2003. The impact would be greater if one included investment
expenditures in the analysis.

                       Table 1 :Economic benefits due to improvements in internal efficiency

                                            1998        1999     2000   2001      2002       2003     Total
 Actual trends
 Number of Students                         137 024 155 120    180 044  208 000  226 102    262 502  1 168 792
 Operational Budget (M DT)                   224,2       249,8    288,8  327,0      358,0     437,3    1 885,1
 Trends without improvements
 Number of Students                       143 083      165 032 194 831  228 593  252 020    294 527  1 278 087
 Operating Budget (M DT)                     234,1       265,8    312,5  359,4      399,0     490,7    2 061,5
 Improvement (M DT)                              9,9      16,0     23,7    32,4       41,0     53,4      176,4

Figure 2 illustrates trends in the Ministry of Higher Education's recurrent budget during the project period, and
compares that to the case where efficiency gains had not been made. The difference constitutes the savings due to
improvements in repetition and pass rates due to the pedagogic and organizational reforms implemented under the
project. (Component B and D):

Figure 2 : Gains from improvements in internal efficiency: impact on the Ministry of Higher Education's recurrent
                                                      budget 1998-2003

   500                                                                                              500
                                                                                               491


   450     Valued evolution of the recurrent budget w ithout                                        450
                                                                                               437
                improvement of the internal eff iciency

   400                                                                                              400



   350                                                                                              350


                                                                              Evolution observed of
   300                                                                        the recurrent budget  300


                                                            Gains
   250                                                                                              250
           234

           224
   200                                                                                              200
  M TD       1998             1999              2000           2001        2002            2003     M TD




                                                            - 20 -

2.1 Financing: Revenue diversification and beneficiary contributions. The reform defines a judicial framework
for provate services in higher education did not provide intended results. Under the Tenth Plan, goals were set for
the private sector to provide places to 30 000 students by 2006. Private higher education has been institutionalized
since 2000, however, their contribution remains marginal. In 2004/2005, students enrolled in private schools
remained at 2,700, and no permanent teachers were recruited at these institutions.

The role of the private sector in providing lodging and cafeteria services has also been less than expected. Its
lodging capacity is estimated to be approximately 6,600 beds (11 percent of room supply) with an occupation rate
between 40 and 70 percent. The constraints to expansion are due to: (i) administrative difficulties to get approval
of proposals; (ii) rents are expensive for poor students; (iii) difficulties in getting space near universities.
Nevertheless private sector expansion of residential services has reduced the proportion of students living in public
sector and subsidized residences from 30 percent 1998-99 to 19.2 percent 2003-2004 and as a consequence
lessened the burden on the MoHE's recurrent budget. On the other had, the proportion of students receiving
scholarships increased from less than 25.0 percent to more than 30 percent during the same period as illustrated in
Figure 3. While student's contribution to their cost of living has increased, their contribution to school costs has
not. While student fees were introduced in 1995 and 1997, efforts were not marshaled during the project and as a
result the anticipated resources which would have increased resources and given greater budget flexibility to the
government were not materialized.

                            Figure 3: Trends in lodging and scholarships (1998 ­ 2003)

         35%

                                                                                    30,9%
                                                      30,1%                                    30,4%

         30%     30,0%              28,8%                              29,0%




         25%     24,7%              26,2%
                                                      24,6%
                                                                       23,5%

         20%                                                                        21,3%

                                                                                               19,2%

         15%               Proportion of benefiting students from lodging services

                           Proportion of students receiving scholarship

         10%
                  1998-1999      1999-2000          2000-2001        2001-2002     2002-2003  2003-2004




Overall, the project contributed to efficiency improvements in higher education in Tunisia. The analysis shows
that the gains increased private provision of housing and gains from improved internal efficiency were offset by
increases in the proportion of students receiving scholarships. The greatest efficiency gains were due to the
continued reduction in unit costs and to cost per diploma. In real terms, the average cost of a diploma, based on
recurrent costs fell by 17 percent during the project. Figure 4 shows the evolution of unit recurrent costs and
diplomas between 1990 and 2004. This was achieved by increasing student teacher ratios from 1:113 to 1:22 over
the project period. Other quantifiable benefits for individuals (such as higher income after degree from higher
education) and social benefits (effects from having a large mass with higher education degree) are areas that need
to be integrated in the economic analysis of the project.




                                                            - 21 -

Figure 4 : Average cost per student and per diploma (constant prices 1990)

        Cost per Student                                                      Cost per Graduate
    2 000                                                                                 25 000

    1 800    1 723

    1 600                                                                                 20 000
              20 374
    1 400
                                                   1 184
    1 200                                                                                 15 000

    1 000
                                                                                   1 007
      800                                          9 246                                  10 000

      600
                                                                               7 671
      400                                                                                 5 000

      200

         0                                                                                0
   TD (1990) 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004  TD (1990)




                                  - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/19/1997                5    TM - ECONOMIST (1) -             S               S
                                             SPECIALIST PUBLIC ADMIN
                                             (1) - SPECIALIST HIGHER
                                             EDUCATION (1) -
                                             SPECIALIST PROJECT
                                             MANAGEMENT (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              09/26/1997                7    TM - ECONOMIST (1) -             S               S
                                             SPECIALIST PUBLIC
                                             ADMIN (1) - ARCHITECT
                                             (1) - SPECIALIST HIGHER
                                             EDUCATION (1) -
                                             SPECIALIST EDUCATION
                                             (1) - FMS (1)

 Supervision

              05/28/1998                4    TM - ECONOMIST (1);              S               S
                                             ARCHITECT (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              12/07/1998                5    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             MIS SPECIALIST (1); HIGHER
                                             EDUC. SPEC. (1); ARCHITECT
                                             (1)
              06/30/1999                5    TEAM LEADER (1); MIS             S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); ARCHITECT
                                             (1); HIGHER ED. SPECIALIST
                                             (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1)
              12/13/1999                3    TEAM LEADER, ED.ECON.            S               S
                                             (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); ARCHITECT (1)
              06/24/2000                6    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT ASSISTANT
                                             (1); PORTFOLIO MANAGER
                                             (1); ARCHITECT (1); HIGHER
                                             EDUCATION SPEC. (1)
              11/24/2000                5    TTL/EDUCATION (1);               S               S
                                             PROJECT ANALYST (1);
                                             IMMEDIATE PAST TTL (1);
                                             ARCHITECT (1); HIGHER ED
                                             SPECIALIST (1)



                                              - 23 -

               06/09/2001              5   TTL (1); OPERATIONS                  S    S
                                           ANALYST (1); PROGRAM
                                           ASSISTANT (1); ARCHITECT
                                           (1); HE SPECIALIST (1)
               12/07/2001              6   TTL (1); OPERATIONS                  S    S
                                           ANALYST (1); PROGRAM
                                           ASSISTANT (1); EDUCATION
                                           SECTOR LEAD (1);
                                           ARCHITECT CONSULTANT
                                           (1); HIGHER EDUCATION
                                           SPEC. (1)
               07/10/2002              3   TEAM LEADER (1);                     U    S
                                           OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                           SECTOR MANAGER (1)
               11/08/2002              3   TEAM LEADER (1); SECTOR              S    S
                                           MANAGER (1); EDUCATION
                                           SPECIALIST (1)
               01/24/2003              5   Task Team Leader (1); Education      S    S
                                           Specialist (1); Operations
                                           Analyst (1); Distance Learning
                                           Spec (1); Governance Spec (1)
               05/02/2003              6   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                S    S
                                           EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                           OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                           EDUCATION ECONOMIST (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); ARCHITECT (1)
               11/06/2003              5   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                S    S
                                           OPERATIONS ANALYST (2);
                                           SENIOR PROCUREMENT SP.
                                           (1); ARCHITECT (1)
               01/26/2004              4   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                S    S
                                           OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                           EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                           SREDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                           (1)

 ICR
               09/24/2004             5     SR. EDUCATION SPEC.                 S    S
                                            (2); OPERATIONS
                                            ANALYST (1); EDUC.
                                            TECHNOL. SPEC. (1);
                                            FINANCIAL SPEC. (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             n.a.
  Appraisal/Negotiation                  n.a.                        313.5 /a
  Supervision                            n.a.                          657.6




                                            - 24 -

  ICR                                                  n.a.             109.1
  Total                                                n.a.         1 080.2 /b
/ a Includes all preparation and identification phases
/b Includes all travel fees




                                                          - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU
(*) Governement implementation performance : MU (moderately unsatisfactory)




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

·       Supervision aide-mémoires
·       Early Implementation Review (LN4297­ TUN)
·       Quality Assurance Review (LN4297-TUN), September 2004
·       Country Assistance Strategy, 2000-2004
·       Republic of Tunisia, IX and Xth Development Plan
·       Mid-term review report, April 2002
·       "Capacité de gestion des universités" - Formation Management Conseil «FMC», December 2004
·       "Financement de l'enseignement supérieur en Tunisie" - Social Consult, December 2004
·       Loan Agreement nr. 4297­ TUN and supplemental letters
·       Evaluation Report on Tunisian Virtual Universities (Rapport d'évaluation du projet UVT)
·       Report on Beneficiary Assessment and Stakeholders Workshop - Professor Alouane, December 2004
(Rapport d'évaluation participative du PARES ­ December 2004)
·       Compendium of laws and decrees on Tunisian higher education (Textes fondamentaux)
·       Tunisia : "Note de politique sectorielle sur les dépenses de l'enseignement supérieur" ­ World Bank
Document, August 2004.




                                                        - 28 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

Results of the survey of beneficiaries and results of the workshop with stakeholders

INTRODUCTION

The following report was prepared under the terms of reference for the recruitment of a national consultant to
make a participatory assessment of PARES.

Under these terms of reference, "the main objective is to encourage the actors and partners, on the basis of the
comments and suggestions offered by the beneficiaries on the strengths and weaknesses of the project, to strive to
improve the capacities and conditions of future actions. In order to meet this objective, focus group sessions and
interviews were held with the beneficiaries and partners for the purposes of:
         - evaluating the main achievements compared to expectations;
         - examining the major problems encountered, which the actors either solved or failed to solve during
project execution;
         - making suggestions on how to better attain the development objectives of the sector.

The areas of interest of the survey of beneficiaries, and the workshops involving the borrower and the stakeholders,
covered the major project operations, as follows:

(i)      extension of educational infrastructures and university facilities, purchase of laboratory equipment, and
library collections;
(ii)     computer equipment and the Internet;
(iii)    various training programs;
(iv)     educational improvements;
(v)      support for teacher training;
(vi)     educational, institutional, and financial reforms;
(vii)    decentralization, autonomy, and governance;
(viii)   contributions from students;
(ix)     promotion of the private sector."

This report is presented as a follow-up to a mission organized and led by Prof. Youssef Alouane, former president
of Tunis El Manar University, with the participation of Mrs. Aïda Boukhris El Majdi and Mr. Lotfi Slimane,
assistant professors at Manouba University.

I-        METHODOLOGY AND PROCESS OF ASSESSMENT

I.A- the participatory assessment

The participatory assessment carried out during this mission aimed to assess project beneficiaries and stakeholders;
perception of the project benefits and provide guidance on future priorities

A whole range of issues (teaching, laboratory and computer equipment, documents collection, university facilities,
etc.) were covered by the assessment, proceeding from the individual to the general and from the local to the
global, while conducting an essentially qualitative analysis.

By listening to the participants (institutional officials and beneficiaries) and learning from what they said, we came
to understand their points of view and arrive at a common perception of the conditions for executing the project.
The participatory assessment consisted of determining the strong and weak points of the project, based on
collective thinking about the actions undertaken and the development of proposals for future action. The
participatory assessment is thus part of a process of encouraging action to:




                                                           - 29 -

(i)       take stock of results obtained;
(ii)     evaluate the impact of actions taken;
(iii)    combine and disseminate information in order to create a learning and training environment;
(iv)     draw "lessons" to inform and strengthen future projects in terms of greater visibility and better
capitalization;
(v)      ensure that assessment recommendations are more suitable.

Therefore, an assessment that has been established by consensus and in a participatory manner, and one that has
been validated by all the actors, serves as a point of departure for improvements and/or modifications either of the
objectives or of the future program of actions.

Participatory assessment is not just a report of experts. It is not solely a self-evaluation of actions taken by
operators. It has the advantage of mobilizing and involving all the actors, enabling them to respond to an
action in order to judge its effectiveness and compare it with expectations.

In the development policy adopted by the Ministry of Higher Education, which is the subject of the project financed
by loan number 4297-TUN, the areas of interest are capacities, quality of teaching, internal and external output,
use of ICTs, decentralization, and the financial sustainability of the university system.

I.B- Actors and institutional choices

I.B.1- Actors involved

The actors involved were divided into three categories:

l    Users: the students who "consume" the proposed services (laboratories, new technologies, premises, teaching,
     university facilities, etc.);
l    Operators: (teachers/researchers, teachers/technicians, administrators) who are both beneficiaries and
     managers of actions. Thus, their involvement in the assessment made it possible to improve the conduct and
     management of the project;
l    Institutional officials: (university presidents, project managers at the central level, etc.) who were called upon
     to provide analytical meaning to the results of the assessment as to whether the project objectives had been
     achieved.

I.B.2- Institutional choices

       Institutional choice refers to 10 schools:

l    7 November University, represented by two schools:
l    Faculty of Economic Sciences and Management (FSEG) in Nabeul;
l    Faculty of Sciences in Bizerte.
l    Virtual University of Tunis;
l    ISET in Kairouan, ISET in Cherguia, ISET in Radès ;
l    Private universities (Mediterranean School of Business, l'Ecole Supérieure Privée d'Ingénierie et de
     Technologie, L'Université Privée de l'Enseignement Supérieur, Time University).




     Summary table of assessment interviews
                            Students                     Teachers                          Administrators
7 November University      FSEG                          10/27/2004                       11/24/2004
                              Nabeul                     at 11 a.m.                       at 3 p.m.
                                                         No. of participants: 5*          No.    of  participants: 9*
                                                                                          10/27/2004
                                                                                          at 9 a.m.



                                                          - 30 -

                                                                                               No. of participants: 5*
                                Fac of Sc Bizerte                  10/20/2004                  10/20/2004
                                                                   at 1 p.m.                   at 11:30 a.m.
                                                                   No. of participants: 9*     No.    of   participants: 10*
                                                                                               10/20/2004
                                                                                               at 9 a.m.
                                                                                               No. of participants: 4*
ISET Kairouan                   11/3/2004                          11/3/2004                   11/3/2004
                                at 10 a.m.                         at noon                     at 2 p.m.
                                No. of participants: 8*            No. of participants: 23*    No. of participants: 9*
Virtual University              11/11/2004     at    10  a.m.   &
ISET Charguia                   12/9/2004 at 10 a.m.
ISET Rades
                                No. of participants : 3*          No. of participants : 2 *    No. of participants : 5 *
                                Université         Privée       de 11/25/2004 at 11 a.m.
Private universities            l'Enseignement Supérieur
                                Ecole       Supérieure      Privée 11/25/2004 at 9 a.m.
                                d'Ingénierie et de Technologie
                                Mediterranean School of Business   11/25/2004 at 9 a.m.
                                Time University                    11/30/2004 at 10 a.m.
 * List of participants: Annex 1


 I.C- Topics covered in interviews

 We considered topics relating to:

l     Adaptation of capacities, including issues such as overcrowding, scheduling, improvement of equipment and
      documents collections, the role of outsourcing, the role of the private sector and its contribution to education
      and university facilities, etc. (A);

l     Improvement of educational quality and relevance, including issues such as the restructuring of courses,
      adapting them to the needs of the job market, freedom of schools in this regard, students' familiarity with
      content of curricula, job opportunities, and the status, recruitment, and career advancement of teachers (B);

l     Governance and management of higher education institutions, including such issues as decentralization
      and its progress, difficulties encountered and the new roles assigned to institutions, the role of administrative
      staff, the strengthening of this staff category, the missions of each actor, coordination between different levels,
      streamlining of administrative procedures (C);

l     Information and communication technologies, including questions relating to the availability of computer
      equipment and its use by students, teachers, and administrators of institutions, and linkages between
      institutions (D);

l     Sustainability of financing, including questions directed to administrative staff, teachers, and students. For
      the administrators and teachers, the questions related to their own resources, the possibility of increasing and
      diversifying them, and constraints on their development. For the students, we asked for their views on their
      own financial contribution, both to teaching and to university facilities (E).

 The interview guides will be found in annex 2.

 I-D: Recapitulation and focus groups

 I-D.1: Recapitulation sessions: students and teachers

 Two recapitulation sessions and one focus group session were held on December 14, 2004.

 The recapitulation sessions for students (3 p.m. to 5 p.m.) and teachers (5:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.) were held at



                                                                   - 31 -

INSAT.

These two sessions were focused on four objectives:

l    to validate the observations on the assessment;
l    to consolidate the preliminary conclusions;
l    to elicit comments on these conclusions;
l    to obtain suggestions for future actions.

Accordingly, two activities were proposed for each group.

For the student group (list of participants and program: annex 3)

Activity 1: evaluation of sub-components -- rating method

On the basis of individual work (aided by a card game), and then in small groups, participants were asked to rate
the project sub-components according to three levels of satisfaction (whether they were satisfied, somewhat
satisfied, or dissatisfied).

This was followed by a presentation of the preliminary conclusions resulting from the participatory assessment
interviews, and a discussion on a number of points. This discussion dealt with, among other things, discrepancies
between the interviews and the participants' discussions, and points that were given the most unsatisfactory ratings.

Activity 2: suggestions for future actions ­ brainstorming

In this activity, the students made suggestions for improvements, primarily concerning the points that elicited the
greatest dissatisfaction.

For the teacher group (list of participants and program: annex 4)

Activity 1: evaluation of sub-components -- rating method

On the basis of small group work, with each group representing an institution or other type of school, the
participants were asked to rate the project sub-components in three sub-categories (green sheet: points rated
"satisfied"; orange sheet: points rated "somewhat satisfied"; red sheet: points rated "dissatisfied").

A spokesperson for each group presented the results, and a discussion was then held on the points of disagreement
between the groups

This was followed by a presentation of the preliminary conclusions resulting from the participatory assessment
interviews.

Activity 2: suggestions for future actions ­ brainstorming

In this activity, the teachers made suggestions for improvements, primarily concerning areas of dissatisfaction.

I-D.2: Focus group sessions: university presidents and ministry officials

A focus group session was held at a dinner debate held at a hotel in Tunis. Public and private university presidents
and officials of the Ministry of Higher Education were invited to attend this meeting (see list in annex 5).

The discussion focused on:




                                                        - 32 -

University autonomy
l    physical and human resources
l    decision-making power

Financing of higher education
l    diversification of own resources
l    student participation

Development of private higher education
l    obstacles to its development
l    partnership with public institutions

Educational innovation and the quality of teaching
l    teacher training
l    ICTs in teaching and research

What are the future priorities?

II-       OBSERVATIONS

II.A- Adaptation of capacities

II.A.1- Overcrowding and scheduling

Overcrowding is experienced differently depending on the age of the establishment and the discipline. Schools that
are housed in new buildings have enough space for their current enrollments.            On the other hand, all the
respondents complained of overcrowding in computer technology courses. It should be noted that the teachers
seem satisfied with their schedules and the size of their TD classes (tutorials), which tend to average at about 40
students, whatever the nature of the establishment and discipline.

II.A.2- Laboratory equipment and documents collection

Overall, the respondents saw an improvement in the acquisition of laboratory equipment. However, they felt that
this equipment was still insufficient, especially for research. Moreover, they said that these acquisitions suffered
from three major dysfunctions:

l    delays owing to the time-consuming procedures for the conclusion of contracts; The procedures are considered
     to be very time-consuming. Respondents felt that this slowness was even more burdensome in the case of
     purchases funded by the World Bank. The centralization of the procedure and the Bank's requirements for
     vendors meant that bid packages were often unsuccessful, and the whole process had to be started over.
l    uneven distribution of equipment between the laboratories of different disciplines;
l    quality of acquisitions, In the case of equipment, the principle of "lowest acceptable bid" was very much
     criticized by the users. entailing many incidents of damage and breakdowns soon after purchase.

Document collections seem to be improving more slowly. Out of five establishments visited, only one The Faculty
of Sciences in Bizerte received a supplementary loan of TND 20,000. had received supplementary loans to upgrade
its documents collection, which was considered satisfactory. The documents collection is considered inadequate in
all the other schools. This generally slow progress does not seem to be due to financing difficulties alone, but to the
time-consuming procurement procedures. According to some respondents, 50 percent to 70 percent of expected
acquisitions are not completed because, once the bottlenecks have been overcome, more than half the documents
are out of stock. None of the establishments visited showed any significant progress in digital documentation.




                                                         - 33 -

II.A.3- Private-sector participation

Despite the establishment of a regulatory mechanism to organize and promote the private higher education sector,
the inclusion of a list of private universities in the orientation guidebook, and many other support measures, the
development of private universities (about 3,000 students enrolled in the 17 universities surveyed) remains limited
and is concentrated in large cities (Tunis, Sousse, Sfax).

The reasons for this slow progress, according to private providers, are as follows:

l    considerable skepticism With regard to the quality of teaching and recognition of diplomas by potential
     employers. on the part of students and their parents;
l    costs are seen as high (TND 2,000 to 5,000 a year);
l    the almost free cost of public higher education;
l    incentives considered not only insufficient by providers, but also rarely forthcoming in reality;
l    competition from foreign universities;
l    investment in private education is deemed both expensive and highly risky.

According to providers in this sector, the development of the latter is dependent on encouragement from
government authorities, which could be provided by further measures, such as:

l    "outsourcing." This would not only relieve the enrollment pressure on public universities but also reduce State
     expenditures on subsidies;
l    development of a partnership between public and private universities.

The strengthening of this sector by foreign providers seems to be favorably perceived, provided that it is subject to
the control of the Ministry of Higher Education, especially in respect of curricula and examinations.

On the other hand, private-sector participation in student housing seems to be making progress, especially since,
according to the beneficiaries, public university facilities have not expanded in proportion to the increase in student
enrollment. Nonetheless, the students consider the cost Between TDN 40 and TDN 80 per bed. of private housing
to be relatively high.

II.A.4- Recourse to outsourcing

Outsourcing involves activities such as caretaking, housekeeping, and gardening. It appears that the actors are
satisfied with it and are thinking of expanding this formula to the maintenance of computer and laboratory
equipment. In their view, outsourcing seems to have solved the problem of absenteeism and shortage of personnel.
University officials expressed some doubts, however, about the integrity and behavior of the service providers.

II.B- Improvement of educational quality and relevance

II.B.1- Educational organization

Respondents were unanimously satisfied with the contribution of the reform to the greater diversification of course
offerings Increase from 3 to 12 majors in the Faculty of Sciences in Bizerte. and the flexibility of second-cycle
course contents. The reforms seem to represent a positive step in terms of job opportunities. As for the rest, the
restructuring of courses Only schools established before the reform expressed their views on this issue. was
evaluated from different points of view, depending on the respondents.

For the teachers, the reform had led to some problems because of the change to semesterization and a modular
system, which they felt resulted in:
l    shorter teaching periods for a virtually unchanged curriculum (overload, condensation, lack of depth), and
     more material to be covered in less time;
l    proliferation of supplementary courses, meaning that students tend to succeed at the expense of more basic


                                                          - 34 -

     subject matters;
l    reduction of tutorials (TD) and practical exercises (TP);
l    lack of partial examinations for the preparation of final examinations;
l    long and stressful examination periods.

For the administrators, the reform had led to greater complexity in terms of the organization of courses, especially
examinations.

The respondents seemed unanimous in their interest in short programs of study. They primarily stressed their
relative adaptation to the needs of the job market, not only nationally but regionally. The success of graduates
from these courses is therefore considered satisfactory, but everyone wonders "for how long?".

These short study programs also seem to be characterized by high success rates (about 80 percent), owing to the
small class size at the entry-level, but also to the students' greater motivation, which makes them work harder.

The major difficulty seems to be the costs of these courses, which are much higher than those of traditional
courses, and a relative lack of interest on the part of companies to provide internships and training.

For scientific subjects, secondary teaching is the main career option. The number of available posts is not the same
for all disciplines. The physical sciences seem to be the most in demand (there are as many posts as graduates).
The Bizerte Faculty alone produced a surplus of about 75 percent of posts, especially in biology. In economics and
management, besides problems of job opportunities, the students feel that, despite diversification, there is little
innovation in the programs, a lack of specific information in the courses, Same subject matter = same curriculum,
whatever the field of study. and little or no updating of courses, so that they intend to lag behind current
management practices.

Moreover, educational organization seems to be more dependent on physical constraints (facilities, equipment)
then on financial ones. Cost control seems to be a problem mainly affecting the first cycle, where conditions are
considered less satisfactory. The respondents felt that concern for quality was more visible at the level of short
programs and masters' degrees.

As for information on course content, some schools have information brochures on their courses, but they do not
seem to distribute them to the students. This would explain the students' dissatisfaction in this regard.

Information on job opportunities, according to respondents, is also a weak point. Indeed, other than what they
learn from a few information forums and workshops, students do not seem to have a precise idea about job
opportunities. Moreover, they feel the companies lack information on the kind of training being given.

II.B.2- Management of teaching posts

The increase in the number of teachers seems to have been proportionate to the growth of student enrollment; some
adjustments were made, however, by using adjunct faculty, increasing the number of extra hours, and raising class
size. It should be noted that the number of temporary posts Temporary replacements are mainly eminent university
teachers from other schools or specialized professionals in the subject matter being taught. is tending to become
stable or even decline.

As for teachers, access to posts still seems to raise some problems.             Teacher-researchers mentioned some
difficulties with hiring juries or committees. On one hand, some indicate that the juries are often, because of their
membership, favorable to one discipline over others, whereas their composition is supposed to be more diversified.
This leads to the mass hiring of specialists in certain disciplines at the expense of others, without any justification
as to real need. On the other hand, jury members often belong to the same institution, a factor which runs the risk
of encouraging a certain favoritism in hiring. Moreover the advancement of teachers in their career seems to raise
several problems. Research is the only thing that matters. Teaching ability, training, and administrative activities
are not taken into account in the development of their careers. This seems to discourage confirmed teachers, who


                                                          - 35 -

are increasingly less willing to accept having to supervise students or act as head of department, for example.

For technology teachers, the problems seem to come mainly from two sources. First, adjunct faculty members at
the ISETs have to compete with new graduates with master's degrees. Secondly, the juries are composed of
teacher-researchers, who have the same hiring criteria as for the universities, whereas technology teachers are a
specific group, identified as such, and are not supposed to be considered the same as the body of
teacher-researchers.

II.C- Governance and management

II.C.1- Decentralization of responsibilities

The relationship between schools and the Ministry has tended to weaken, owing to decentralization. University
officials consider the relationship satisfactory. Nevertheless, universities seem to be faced with a heavier burden
now that they have replaced the Ministry in virtually all activities, without receiving enough physical and human
resources to do their job. Centralization seems to have moved from the Ministry level to that of the University.

Decentralization has now been implemented, and is being applied within the limits of the law. According to
administrators, if problems persist, they are not due to the failure to enforce the laws, but to the laws themselves,
which are sometimes out of date and impede the proper functioning of the structures.

Of course, decentralization (from Ministry to universities) has made it possible to cut down on administrative
delays in general; however, there is a form of centralization, at university level, of some activities for which the
individual schools used to be responsible. First, acquisition of equipment, which is now the University's
responsibility, is lagging behind in applying the principle of procurement consolidation. Formerly, registration for
the master's degree was internal. Today the University must give its endorsement, which delays registrations for
three months to a year. This results in a « flight » of students to other schools. Moreover, internal changes from
one course of study to another require approval from the University. Other activities remain centralized at the
Ministry level, including marketing committees,        While this assessment was in progress, a law was issued
providing for a marketing committee at each university. schedules of conditions, and invitations to tender that may
take up to three years to be completed. Moreover, according to some respondents, government controllers overstep
their responsibilities by deciding whether an item of expenditure is appropriate rather than simply verifying the
availability of financial resources.

II.C.2- Support for central and decentralized management

Universities and educational institutions have benefited from a supplementary staffing of managers specializing in
higher education and university facilities. Administrator-counselors trained by ISCAE (World Bank project). At
the university level, they are responsible for various services. At the institutional level, they are assigned to posts as
directors of finance and tuition fees (bursars).     These managers seem to have been evaluated for the specific
training they received and their immediate operational capacity. They were also part of the decentralization
process, especially at the university level. Nevertheless, according to the respondents, neither the universities nor
the schools provided continuing education programs for the rest of their administrative staff.

II.D- Information and communication technologies

II.D.1- ICTs in education

The actors seemed to be unanimous on the subject of the insufficiency of computer equipment. Three or four
students are often forced to work at the same station, which considerably reduces the effectiveness and interest of
the courses. Moreover, they rarely have the use of a self-service computer center, where access is still limited to
senior-level students.

In most of the schools visited, the teachers did not use ICTs in their classes. In the others, only 10 percent of the


                                                         - 36 -

teachers used them. As for digital materials, they were virtually nonexistent because of their scarcity and cost.
Apart from the pedagogical semester introduced in the master's programs, few teachers had taken teacher training
courses, and such courses, in fact, did not include ICTs.

In another context, tutors or coordinators of distance education raised other problems:

l   Students do not have computers at home (only one or two students out of 40 have one). This results in a major
    contradiction: students take distance courses while actually being "present;"
l   Only a limited number of computers and distance education (EAD) laboratories16 On the one hand, because
    of the delays experienced by EAD, it is available to only a few schools. On the other hand, only two of the 10
    schools that have been set up are currently in operation; moreover, they are having many problems, especially
    in terms of the availability of space and the maintenance of computer equipment. exist in the schools, while
    the number of distance learning modules continues to increase;
l   Problems with connectivity, data transfer, overcrowding, and maintenance force teachers to provide the course
    content on CDs;
l   Students' difficulties with comprehension are so great that a part of the TD sessions is reserved for reviewing
    the contents of the course;
l   Tutors' working hours are difficult to account for (a problem in terms of remuneration);
l   Shortage (or absence) of computer maintenance technicians.

According to the respondents, there is a thus a risk of discrediting the recent distance learning efforts, especially
those undertaken at the virtual university level.

II.D.2- ICTs in research

For research, students and teachers noted that, without properly equipped computer laboratories and hook-ups, they
are forced to work outside the establishment. In schools that have good connectivity, work sessions are often
disturbed by problems of network maintenance, Few technicians have been hired and few local specialists are
available. transmission speed, server, and connection failures.

II.D.3- ICTs in administration

The use of ICTs in administration, basically for school services and finance, has made it possible to reduce part of
the workload and delays in handling student files, and to rationalize university administration.

The ICT problems, it seems, are elsewhere. Although enough equipment is available, difficulties arise as to its use
(shortage of trained, competent staff), the lack of software, and the absence of maintenance staff in most schools.

II.E- sustainability of financing

II.E.1- Contribution to tuition fees and university facilities

Apart from the students' share, which represents between 10 percent and 20 percent of the operating budget of the
schools, efforts to find other resources have been limited. Moreover, administrators and teachers, and especially
students, feel that the contribution from students is already quite substantial.

Their view is explained by the costs of education, which they judge to be high. They vary from TDN 120 to TDN
150 a month, and the item "private housing" represents over half this amount.

The actors seem to be reluctant to discuss the issue of financing and the students' contribution. They expressed
reservations on what they call a questioning of the principle of equal opportunities, and its impact on the less
well-off students.




                                                         - 37 -

II.E.2- Development of own resources

The respondents, even those who are in favor of increasing the institution's resources for training or business
consulting,    seem        to        have        great        difficulty   in   doing  so   for various     reasons:

l    Problematic relations with companies
l    Shortage of staff to arrange contracts with companies;
l    Few companies convey their needs to the schools;
l    Recourse to foreign experts where necessary;
l    Bureaucratic delays
l    Low pay (equivalent to hourly supplement)

III- SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS

III.A- Summary: level of satisfaction with the various sub-components of the project

The summary is based on the level of satisfaction observed at the time of the participatory assessment interviews,
which was then rectified or validated during the recapitulation sessions.

The levels of satisfaction are summarized for the two populations (students and teachers) in the two tables below.

III.A.1- Level of satisfaction of students

  PROJECT                  SATISFACTORY                                    FAIRLY   UNSATISFACTORY
SUB-COMPO                                                                 SATISFA
    NENTS                                                                  CTORY

1              Class size                                                   87.5%          S               0%         MS
2              Private-sector participation in university                   62.5%          S               0%          MS
               housing
3              Employability of graduates of short programs and ISETs       50%            S              37.5%        MS

4              Availability of private housing                              50%            S              37.5%        MS

5              Quality of private housing                                   12.5%          S               75%         MS

6              Information on course content                                 0%            S              62.5%        MS

7              Registration fees                                            37.5%          S               50%         MS

8              Tuition                                                      25%            S               50%         MS

9              Development of short programs and ISETs                      12.5%          S               50%         MS

10             Employability of graduates                                    0%            S               50%         MS

11             Private-sector participation in education                     0%            S               50%         MS

12             Contribution to costs of public university facilities        25%            S              37.5%        MS

13             Size of computer technology calsses                          25%            S              37.5%        MS
14             Size of TD, TP classes                                       25%            S              37.5%        MS
15             Restructuring of degree programs                              0%            S              37.5%        MS
16             Quality of public university facilities                      12.5%          S              37.5%        MS
17             Documents collection (books, journals, etc.)                 12.5%          S              37.5%        MS
18             Laboratory equipment                                         25%            S              12.5%        MS
19             Cost of private housing                                      12.5%          S               25%         MS
20             Use of ICTs in teaching                                       0%            S              37.5%        MS
21             Information on job opportunities                              0%            S              37.5%        MS
22             Availability of computer equipment                            0%            S               25%         MS
23             Digital documents collection                                  0%            S                0%         MS
24             Access to self-service computer laboratories                  0%            S              12.5%        MS
25             Digital teaching material                                     0%            S                0%         MS
26             In-house Internet access                                      0%            S                0%         MS



                                                                    - 38 -

27              Availability of public housing                    0%    S    0%    MS
S·: Satisfactory - ·MS: Fairly satisfactory ­ I: Unsatisfactory




                                                         - 39 -

Ratings of sub-components by degree of satisfaction of students

Sub-components eliciting the greatest satisfaction
1Class size
2Private-sector participation in university housing
3Employability of short program and ISET graduates
4Availability of private housing


Sub-components eliciting average satisfaction


1Quality of private housing
2Information on course content
3Registration fees
4Tuition
5Development of short programs and ISETs
6Employability of graduates
7Private-sector participation in education
8Contribution to costs of public university facilities
9Size of computer technology classes
10Size of TD, TP classes


Sub-components eliciting the most dissatisfaction


1Restructuring of degree programs
2Quality of public university facilities
3Documents collection (books, journals, etc.)
4Laboratory equipment
5Cost of private housing
6Use of ICTs in teaching
7Information on job opportunities
8Availability of computer equipment
9Digital documents collection
10Access to self-service computer laboratories
11Digital teaching materials
12In-house Internet access
13Availability of public housing




                                                       - 40 -

III.A.2- Level of satisfaction of teachers

                    Project sub-components                    Gr 1* Gr 2* Gr 3* Gr 4*
1                                                               S     S    S              ·                     S
2   Use of ICTs for outside research                            S     S    S       MS     ·              mostly S
3   Development of short programs and ISETs                     S     S    S        I     ·              mostly S
4   Employability of short program and ISET graduates          S      S    S        I    ·               mostly S
5   Students' financial contribution to education               S     S    S        I     ·              mostly S
6   Class size                                                MS      S   MS       MS     ·              mostly MS
7   Employability of degree graduates                         MS    MS    MS       MS ·                  mostly MS
8   Career advancement of teachers                            MS    MS     S        I     ·              mostly MS
9   Information on course content                             MS    MS    MS        I     ·              mostly MS
10  Relations with companies                                    I   MS    MS       MS     ·              mostly MS
11  Linkages between institutions                               S     I    S        I     ··equality S/I
12  Connectivity and data transfer rate                        S      I    S        I    ··equality S/I
13  Access to self-service computer laboratories               S      I    S        I    ··equality S/I
14  Laboratory equipment for teaching                         MS      I   MS        I     ··equality MS/I
15  Size of TD, TP classes                                      I     I   MS       MS     ··equality MS/I
16  Documents collection (books, journals, etc.)              MS      I   MS        I    ··equality MS/I
17  Access to status of permanent faculty                     MS      I   MS        I    ··equality MS/I
18  Availability of computer equipment                        MS      I   MS        I    ··equality MS/I
19  Use of ICTs for in-house research                         MS      I   MS        I    ··equality MS/I
20  Training in the educational use of ICTs                     I     I   MS       MS ··equality MS/I
21  Laboratory equipment for research                           S     I    I        I     ·              mostly  I
22  In-house Internet access                                    S     I    I        I     ·              mostly  I
23  Own resources (training, business consulting, etc.)         I     I   MS        I    ·               mostly  I
24  Private-sector participation in education                   I   MS     I        I     ·              mostly  I
25  Information on job opportunities                          MS      I    I        I    ·               mostly  I
26  Size of computer technology classes                         I     I   MS        I    ·               mostly  I
27  Research                                                  MS      I    I        I     ·              mostly  I
28  Use of ICTs in teaching                                     I     I   MS        I     ·              mostly  I
29  Hiring committee (jury)                                     I     I   MS        I    ·               mostly  I
30  Digital documents collection                                I     I    I        I     ·              mostly  I
31  Maintenance of computer and laboratory equipment            I     I    I        I     ·              mostly  I

Group 1: Faculty of Sciences in Bizerte, Group 2: FSEG Nabeul, Group 3: ISET ­ tertiary, Group 4: ISET ­
industrial

S·: Satisfactory - ·MS: Somewhat satisfactory - I: Unsatisfactory




                                                       - 41 -

Ratings of sub-components by degree of satisfaction of teachers

Sub-components eliciting the most satisfaction


1Restructuring of degree programs
2Use of ICTs for outside research
3Development of short programs and ISETs
4Employability of graduates of short programs and ISETs
5Students' financial contribution to education
Sub-components eliciting average satisfaction


1Class size
2Employability of degree graduates
3Career advancement of teachers
4Information on course content
5Relations with companies


Sub-components eliciting a limited level of satisfaction


1Linkages between institutions
2Connectivity and data transfer rate
3Access to self-service computer laboratories
4Laboratory equipment for teaching
5Size of TD, TP classes
6Documents collection (books, journals, etc.)
7Access to status of permanent faculty
8Availability of computer equipment
9Use of ICTs for in-house research
10Training in the educational use of ICTs


Sub-components eliciting the most dissatisfaction


1Laboratory equipment for research
2In-house Internet access
3Own resources (training, business consulting, etc.)
4Private-sector participation in education
5Information on job opportunities
6Size of computer technology classes
7Research
8Use of ICTs in teaching
9Hiring committee (jury)
10Digital documents collection
11Maintenance of computer and laboratory equipment




                                                      - 42 -

III.A.3- Comparison between levels of satisfaction of teachers and students

                                                                                ETUDIANTS         ENSEIGNANTS
  1     Employability of short program and ISET graduates                             S                    S
  2    Class size                                                                     S                   MS
  3    Development of short programs and ISETs                                       MS                    S
  4    Information on course content                                                 MS                   MS
  5    Employability of degree graduates                                             MS                   MS
  6     Restructuring of degree programs                                               I                   S
  7     Size of TD,TP classes                                                       MS/·I               MS·/I
  8    Size of computer classes                                                     MS·/I                  I
  9    Access to self-service computer laboratories                                    I                  S·I
  10 Documents collection (books, journals, etc.)                                      I                MS·/I
  11 Laboratory equipment                                                              I                MS·/I
  12 Private-sector participation in education                                      MS·/I                  I
  13 Availability of computer equipment                                                I                MS·/I
  14 Information on job opportunities                                                  I                   I
  15 Digital documents collection                                                      I                   I
  16 Use of ICTs in teaching                                                           I                   I
  17 Digital teaching materials                                                        I                   I
  18 In-house Internet access                                                          I                   I
S: ·Satisfactory - ·MS: Somewhat satisfactory - I: Unsatisfactory

         Other than the particular problems of teachers, such as recruitment juries and research, and of students,
such as housing and tuition, the evaluations of both groups seem to support each other. This is especially evident
with regard to computer technology, ICTs, digital teaching materials, research, and other areas. It
appears,therefore, that the elements that elicited the greatest dissatisfaction should be the subject of future efforts.

III.B- Conclusions

The preceding observations and responses given by respondents have led us to put forward the following
conclusions:

The capacities of universities have followed the growth of student enrollment at least quantitatively. At the
qualitative level, the size of classes could be considered satisfactory. On the other hand, the size of TD classes,
especially computer classes, raises pedagogical problems;

l   Private housing is gradually gaining headway on dormitory housing, a fact which has partly solved the student
    housing problem. It is beginning to be accepted in the student "culture." The cost of rent, however, has raised
    the cost of education, which is considered to be high.

l   Private education, aside from its limited development, is far from having lived up to expectations. Skepticism
    on the part of students and their parents seems to offset government incentives and efforts by private providers.
    More efforts could definitely be made at this level.

l   Diversification of courses of study and the development of short-term and ISET courses are considered
    positive aspects, especially with regard to the employability of their graduates compared to that of traditional
    courses of study;

l   Decentralization of responsibilities from the Government to the University has definitely occurred, and it has



                                                         - 43 -

    resulted in greater flexibility for universities, although the latter have lost some of their prerogatives at the
    same time. The universities no longer have title II, Equipment Budget, available to them. Decentralization efforts
    continue to strengthen, with the most recent measure concerning the establishment of a marketing committee
    in each university;

l   Information for students on course content and, especially on job opportunities, is often lacking;

l   The new technologies have suffered delays in terms of their implementation and use in research, teaching, and
    administration. The unavailability of computer equipment, digital teaching materials, digital documents
    collection, together with difficulties related to gaining access to the Internet and problems of connectivity and
    data transfer, are some reasons why these technologies have not been as fully developed as the government
    authorities would like.

In conclusion, the reforms seem to have significantly improved the functioning and governance of Tunisian
universities. Concerns are still being raised concerning the autonomy of schools, the still preponderant role of the
administration, access to information and communication technologies, and the role of the private sector.

IV- RECOMMENDATIONS

Educational innovation and the quality of teaching

Teachers: their profession and career
Ø        Encourage the ongoing training of teachers:
          - Pedagogy
          - ICTs
Ø        Use of software
Ø        Build up teacher training resources through a specific platform
Ø        Set up strict criteria for recruitment of teachers
Ø        Increase the number and specialization of recruitment juries or committees
Ø        Place a value on partnership with companies (employability, training, etc.) as a criterion for the career
advancement of technology teachers

Teaching
Ø        Diversify and professionalize short-term and degree programs of study
Ø        Develop distance education to promote self-teaching
Ø        Make the award of degrees more flexible by adopting a system of units of credit
Ø        Grant the universities more autonomy in order to establish degree programs with better value on the job
market.

Autonomy

Ø        Strengthen the universities' educational autonomy
Ø        Provide universities with human resources, including managers specialized in higher education
administration and university facilities.
Ø        Make government accounting rules more flexible.

ICTs

Ø        Develop and renew computer stock
Ø        Expand connections between institutions
Ø        Acquire software for the training of students




                                                         - 44 -

Financing

Ø        Diversify the schools' own resources, by means of continuing education and business consulting. In this
context, it will be useful to:
         -         give universities more latitude in managing their relations with the environment
         -         allow them more flexibility in managing their own funds
Ø        Increase the students' financial contribution by changing the loan formula.

Private higher education

Ø        Participation of national juries in the recruitment of private-sector teachers
Ø        Government assistance to private-school students (some form of voucher system could be studied)
Ø        Integration of private higher education into the university orientation system
Ø        Establishment of an accreditation and evaluation body to reassure parents and students and give more
credibility to private schools.


Annex: INTERVIEW GUIDES

A- : Interview guide: Students

A : Adaptation of capacities
A1: Public infrastructures
A1.1 Is your school overcrowded? Is the situation getting any better?
A1.2 Is your schedule satisfactory?
A1.3 Do you think there is enough housing in public university facilities?
A1.4 Is the quality of meals in university restaurants satisfactory?
A2: Replacement of laboratory equipment
A2.1 Is your laboratory better equipped?
A2.2 Do you have enough equipment for practical exercises (TP)?
A3: Documents collection
A3.1 Is your library more complete?
A3.2 Has digital documentation improved?
A4: Private-sector participation, recourse to outsourcing
A4.1 What is the extent of private-sector participation in student housing?
B : Improvement of quality and relevance
B1: Educational organization
B1.1 Has the restructuring of degree programs been satisfactory?
B1.2 Is the course content better targeted to the needs of the job market?
B1.4 Does the course content match the specific descriptions of the subject matter to be taught?
B1.5 Does the educational organization meet the imperatives of quality or cost control?
B1.6 Are you better informed about the content of programs?
B1.7 Are you better informed about job opportunities for graduates of the programs?
D : New technologies
D1: Computer equipment and networks
D1.1 Do you have enough work stations available for your courses?
D1.2 Do you have access to self-service computer laboratories?
D2: New technologies as teaching materials



                                                         - 45 -

D2.1 Do your teachers use ICTs in their courses?
D2.2 Have digital teaching materials been introduced in your courses?
D2.3 Do you use ICTs in your research work?
E: Sustainability of financing
E2: Contribution to tuition fees
E2.1 How do you perceive your financial contribution to your education?
E3 Coverage of costs of university facilities
E3.1 How do you perceive your financial contribution to your room and board?

B- Interview guide: Teachers

A : Adaptation of capacities
A1: Public infrastructures
A1.1 Is your school overcrowded? Is the situation getting any better?
A1.2 Is your schedule satisfactory?
A2: Replacement of laboratory equipment
A2.1 Is your laboratory better equipped?
A2.2 Do you have enough equipment for practical exercises (TP)?
A3: Documents collection
A3.1 Is your library more complete?
A3.2 Has digital documentation improved?
A4: Private-sector participation, recourse to outsourcing
A4.1 What do you think of private-sector participation in higher education? How do you evaluate it?
How would you improve it?
A4.2 What problems do you think are being faced by private higher education? How might they be
solved?
A4.3 Should foreign investors be encouraged to invest in the private higher education sector?
B : Improvement of quality and relevance
B1: Educational organization
B1.1 Has the restructuring of degree programs been satisfactory?
B1.2 Is the course content better targeted to the needs of the job market?
B1.3 Should the schools be given more latitude in choosing course content?
B1.4 Does the course content match the specific descriptions of the subject matter to be taught?
B1.5 Does the educational organization meet the imperatives of quality or cost control?
B1.6 Are students better informed about the content of programs?
B1.7 Are the students better informed about job opportunities for graduates of the programs?
B2: Management of teaching posts
B2.1 Is the increase in the number of teachers proportionate to the growth of student enrollment?
B2.2 Is the proportion of temporary replacements on the decline?
B2.3 Do competitive examinations make it easier to find a teaching post?
B2.4 Do you think career advancement has become easier?
D : New technologies
D1 Computer equipment and networks
D1.1Do the students have enough work stations available for their courses?
D1.2Do the students have access to self-service computer laboratories?
D2: New technologies as teaching materials
D2.1Do you use ICTs in your courses? Are they available in sufficient quantity?
D2.2Do you use ICTs in your research? Are they available in sufficient quantity?



                                                       - 46 -

D2.3Have you introduced digital materials in your teaching?
D2.4Have you taken teacher training courses?
D2.5Were ICTs an important part of this training?




                                                     - 47 -

C- Interview guide: Administrators of schools of higher education

A : Adaptation of capacities
A1: Public infrastructures
A1.1 Is your school overcrowded? Is the situation getting any better?
A1.2 Do you have any constraints in preparing schedules?
A2: Replacement of laboratory equipment
A2.1 In the past three years, have you received more loans for replacing laboratory equipment?
A2.2 Is your laboratory better equipped?
A2.3 Do you have enough equipment for practical exercises (TP)?
A3: Documents collection
A3.1 In the past three years, have you received more loans for building up your documents collection?
A3.2 Is your library more complete?
A3.3 Has digital documentation improved?
A4: Private-sector participation, recourse to outsourcing
A4.1 What do you think of private-sector participation in higher education? How do you evaluate it?
How would you improve it?
A4.2 What problems do you think are being faced by private higher education? How might they be
solved?
A4.3 Should foreign investors be encouraged to invest in the private higher education sector?
A4.4 Do you use outsourcing? In what areas? For what percentage of your budget?
B : Improvement of quality and relevance
B1: Educational organization
B1.1 Has the restructuring of degree programs been satisfactory?
B1.2 Is the course content better targeted to the needs of the job market?
B1.3 Should the schools be given more latitude in choosing course content?
B1.4 Does the course content match the specific descriptions of the subject matter to be taught?
B1.5 Does the educational organization meet the imperatives of quality or cost control?
B1.6 Are students better informed about the content of programs?
B1.7 Are students better informed about job opportunities for graduates of the programs?
B2: Management of teaching posts
B2.1 Is the increase in the number of teachers proportionate to the growth of student enrollment?
B2.2 Is the proportion of temporary replacements on the decline?
C : Governance and Management
C1: Decentralization of responsibilities
C1.1 How do you view your relationship with the Ministry of Higher Education and with the universities?
C1.2 Is there a common vision of decentralization?
C1.3 Do bureaucratic procedures hinder decentralization? If so, which ones?
C1.4 Are the roles and responsibilities of the various actors well defined?
C1.5 Do they need a definition of new terms?
C1.6 Are you having any problems in exercising your areas of competence?
C1.7 Is more time needed for everyone to do so?
C1.8 Are there delays in the decentralization process? If so, how do you explain the situation? What
areas are affected?
C1.9 What is your view on the existing coordination between the three levels? What could be done to
improve it?



                                                       - 48 -

C2     Support for central and decentralized management
 C2.1 Do you think that an improvement in physical and human resources could help promote this
      decentralization?
 C2.2 Has your staff been trained to help implement this decentralization?
 C2.3 Has your administrative staff been strengthened?
 C2.4 Has decentralization resulted in faster bureaucratic procedures?
 C2.5 If not, why not?
 C2.6 Do you think that the universities should have greater autonomy? In what area?
 C2.7 How could a posteriori control help develop such autonomy?
D : New technologies
D1     Computer equipment and networks
 D1.1 Do you think that enough use is made of ICTs in administration?
 D1.2 Have ICTs helped relieve the administrative burden?
 D1.3 For what activities do you use ICTs the most?
 D1.4 Do you work on a network?
 D1.5 If so, what are its advantages?
 D1.6 Do you have enough equipment for the successful performance of your duties?
 D1.7 Do the students have enough work stations available for their courses?
 D1.8 Do the students have access to self-service computer laboratories?
E: Sustainability of financing
E1     Financing strategy
E1.1 How do you explain the actors' reluctance to discuss the issue of financing modalities?
E1.2 Apart from subsidies and student contributions, what other sources of financing do you have? How
      much do they amount to?
E1.3 How does it happen that new sources have not been developed? Which ones could be developed on
      the short and medium term?
E1.4 What do you think of continuing education as a way to increase your own resources?
E2     Contribution to tuition fees
E2.1 What share of your budget is represented by tuition fees?

Interview guide: University Presidents

A : Adaptation of capacities
A1. Public infrastructures
A1.1 Have all the planned building projects been completed?
A1.2 If not, what has caused the delay in the building of new facilities?
A1.3 Have the completed building projects substantially relieved the pressure of increased enrollments?
A1.4 What projects have made the most progress?
A1.5 What projects have made the least progress? Why?
A2 - Replacement of laboratory equipment
A2.1 In the past three years, have you received more loans for replacing laboratory equipment in the
schools belonging to your university?
A3 - Documents collection
A3.1In the past three years, have you received more loans for building up the documents collection in
the schools belonging to your university?
A4 -Private-sector participation, recourse to outsourcing
A4.1 What do you think of private-sector participation in higher education? How do you evaluate it?



                                                       - 49 -

How would you improve it?
A4.2 What problems do you think are being faced by private higher education? How might they be
solved?
A4.3 Should foreign investors be encouraged to invest in the private higher education sector?
A4.4 Do you use outsourcing? In what areas? For what percentage of your budget?
B : Improvement of quality and relevance
B1- Educational organization
B1.1 Has the restructuring of degree programs been satisfactory?
B1.2 Is the course content better targeted to the needs of the job market?
B1.3 Should the schools be given more latitude in choosing course content?
B1.4 Does the course content match the specific descriptions of the subject matter to be taught?
B1.5 Does the educational organization meet the imperatives of quality or cost control?
B1.6 Are students better informed about the content of programs?
B1.7 Are the students better informed about job opportunities for graduates of the programs?
B2 - Management of teaching posts
B2.1 Is the increase in the number of teachers proportionate to the growth of student enrollment?
B2.2 Is the proportion of temporary replacements on the decline?
C : Governance and management
C1- Decentralization of responsibilities
C1.1 How do you view your relationship with the MESRST and with the schools?
C1.2 Is there a common vision of decentralization?
C1.3 Do bureaucratic procedures hinder decentralization? If so, which ones?
C1.4 Are the roles and responsibilities of the various actors well defined?
C1.5 Do they need a definition of new terms?
C1.6 Are you having any problems in exercising your areas of competence?
C1.7 Is more time needed for everyone to do so?
C1.8 Are there delays in the decentralization process? If so, how do you explain the situation? What
areas are affected?
C1.9 What is your view on the existing coordination between the three levels? What could be done to
improve it?
C2 - Support for central and decentralized management
C2.1 Do you think that an improvement in physical and human resources could help promote this
decentralization?
C2.2 Has your staff been trained to help implement this decentralization?
C2.3 Has your administrative staff been strengthened?
C2.4 Has decentralization resulted in faster bureaucratic procedures?
C2.5 If not, why not?
C2.6 Do you think that the universities should have greater autonomy? In what area?
C2.7 How could a posteriori control help develop such autonomy?

                C3 - Support for project management
C3.1 What impact has decentralization had on project execution?
C3.2 Have you set up a structure (department, office, etc.) to monitor the progress of projects?
D : New Technologies
D1     Computer equipment and networks
D1.1 Do you think that enough use is made of ICTs in administration?
D1.2 Have ICTs helped relieve the administrative burden?
D1.3 For what activities do you use ICTs the most?



                                                        - 50 -

D1.4 Do you work on a network?
D1.5 If so, what are its advantages?
D1.6 Do you have enough equipment for the successful performance of your duties?
D2    New technologies as teaching materials
D2.1 Have you organized teacher training courses for teachers in your university?
D2.2 Do ICTs have an important place in such training?
E: Sustainability of financing
E1    Financing strategy
E1.1 Do you think that the current system for financing higher education is capable of ensuring its
     sustainability?
E1.2 How do you explain the actors' reluctance to discuss the issue of financing modalities?
E1.3 Apart from subsidies and student contributions, what other sources of financing do you have? How
     much to they amount to?
E1.4 How does it happen that new sources have not been developed? Which ones could be developed in
     the short and medium term?
E1.5 What do you think of continuing education as a way to increase your own resources?




                                                     - 51 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

See Annex 8.




                                      - 52 -

Additional Annex 10. Borrower's Report

1. Evaluation du Choix des Objectifs, de la Conception du Projet, et de l'Etat de Préparation lors du
Démarrage
Le projet d'appui à la réforme de l'enseignement supérieur avait pour objectifs d'aider le Ministère de
l'Enseignement Supérieur à :

§        Développer les capacités d'accueil de l'enseignement supérieur tout en préservant sa qualité;
§         Améliorer l'efficacité interne et externe ainsi que la cohérence du secteur de l'enseignement supérieur
public; et
§        Améliorer la viabilité financière des établissements publics d'enseignement supérieur.

1.2 Révisions Apportées aux Objectifs
NON

1.3 Composantes du Projet
En vue d'atteindre ses objectifs, le projet d'appui à la réforme de l'enseignement supérieur avait cinq composantes
:

§        Composante A : Adaptation des capacités d'accueil
§        Composante B :Amélioration de la qualité et de la pertinence
§        Composante C : Gouvernance et gestion
§        Composante D : Intensification de l'usage des nouvelles technologies
§        Composante E : Pérennisation du financement

1.4 Révisions Apportées aux Composantes

Aucune révision n'a été apportée à la structure générale du projet d'appui à la réforme de l'enseignement
supérieur.

1.5 Qualité au Démarrage du Projet

Lors de sa préparation, le projet était jugé satisfaisant dans sa totalité. Comme il a été classé parmi les priorités du
ministère entraînant ainsi un dialogue et une coopération étroite entre la Banque et l'emprunteur.

2. Réalisation des Objectifs du Projet

 2.1 Evaluation de l'impact du projet ­ réalisation des objectifs

 Le projet d'appui à la réforme de l'enseignement supérieur a atteint la plupart de ses objectifs initiaux notamment
 en ce qui concerne les composantes A, B, C, et E . Les raisons de la non réalisation de quelques objectif sont
 détaillées dans le point 5 ci-après.

2.2       Réalisations du projet

§        Composante A : en ce qui concerne le volet génie civil, les travaux de construction d'établissements
d'enseignement et d'oeuvres universitaires : 122 800 m2 ont été bâtis dans le cadre du PARES créant 12
établissements pour un coût total de 76.461.790,972 DT. Ces nouvelles constructions ont étendu la capacité
d'accueil des établissements d'enseignement de 16000 places, des établissements d'hébergement de 2400 places,
des établissements de restauration de 2500 places
         Ces travaux ont été achevés aux mois de Septembre 2002, 2003 et 2004 à l'exception de la Faculté des
         Sciences Economiques et de Gestion de Nabeul dont les travaux ont été achevés durant l'année de
         prorogation.



                                                          - 53 -

        En ce qui concerne le volet équipements des nouvelles constructions, six appels d'offres ont été lancés et
        entièrement exécutés au profit de la Faculté des sciences de Gabès (sauf trois marchés de l'AOI 07/02 qui
        n'ont pas pu être réalisés).

        En ce qui concerne le volet services afférents aux travaux de constructions, les contrats des concepteurs
        (phase étude) ont été entièrement réalisés, les contrats concepteurs (phase suivi) des sous-projets ont été
        réalisés à 90%, vu qu'ils sont tributaires du degré d'avancement des travaux, et les contrats des marchés
        des études sur l'environnement ont été entièrement exécutés.

        En ce qui concerne le volet construction des instituts supérieurs des études technologiques tout le
        programme a été totalement exécuté c'est à dire la construction d'un noyau universitaire au Kef constitué
        d'un ISET, un foyer et un restaurant universitaire, des noyaux similaires à Kairouan, à Gabès, et à Nabeul
        , aussi un ISET à Jendouba.

        Quant au volet équipements des ISETs, les acquisitions programmées ont été lancées en six AO, trois
        marchés de gré à gré et une consultation internationale. Deux de ces AO ont été déclarés infructueux,
        ainsi que les items du marché de génie mécanique qui n'ont pas pu être relancés en raison des courts
        délais restants pour l'achèvement du projet.
        Quant au programme de formation des formateurs, démarré en 1994, il concerne les volets scientifiques,
        technologiques et pédagogiques. Il a permis de réaliser la formation des huitième, neuvième et dixième
        promotions dans les six établissements d'enseignement supérieur en Tunisie qui ont pris en charge les
        deux premiers volets de formation pour délivrer des diplômes spécialisés des futurs enseignants
        technologues. Pour le volet pédagogique, matérialisé par les stages, il a été exécuté au sein des ISETs
        puisqu'ils ont atteint ces dernières années un niveau pédagogique satisfaisant qui leur permet d'encadrer
        les futurs enseignants des ISETs.

        En ce qui concerne le volet renouvellement des équipements scientifiques ( 06 laboratoires), un appel
        d'offres international de 47 lots a été lancé dont 42 ont été exécutés et cinq déclarés infructueux.

        En ce qui concerne le volet rénovation des fonds documentaires (totalement exécuté) trois consultations
        restreintes, ainsi que onze marchés de gré à gré ont été lancés aux fins avec différents éditeurs.

        En ce qui concerne l'appui du secteur privé de l'enseignement supérieur, deux séminaires ont été
        organisés aux fins :le premier séminaire a été réalisé le 22 Janvier 2002 portant sur les perspectives de
        l'investissement privé dans le secteur éducatif et le deuxième a été organisé le 21 Octobre 2003 portant
        évaluation du secteur après deux années de démarrage. Ces séminaires ont réuni des participants des
        secteurs public et privé de l'enseignement supérieur, et plusieurs autres intervenants a formé une occasion
        pour aborder des thèmes relatifs au financement du secteur privé, du partenariat public-privé et
        public-privé-institutions étrangères, aux expériences étrangères, à l'innovation pédagogique dans le
        secteur privé et l'adaptation de la formation au marché d'emploi , aux moyens de promotion du secteur
        privé de l'enseignement supérieur, aux contraintes qu'il fait face, et au cadre réglementaire.

§       Composante B : En ce qui concerne la création et l'équipement de centres des ressources pédagogiques,
neuf centres ont été crées ( dans 9 Universités) dont cinq sont en activité. Chaque centre a été doté d'équipements
informatiques ( deux micro-ordinateurs, une imprimante, un micro-ordinateur portable), d'équipements
audio-visuels ( deux vidéo-projecteurs, un tableau numérique interactif) ainsi que d'équipements de reprographie.

        En ce qui concerne le renforcement de la formation pédagogique des enseignants, deux sessions de
        formation pédagogique ont été réalisées.

        En ce qui concerne le volets études inscrites dans le cadre de l'amélioration de la qualité et de la
        pertinence, l'étude sur le suivi longitudinal visant à assurer le suivi, l'évaluation et l'analyse de la
        situation des diplômés de l'enseignement supérieur ainsi que la connaissance de leurs taux d'insertion a
        été totalement exécutée.


                                                        - 54 -

          Aussi pour l'évaluation externe des établissements universitaires, une opération pilote a été mise en place
          en vue de contribuer à améliorer les rendements interne et externe du système universitaire.

§         Composante C : En ce qui concerne la décentralisation des responsabilités de gestion, un nouveau cadre
législatif a été mis en place, depuis Juillet 2000, en vue de consacrer la notion de décentralisation universitaire qui
a été suivi par un ensemble de mesures réglementaires visant à responsabiliser les gestionnaires des universités
quant à la qualité de leur gestion et de les inciter à une meilleure utilisation de leurs ressources matérielles et
humaines, en leur donnant plus d'autonomie et de souplesse nécessaire dans la gestion.
          Dans ce cadre une étude sur la capacité de gestion des universités a été faite qui a pour objectif de
          procéder à un diagnostic sur la capacité de gestion actuelle des universités afin de soutenir les points forts
          et d'envisager les actions correctives pour pouvoir combler les lacunes dégagées. Cette étude a pu
          présenter une photographie synoptique sur la capacité de gestion des Universités Tunisiennes.
          En ce qui concerne l'appui au management aux niveaux central et décentralisé, les universités ont été
          dotées de gestionnaires qualifiés, issus notamment du cycle de formation des gestionnaires des
          établissements d'enseignement supérieur et d'oeuvres universitaires crée avec l'appui du précédent projet.
          En outre, plusieurs formations ont été organisées au profit du personnel du Ministère et des Universités
          (informatique, gestion des bureaux d'ordres, ...)
          Via La gestion par objectif le Ministère a cherché à renforcer des capacités aux niveaux central et local et
          ce en vue d'insérer un système de pilotage adéquat. Une action pilote a été entamée par l'Université de
          Sfax, qui a organisé un séminaire en Juin 2004. comme plusieurs missions d'études ont été offertes en vue
          de s'assurer de la bonne compréhension de cette nouvelle notion et de permettre de généraliser
          l'expérience pour tous les établissements universitaires.
          Une étude sur l'évaluation du cycle de formation des gestionnaires des établissements d'enseignements
          supérieur et d'oeuvres universitaires a été programmée en vue de mesurer les résultats de huit années en
          terme de formation et en terme de pertinence qui n'a pas pu, malheureusement, être élaborée.

§         Composante D : En ce qui concerne l'intensification de l'usage des nouvelles technologies, plusieurs
appels d'offres ont été lancés et ce en vue de :

·         Equiper des salles d'enseignement en ordinateurs,
·         Equiper les institutions,
·         Installer des systèmes de câblage ( réseaux internes) au sein des institutions,
·         Acquérir des équipements informatiques, des serveurs et un logiciel au profit des bibliothèques
universitaires.

         A cet effet, 196 ordinateurs ont été acquis afin de doter les administrations des institutions utilisant le
         logiciel de gestion de scolarité, 1193 laboratoires ont été acquis au profit des institutions à des fins
         d'enseignement, 830 ordinateurs ont été acquis au profit des bibliothèques universitaires.
         Par ailleurs, dans le cadre du projet BIRUNI, des serveurs ont été acquis et installés ainsi qu'un logiciel
         afférent à la gestion des bibliothèques.
         Enfin, en ce qui concerne l'installation des réseaux locaux, 19 institutions ont été entièrement câblées, à
         savoir la Faculté des Sciences de Bizerte ( AO individuel lancé en 1999) et 18 institutions relevant de
         l'ancienne Université du Centre( couvrant les Universités de Sousse, Monastir et de Kairouan
         actuellement) et l'Université de Tunis El Manar (AO groupé).
         A ce niveau, il y a lieu de noter que, bien que les cahiers des charges pour le câblage de 51 institutions
         aient été établies (un appel d'offres par institution dans un premier temps, puis deux AO groupés),
         l'exécution de câblage a été entravée par des contraintes diverses.

          En ce qui concerne les nouvelles technologies comme support d'enseignement, il y a eu création d'une
          nouvelle université à savoir l'Université Virtuelle de Tunis, qui en vue d'assurer un démarrage et un
          fonctionnement réussi, plusieurs actions ont été programmées et exécutées, notamment la formation à
          l'utilisation des nouvelles technologies pour l'enseignement à distance, la production des modules
          numérisées, la mise en place de programmes de formation des formateurs, l'organisation de séminaires



                                                          - 55 -

         sur la pédagogie numérique et l'usage des technologies de l'information et de la communication,
         ratification des conventions de partenariat avec des universités ayant l'expérience en matière
         d'enseignement à distance, et la mise en place d'un projet pilote de formation à distance aux ISETs et
         dans les différents autres établissements universitaires.
         Plusieurs    marchés   d'acquisition   d'équipements     informatiques,  audio-visuels,   de   système   de
         visioconférence de câblage ont été exécutés, en vue d'assurer une introduction des nouvelles technologies
         comme support d'enseignement.

         Enfin quant à l'appui à la décentralisation et à la gestion universitaire, une étude sur le système
         d'information universitaire a été élaborée en vue de mettre en place un système de gestion informatisé
         destiné à appuyer les efforts actuels pour doter l'administration centrale, les universités ainsi que les
         diverses composantes du système d'information universitaire au pilotage du système d'enseignement
         supérieur et une meilleure gestion des ressources matérielles et humaines.

§        Composante E :en ce qui concerne la pérennisation du financement, et notamment la mise en place d'une
stratégie globale de financement, une étude sur le financement de l'enseignement supérieur a été élaborée dont
l'objectif est de chercher à mettre en place un schéma global assurant la pérennité du financement du secteur de
l'enseignement supérieur, prenant en ligne de compte la projection des effectifs, l'estimation des coûts
d'investissement et de fonctionnement, ainsi que les ressources budgétaires et le niveau escompté du recouvrement
des coûts.

2.3      Impact sur le développement institutionnel

Bien que l'implantation des mesures de réforme soit récente, l'impact sur le développement institutionnel est
important. Quatre grands facteurs ont marqué le processus de réforme de l'enseignement supérieur, le premier
concerne l'appui du secteur privé par un ensemble de mesures législatives et réglementaires et de moyens
pédagogiques et financiers ce qui a permis d'initier un dialogue durable avec les promoteurs du secteur privé et de
réfléchir sur une somme de propositions opérationnelles pour la promotion du secteur, le deuxième concerne
l'amélioration de la qualité et l'efficacité de l'enseignement supérieur par la mise en place d'un programme de
formation pédagogique d'une part et le recours à l'assistance technique en vue d'analyser la situation et d'apporter
les remèdes nécessaires aux faiblesses pédagogiques d'autre part ce qui a permis d'adapter les programmes et les
méthodes pédagogiques et d'améliorer les qualifications du corps enseignant, le troisième concerne le renforcement
de l'autonomie des Universités et ce par l'instauration d'un cadre législatif et réglementaire adéquat ce qui a
permis de décentraliser les responsabilités de gestion administrative et financière au profit des Universités et de
renforcer les capacités de gestion aux niveaux central et décentralisé, le quatrième concerne l'introduction des
nouvelles technologies de la communication par la création d'une nouvelle Université, l'Université Virtuelle de
Tunis, la mise en place de nouveaux logiciels de gestion des bibliothèques universitaires (projet Biruni), et le
lancement d'un programme de câblage universitaire ce qui a permis de « banaliser » l'utilisation de l'informatique
et d'introduire les NTIC comme support d'enseignement et de gestion administrative.

3. Principaux Facteurs AYANT INFLUENCE l'Exécution et les Résultats

3.1 Facteurs hors du contrôle du Ministère de l'Enseignement Supérieur

Facteur ayant un impact négatif.

v        Changement de la méthodologie d'évaluation des offres, d'une méthodologie basée sur l'octroi des points
pour chacun des critères vers une méthodologie évaluative globale ;
v        Changement du cahier des clauses administratives type ;
v        Absence d'un manuel de procédures définissant les tâches, les responsabilités et les procédures à suivre en
matière de passation des marchés;
v        Regroupement massif des appels d'offres internationaux ;
v        Changement des membres de l'équipe de la Banque ;
v        Divergences entre les avis des instances nationales et celles de la Banque.



                                                        - 56 -

Facteurs ayant un impact positif.

v        L'existence d'une assistance technique offerte par la Banque

3.2      Facteurs sous contrôle des agences d'exécution

Facteurs ayant un impact positif.

v        Implication de tous les chefs de files dans le processus d'exécution du projet ;
v        Création d'un comité de contrôle de qualité des documents de passation des marchés ;
v        Renforcement de la cellule de coordination ;
v        Recours à des expertises d'appoint.

Facteurs limitant l impact positif.

v        Les insuffisances du logiciel de gestion financière du prêt ;
v        La multiplicité des intervenants dans la réalisation du projet.

3.3      Coûts et financement

Au début, le prêt de la Banque d'une contre-valeur de 476.100.000 FRF devait financer :

§        70% des travaux de génie civil et ;
§        80% des équipements achetés localement et dont les montants sont libellés en monnaie nationale ; et
§        100% des équipements dont les montants sont libellés en devise ; et
§        100% des équipements produits localement ( prix départ usine)
§        100% des services de consultants, formation et missions d'études.

Ce financement a été modifié en Juin 2002, en relevant à 80% de la catégorie travaux de génie civil.
En Octobre 2001 la portion active du prêt a été convertie en euros.
A la clôture des comptes du prêt, les décaissements étaient comme suit 55 425 772 d'euros (N.B : nous attendons
encore l'avis de débit) avec une annulation de 12.579.167 d'euros.

4. Pérennité du Projet

4.1 Explications de la note de pérennité

La pérennité du projet est certaine. Le projet est placé au centre de la stratégie du Ministère de l'enseignement
supérieur de « qualité », bénéficiant d'un engagement ferme des autorités. Les acquis du projet continueront à se
consolider compte tenu des objectifs visant à préparer son économie aux nouvelles exigences économiques
mondiales.

Par ailleurs, le IXe        plan de développement a consacré un chapitre entier aux réformes du secteur de
l'enseignement supérieur.

Au niveau des politiques institutionnelles, des actions sont en cours pour renforcer les acquis du secteur de
l'enseignement supérieur. Une série de réformes législatives ont été mises en place pour instaurer un nouveau
cadre juridique.

4.2      Modalités de transition à une opération régulière

Il n'y a pas lieu d'établir des modalités de transition étant donné que les activités du projet font partie intégrante du
programme de réforme assumé par le MES.



                                                          - 57 -

5. Performance de la BIRD et de l'Emprunteur

BIRD

5.1 Préparation

la performance de la Banque durant les trois phases du processus de préparation du projet (identification,
préparation et évaluation) est considérée satisfaisante. La Banque a déployé de nombreux efforts pour la réalisation
du projet et a travaillé en collaboration étroite avec le MES pour affiner la stratégie à long terme du secteur de
l'enseignement supérieur.

5.2 Supervision

Dans son ensemble la performance de la Banque est considérée satisfaisante. En tenant compte de l'envergure du
projet et de la complexité de la réforme, la Banque a déployé des efforts notables et a accompli sa tâche avec
diligence. Elle a pu établir une coopération fructueuse avec ses partenaires tunisiens et fournir une assistance
technique de haut niveau.
Les responsabilités fiduciaires ont été remplies avec satisfaction. La passation des marchés et la gestion financière
du projet ont fait l'objet de discussion et de revue dans les missions d'évaluation, de suivi, et d'analyse, bien que
quelques difficultés méritent d'être relevées à cet égard.

5.3 Performance de la Banque

La performance de la Banque est jugée satisfaisante globalement.

Emprunteur

5.4 Préparation

la performance du MES durant la phase de préparation du projet est jugée satisfaisante. Il a bénéficié d'un don
japonais pour réaliser des études qui ont aidé à l'analyse et l'identification des problèmes du secteur. En outre le
MES a fourni une vision nette de sa stratégie de réforme.

5.5 Mise en Oeuvre

La performance du MES durant la phase de l'exécution du projet est jugée satisfaisante. Cette performance est
caractérisée par un engagement vis à vis des objectifs du projet. Ceci s'est traduit par une étroite collaboration avec
la Banque durant les périodes où le projet présentait des difficultés d'exécution.

5.6      Entité responsable de la mise en oeuvre

Le Ministère de l'enseignement supérieur, la cellule de coordination, les directions générales et les Universités

5.7 Performance de l'Emprunteur

La performance de l'Emprunteur est jugée satisfaisante dans son ensemble. Le taux de réalisation de ce projet
s'élevait à 76% contre pour l'ancien projet


6. Principaux Enseignements Tirés du Projet

Leçons positives
§        L'élaboration d'une stratégie globale du secteur définissant les priorités du secteur et en cohérence avec



                                                         - 58 -

les plans de développement ;
L'introduction de la notion de gestion par objectifs dans la gestion administrative et financière du secteur.




                                                       - 59 -

- 60 -

