                                  Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001642



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-37290)

                                       ONA

                                      CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR17.7 MILLION

                       (US$23.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF YEMEN

                                      FOR THE

                    PORT CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

             IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE PROGRAM




                                December 30,2010




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective - November 15, 20 I 0)
                           Currency Unit         Yemeni Rials (YER)
                                   US$I          YER 221.61
                                  SDR I          US$1.56277


                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                 January I      December 31


                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ACT    Aden Container Terminal           MoF        Ministry of Finance
AFZ    Aden Free Zone                    MoLA       Ministry of Local Administration
APL    Adaptable Program Loan            MoPIC      Ministry of Planning and International
                                                    Cooperation
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy       MRRUP      Master Plan Revision and Update Project
CDS    City Development Strategy         MTR        Mid Term Review
CIP    Capital Investment Plan           NCO        National Coordination Unit
DA     Designated Account                NGO        Non Governmental Organization
DCA    Development Credit Agreement      NPS        National Port Strategy
EAP    Economic Active Passengers        O&M        Operations and Maintenance
ESW    Economic Sector Work              PAD        Project Appraisal Document
FA     Fisheries Authority               PCDP       Port Cities Development Program
FDI    Foreign Direct Investment         PCDP-II    Second Port Cities Development Project
FM     Financial Management              PDO        Project Development Objectives
                                         PCIC       Port Cities Inter-ministerial Committee
FTZ    Free Trade Zone                   ROC        Regional Operations Committee
GIA    General Investment Authority      RPF        Resettlement Policy Framework
HTB    High Tender Board                 SA         Special Account
IDA    International Development         SBD        Standard Bidding Document
       Association
IS     International Shopping            SDR        Special Drawing Rights
LED    Local Economic Development        SIL        Specific Investment Loan
LEDD   Local Economic Development        SMME       Small, Medium and Micro Enterprises
       Departments
MOPD   Ministry of Planning and          TA         Technical Assistance
       Development
MDG    Millennium Development Goals      UNDP       United Nations Development Program
MENA   Middle East and North Africa      VOT        Value of Time
MoFW   Ministry ofFish Wealth


                      Vice President:         Ms. Shamshad Akhtar
                    Country Director:         Mr. A. David Craig
                    Country Manager:          Mr. Benson Ateng
                     Sector Manager:          Ms. Anna Bjerde
                   Task Team Leader:          Ms. DeepaJi Tewari
                                      REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                               PORT CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




Contents
  I Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................ 15
  4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ................................................... 20
   5.   Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................... 20
   6. Lessons Learned ..................................................................................................... 23
   7.   Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ..... 24
   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ......................................................................... 25
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component (against which progress was reported in ISRRs) .... 26
  Annex 3.     Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................ 31
  Annex 4.     Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ...... .45
   Annex 5.    Beneficiary Survey Results ..................................................................... .47
   Annex 6.    Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................ .48
   Annex 7.    Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................ 49
   Annex 8.    Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................ 51
   Annex 9.    List of Supporting Documents ................................................................. 52
 . Annex 10. Map .......................................................................................................... 53
                                                                                                .Port Cities
Country:                Yemen, Republic of                 ,Project Name:
                                                                                     ........~.....~....n _eve I()ement~~().~~~!ll. . .
                                                                                                        ...
P!oje~!I1?:             P065111              .~....................... ~l~~~!~_~um~~~~(~~_._1!.1?A -3729Q.... .... .
ICR Date:               12/03/2010 ............ ........
                                                   ~
                                                                        i I C R C o r e ICR         .........................
                                                                                                !GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                                iBorrower:
                                                                                                YEMEN
Original Total
                        XDR 17,7M                          nisbursed Amount:                    XDR 17.2M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:


Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: NI A



                                                                                                        : Revised 1 Actual
     Process'              Date
                                                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:        12/04/2001             [Effectiveness:                   07114/2003                    07/14/2003
 Appraisal:            1011512002             Restructuring( s):                     N/A                            N/A
Approval:              01/23/2003             Mid-term Review:                  09/30/2005                     12/08/2005
                                              Clo~ing:                          06/30/2007                    06/30/2010



C.I Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                  Moderately Satisfact()ry
Risk to Develoement Outcome:                                :~o~()r~~J~li~ible
Bank Performance:                                          c.tvl()derately .satisfac~().ry
Borrower Performance:                                      Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                   Ratings                  Borrower            Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Moderately Satisfactory Government:         Moderately Satisfactory
     ,             "                      '~
Qua IIty 0 fS upervlSlon:· M0 d I S atISlactory .Implementing '        Satisfactory
                              erate y                AgencyIA gencles:
Overall Bank                              ' ~
                          Moderate Iy Sat ISlact ory Overall Borrower  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                     P 4'
Performance:                                          erlormance:
     Implementation                                                               QAG Assessments
                                        Indicators                                                                Rating
      Performance                                                                    (if any)
 Potential Problem Project y                                                    Quality at Entry
                                                                                                        Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):      . es                                                 :(QEA):
  Problem Project at any                                                        Quality of
                           No                                                                           None
,time (Yes/No):                                                                 Supervision(Q~i\):
 DO rating before




                                                                                                                       Actual
Sector Code (a~ % of total Bank financing)
 General transportation sector    ........................................
                                                                                                   10                        10
 Information technology                                                                            10
 Sub-national government administration                                                            80


Theme CodeJ~~o;o of total Bank financing)
 Gender                                                                                            20                        20
 Infrastructure services forprivate sector devel~p!11ent                                           20                        20
 Municipal governance and institution building                                                     40                        40
 Small and medium enterprise support                                                               20                        20


          Positions                                                     AtICR                            . i\ti\I>I>t:~val
 Vice President:           ;Shamshad Akhtar                                                  .lean-Louis Sarbib
 Country Director:         Xavier Devictor                                                   !Mahmood A. Ayub
 Sector Manager:           Anna M. Bjerde                                                    Hedi Larbi
 Project Team Leader:      :Deepali Tewari                                                   Omar M. Razzaz
 ICR Team Leader:          neepali Tewari
 ICR Primary Author:       Richard James



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of Phase I of the Program were to assist the Borrower to: (i) remove
critical constraints to economic development; and (ii) improve the environment for
investment and economic growth and development, within its port cities.




                                                                             11
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving anthority)
N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target      Formally      Actual Value
                                                 Values (from      Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                    appl'oval       Target       Completion or
                                                  documents)        Values       Target Years
                Greater satisfaction of Aden's business community and civic groups regarding
                the capacity of local government to manage, improved efficiency and
Indicator 1 :
                participatory methods, indicated by business services report cards and public
                perception surveys.
                                             PPP for three
                                                                              Public investments
                                             public investments
                                                                              established for: (a)
                                             established for: (a)
                                                                              IT Center; (b) Al
                                             IT Center; (b) Al
                                                                              Arish roundabout;
                                             Arish roundabout;
                                                                              (c) Mansoora and
                                             (c) Mansoora and
                                                                              Sheikh Othman
Value                                        Sheikh Othman
                                                                              Green belt; (d)
quantitative or 0                            Green Belt; (d)
                                                                              Management
Qualitative)                                 Management
                                                                              Training Center; (e)
                                             training Center; (e)
                                                                              Original contract
                                             management of the
                                                                              renewed between
                                             fishing port
                                                                              Local Council and
                                             granted to
                                                                              the Fishing
                                             Fishermen
                                                                              Association.
                                             Association.
Date achieved 12/18/2002                     06/30/2010                        10/3112010
Comments
(inc!. %
achievement)
                Reduced transaction costs and greater transparency in delivery of local
                government services at key points of interface with private sector including
Indicator 2 : decreased. processing time for business registration issuance of regulatory
                authorizations and clarified/reduced steps required for approvals and issuing
                permits.
                                             Establishment of                 (a) One stop shop
                                             one stop shop,                   established
                                             preventing                       (b) Investors now
                                             investors from                   go only to one
                   .                 .       going to 7                       office to get a
                Pnvate sector required to d'ff,        t ffi    .
Value                                                                         license
                visit 7 different offices in th e~tyent 0 Ictes In
                                               l
quantitative or d 'f~                                                         (c) Processing time
                                 .   .
                  I lerent IocatlOns In t he
                                           r     e CI 0 ge a
Qualitative)    city.                         Icense.                         for business
                                             Processing time                  applications
                                             for business                     reduced to half an
                                             applications                     hour at Aden
                                             reduced to 0.5                   Investor Service
                                             hour at the Aden                 Center.


                                                iii
                                           Investor Center.
Date achieved   12/18/2002                 11/18/2008                         10/3112010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Improved business district/cluster performance & productivity in project-affected
                areas, gauged through performance effects of investments (improved
Indicator 3 :
                infrastructure & services for SMEs, business linkages reinforced through
                physical investment, T A, etc.
                                           Sirah Fish
                                                                              Sirah Fish
                                           Market:
                                                                              Market:
                                           Increase in number
                                                                              Over 200 fishing
                                           of fishing boats
                                                                              boats now (233%
                                           annually;
                                                                              increase);
                                           Increase in number
                                                                              Over 230 fisherman
                                           of fisherman
                                                                              sell fish now (360%
                                           selling fish by
                                                                              increase);
                                           close of project;
                                                                              100% increase in
                                           Increase in fish
                                                                              the number of fish
                                           restaurants in
                                                                              restaurants.
                                           project area.
Value                                                                         Crater
                                           Crater
quantitative or 60, 50, I, 15                                                 Intersection:
                                           Intersection:
Qualitative)                                                                  Over 1400%
                                           Efficiency increase
                                                                              efficiency increased
                                           in vehicular
                                                                              in vehicular
                                           movement;
                                                                              movement at peak
                                           reduced traffic
                                                                              hour; and no
                                           accidents.
                                                                              reported accidents
                                           Malia Dakka
                                                                              Malia Dakka Port:
                                           Port:
                                                                              'Efficiency
                                           Efficiency increase
                                                                               increased with zero
                                           in wait time for
                                                                              ,wait time; 100%
                                           truck (from 12
                                                                               increase in
                                           hrs); increase in
                                                                               restaurants.
                                           restaurants.
Date achieved   12/18/2002                 06/30/2010                         10/3112010
Comments
(incl. %
ach ievement)
                Increased private sector investment and real estate values triggered by public
Indicator 4 :
                investments and improved business environment.
                                           AI Durain                          AI Durain
Value                                      Increase in area                   222% increased in
quantitative or 6.20                       devoted to                         area from 6.3
Qualitative)                               industrial                         hectares to 21
                                           production.                        hectares.
Date achieved   12118/2002                 06/30/2010                         10/3112010
Comments
(incl. %



                                                IV
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                                Values (from        Revised           Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                  approval                           Completion or
                                                                 Target Valnes
                                               . documents)                          Target Years
                Rehabilitation of un utilized city assets; upgrading facilities to increase market
Indicator 1 :
                accesslimprove business linkages.
                                             LEDD/ISC
                                             building
                                             renovated; Sira
                                                                                  Improved services
                City properties in           market renovated
                                                                                  and amenities for
                disrepair, infrastructure and generating
Value                                                                             Aden businesses;
                services to private sector ;Iocal revenue;
(quantitative                                                                     revitalization of
                weak; limited market        'Crater intersection
or Qualitative)                                                                   underutilized city
                access for SME's; weak improved; Sayla
                                                                                  assets; new local
                local revenue base.          market operating;
                                                                                  revenues generated.
                                            AI-Durayn
                                             industrial zone
                                             upgraded.
Date achieved 0110112003                     12/3112008                           12/3112008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                           IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
        02/28/2003           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     08/27/2003           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.50
  3     02/12/2004           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.50
  4     03/3112004           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.56
   5    10114/2004           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.95
  6     04/29/2005      Mode~ately Satisfactory       Moderate1y~atisfactory                2.27
   7    12/09/2005           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      4.73
   8    01/09/2006           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      4.95
  9     12/28/2006           Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory               9.89
  10    06/27/2007           Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory             12.46
  11    12/07/2007           Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory             13.66
  12    0611112008           Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory             15.85
  13    12/3112008           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    18.15
  14    06/29/2009           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    20.50
  15    1011212009           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    21.36



                                                  v
 16          06130/2010                       Satisfactory                          Satisfactory                         24.46



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile
                                          -           Original ---- Formally Revised - - Actual
        30-r----------------------------~------------------------------~

        25

        20
  ...
  c
 .!     15
 ~
 ~ 10
 :;)


         5


              ,...
              r::J
                     ...
                     r::J
                            ,...
                            r::J
                                   ...
                                   r::J
                                               ,...     ...    ,...   ...    ,...    ...    ,...   ...    ,...   ... a ~ ... r::J    N


                                                                                                                 ... ... ... ... ...
                                               r::J     r::J   r::J   r::J   r::J    r::J   r::J   r::J   r::J   r::J        r::J
              ,...                                                    ....   ....
              CI
              CI
                     <:I'
                     CI
                     CI
                            <:I'
                            CI
                            CI
                                   LI'I
                                   CI
                                   CI
                                               LI'I
                                               CI
                                               CI
                                                        ~
                                                        CI
                                                        CI
                                                               ~
                                                               CI
                                                               CI
                                                                      CI
                                                                      CI
                                                                             CI
                                                                             CI
                                                                                     •
                                                                                     CI
                                                                                     CI
                                                                                            •
                                                                                            CI
                                                                                            o
                                                                                                   cr.
                                                                                                   o
                                                                                                   o
                                                                                                          cr.
                                                                                                          o
                                                                                                          CI
                                                                                                                 o
                                                                                                                 o
                                                                                                                      o
                                                                                                                      o
                                                                                                                         CI
                                                                                                                         o
                                                                                                                             ... ...
                                                                                                                             o    o
              N      N      N      N           N        N      N      N      N       N      N      N      N      N   N   N       N   N




                                                                        vi
I   Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal

1. The overall purpose of the Port Cities Development Program (Project) was to transform
Yemen's strategic port cities into regional centers of economic growth by creating environments
to support private sector investment and development. Achieving this required working with both
public as well as private sectors; developing soft skills and capacities, carrying out reforms at
local and national levels, and upgrading quality of infrastructure facilities and services locally.
This was an ambitious agenda which could not have been fulfilled within the term of a typical
investment project of five years, hence a twelve-year program with three Phases.

2. The Program was expected to start modestly with local capacity building and small
infrastructure investments in Aden and evolve into national level reforms and strategic
investments in the port cities of Hodeidah and Mukalla. In its early stages, the Program was
expected to develop a cohesive strategy for economic development for each participating port city,
based on empirical studies, comparative advantage, competitiveness, on shared visions developed
by stakeholders in each port city, and on investments and reform plans to realize these visions.
The implementation was to be carried out by the newly established Local Economic Development
Departments (LEDD) at Governorate level, staffed by qualified civil servants, and supported by
private consultants. The LEDDs were expected to evolve into main strategy/coordination bodies
for local economic development at the Governorate level.

3. The first Phase of the Program was to make US$14.6 million worth of infrastructure
investments in Aden, expanding to Hodeidah and Mukalla in the second Phase and to Mokha,
Nishtun and Al Salif in the third Phase. These investments were to take into account the
comparative advantages of each of the cities, i.e., trade and vessel servicing in Aden, given its
highly strategic location, agro-industry in Hodeidah, fisheries industry in Mukalla, and fishing
and simple food processing in other participating port cities.

4. In terms of reform and institutional development, the Program was to start with basic
capacity building activities of key public institutions at the local level to have an impact on
strategic planning in partnership with private investors. The Governor's Council and the
Planning Department along with private investors were to partner with the central level General
Investment Authority (GIA), Customs Authority, Public Land Authority (now called General
Authority of Land Survey and Urban Planning - GALSUP). The Program was expected to invest
in administrative modernization, Information and Communication Technologies (ICT), and
automation of business processes tailored to the capacity and skill level of each of these
institutions. In parallel, small-scale infrastructure investments specifically targeted to improve
economic activity at the local level were planned. These investments were to support existing
small and medium enterprises in existing economic clusters, and enable linkages with transport
facilities, including Aden Container Terminal and Industrial Free Zone, Ma'alla Port and the
airport.

5. Phase II of the Program was to be triggered by two central government measures, namely to
develop: (i) a regulatory framework for industrial estates; and (ii) completion of a Resettlement
Policy Framework. The triggers at the port city level included, independently for each city,
satisfactory progress in prior Phases, including successful implementation of physical
investments in Aden, and formal adoption of strategies, master plans, investment plans,
resettlement policy framework and reform plans developed in Phase I. Phase II components
included translating strategies developed during Phase I, into investments, capacity building, and


                                                -1-
administrative modernization programs, including investments in port city assets of national
significance, such as industrial estates or port facilities in Aden, Hodeidah and Mukalla.

6. Phase III of the Program was to be triggered by central government measures to develop: (i)
customs reforms and streamlined procedures to reduce processing time to internationally accepted
standards; and (ii) a regulatory framework for the Ports Authority which specifies public and
private roles in port operations. At the city level, the measures included satisfactory progress in
implementing prior Phases to advance to the next Phase. Phase III components included
technical assistance, capacity building, and investments in the Customs and Port Authorities, and
design of private sector participation in port financing and operations. During Phase III, the
Program was to be rolled out to the other participating port cities of Mokha, Nishtun, and AI Salif,
with small investments to enhance local economic development.

 7. Choice of Instrument: At the time of preparation of the Port Cities Development Program
(PCDP), the Adaptable Program Loan (APL), a newly introduced instrument, was gaining favor
in the Bank. The instrument was designed to provide a flexible response to the changing needs of
development in a country when operating in areas of uncertainty, facilitating an easier exit]. The
PCDP was processed two years after the USS Cole bombing in Aden, and a year after the events
of September 11, 2001. The economy was vulnerable to oil price volatility, government
structures needed strengthening as unification between North and South Yemen had taken place
just a decade ago, there was limited ability to carry out necessary reforms, as well as weakness in
implementation capacity2. While recognizing well the challenges of the country's context, the
Bank considered an APL as an appropriate instrument at that time.

8. The Program was to be implemented in three phases over twelve years and aimed at
transforming Yemen's strategic port cities into regional centers of economic growth. This
transformation was to be achieved by creating environments to support private sector investment
through support for reforms at local and national levels.

9. The above was an ambitious agenda, which ultimately resulted in exiting from the APL in
favor of a Specific Investment Loan (SIL) for follow-on support to port cities.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

Original Project Development Objectives
10. In June 2009, discrepancies between the PDOs as stated in the PAD and between the PAD
    and the DCA were identified.

     In the PAD 3 , the PDOs were stated as: (i) strengthen local government strategic and
     physical planning and coordination capabilities to better utilize existing assets and
     resources; (ii) improve the efficiency of and streamline administrative procedures at key
     local government agencies that interface with the private sector; and (iii) revitalize port city
     business districts/clusters that are key to growth and employment generation. In another
     part of the PAD 4 , the PDOs were: to establish a viable intuitional and organizational


1 Adaptable Lending: Review of the First Year's Experience, Operational Core Services Network, December 30, 1998.
2 Yemen Economic Monitoring Report, September 2002, World Bank.
J Page 4
4 Page 33.




                                                      -2-
      framework at the local level, coupled with key capacity building and physical investments,
      enabling private sector led growth in Aden in key business clusters. Preparation work in
      Hodeidah and Mukallah.

11. In the DCA s, the PDOs were: to: (i) remove critical constraints to economic development;
and (ii) improve the environment jor investment and economic growth and development, within
its Port Cities.

12. A Corrigendum to the PAD review exercise was sent by the Region on June 28, 2009 to the
Board making PAD PDOs consistent with the DCA.

Original Key Indicators (as approved)
13. The PAD presented the following outcome/impact and output indicators:
Outcome/impact indicators:
    • Greater satisfaction of Aden's business community and civic groups regarding capacity of
      local government to manage, improved efficiency and participatory methods, indicated by
      business services report cards and public perception surveys.
    • Reduced transaction costs and improve greater transparency in the delivery of local
      government services at key points of interface with the private sector, including decreased
      processing time for business registration and issuance of regulatory authorizations; and
      reduced number of steps required for approvals and issuing permits.
    • Improved business district/cluster performance and productivity in project-affected areas,
      gauged through performance effects (improved infrastructure and services for small and
      micro enterprises, business linkages reinforced through physical investments).
    • Increased private sector investment and real estate values triggered by public investments
      and improved business environment.
Output indicators6 :
    • Successful completion of selected small-scale infrastructure investments and revitalization
      of business districts/clusters.
    • Local Economic Development Department (LED D) established to anchor and better
      coordinate Program implementation and local economic development at Governorate level.
    • Strategic, physical and investment planning work updated or completed, including City
      Development Strategy (CDS), Aden Master Plan, sub-regional land-use and transport
      studies, water and waste management plans, and prioritized Capital Investment Program.
    • Capacity improved and new systems installed and operational at local government offices
      servicing the business community key points of interface including GIA, Public Land
      Authority, and the Customs Authority.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

14. The PDOs were not revised beyond making the PAD PDOs consistent with the DCA as
explained above. This process, although late in the implementation period when the bulk of the


5Page 14, Schedule 2, January 29, 2003
6These were revised for clarity during the supervision mission immediately after the Region sent the Corrigenda to the
Board on June 30, 2009.




                                                         -3-
funds were disbursed, constituted a correction of inconsistencies between the PDOs in the PAD
and the DCA.
15. The Key Indicators in the PAD were not consistent with the indicators in the original DCA.
A Supplemental Letter to the DCA had been issued 7 to elaborate detailed monitoring and
evaluation indicators as follows:
     (i) The number of processing steps, authorizing signature requirements, and/or the time for
     processing regulatory authorizations for businesses by public sector agencies in Aden under
     Part C of the Project, shall have reduced; (ii) based on defined baseline indicators set forth
     in the application forms for each Investment Project under Part A of the Project, and agreed
     with the Association, infrastructure and services supporting key commercial areas and
     business clusters shall have improved. This will be measured by, among others: (a) the
     number of new formal or informal businesses established; (b) the number of new
     employment opportunities generated; or (c) the amount of additional fixed capital
     investment by the private sector; (iii) a City Development Strategy shall have been finalized
     for each participating Port City; (iv) an updated and integrated master plan shall have been
     developedfor each participating Port City; and (v) a capital investment plan shall have been
     producedfor each participating Port City.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

16. The primary beneficiaries of Phase I of the Program were: (i) the Small, Medium, and Micro
Enterprises (SMMEs) of the targeted economic clusters in Aden; (ii) National agencies like the
Ministry of Transport, the General Investment Authority (GIA), Customs Administration,
Ministry of Power, Aden Free Zone (AFZ) Authority, Ministry of Local Administration (MoLG);
and (iii) the local administrations of the three PCDP cities.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

17. PCDP's objectives were expected to be met through three components as stated in the DCA:

    Component 1: Support for the Revitalization of Aden's Economy. (1) carrying out a
    program for the improvement of access to key commercial areas within the Port City of Aden,
    including establishment of improved traffic management systems, through the provision of
    goods, equipment and technical advisory services, and the carrying out of civil works; (2)
    carrying out of works and provision of goods and technical advisory services for the
    rehabilitation and revitalization of physical assets within the Port City of Aden; (3) carrying
    out a program for the upgrading of small-scale commercial areas within Aden, including: (i)
    installation of ICT connectivity; (ii) rehabilitation and construction of roads and drainage
    systems; (iii) upgrading localized networks; (iv) construction and installation of sidewalks
    and street lighting; (v) rehabilitation and construction of market facilities; (vi) carrying out of
    zoning; and (vii) establishment of communication linkages within the city.

    Component 2: Strategic and Physical Planning within the Port Cities. (1) preparation of a
    City Development Strategy (CDS) for each Port City, including: (i) carrying out a city
    competitiveness assessment; (ii) development of an action plan for the local economic
    development of each Port City; and (ii) organization of workshops for the public discussion

7 Supplemental letter # 2, January 29, 2003: Performance Monitoring Indicators Re: Paragraph D.l of Schedule 4 to the
DCA.




                                                        -4-
     of proposed action plans; (2) carrying out of physical master planning for the strengthening
     and better coordination of public investment planning within the Port Cities, including studies
     in land-use, waste management, water management, transportation management, and traffic
     management; (3) preparation of a capital investment plan (CIP) for each Port City, including
     identification and prioritization of investment needs. 4; carrying out of feasibility studies,
     including evaluation of the economic, social and environmental impacts of large scale public
     investments to be carried out by the Port Cities under subsequent phases of the Program, and
     preparing detailed design work.

     Component 3: Aden Local Government Capacity Building and Administrative
     Modernization. Strengthening and improving the institutional and service delivery capacities
     of key public sector agencies within Aden, including: (i) carrying out comprehensive
     institutional assessments; (ii) streamlining rules and procedures; (iii) provision of training to
     Local Government staff; (iv) designing and installation of management information systems;
     (v) defining organizational roles on reporting, policy decision making and financial
     management; and (vi) provision of support for the coordination, supervision and monitoring
     and evaluation of the Project, all through the provision of equipment, technical advisory
     services and training.

Project Costs:

18. At appraisal, the project cost, including contingencies, was estimated at US$26.5 million, of
which the Bank financed US$23.4 million and the Government US$3.1 million.

                                                             Project Cost   Project Cost   Percentage
                                                            (at Appraisal    (at Closing    Change
Component                                                     US$ Mil.)       US$ Mil.)
1 Revitalization of Aden Economy and Business                   14.60            16.81       +15%
Clusters
  • Access Improvements
  • City Revitalization
  • Upgrade Small-Scale Commercial Areas
2 Port Cities Strategic and Physical Planning                     6.00          7.39         +23%
  • City Development Strategy
  • Physical Planning Studies
  • Capital Investment Plan
  • Tech. Assistance, Feasibility and Design Studies
3 Aden Local Capacity Building & Administrative                  4.90          4.19          - 15%
Modernization
4 Unallocated                                                     1.00         0.00            -
Total Project Cost (Phase I)                                     26.50        28.39*         +7%
*   Amount higher due to exchange rate appreciation between SDR and US$.

1.6 Revised Components

N/A




                                                      -5-
1.7 Other significant changes

Reallocation of Credit Proceeds and Amendment to Development Credit Agreement

19. First Request: At the Government's request,8 the DCA was amended on April 8, 2004, to
expand the geographical scope of Component 39 to include Hodeidah and Mukalla. Initially the
geographical scope of component 3 was limited to Aden because of its advanced city
development strategy. The CDSs and the local economic development strategies for Hodeidah
and Mukalla had progressed satisfactorily and were ready to receive support and prepare
engineering studies for financing from Phase II. The revised DCA also incorporated a new
category (6) to include training and workshop activities.

20. Second Request: In a letter dated May 15, 2007, the Government requested a reallocation of
Credit proceeds among various expenditure categories taking into account higher than expected
prices of consultancy services associated with reform measures and strategy formulation. On
June 10,2007, the DCA was amended accordingly.

21. Third Request: At the Government's request, dated January 26, 2009, the uncommitted
balance was reallocated into various expenditure categories to offset increased prices for
consulting services. The DCA was amended on February 17,2009.

22. Fourth Request: Towards the end of the project, savings and deficits were realized in various
expenditure categories to which the Government requested, in its letter dated June 21, 2010, to
reallocate and adjust amounts among categories. The DCA was consequently amended on June
22, 2010, to reflect actual expenditures.

Extension of Closing Date and Amendment to DCA:

23. First Request: In its letter dated May 15, 2007, the Government requested an extension of
the original closing date of June 30, 2007 by eighteen months to enable completion of project
activities. On June 10, 2007, the DCA was amended and the closing date was extended to
December 31,2008.

24. Second Request: The Government, in its letter dated November 19, 2008, requested for a
second extension of eighteen months, to complete essential activities to meet triggers for Phase II.
The DCA was accordingly amended and the closing date was extended to June 30, 2010.

Issuance of Corrigendum:

25. A Corrigendum was issued on June 28, 2009 to address inconsistencies between the PDOs,
in the DCA and the PAD.




8 Letter dated March 22, 2004 from Mr. Ahmed Sofan, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Planning and
International Cooperation.
9 Aden Local Capacity Building and Administrative Modernization




                                                      -6-
2.   Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

26. Link with Government's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy PaperlO: The Program
incorporated findings and recommendations of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP)
which targeted Aden as having th(l necessary prerequisites for becoming the main engine of
growth due to its strategic location, deep-water port, and relatively high quality human capital.
The Program included Hodeidah and Mukalla as they had similar advantages and offered
complementary opportunities for the development of a more diversified economy that could
strengthen the existing economic clusters around fisheries, agriculture, manufacturing, and
transshipment industries in and around the port cities.

27. Regional Operations Committee (ROC): A ROC Review Meeting was held on March 13,
2002, which essentially endorsed the project as fitting well with the Region's overall Strategy: 'it
i) responds to increasing out-migration from highland areas due to water shortages by shifting
investment from water scarce to water abundant areas; ii) strengthens public sector efficiency
through a reform program; iii) enhances participation and voice (of private sector, women's
groups) through the City Development Strategy (CDS) process; and iv) promotes employment
generation and private sector participation through a local economic development (LED)
approach' .II

28. Quality at Entry Assessment: The Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA)12 did not get
initiated until six months into implementation. The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) provided a
'satisfactory' rating of '2' on a 6-point scale. It was the panel's assessment that the Program was
suitable for an APL and all its dimensions were satisfactory, including the quality of
intervention/activities of Phase I. The panel highlighted strong aspects including a novel
approach undertaken by the Program to carryout institutional reform of public administration;
initiating reforms from the bottom up; and empowering the local administration to improve the
local economic environment by establishing stronger linkages between the recipients of public
services and the service providers at the local level.

29. Project Conditions: Two project-specific Effectiveness conditions were: (i) adoption of
Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and Project Operations Manual (POM); and (ii) establishment
of a functional financial management system at Aden LEDD. Both were met.

30. Lessons learned reflected in PCDP's design: A number of key lessons drawn from past
projects in Yemen were incorporated in the Program's design as stated in the PAD, including: (i)
strategic focus at the city level based on competitiveness assessments rather than attempting to
address a wide range of problems; (ii) need for close coordination among line ministries to better
cope with complex cross-sectoral issues and establishing local economic development
departments in the three port cities; (iii) need to improve inadequate procurement procedures by
staffing implementing agencies with professionals, well versed in Bank's procurement guidelines


10 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (No. 24504) was presented to the World Bank Board in February 2001 which
presented Government's strategy for poverty reduction in Yemen for the period 2003-2005.
11 Summary of ROC Review Meeting Discussion
12 Assessment date: 6/18/2003




                                                      -7-
and procedures; (iv) putting in place proper financial record keeping mechanism including
appointment of qualified accountant and an independent financial auditor; and (v) adopting
demand-driven, participatory approach by the local council members, public officials and other
key stakeholders to achieve early buy-in of the Program.

31. Use of donor funds during preparation: The team mobilized three PHRD I3 grants, one of
which was not signed (PHRD TF093084) because the selection of subprojects under Phase II
departed from what was originally envisaged l4 • The first PHRD TF25918 (US$364,00015) was
originally approved for a different project (Aden Urban Development Program), two years before
the APL was conceptualized. This Grant financed a review of the institutional capacity of
national and local agencies, a review of the existing Master Plan for Aden, and a review of the
institutional and regulatory framework for integrating planning efforts, consultancy services for
the preparation of various TORs; and an assessment of priority infrastructure needs including
feasibility studies. The second PHRD Grant TF 090647 ofUS$550,000 financed three studies: a
study for Independent Power Purchase (US$197,000), a feasibility study of a Tourist Village in
Mukallah (US$206,815) and Environment and Social Impact Assessments of the subprojects
(US$197,000). In addition, the Cities Alliance Program provided a grant of US$150,000 for city
development strategies in the three cities.

2.2 Implementation

32. Government's commitment and project readiness: The Government issued several
critical Decrees to demonstrate its strong ownership and commitment during Program
preparation. For example: (i) a Decree l6 was signed on June 12, 2002 to provide full support
including counterpart financing in support of the Program; (ii) a second Decree l7 was issued in
September 2002 to establish a high-level inter-ministerial coordinating committee to facilitate
project implementation activities and established LEDDs for Aden, Hodeidah and Mukkalla.

33. PCDP Management Arrangements: Implementation was to be undertaken by the LEDD
in Aden, with the objective of establishing an institutional foundation in Aden first, before
expanding to the other cities. The role of the National Coordination Unit (NCU) was originally
envisaged to assume overall coordination, over-sight, and reporting responsibilities l8 • However,
capacity to manage IDA resources did not get built in the LEDD, affecting implementation.
Project management responsibility was thus transferred to the NCU which took about two years
to attract appropriately skilled professionals to manage an IDA supported project. Establishing a
new agency like the LEDD, with a new and strategic function of enabling economic development,
demanded a skill set that is very different from the skill set needed to manage an IDA-supported



13 PHRD TF 25918 for US$364,000 out of which US$354,442 was disbursed with the remainder US$9,558 being
cancelled; PHRD TF 090647 for US$550,000 out of which US$537,745 was disbursed with US$12,255 being
cancelled; and PHRD TF 093084 of which all US$340,000 was cancelled.
14 Some ofthe investments identified in the CIPs were rejected for one or more of the following reasons: (i) the
participatory methodology for the identification of investments as priority investments was questioned and rejected by
the LEDDs in Hodeidah and Mukallah; (ii) inclusion of some investments required the NCU to liase with a large
number of interlocutors; (iii) clear operational and maintenance arrangements for some investments had not been
developed and there would be a risk of non utilization or under utilization of the assets created by PCDP 2 (Supervision
Mission Aide Memoire, October 2009).
15 Of which US$354,442 was disbursed for studies and US$9,558 cancelled.
16 No. 198-2002 - to encourage Governorates to launch initiatives in, support of the Program
17 No. 264-2004
18 Minutes of Technical Discussions, September 30 - October 2,2002.




                                                          -8-
project. It was too ambitious to expect a newly established agency to perform two very different
and new functions.

34. Mid Term Review: The mid-term review (MTR), carried out on November 22, 2005,
recorded good results on the ground i.e.: PCDP's success in initiating a culture of consultation
and discourse, including the participation of women, and catalyzing a change in the social
environment that enabled urban communities to come together in new ways. The MTR team also
noted that various institutions worked together harmoniously in response to community needs
mobilizing skills both from within the government and the private sector. With respect to the
LEDD, the team appropriately highlighted the earlier weak performance and recommended
streamlining its administrative structure, and providing adequate incentives to its staff so that it
may fulfill its strategic role in the city J9. At this time, about three and a half years into
effectiveness, PCDP had disbursed around US$5 million (about 21 %).

35. Project commitments had increased substantially from around US$4 million to around
US$12 million and disbursements from US$2.6 million to US$5 million around May 2005,
mainly due to the resolution of delays at Yemen's High Tender Board (HTB)2o, for a contract
valued over US$5.6 million because of non-compliance with the Bank's Guidelines on the part of
the HTB .. Implementation progress, which had been rated 'moderately satisfactory' a year earlier,
was therefore upgraded to 'satisfactory'.

36. Country Portfolio Performance Review: The Country Management Unit (CMU) carried
out a Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) in 2007 and confirmed the project's strong
focus on the country's emerging economic needs. The review recommended extension of the
project's closing date from June 30,2007 to December 31,2008 so that on-going studies could be
completed.

37. Decentralization of select functions to local government: Under the auspices of the Port
Cities Inter-ministerial Committee (PCIC) established as the national level coordinating body of
the PCDP, a number of select functions were devolved to the project's port cities, on a pilot basis,
giving them greater authority to lead city-level development. The PCIC demonstrated its political
will by authorizing the project port cities to undertake preparation oftheir own city Master Plans,
and by removing limits on the size of an investment project that could be approved by the GIA
branch offices at the city levee J• This, coupled with a reduction of transaction costs for investors
through the establishment of a one-stop-shop, a key reform supported by PCDP, significantly
reduced the time for investors to register their business.

Increased private sector engagement in Aden

38. Establishment of advisory council for investment: In a move to strengthen investment
planning and consultations with the private sector in Aden, the Governor, with the support of
PCDP, established an advisory council for investment in Aden, chaired by the Governor. The
Director of LEDD was appointed as Secretary to the Council. Membership of the Council
included the chairman of the Aden Free Zone (AFZ) Authority, General Investment Authority

19 Following these recommendations, the Director of Aden LEDD was replaced by a new, highly-qualified
professional, from General Investment Authority, who significantly improved LEDD's performance by revitalizing
specific functions of the LEDD and generating positive results such as finalizing City Development Strategy, City
Master Plan, and Capital Investment Plan, thus triggering Phase II.
20 Works contract for upgrading Al Durrain Industial Estate.
21 Initially, both functions were reserved for the line ministries and central government agencies in Sana'a.




                                                        -9-
(GIA), and several representatives of the private sector, representative from key business clusters
identified in the Aden LED strategy, including industry, tourism, and marine services.

39. Increased private and public investment in Aden: Over 2002-2009, as Yemen's economy
grew at an average of 4.6%, and Aden's population at an average of 4.7% per annum, the project
team consistently reflected in their supervision reports to Bank management, the agglomeration
effects in Aden, although these were not attributable to PCDP. As a result of the growth in
Yemen's economy, there were sharp increases in private sector investments, the start-up of new
businesses which generated jobs. Over this period, both national and local government budgets
for Aden were also on the rise, particularly as the city prepared to host the region's "Soccer 2010"
games. Consequently the Government made a number of physical improvements to the
infrastructure with its own budget, e.g. improvements to the Khormaksar waterfront;
rehabilitation of water mains; improvements to the Jabal Hadeed Road and the corniche
promenade; award of private concessions to retail establishments; construction of ring roads to
reduce traffic congestion including network improvements around the Tawahi area; upgrading of
public beaches; and the construction of two new power stations in Mansoura (72 MW) and AI-
Hiswa (60 MW).

40. Opportunities for private provision of infrastructure: The project team also reported
interest from the private sector during this time to invest in the development of infrastructure, e.g.
a natural gas pipeline, an independent power plant, a build-own-operate arrangement for
reconstruction of the Mukalla Port, and development of the AFZ. These however, were yet to
materialize at the time of writing the ICR.

41. Aden Public-Private Partnership fund: A public private partnership (PPP) Fund was
established under the control of LEDD. The Fund financed nine projects, including the IT
training center (US$120,000) on the grounds of the governorate offices. Upon completion, this
was leased to a private firm, with the lease income accruing to LEDD. This PPP in Aden was a
vehicle for receiving donations from the private sector and applying the funds for public projects,
possibly a first in Yemen. Upgrading of AI Arish roundabout (US$40,000) and rehabilitation of
the Mansoura and Sheikh Othman Green Belt (US$100,000) are other examples of projects
financed by the PPP Fund that have resulted in significant upgrading improvements in their
respective districts.

Participatory planning

42. The Program initiated and sustained consultation with various stakeholders throughout its
life, leading to greater buy in from local stakeholders and proactive resolution to potential
problems. One such example is the turnaround in the attitude of the fisherman to the subproject
for the rehabilitation of the Sirah fish market which required the temporary relocation of a
mosque during subproject construction. The relocation was successfully done in large measure
due to trust and cooperation engendered by the National Coordination Unit (NCU) and the
Governor through continuous communication with stakeholders. As a result, it was the
community itself that dismantled and relocated their mosque in a temporary, makeshift structure
to facilitate contractor's work on site - a big feat in Islamic culture where holy sites are generally
not tampered with.

43. Flexible financing for ad hoc consultant support as the needs arose. PCDP was able to
finance small strategic consultancies as per the Government's needs, a manifestation of the
flexibility of response to changing needs that an APL enabled. For example with the assistance
from a Competitiveness Specialist financed under the Project, the Government prepared an


                                                -10-
advocacy note for Yemen's membership in the GCC (although Yemen is yet to become a
member). After the floods in Hadramout and Al Mahara governorates in November 2008, PCDP
financed engineering studies for reconstruction. To leverage donor funds, it financed engineering
studies for the Aden Causeway, which led to the donation of US$44million by the Arab Fund for
construction. To facilitate investments in the natural gas sector, PCDP financed a gas utilization
study. It also financed consultancy services to develop terms of reference for a variety of
additional studies for example, a feasibility study for street signage and addressing (Aden); waste
water study in Aden; urban design concept for Gold Mohur water front area; flood mitigation for
Crater District in Aden; concept notes for the development of a sea canal link to the salt works
(Abiyan Road to Malahat in Aden); the development of a cross harbor link connecting Maala
Dikka with the Aden Free Zone peninsula. Many of these studies, however, have yet to yield
results.

44. Government's intervention to restructure Aden Free Zone: During implementation,
significant efforts by the task team and the Government stakeholders were devoted to policy
dialogue on enabling the land of the AFZ to become available for investors. A draft legal and
regulatory framework for the AFZ was developed in March 2008. An international firm,
recruited to assess private sector demand for the development of a part of the AFZ, delivered its
final report in July 2009. Subsequently, the Deputy Prime Minister approached the International
Finance Corporation (IFC) to help Yemen develop a comprehensive legal and regulatory
framework for Special Economic Zones (SEZ), of which the AFZ would be a part. IFC delivered
the draft SEZ Law to the Government in September 2010. It is presently being reviewed
internally before submission to the cabinet for approval.

Implementation Performance of Local Economic Development Departments:

45. Aden LEDD: Right from Project effectiveness, the role, function and performance of Aden
LEDD became the focus of attention, making it apparent that without adequately incentivized
staff, the LEDD would not be in a position to fulfill its strategic role in the city, quite apart from
delivering on its original mandate to implement PCDP. Several different types of restructuring
measures were contemplated, but no decision was made until the time of the Project Mid-Term
Review in 2005. In late 2005, the Director of Aden LEDD was replaced with a new, highly-
qualified professional, transferred from the GIA, who significantly improved LEDD's
performance. Aden's CDS, Master Plan, and Capital Investment Plan22 were completed, thus
achieving the trigger for Phase II of the Program at the city level. More importantly, LEDD was
able to collect and make available city level data on economic activity, a practice that is rare in
most developing country cities.

46. Mukalla LEDD: The Mukalla LEDD department was established by a Governor's Decree
in January 2005. The Governor appointed the former Director and Deputy Director of the Master
Plan Revision and Update Project (MPRUP) as LEDD Director and Deputy Director, as well as
two MPRUP staff. The Hadramout Governorate paid the first year's rent for the LEDD's
premises in a centrally located building. Office equipment and furniture was financed by PCDP.
The Mukalla LEDD plays an important coordinating and facilitating role in enabling and
sustaining discourse on various infrastructure and investment projects, as well as in seeking donor
support for select projects. Other activities include the master planning process, including
stakeholder discourse of a variety of investment projects that affect the city's development. The

 Final Aden master plan and capital investment plan were approved by Cabinet Decree No. 404 of2005 during the
22
Cabinet's session of December 17,2005.




                                                     -11-
LEDD collected extensive data and undertook surveys on the role of women in Mukalla's
economy. It prepared action plans for the privatization of solid waste management and to manage
city's municipal assets particularly waterfront areas, including management/concession contracts.
Every year the LEDD provides advisory services to the Governor and the local council, in
organizing the May 22 nd national day festivities 23 which is generally attended by the Yemeni
President and attracts thousands of visitors. To date the LEDD team has worked on detailed
designs for several urban design improvements in the city overseeing implementation of activities
including events targeted at regional investors attending future festivities. The LEDD also
oversees organization of a two-week traditional summer festival in Mukalla that attracts
thousands of visitors. This has earned Mukalla LEDD the trust of the Governor and of local
council who fully rely on the department to implement its mandate. The challenge facing
Mukalla LEDD is to ensure sustainability of its operations, including proper incentives for the
staff and its operational cost.

47. Hodeidah LEDD: The Hodeidah LEDD, somewhat weaker than other two LEDDs, was
established by the Governor's Decree in January 2005. A Director and two staff were seconded
from the Governor's secretariat and the Tihama Development Authority that paid their salaries.
The LEDD now occupies its own premises made available in the new Governorate building and
is fully equipped with computers, printers and air conditioners that were financed under PCDP.
In 2005, the NCU moved its activities to Hodeidah for one month to help jumpstart the new
LEDD team build capacity in task planning, reporting, monitoring and evaluation of city program,
financial management and other functions. PCDP activities occasionally suffered while LEDD
Director was involved with the Governor in day-to-day administrative activities.

48. Status of Triggers for Advancement to Phase n

National Level Triggers:
     (a) Improved Zones Regulatory Framework      Completed by Cabinet (Mar. '08)
     (b) Resettlement Policy Framework            Completed and endorsed by MOPIC (Jan. '08)
                                                  Endorsed by Aden local Council (Apr. '08)
                                                  Endorsed by Mukalla local Council (May '08)
                                                  Endorsed by Hodeidah local Councils (Oct. '08)
City Level Triggers:
Aden
     (a) LEDD created                             Created by Governor Decree (Sept. '02)
     (b) City Economic Development Strategy       Completed (Jun. '05)
     (c) Master Plan completed                    Completed (Dec. '07)
     (d) Prioritized Capital Investment Plans     Completed (Dec. '07)
     (e) Resettlement Policy Framework            Prepared/submitted to World Bank (Feb. '08)
     (t) Investor Advisory Council                Established and operational (Jui. '06)
     (g) Investor Services Center                 Established, equipped and operational (Dec. '07)
     (h) Citizen Services Center                  Established, equipped and operational (May '07)
     (i) Information Technology Center            Established, equipped and operational (May '07)

Hodeidah
     (a) LEDD created                             Created by Governor Decree (Jan. '05)

23   National Unification Day.




                                                -12-
 (b)   City Economic Development Strategy        Completed (Jan. '08)
 (c)   Master Plan completed                     Completed (Dec. '07)
 (d)   Prioritized Capital Investment Plans      Completed (Feb. '08)
 (e)   Resettlement Policy Framework             Prepared and submitted to World Bank (Feb.'08)

Mukalla
 (a)   LEDD created                              Created by Governor Decree (Jan. 2005)
 (b)   City Economic Development Strategy        Completed (Jan. 2008)
 (c)   Master Plan completed                     Completed (Dec. '07)
 (d)   Prioritized Capital Investment Plans      Completed (Feb. '08)
 (e)   Resettlement Policy Framework             Prepared and submitted to World Bank (Feb.'08)

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

49. In partnership with the United Nations Habitat Indicators Program and the Arab Urban
Development Institute (AUDI), a set of baseline indicators for city performance was established
during project preparation for a performance-based monitoring system (PBMS) to cover a diverse
array of economic and social city level indicators. This was designed to monitor changes in the
city's economy, including those changes as a result of PCDP investments. Each LEDD was
responsible for preparing its periodic PBMS report and submitting it to the Port Cities Inter-
Ministerial Committee on a semi-annual basis. The M&E Handbook was prepared providing
procedures to ensure consistency in collection of performance indicator data and serves as a guide
for LEDD staff. During the MTR in November 2005, these indicators were further refined,
including the data attributable to PCDP's investments. However, these were never reflected in
the ISRs until late 2009.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

50. Environmental Safeguard: The Program design took into account Bank's safeguards
policies and included procedures to ensure full consideration of environmental safeguards in
accordance with OP 4.01. The Program (Phase I) was categorized as 'B' as it did not expect to
include any sub-projects with significant environmental impacts. The work was expected to be
limited in scope and focusing mainly on existing small-scale infrastructure in commercial areas.
Nevertheless, an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was prepared in compliance with the
World Bank guidelines.

51. Social Safeguards: Because of the complexity of land tenure issues in Yemen, a
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) was prepared, and was one of the triggers for advancing to
Phase II. Training on resettlement issues was organized for a team of key stakeholders in 2004
through a knowledge exchange program in Lebanon, based on the extensive resettlement
experience that resides with Lebanon's Council for Reconstruction and Development.

52. No significant safeguard problems were experienced other than the issue with the contract
for access improvements to the Sirah Castle. The World Bank received a complaint from the
alleged owner of the land parcel where PCDP, the funds had financed paving of a parking lot at
the base of the historical Sirah castle in Aden. The Bank's management visited the project site in
May 2009 and a letter to the RoY requesting compliance with the Bank's land acquisition policy
as well as Yemeni Law particularly articles 7( c) and 20 of the constitution was sent. As a result,
a contract was signed for the removal of the paving parking lot, and the paving removed.




                                               -13- .
53. Financial Management: The financial management system (FMS) was setup in accordance
with the project's design and legal agreement, and was based on the principles defined by the
Government's accounting framework to meet project's financial management needs. The LEDD
in Aden was originally responsible for managing project's financial management and reporting
aspects however this responsibility was transferred to NCU because of limited capacity at LEDD.
As a condition of effectiveness, the FMS was established, equipped, made functional, and a
qualified Financial Specialist, acceptable to IDA was appointed. An accrual based computerized
accounting system was installed in April 2003 following international accounting standards. A
Chart of Accounts structured along the PCDP components with capacity to classify accounting
data was adequately established.                                                            .

54. Overall the FM arrangements were adequate, capable of generating required quarterly FM
reports. The accounting unit continued to be headed by a financial manager reporting to the
Project Management Unit (NCU) manager, who reconciled Project's Special Account on a
monthly basis; posted project data into customized accounting system; and generated quarterly
progress reports that were verified and approved by Bank's FMS. There was clear segregation of
duties between the functions of initiation, authorization, disbursement, and recording.
Withdrawal Applications were issued in a timely manner. The PCDP's financial statements were
audited annually by a qualified independent auditor acceptable to IDA. The project also
maintained an accounting procedures manual as well as a fixed assets registry manual.

55. Procurement: The procurement task was managed by the NCU. The procurement staff
received necessary World Bank procurement training to manage civil works contracts. The
Arabic bidding documents used were a translation of the Bank's standard bidding document and
were used for all sub-projects regardless of their size. The bid evaluation reports prepared by the
NCU followed a standard format that consisted of bid opening details, recorded minutes and a
checklist of submitted documents. The evaluation process and results were subject to the
approval of the HTB.

2.5 Post-completion OperationlNext Phase

56. The 'overall purpose' of the APL was to transform Yemen's port cities into regional centers
of economic growth. Notwithstanding that all the investments and studies undertaken under
PCDP have been completed, the prospects of reforms essential for economic growth remain
elusive. The expectation of progress with decentralization which would in tum be a major
enabler of city empowerment also remains unrealized, as this would have required sufficient
economic and political stability in the country. At the close of Phase 1, fiscal deficits are high and
likely to worsen with a decline in revenues largely derived from oil, and the security situation and
fragility has worsened. Overall economic prospects for Yemen remain uncertain. Consequently,
an enabling environment for economic diversification that would require concurrent reforms in
multiple sectors (power, ports, free zones) remains doubtful, as does bringing about and
sustaining changes in institutions, organizations, and behavior of public sector agencies 24 •

57. The Bank therefore deemed it necessary and appropriate to exit the APL in favor of SIL to
sustain the engagement in the three port cities through the Second Port Cities Development
Project (PCDP II), approved by the Board on May 25, 2010. Reform initiatives that affect the


24A case in point is the inability of the LEDDs to develop the necessary capacity as discussed earlier, in large measure
because appropriate institutional arrangements for city management in Yemen do not as yet exist as full
implementation ofthe decentralization law has not as yet taken place.




                                                         -14-
sustainability of investments critical for the local economy, are going to be supported by PCDP II.
One example is the ring-fenced management arrangements for infrastructure sub-projects to be
supported by PCDP II. Another example is an initiative that has already gained local political
support under PCDP, the Asset Management Study begun under the first phase. PCDP II will
support the development of data bases of existing public sector assets, and appropriate contractual
instruments for the private sector for select assets.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

Overall rating: Moderately Satisfactory




                                               -15-
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

58. PCDP was the first Bank supported intervention in twenty years of urban engagement in
Yemen that committed the Bank to focus on port cities with high potential to contribute to macro
economic growth. Five cities in Yemen account for. roughly half of Yemen's current urban
population, and three of these five cities are port cities, growing rapidly. The relevance of PDOs
therefore remains high. The PDOs rightly focused on increasing public/private engagements and
improving operations for registration of new businesses in Aden. In Aden it supported small
strategic infrastructure improvements for existing economic clusters that have not just enhanced
economic activity, but also created an amenity for the city, for example the revitalization around
Sirah Fish market. Improvements to historic sites, for example, access to Sirah castle, has also
been positive - by the time of writing this ICR, the local council was aware of the potential for
tourism, has put in place incentives for school children to visit the historic site, and it has started
to charge entrance fees from local tourists, which is expected to contribute towards sustainability
of the investment. The re-engineering for business registration has been remarkably successful as
it has effectively eliminated the need for an investor to seek approval from Sana'a in addition to
dramatically reducing transactions costs for investors from several days to a few hours. This
success has enabled the GIA to secure support from other donors to replicate this in Hodeidah and
Mukalla. PCDP also initiated consultative mechanisms which are sustained to date, either around
new investments, or asset management. These will be supported to strengthen them going
forward under PCDP II. The creation of the LEDDs in the three cities set the stage for future
government programs.

59. In terms of design, the project set an ambitious agenda as it raised significant expectations,
both in Yemen and in the Bank. For example, LEDD Aden was expected to be created and take
responsibility both for strategic local economic development as well as for . project
implementation. In hind sight, this was an unrealistic expectation as adequate skills for project
management never materialized. This ultimately led to a transfer of project management
responsibilities to the NCV, and the project was implemented in seven instead of four years.

60. While the Aden LEDD was still in its infancy with no track record on which the new
institutional arrangement could be assessed, in less than a year the DCA was revised to include
the establishment of LEDDs in Hodeidah and Mttkalla for local economic development in their
respective cities. In hind sight, this too proved ambitious as the LEDDsare not fully functional,
and unable to receive the support for preparation of engineering studies for the subsequent phases.

61. In addition, progress with enabling access to land in the AFZ and the Hodeidah Industrial
Estate through the development of an appropriate regulatory regime did not occur.

62. Link with Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and Yemen's development agenda: The
design of the APL Program, and the PDOs at appraisal, was aligned with the two key objectives
of the CAS: (i) creating an attractive investment environment to generate job opportunities
through lighter and more predictable regulation and taxation, enforceable contracts, predictable
application of laws, and adequate infrastructure support; and (ii) achieving an improved
governance through better budgeting, expenditure, fiduciary controls, policy formulation, and
capacity building for effective decentralization, and more generally for improved service delivery
to the public and business community25 .. The Program focused on strategic location, coastal
aquifers, trading culture, and decentralized government agenda, the four attributes that were

25   CAS document No.IDAlM2002-0248, CAS discussion date: 09/05/2002




                                                    -16-
identified as being important in the CAS for economic growth and job creation. By focusing on
the port cities, the Program targeted localities in Yemen with favorable economic and geographic
endowments and responded to the demographical shifts resulting from water scarcity in the
highlands. The Program also supported decentralization of select functions, to improve the
business environment in the port cities.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

63. The PDOs in the PAD 26 were: "to assist the Borrower to: (i) remove critical constraints to
economic development; and (ii) improve the environment for investment and economic growth
and development, within its Port Cities."

64. PCDP reduced congestion in the economic infrastructure it targeted. For example,
investments in improvements to the fishing port and market at Sirah, led to an over 200%
increase in the number of fishing boats that dock at the port as well as an appreciable increase in
the number of restaurants in the vicinity as the investment created an amenity for the city. There
has been a 1400% increase in the efficiency of vehicular movement during peak hours at the
traffic intersections improved by the project, and over a 200% increase in the area devoted to
industrial production in the industrial estate upgraded by the project.

65. By successfully establishing a one-stop-shop for investors in Aden, the PCDP significantly
reduced transaction costs for businesses seeking registration in Aden .. By initiating dialogue on
industrial estates and the AFZ it catalyzed inter-ministerial discourse at very high levels. While
an adequate regulatory framework for these zones could not be developed under PCDP, the
team's efforts nevertheless contributed to the government requesting IFC to support the
development of a SEZ law for Yemen. IFC's involvement ultimately led to a greater emphasis on
a broader policy environment needed to give a push for investors - this goes well beyond the
industrial estate in Hodeidah and the AFZ in Aden, and given the capacity limitations in Yemen,
harmonizes regulations and implementation across the country.

66. The project thus contributed substantially towards achieving the PDOs.

3.3. Efficiency

67. US$ 16.81 million, or about 60 percent of the total project cost of US$28.39 million, was
invested in works. For these, a cost-benefit methodology was used to assess the economic
viability of a sample of the works 27 the sample being about 32 percent of the total works under
the project. For the project's expenditures on studies (about US$7.81 million, or 27.5 percent of
the total project cost), benefit streams were not quantifiable, and a least-cost methodology for
analysis was adopted.

68. The ERR for the sample of works is about 80 percent. This robust outcome is based on a
representative sample of PCDP's infrastructure investments, which constitutes about 32 percent
~f PCDP's total cost of works, and close to 55% of the investment made by PCDP in works.
Considering that the analysis includes a broad range of economic rates or return for different



26PAD after issuance of the Corrigendum.
27Tawahi Dirtrict market (US$I.18 million), Crater Intersection (US$I.12 million), Sirah fish market (US$I.12
million), and the AI Durain Industrial Area (US$5.61 million).




                                                       -17-
kinds of works, it may be argued that the ERRs for all the works subprojects are likely to range
between 10 and 83 percent, making them economically acceptable.

69. It has been determined that the project has contributed to the improvement of the quality of
life for some 700 to 900 low-income fishermen and their families at the Sirah fish port and
market. Also, PCDP has directly and indirectly improved employment opportunities; for instance,
in Al Durain industrial zone about 17,250 new jobs have been created, after rehabilitation. In
addition, urban productivity has been enhanced through the improvements to the Malia Dakka
Old Port, the interconnection of Aden's urban transport network, and better traffic management.
Furthermore, the rehabilitation of the Tawahi market has significantly upgraded the quality of the
physical environment for sellers and buyers, along with food safety and through greater sanitation
standards.

70. On the institutional side, the project's benefits may be observed in the enhanced ability of
Aden's LEDD to take the leadership in the gradual implementation of Aden's urban strategy.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

71. The overall outcome of the project is rated moderately satisfactory. The project's PDOs
were and continue to be highly relevant for Yemen. The infrastructure investments have a high
rate of economic return. The streamlining of procedures to reduce processing time for business
registration has been highly satisfactory. In terms of design, as discussed earlier (paragraph 59)
the project set an ambitious agenda. Regarding studies which absorbed roughly one-third the
project's costs (US$7.39million), the impact is yet to manifest itself.. For example, it is unclear
whether the reforms identified in the ports sector will occur. Similarly it is unclear whether the
Government will utilize the bidding documents delivered for private participation in the power
sector. With respect to the Master Plans, it is unclear whether they will be implemented, given
the experience with implementation of these in developing countries. With respect to the study
for development of a Tourist Village in Mukalla, it is unclear whether private sector investment in
tourism will be forthcoming in the near future, given the security environment. The City
Development Strategies supported by Cities Alliance led to the articulation of Capital
Improvement Plans for the three cities, however, many of the investments proposed in these
Plans 28 were rejected by the LEDDs for support under PCDP II for one or more of the following
reasons: (i) the participatory methodology for the identification of investments as priority
investments was questioned and rejected by the LEDDs in Hodeidah and Mukallah; (ii) inclusion
of some investments would require the NCU to liase with a large number of interlocutors; (iii)
clear operational and maintenance arrangements for some investments had not been developed
and there would be a risk of non utilization or under utilization of the assets created by PCDP 229.




28 The CIPs reviewed by IDA included infrastructure in Aden's free zones and Hodeidah's industrial estates with the
possible inclusion of incubation facility for technology transfer and adaptation, market research, support to small agro-
industries, laboratories; logistic center for the Hodeidah port; small scale power generation for Aden, power
transmission, transformation and/or distribution infrastructure power generation for Aden; a tourism village in Mukalla,
improvements to the existing port to accommodate passenger cruise ships, improvements to the city's water and
sewage system, urban design improvements in Mukalla city and so on.
29 IDA Supervision Mission Aide Memoire, August 2009.




                                                         -18-
3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

72. Poverty Impact: Reducing poverty in the port cities was not an implicit or explicit area of
focus of the project. As such, no poverty assessment was done. Its investments in the fishing port,
however, impacted a significant number of fisherman, largely poor - in Yemen, almost 90% of
the fishing boats are small artisanal fishing boats.


73. Gender Aspects: Although gender inequalities in accessing economic resources and
participation in decision-making process still persists that has put women at a disadvantage, the
Project nevertheless attempted to improve women's participation in a decision-making process by
ensuring that they become key members of the city development strategy team. A Decree was
signed by the Governor of Aden which explicitly included provision to include a representative of
the Women's National Committee in the CDS team. The Head of the CDS team and the Head of
the local council expanded CDS team further to include a woman expert in economic
development and women member of the local council as permanent members of the CDS team.
In total three positions were created for women stakeholder groups and several more
systematically integrated into the advisory groups of CDS where they play active role in devising
economic strategies for Aden's development. By doing so, women have earned the right to
receive benefits from the economic growth mobilized under this Project.

74. Social Development: PCDP's social development outcomes were: improved economic
opportunities for low skilled workers, including women; improved women's role in decision
making; and building social capital and increased public participation in development. The
Project helped build council members' capacity in involving communities in planning and
implementing local development initiatives.      The decentralization process raised public
expectations about its impact on development, however local governments still face capacity and
resource limitations and have relatively limited institutional mechanisms in place for public
consultations or participation.

(b)     Institutional Change/Strengthening

75. The institutional objectives vis-Ii-vis implementation of the one-stop-shop for investors in
Aden, was fully achieved. PCDP enhanced the effectiveness of key public agencies related to
business registration in Aden, and has facilitated direct interface of the private sector with the
General Investment Authority, Customs Authority and Public Land Authority. PCDP provided
capacity building to core local government departments with regard to land use planning.

76. An institutional framework has been put in place for supporting strategic interventions
aligned with local economic development needs in the three cities - one of the most noteworthy
achievements of PCDP. This has been done through the establishment of the LEDDs, and
through instituting a culture of participation of a broad spectrum of stakeholders from private
sector and the civil society, although not inclusive of the poor.

(c)     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

N/A


                                               -19-
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

77. No beneficiary assessment (surveyor workshop) was carried out upon closure of the project
as it was judged to be unnecessary. As per the monitoring reports prepared by the Aden LEDD,
the sub-projects had a significant impact on local economic activity. For example, there was a
233 percent increase in the number of boats at the docking facility; a 360 percent increase in the
number of fish sellers; and a 100 percent increase in the number of fish restaurants. At the Crater
intersection, there was a 1400 percent increase in the efficiency of vehicular traffic movement
during peak hours and no accidents reported since completion of works. At the Malla Dhakka
Port, waiting time for trucks to load and unload their consignment was reduced to zero. The
number of establishments in the Al Durain industrial estate has increased almost 57 percent, from
 106 to 165; there has been an over 700 percent in the number of jobs, from 2,500 in 2003 to 19,
750 in 2010 30 . These impacts were re-validated during the ICR mission and are recorded in
Annex 3.

4.       Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Low

78. The likelihood of changes detrimental to the ultimate achievement of the Project's outcome
is considered low, in large measure because a culture of consultation and partnership with the
city's business community and the government has been established. This is expected to broaden
to become more inclusive, as PCDP II is supporting consultations with the poor around the
subprojects it is supporting. Presently, in each of the three participating cities, for example, the
chamber of commerce along with the local council is approaching additional donors to seek
funding for future improvements to cities' infrastructure as prescribed in their Capital Investment
Plans.

5.        Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a)       Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

79. The Regional Operations Committee (ROC) commended the program for being well aligned
with the overall MNA Strategy3l, advised that indicators for triggers could be qualitative - these
ultimately proved to be ineffective. The ROC recommended the first phase be three years instead
of two. In reality, however, the first phase took seven years, largely because the initial
implementation arrangements had to be revisited and transferred to the NCV. ~uality at Entry
was formally assessed through QAE6 process by the Quality Assurance Group 2, although not
during preparation, in which the panel rated overall QAE operation as 'satisfactory' and suitable

30 Aden LEDD Economic Monitoring Report (refer to Annex 9)
31 Summary of ROC Review March 13,2002: (i) responded to increasing out migration from highland areas due to
water shortages by shifting investment from water scarce to water abundant areas; (ii) strengthened public sector
efficiency through the design of a reform program; (iii) enhanced participation and voice (private sector and women's
groups) through the city development strategies; (iv) employment generation and private sector participation through
local economic development approach.
32 Assessment date: 6/18/2003




                                                        -20-
fQr an APL. All Qther dimensiQns Qf the PrO' gram were cQnsidered satisfactQry, including quality
Qf interventiQn/activities in Phase-I, with SQme areas Qf best practice.

80. A number Qf alternatives were cQnsidered and lessQns were drawn frQm past projects in
Yemen, and frQm appropriate sectQr wQrk (CQuntry Assistance Strategy, August 2002; Urban
SectQr Strategy, March 2001) incQrpQrated in the design. 33 HQwever, the PrQject team did nQt
adequately take intO' aCCQunt Qther relevant aspects, particularly with respect to' implementatiQn
arrangements that relied Qn newly created entities, and had to' be changed.

81. PreparatiQn was carried Qut with adequate number Qf specialists whO' provided technical skill
mix necessary to' address sectQr CQncerns with adequate reSQurces in terms Qf staff weeks and
dQllar amQunt to' ensure quality preparatiQn wQrk (see Annex 4). The Bank alsO' mQbilized PHRD
grants to' facilitate preparatiQn fQr the client. Participative wQrkshQPs were cQnducted during
preparatiQn to' launch a cQnsultative prQcess amQng stakehQlders and to' infQrm them abQut
Program's gQals, apprQach and implementatiQn steps. WQmen, in particular, were active
participants in this prQcess and shaped the city's develQpment visiQn and Qbjectives to' include
gender cQnsideratiQns.

82. All applicable Bank PQlicies were cQmplied with and nO' exceptiQns were recQmmended.

83. NQtable effQrts nQtwithstanding, an enabling environment fQr private sectQr led grQwth has
been difficult in Yemen, particularly after the USS CQle34 bQmbing fQllQwed by the events Qf
September 11, 2001.       There alsO' appears to' have been little meaningful prQgress Qn
decentralizatiQn since the passage Qf the Local AuthQrities law Qf 2000, as the transfer Qf
Qwnership Qf land and real estate assets frQm central to' IQcal authQrities has nQt yet Qccurred.

(b)       Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

84. The Bank's perfQrmance Qn supervisiQn was mQderately satisfactQry. PCDP was regularly
supervised frQm the headquarters and frQm the field. Adequate reSQurces were made available by
the Bank to' ensure mQnitQring and supervisiQn. The Bank's procurement and financial
management staff wQrked with the NCU staff to' explain rules and procedures to' be applied
during project implementatiQn. Sixteen supervisiQn missiQns including a Mid-Term Review were
carried Qut Qver the life Qf PCDP. In accQrdance with the legal cQvenants, the NCU carried Qut
the necessary envirQnmental assessments and adQpted apprQpriate mitigatiQn plans priQr to'
implementing sub-projects.

85. The team hQwever did nQt provide necessary Qversight to' ensure cQnsistency Qf the PDOs as
described in the PAD and in the DCA until later during implementatiQn. AdditiQnally, even
thQugh the QutcQme/intermediate indicatQrs Qnly gQt defined during implementatiQn by way Qf a
Supplemental Letter to' the DCA 35 , these indicatQrs did nQt get reflected in the ISRs, and remained
challenging to' repQrt against even after the CQrrigendum was issued in June 2009. FurthermQre



33 Including strategic focus at the city level based on competitiveness rather than addressing a wide range of problems.
34 The USS Cole Bombing was a suicide attack against the United States Navy destroyer on October J2, 2000, while it
was harbored and refueling in the Yemeni port of Aden.
35 Issued in January 2003




                                                         -21-
at that time as some sub-projects were under implementation, it was difficult to report
quantifiable results.

86. Furthermore, given that IFC ultimately assumed the ownership of supporting development
of the Free Zone Law towards the end of the project, had IFC staff been core members of the
supervision team when the dialogue began, the progress on the draft Free Zone law (which is
currently being reviewed before being sent to parliament), an important aspect of the project,
could have been achieved much earlier.

(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

87. Based on Bank's performance during the lending and supervision Phases, as discussed above,
overall Bank performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a)     Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

88. The government's performance is rated moderately satisfactory. To help prepare and launch
the PCDP's first phase, a Program Coordinator from the Ministry of Planning and Development
(MOPD, now Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation - MOPIC) was assigned to
work with the Bank team in preparing the Project. The counterpart coordinated essential
meetings, facilitated collection of needed data and information, and assisted in Project
preparatory activities. Given the cross-sectoral nature of the Project, an inter-ministerial
coordinating committee, the PCIC was established which was headed by the Prime Minister, to
facilitate project implementation activities - the committee's meetings never became a regular
feature of government oversight.

(b)     Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

89. The performance rating of the National Coordination Unit remained satisfactory throughout
Project implementation period once appropriate staff skills were available in the NCU. All
covenants were complied with and good use was made of targeted technical assistance. Progress
reports were submitted on a timely basis. The PCDP's DCA required submission of audit
reports on a quarterly basis and the annual audit report within six months of year end. This
covenant was satisfactorily adhered to. All audit reports were unqualified and the private auditor
always expressed satisfaction on the competency of the accounting staff and financial,
accounting and management information systems in place.            The efficient computerized
accounting system was later used for the follow-on Project (PCDP-II) to adapt Project
Monitoring Reports-based disbursement system.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory



                                              -22-
90. Borrower's overall performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory as justified above. The
rating takes into consideration both, the Government and Implementing Agency's performance
during preparation and implementation under difficult country environment and all covenants and
agreements that the Borrower complied with towards achieving Project's development outcomes.

6.      Lessons Learned

91. Generally during project preparation, when an APL is being debated as the choice
instrument, particularly in fragile and conflict countries, it is advisable that perspectives of
experts external to the Bank be made available to the teams to improve quality of Bank's
operations36 • In such countries, a sound analysis of the political economy is critical in assessing
the readiness of a project - failing to take cognizance of this may lead to an underestimation of the
challenges of reform.

92. The integration of national level reforms with local level reforms in one project, particularly
in low capacity environments, is best avoided. National reforms that affect urban development
and are within the mandate of national entities require sustained engagement over the long term.
This is best supported through single sector instruments, so that results are achievable within a
defined time frame.

93. City Development Strategies (CDSs) that focus on an "output document" that defines
investments (for example a capital investment plan), risk becoming a one-time donor supported
activity. The process of undertaking a CDS needs to ensure in-depth, and locally specific analysis
that first informs the development of a segmented participation and consultation plan. When
participation is underpinned with local level information which drives the consultative process,
the potential for creating a network of an inclusive stakeholder group is high, and can be an
important legacy of the CDS process.

94. Capital Investment Plans developed from 'visioning' processes under CDSs, need to be
treated with extreme caution. In the absence of analytic rigor along several dimensions of a CDS
(livability, competitiveness, bankable, and well governed) consultations occur in the abstract and
are not informed. Furthermore, such informed consultations need to be appropriately designed,
segmented, and inclusive. In the absence of this, the CIPs may put forth projects for financing
that may be neither realistic nor affordable, both with respect to capital and recurrent
expenditures.

95. Genuine consultation with direct beneficiaries of infrastructure sub-projects is essential so
that social and sustainability issues normally associated with infrastructure investments are
addressed in a timely way, including sector-wide or ring-fenced reforms for a subproject. Such
consultation can avoid the development of inappropriate design solutions.

96. Special purpose agencies are often essential to ensure there is an entity exclusively focused
and dedicated to local economic development, as there is often limited capacity to implement a
local economic development vision within existing government agencies. Such entities need to
be independent from the traditional bureaucracy of government, so that they can leverage public
and private resources for complex projects that have high local economic and social impact. .. It


36 PCDP went through a rigorous process of review, including at the ROC level during preparation which
recommended an APL.




                                                 -23-
is however, a mistake to burden them with additional responsibilities such as project management
to enable them to focus strategically and exclusively on local economic development.

7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)     Borrower/implementing agencies
        N/A
(b)     Co-financiers
        N/A
(c)     Other partners and stakeholders
        N/A




                                             -24-
Annex 1. PrQject Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost        by Component (in usn Million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                      Components                            Estimate        Estimate    Percentage of
                                                                                         Appraisal
                                                          (USn millions) (USn millions)
1. Revitalizing Aden Economy and Business
    Clusters
    1.1 Access Improvements
                                                                  14.60      16.81          115%
    1.2 City Revitalization
    1.3 Upgrade Small-Scale Commercial
        Areas
2. Port Cities Strategic and Physical Planning
    2.1 City Development Strategy
    2.2 City Physical Studies                                     6.00        7.39          123%
    2.3 Capital Investment Plan
        T A, Feasibility & Design Studies
3. Aden Local Capacity Building                                   4.90        4.19          86%
    Administrative Modernization
4. Unallocated                                                     1.00      0.00
                            Total Project Costs                   26.50     28.3937

 (b) Financing
                                                                Appraisal ActuallLatest
                                          Type of Co-           Estimate   Estimate     Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                           financing                                      Appraisal
                                                          (USn millions) (USn millions)
Borrower                                                          3.10        3.10          100%

IDA                                                               23.40      26.12          112%




37   Amount higher due to exchange rate appreciation SDRlUS$.




                                                       -25-
Annex 2. Outputs by Component (against which progress was reported in ISRRs)

Component 1: Revitalizing Aden Economy & Bnsiness Clusters (US$16.81 million)
97. The component financed' engineering designs, preparation of bidding documents,
construction supervision and priority small works investment projects identified through a
participatory process approved by the Governor of Aden and Aden Local Council:

Main Outputs
(1)    Upgraded Sirah fish market
(2)    Renovated Investor Services Center building
(3)    Upgraded AI-Durain industrial area
(4)    Upgraded Crater Strategic Intersection
(5)    Upgraded Infrastructure (with electrical material) for Maala-Dakka area
(6)    Equipment procured for traffic management and road safety/signage in Aden
(7)    Renovated access to Sira castle
(8)    Rehabilitated Legislative Council building
(9)    Rehabilitated Tawahi District market

Component 2: Strategic and Physical Planning within Port Cities (US$7.39 million)

98. The component financed City Development Strategies, Local Economic Development
Departments, Master Plans and Capital Investment Plans (triggers for Phase II):

Main Outputs
(1)    Urban Plan (study)
(2)    Study on Housing and Urban Development
(3)    Study Resettlement Policy Framework
(4)    Master Plans for Aden, Hodeida, and Mukalla including translations
(5)    City Development Strategy & Translation
(6)    Competitiveness Assessment Study
(7)    Study on Gas Utilization feasibility
(8)    Architectural Studies
(9)    Study Branding and Marketing
(10)   Study Aden Causeway
(11)   Study Emerging Markets
(12)   Study Yemen Port Cities Future Vision
(13)   FeasibilitylDesign Study for Hodeidah and Aden industrial estates
(14)   Gold Mohur Beach Design Study
(15)   National Port Strategy Study

Component 3: Aden Local Capacity Building & Admin. Modernization (US$4.19 million):

99. The component financed establishment of Investor's Center for General Investment
Authority (GIA) and Asset Management Strategy for Aden. Remainder of the component
financed technical staff, NCU operating expense, workshops, training and office supplies for
LEDD:




                                               -26-
Main Outputs (two main studies)

(1) Aden Administrative Modernization Study & Investor Center (I-Stop Shop for GIA)
(2) Asset Management Study for Aden




                                           -27-
Sirah Fish Market (before and after}
Date Start: 27/0912004; Date End: 20/05/2006; Estimated Cost: US$1,200,071




Crater Intersection (before and after)
Date Start: 23/06/2005; Date End: 15/08/2006; Estimated Cost: US$1,120,230




AI~Durain  Industrial Area (before and after)
Date Start: 29/09/2005; Date End: 15/1112007; Estimated Cost: US$ 5,613,091




                                              -28-
Mualla Dakah Area (before and after)
Date Start: 16/06/2008; Date End: 07/09/2009; Estimated Cost: US$ 1,159,600




Legislative Council (before and after)
Date Start: 12/02/2008; Date End: 10/0812010; Estimated Cost: US$ 793,219




Sira Fortress (before and after)
Date Start: 18/1112007; Date End: 28/04/2009; Estimated Cost: US$ 598,675




                                                   -29-
Investor Center (before and after)
Date Start: 18/12/2004; Date End: 10/0112006; Estimated Cost: US$ 385,802




Tawahi Market
Date Start: 16/06/2009; Date End: 30/06/2010; Estimated Cost: US$ 1,200,000




                                              -30-
Annex 3.      Economic and Financial Analysis

100. The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and the Net Present Value (NPV) offered in this report
are estimates of economic viability of investments made under urban infrastructure component
(component 1). During appraisal ERR and the NPV were not calculated, hence no comparison
can be made between an expected and the actual value of these two indicators (ERR and NPV).
The risk and difficulty of the Program of not having an estimate of the expected ERR, beforehand,
was among others, the impossibility to tell at appraisal, whether the estimated cost of any of these
investment was too high (or even unacceptable) vis-a-vis the expected economic benefits, or
whether the investment allocation was too small, given the magnitude of the anticipated
economic benefits.

101. The ERRs and NPV s computed for this analysis refer to a representative sample of different
types of investments carried out under the Program. The sample used is representative of
investments in urban infrastructure for which ERR economic rates of return are expected to be
substantially different. For instance, rehabilitation of existing district market, improvement to
urban transport infrastructure, development of industrial zone, and construction of market area for
small-scale fishing port.

102. Additionally, the analysis has focused on investments for which the direct benefits were
quantifiable and for which relevant information was available. This limitation therefore excluded
Program's investments in consultancies, studies, master plans, and goods and equipment - the
benefits of these types of investments are typically unquantifiable.

103. For investments whose benefits are quantifiable, it has been determined that the Program has
contributed to the improvement of quality of life for some 700 to 900 low-income fishermen and
their families in the urban cluster of Sirah. Also, the Program has directly and substantially
improved the employment opportunities for Aden's residents. For instance, in AI Durain
industrial zone about 17,250 new jobs have been created after the rehabilitation of this cluster.
Urban productivity has been enhanced through significant improvements to the MalIa Dakka old
port; Aden's urban transport network (especially at the Crater Intersection), and through better
traffic management in general. Furthermore, urban infrastructure, such as the rehabilitation of the
Tawahi market has significantly upgraded the quality of physical environment for sellers and
buyers of basic food products, along with food safety and sanitation standards.

104. The impact of the project on the institutional side can be observed through the enhanced
ability of Aden's Local Economic Development Department. LEDD's staff is now taking lead in
the gradual implementation of Aden's urban strategy, which aims at making Aden's city the
regional pole of economic growth. For instance, part of LEDD's local economic development
strategy has been the implementation of an Investor Service Center. This initiative has already
initiated mobilization of private and public capitals (equivalent to US$260,000) through the
model ofPPPs in support Aden's economic growth.

105. The quantification of the net benefits of the investments indicates that overall ERR for the
Program is about 80 percent. This robust outcome is based on the representative sample of
Program investments in urban infrastructure, for which an economic evaluation was feasible,
represents about 32.1 percent of Program's total investment cost, and more than half (54.2%) of
investments in urban infrastructure. Considering that the sample includes a broad range of
economic rates of return, it may be argued that the ERRs for the Program, as a whole, range



                                               -31-
between 10 and 83 percent, making them economically acceptable. This is illustrated below in
Table 1 below.

106. The net economic benefits for each of these investments were computed as a difference
between the cash-flows of costs and benefits, 'without' and 'with' the Program. Such cash-flows
were discounted using a 10 percent rate. Also, a sensitivity analysis was carried out to examine a
scenario with benefits lower than 25 percent. Furthermore, taking into account that cost used in
the analysis was in fact the actual cost (Le., after project implementation), there. was no need to
consider a scenario with a potentially higher cost. The economic analysis, for each investment,
converted financial prices into economic prices in order to correct for distortions in prices due to
market imperfections. This was done by applying standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.9.
Taxes and duties were removed from financial prices as these were not considered real costs in
the economy but rather a transfer of financial resources from private to public sector.

                                              TABLE 1
                                  ANALYZED INVESTMENTS: SUMMARY
                                                                                          ERR
                 INVESTMENTS                    COST         ERR          NPV         25% or Lower
                                                                                         Benefit
                                             US$ Millions      %         US$ 000             %
     1     Tawahi District Market                1.18         10.0        202.7              7.0
     2     Crater Intersection                   1.12         68.0       5,764.0            52.0
     3     Sirah Fish Market                     1.20         23.0        673.9             15.4
     4     Al Durain Industrial Area            5.61          83.1       32,479.9           66.6
                          Total Investment      9.11           -            -                -
                      Program as a whole                      79.7         38.7             63.5

107. The subsequent sections include results of economic evaluation for the representative
investments of Program's economic performance.

1.       Rehabilitation of Tawahi Market

108. Situation without the Project: The physical condition of the Tawahi market, similar to
other public markets in the city of Aden, was in an extreme state of deterioration. A large number
of sellers had relocated to the streets adjacent to the market because of the reluctance of many
buyers to enter the market, among other reasons. Situation was further aggravated by the
unsanitary conditions inside the market which were creating public health hazard.

109. Situation with the Project: The entire market was redesigned and fully rehabilitated. Its
design h~s been tailored to the specific needs of specific products, considering the specific
climate conditions of Aden. It provides stalls and stores for 115 sellers as well as offices for the
administration. Services, such as public lighting, security, electricity and water supply, as well as
sanitary facilities have been upgraded to higher standards.

110. Economic Costs: The economic costs include the investment cost and operation and
maintenance (O&M) costs. The capital cost refers to the actual cost of the Tawahi market, after
completion, which amounted to US$I.18 million. The cost for operation and maintenance (O&M)
has been estimated at 1% of the capital cost. The estimation of O&M refers to the incremental or
net cost, 'which results from the comparison of O&M 'without' and 'with' the project. The
additional cost of O&M is necessary in order to permit the assumption that the expected base-
case benefits of the project will be actually realized.


                                                  -32-
 Ill. Economic Benefits: The net economic benefits of rehabilitating district food markets are
 fairly modest. This is usually the case considering rehabilitations, though needed badly do not
 significantly impact the real economy. For instance, market's employment generation and
 market's sales may remain very much at same levels before and after rehabilitation. This result is
 often reflected in fairly low ERRs and NPV s.

 112. In fact, in the rehabilitation of Tawahi market the number of merchants (115 before the
 project) has remained the same after project completion. The volume of sales, which might be
 expected to increase (at least marginally), is still unknown since the newly rehabilitated market
 just began operations, as this report was being prepared. Concluding, the market space, and the
 quality of market space are the greatest contribution to the economy, which is reflected in the
 greater rental values of the market stalls and stores (Table 3). The rental values can only be
 achieved if monthly rents of market stalls and stores are open to the offers of all potential sellers.
 Without this openness of entry, and of considering the willingness to pay for market spaces, the
 benefits of the investment could not be realized.

 113. Economic Rate of Return: For the purposes of this evaluation, and in order to estimate of the
 ERR, the economic rental value of the market stall has been quantified, and has been measured by
 the difference between the total rents 'without' and 'with' rehabilitation. The ERR, assuming a
 scenario of competitive rents, is 10 percent (Table 2). On the other hand, a sensitivity analysis
 was conducted for the scenario of lower benefits, which is equivalent to the case of subsidized
 rents (i.e., those market rents below the private sector rents for comparable retail activities). The
 results in this case indicate that the ERR drops to 7%; while the NPV which was positive
 (US$207,700), turns out to be negative (-$25,100), under the subsidized rents.

 114. The result strongly suggests the direction in which the market rent policy needs to move.
 That is, in order to ensure: (i) sustainability in O&M, (ii) a fair competition (i.e., a leveled playing
 field) with comparable small retail activities in the private sector, and (iii) an economic rate of
 return greater than the opportunity cost of capital, market rents need to be set at competitive
 levels.

 2.     Crater Urban Traffic Intersection

  115. Situation without the Project: The over-crowdedness at this traffic junction, and the lack of
  effective traffic management and control was causing significant delays creating real threat to
  pedestrians compromising their safety. Serious accidents occurred at this intersection, including
  casualties, some of them fatal. In general, the situation was characterized by severe congestion
  and delays of motor-vehicles -- including heavy trucks, buses, taxis, private cars, and motorcycles.
  The most evident urban economic cost of the situation was the substantial wait time due to daily
. traffic jams, severely affecting overall urban productivity.

 116. The situation was evaluated at two peak hours (the morning and the afternoon rush-hours)
 when the passengers were experiencing daily traffic jams of about 30 minutes. Without the
 project this situation would have worsen as the current flow oftraffic will keep on growing38.


 38 Aden's urban population has been growing faster than Yemen's population -- i.e., 3.77% versus a national average
 for Yemen of3.0%.




                                                         -33-
117. The situation with the project: The result has been significant savings in wait time for all
types of motor-vehicles. The situation with the project has not only practically eliminated the
severe traffic congestion, but also, drastically reduced, if not practically eliminated, the daily
accidents, with corresponding savings in accidents related costs, including less casualties and
losses of human life. The average number of monthly accidents at this intersection dropped from
six (6) in 2003 to zero in 2008. Though, all these benefits are recognized, the economic analysis
has focused on benefits directly related to time-savings, for which their economic value could be
quantified with current available data.

118. Based on the technical studies carried out on traffic flows to measure the demand for urban
transport infrastructure in Aden, it was possible to estimate the average wait time at this
intersection. The wait time has been measured in terms of vehicles per minute and the opportunity
cost of time, which has been quantified in terms of urban residents' daily earnings - as reflected in
their wages and salaries. The actual benefits of this new infrastructure began in calendar year
2006, and its economic benefits have been evaluated for a 15 year period.

119. Economic Cost: The total cost of the Crater intersection includes the investment cost on this
intersection, and the O&M costs associated with new infrastructure. The actual investment cost in
financial terms has been reported at US$1.12 million. Physical and price contingencies were
covered through the standard reserved funds for any of these events.

120. The O&M cost of traffic intersection have been estimated at 3% of the investment cost.
Financial costs were converted in economic cost applying the standard conversion factor. The
details of the flow of economic costs for this investment are illustrated in the statistical Annex.

12l. Economic Benefits: Typically, fairly significant economic benefits arise from traffic
intersections; and in general from improvements to a city's roads and street transport network.
This impact has been expected in Aden at the intersection in Crater. The most important of these
benefits, as mentioned above, refers to time savings. This direct benefit accrues to passengers in
terms of lesser wait-time, which enhances urban productivity as a whole, and it was possible to
quantify it with the information available.

122. Time Savings Methodology: The calculation is based on the difference between passengers'
wait time 'without' and 'with' project for the expected yearly traffic flows. The annual streams of
savings were calculated on the basis of the value of time (VOT). The estimates ofVOT (Table 5)
were based on the daily wage rate in the economy (YR731.9), and took into account two different
population groups for passengers: (i) economically active passengers (EAP), and (ii) non-
economically active passengers (NEAP) such as children, dependant adults, students, retirees, and
the elderly.

123. It was estimated that about 50% of the passengers in public buses (equivalent to 12.6% of
the vehicles) may be considered as economically active population. For private cars, which
represent 36.4% of the universe of motor-vehicles, it is assumed one (1) EAP per vehicle. The
same assumption, of one (1) EAP has been made for motorcycles that are equivalent to 5.6% of
the motor-vehicles. In addition, for commercial pick-ups and similar vehicles transporting
products, which constitute 45.4% of all motor-vehicles, two (2) EA passengers per vehicle are
assumed. Furthermore, it has been estimated by traffic counts that on average 15,908 vehicles use
the Crater intersection of Aden on a daily basis.




                                                -34-
125. In order to determine time savings following has been assumed: (i) working day of 6 hours,
(ii) 20 working days per month, and (iii) an average monthly income of US$6S.33 to
economically active passengers. Based on this monthly income, the adjusted hourly Income level
for Aden's urban passengers has been calculated as: [(US$S20112)/20)]/6 = US$0.56].
Furthermore, it should be noted that Yemen's average yearly income is based on the purchasing
power parity (PPP) methodology. The computation of EA passengers and the respective time
savings are included in the statistical Annex.

126. Economic Rate of Return (ERR): The ERR is 6S% which, as expected, is fairly high
considering that this is the most important traffic intersection in Aden City -- in terms of its
highest volume of traffic flows. A sensitivity analysis was performed under the scenario of lower
benefits in 25 percent (Le., a lower value of time). The result shows (Table 4) that the ERR is still
relatively high (52%). The NPV, in consistency with the above results, is positive and fairly high
(US$5.7 million). Based on these robust economic indicators the investment in the urban traffic
intersection was economically acceptable.

3.    Sirah Fish Market

127. Situation without the Project: The situation without the-project was characterized primarily
by the extremely limited and rudimentary market area, the severe unsanitary conditions (such as,
absence of hygienic facilities for fish-cutting and display, no sewage or drainage infrastructure,
and unavailability of public bathroom facilities), as well as very limited overhead-shelter from the
sun, poor public facility for market management, and local government revenue streams limited
only to fish sales transactions.

12S. Most fishermen and fish sellers, who operated under these physical environmental
conditions, represent the poorest strata of Aden's society, where the catching and selling offish is
a subsistence economic activity. However, physical proximity of Sirah Island and other touristic
sites, such as the coastal beach and park areas, has provided vital market access to higher-end
consumers.

129. The. most evident economic implication of the situation without the project was the
substantial constraint to the economic growth of this market - Le., limited increase in both fish
sales, and in direct and indirect employment generation - as well as limitation in the reduction of
the economic costs associated with illnesses due to unsanitary conditions -- which were also
posing a public health hazard.

130. The upgrading of Sirah Fish Market was identified as a priority investment by Aden's City
Development Strategy Team in 2003. Consultations with Sirah Local District Council (LDC)
confirmed this priority and gradually Sirah's LDC took increasing ownership of the project,
particularly in representing it to the fishermen and fish sellers. Investment in the Sirah Fish
Market anticipated an important local economic growth effect in this urban cluster.

131. The situation with the project: Sirah Fish Market Rehabilitation has transformed the
economy of the local district. The physical conditions of the market have been substantially
improved. Market covered-area was increased by 7- fold (from 35 m2 to 260 m2) and market
access has been significantly enhanced. The market's physical area has increased from 365 m2 to
610m2. After project completion, fish sellers have doubled (from 40 to SO). Private investment in
the surrounding area has taken off - new buildings are under construction and private investments
in amenities have improved - practically creating a new destination in the city. Outsourced


                                                -35-
management to private sector has ensured good operation and management of the Fish Market,
and is yielding revenue to the city and the governorate - directed through Aden's LEDD.

132. The upgrading of the market's facilities has resulted in substantial increase in fish sales,
employment opportunities in the area (through new and small private shops and restaurants),
outdoor recreational activities, as well as a reduction in illnesses due to new sanitation. Space to
accommodate existing and new fish sellers and fishennen has substantially increased. New fish-
cutting and display areas as well as drainage/sanitation services have been installed. Overall
improvement in the sanitary conditions such as the installation of public bathrooms has
substantially reduced illnesses. Outsourcing services to the Fishennen's Association to manage
and maintain this facility has improved the market's O&M. Local Government revenue has been
enhanced by US$1500 equivalent of monthly fees paid by Fishennan' s Association.

133. Economic Costs: The O&M cost of the market area, without the project was estimated in the
equivalent of average-yearly-income (YR145,612) for four (4) workers, at 2005 prices. This
result was converted to US$ applying FY'05 exchange rate ofYR191. On the other hand, O&M
with the project was estimated in the equivalent to 1% of the actual investment cost of US$I.2
million. The total net cost (the incremental cost) comes from the difference between the scenarios
'with' and 'without' the Program. In order to compute the ERR the financial costs were adjusted
by the standard conversion factor of 0.90.

134. Economic Benefits: Though, all the economic benefits of the Sirah market (as described
above under in the situation 'with' the project) are recognized, the economic analysis has focused
primarily in the direct benefits in tenns of new employment for fishennen (100 new fishennen)
and new fish-sellers (40 new fish sellers), for which their average yearly income was easily
quantifiable. For other direct benefits, such as reduction in illnesses no infonnation was readily
available. Therefore, the estimated ERR for the Fish Market may be considered as a conservative
indicator of the overall economic benefits of this investment.

135. Economic Rate of Return (ERR): The ERR for the Fish Market is 23% (Table 6), which is
substantially above the opportunity cost of capital, estimated at 10%. As expected, based on the
result of the ERR, which is greater than the discount rate, the NPV is positive (US$673,900),
which indicates that the Fish Market, based on its own economic merits, may be considered as an
acceptable economic investment.

4.    Upgrading of AI Durain Industrial Area

136. Situation without the project: The industrial area, at appraisal, was facing significant
limitations of basic physical infrastructure, which had become a critical constraint for further
development of the economic activities it was trying to serve. Some examples could illustrate this
situation: (i) most of the transport infrastructure of roads and streets was practically undeveloped;
transport was based on dirt roads that were in extremely poor conditions with numerous potholes
and undefined horizontal alignment or road edges; (ii) the area was connected to the public
electricity network, but was facing frequent power cuts especially during the summer season,
disrupting industrial activities; on the other hand, electricity subscribers were facing high monthly
fees; and (iii) parts of the industrial area's sewage collection system was operated by gravity,
interrupted by sewer lines that were frequently blocked with solid waste compounded by the
deterioration of this old system. The sewer system was practically non-functional, which had also
become a public health hazard.




                                                -36-
137. Situation with the Project: The most important roads and streets were built and paved in
order to eliminate physical and environmental constraints, expanding the use of industrial urban
area. The drainage and sewerage systems were rebuilt. Main roads were provided with public
lighting and sidewalks. The economic impact on the area was quickly captured. The number of
jobs in this industrial zone has increased from 2,500 in 2003 to 19,750 in 2010. The number of
non-residential establishment has also increased from 106 to 165. The area covered by industrial
activities has expanded from 6.28 ha to 20.86 ha. Land in commercial use has expanded from
 1.68 ha to 2.81 ha. Considering these results, the economic analysis of the Al Durain investment
has considered the benefits due to the appreciation of land values. Employment benefits are
mostly attributed to the private investments.

13 8. Economic Costs: The industrial zone was the largest urban investment of the Program. The
main objective of this investment was to provide basic services of physical infrastructure to
trigger/induce private investment in industrialized activities and promote local economic growth.
Its actual cost amounted to US$5.61 million, equivalent to 41.9% of the total urban investments
under Component 1. The net cost of O&M of this infrastructure has been estimated at 12% of the
total capital cost.

139. Economic Benefits: The direct and indirect economic benefits of the rehabilitation of Al
Durain Industrial Area are the largest, as compare to the rest of the urban investment of the
Program. The main overall direct benefit attributable to the investment of Program has been
reflected on the actual appreciation of land values; while the indirect benefits are mainly the
impact of private investment on local economic growth. This is measured, among other indicators,
by the significant increase in employment in this industrial zone. The evaluation of the economic
rate of return, however, focuses on the direct benefits on land values. These benefits have accrued
to about 37.9 hectares of improved land sites (Table 8).

140. Economic Rate of Return (ERR): An economic analysis 'with' and 'without' the project was
undertaken (Table 7). The Economic rate of return of this investment is 83.1 percent; and the net
present value at 10 percent discount rate is positive (US$32.4 million). Sensitivity analysis was
undertaken to evaluate the impact of a lower benefits on the best case scenario. Assuming the
unlikely event that direct total benefits could be 25% lower, resulted in an ERR of 66.6 percent
and a positive NPV of US$23.1 million, still indicating a fairly robust outcome of the economic
merits of this project.




                                              -37-
                                                       TABLE 2
                                                 ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
                                             T A WAHl DISTRICT MARKET

                                                                            Lower Rents             Market Rents
               Cost with Pro'ect                Benefits with Project


                                                            Annual        Gross        Net        Gross        Net
        Capital     O&M          Total                      Market      Economic    Economic    Economic    Economic
         Cost       Added        Cost          Number       Rent in      Benefits    Benefits    Benefits    Benefits
Year   (US$OOO)    (US$OOO)    (US$OOO)        of Sellers   US$OOO       US$OOO     (US$OOO)     US$ 000    (US$OOO)
2009     1,180.0     0.0           1,180.0       115.0         11.5       10.8       -1169.2       0.8       -1169.2
2010                 11.8           11.8         115.0        73.5        69.1        57.3        138.1       126.3
2011                 11.8           11.8         115.0        73.5        69.1        57.3        138.1       126.3
2012                 11.8           11.8         115.0        110.2       103.6       91.8        138.1       126.3
2013                 11.8           11.8         115.0        110.2       103.6       91.8        138.1       126.3
2014                 11.8           11.8         115.0        110.2       103.6       91.8        138.1       126.3
2015                 11.8           11.8         115.0        110.2       103.6       91.8        138.1       126.3
2016                 11.8           11.8         115.0        110.2       103.6       91.8        138.1       126.3
2017                 11.8           11.8         115.0        146.9       138.1       126.3       138.1       126.3
2018                 11.8           11.8         115.0        146.9       138.1       126.3       138.1       126.3
2019                 11.8           11.8         115.0        146.9       138.1       126.3       138.1       126.3
2020                 11.8           11.8         115.0        146.9       138.1       126.3       138.1       126.3
2021                 11.8           11.8         115.0        146.9       138.1       126.3       138.1       126.3
2022                 11.8           11.8         115.0        146.9       138.1       126.3       138.1       126.3
2023                 11.8           11.8         115.0        146.9       138.1       126.3       138.1       126.3
2024                 11.8           11.8         115.0        146.9       138.1       126.3       138.1       126.3
2025                 11.8           11.8         115.0        146.9       138.1       126.3       138.1       126.3
2026                 11.8           11.8         115.0        146.9       138.1       126.3       138.1       126.3
2027                 11.8           11.8         115.0        146.9       138.1       126.3       138.1       126.3
2028                 11.8           11.8         115.0        146.9       138.1       126.3       138.1       126.3
2029                 11.8           11.8         115.0        146.9       138.1       126.3       138.1       126.3
2030                 11.8           11.8         115.0        146.9       138.1       126.3       138.1       126.3
2031                 11.8           11.8         115.0        146.9       138.1       126.3       138.1       126.3
2032                 11.8           11.8         115.0        146.9       138.1       126.3       138.1       126.3
2033                 11.8           11.8         115.0        146.9       138.1       126.3       138.1       126.3
                                                                         ERR =       7.26%       ERR =        10%
                                                                         NPV=        ($25.1 )    NPV=        $202.7




                                                            -38-
                                             TABLE 3

                                    TAW AHI MARKET
                      RE~TS     WITHOUT AND WITH THE PROJECT


                                                                     Rents at 75% of       Rents at 100% of
                                             # of Stands            commercial rents       commercial rents
 I    Vegetables                                  16                       202,500               270,000
3     Fish Stand                                  25                       210,000                280,000
4     Meat Stand                                   12                      195,000                260,000
5     Qat Stand                                    2                       495,000                660,000
6     Qat Stand                                    17                      225,000                300,000
7     Slaughter house                               I                       22,500                 30,000
8     Variety of Shops                             0                       525,000                700,000
9     Variety of Shops                             18                             -                      -
10    Variety of Shops                             15                             -                      -
11    Variety of Shops                              1                             -                      -
12    Bakery (Oven)                                 1                             -                      -
13    Chicken                                      3                              -                      -
14    Small Bath room                               1                        37,500                 50,000
15    Large Bath room                               1                        52,500                 70,000
       Monthly Rents in YR                        115                     1,965,000              2,620,000
        Yearly Rents in YR                                               23,580,000             31,440,000
        Yearly Rents in US$                                                 110,187                146,916
Source: Computation for this study based on number of stands/shops and rents provided by Ministry of Public
Works (MoPW) and Tawahi's Market Administration.




                                                -39-
                          TABLE 4
                   ECONOMIC EVALUATION
                 CRATER ROADS INTERSECTION


       Investment                Total      Gross        Net      VOT
          Cost       O&M         Cost      Benefits    Benefits   Lower
Year    (US$OOO)    (US$OOO)   (US$OOO)   (US$OOO)    (US$OOO)     25%
2004       0           0          0          0           0          0
2005      1120         0         1120        0         -1120      -1120
2006                  33.6       33.6       733         699        516
2007                  33.6       33.6       775         742        548
2008                  33.6       33.6       820         787        582
2009                  33.6       33.6       868         834        617
2010                  33.6       33.6       918         884        655
2011                  33.6       33.6       971         938        695
2012                  33.6       33.6       1028        994        737
2013                  33.6       33.6       1087        1054       782
2014                  33.6       33.6       1150        1117       829
2015                  33.6       33.6       1217        1183       879
2016                  33.6       33.6       1288        1254       932
2017                  33.6       33.6       1362        1329       988
2018                  33.6       33.6       1441        1408      1047
2019                  33.6       33.6       1525        1491      1110
2020                  33.6       33.6       1613        1580      1176
                                          EIRR=         68%       52.0%
                                           NPV=        5,764      4,011




                               -40-
                                                      TABLES

                  ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE CRATER INTERSECTION
                           Monetary Value of Time Savings (VOT)



                                                         Total          Daily
           Daily                         Waiting        waiting        cost of    Yearly
         vehicles        Number of     time for all   time for all      daily     Cost of   Yearly     Yearly
         using the       passengers    passengers     passengers      waiting     waiting    Time       Time
          Crater         per day at    in minutes     in days per     time in     time in   Savings    Savings
       intersection     Intersection     per day          day        (US$OOO)    (US$OOO)    (US$)    (US$OOO)
2005      12000            30000        450000            938          3206      769500     692550      693
2006      12696            31740        476100            992          3392      814131     732718      733
2007      13432            33581        503714           1049          3589      861351     775216      775
2008      14211            35529        532929           1110          3797      911309     820178      820
2009      15036            37589        563839           1175          4017      964165     867748      868
2010      15908            39769        596542           1243          4250      1020086    918078      918
2011      16830            42076        631141           1315          4497      1079251    971326      971
2012      17807            44516        667747           1391          4758      1141848    1027663     1028
2013      18839            47098        706477           1472          5034      1208075    1087268     1087
2014      19932            49830        747452           1557          5326      1278144    1150329     1150
2015      21088            52720        790805           1648          5634      1352276    1217048     1217
2016      22311            55778        836671           1743          5961      1430708    1287637     1288
2017      23605            59013        885198           1844          6307      1513689    1362320     1362
2018      24974            62436        936540           1951          6673      1601483    1441335     1441
2019      26423            66057        990859           2064          7060      1694369    1524932     1525
2020      27955            69889        1048329          2184          7469      1792642    1613378     1613
2021      29577            73942        1109132          2311          7903      1896616    1706954     1707
   Source: Computed for thiS report.




                                                       -41-
                                                           TABLE 6

                                               ECONOMIC EVALUATION
                                                 SIRAH FISH MARKET

                       COSTS                                 BENEFITS
                     With Project                            With Project                             Sensitivity Analysis


                                                                                          Net
                                                 Fishermen      Sellers      Total     Economic
          Capital                   Net Total       Total        Total      Benefits   Benefit (B-                  Net
FISCAL     Cost        O&M            Cost        Income       Income        w/.P.        C)         25% less     Benefits
 YEAR    US$ (000)    US$ (000)     US$ (000)     US$ 000      US$OOO       US$ 000    US$ (000)     benefits    US$ (000)
 2010      1,200          0          1,200.0       342.3         147.0       489.3       -970.0       172.5       -1027.5
 2011        0           12.0          9           342.3         147.0       489.3       221.0        172.5        163.5
 2012        0           12.0           9          342.3         147.0       489.3       221.0        172.5        163.5
 2013        0           12.0           9          342.3         147.0       489.3       221.0        172.5        163.5
 2014        0           12.0           9          342.3         147.0       489.3       221.0        172.5        163.5
 2015        0           12.0           9          342.3         147.0       489.3       221.0        172.5        163.5
 2016        0           12.0           9          342.3         147.0       489.3       221.0        172.5        163.5
 2017        0           12.0           9          342.3         147.0       489.3       221.0        172.5        163.5
 2018        0           12.0           9          342.3         147.0       489.3       221.0        172.5        163.5
 2019        0           12.0           9          342.3         147.0       489.3       221.0        172.5        163.5
 2020        0           12.0           9          342.3         147.0       489.3       221.0        172.5        163.5
 2021        0           12.0           9          342.3         147.0       489.3       221.0        172.5        163.5
 2022        0           12.0           9          342.3         147.0       489.3       221.0        172.5        163.5
 2023        0           12.0           9          342.3         147.0       489.3       221.0        172.5        163.5
 2024        0           12.0           9          342.3         147.0       489.3       221.0        172.5        163.5
 2025        0           12.0           9          342.3         147.0       489.3       221.0        172.5        163.5
 2026        0           12.0           9          342.3         147.0       489.3       221.0        172.5        163.5
 2027        0           12.0           9          342.3         147.0       489.3       221.0        172.5        163.5
 2028        0           12.0           9          342.3         147.0       489.3       221.0        172.5        163.5
 2029        0           12.0           9          342.3         147.0       489.3       221.0        172.5        163.5
 2030        0           12.0           9          342.3         147.0       489.3       221.0        172.5        163.5
 2031        0           12.0           9          342.3         147.0       489.3       221.0        172.5        163.5
 2032        0           12.0           9          342.3         147.0       489.3       221.0        172.5        163.5
 2033        0           12.0           9          342.3         147.0       489.3       221.0        172.5        163.5
 2034        0           12.0           9          342.3         147.0       489.3       221.0        172.5        163.5
                                                                            ERR =        22.6%       ERR =         15.4%
                                                                            NPV=         669.7       NPV=          218.8




                                                             -42-
                                         TABLE 7

                           ECONOMIC EVALUATION
                      Upgrading of AI Durain's Industrial Area

                    COST                                       Benefits


                                                            Net        Adj. Net      25%
        Capital                                Gross     Economic     Economic      Lower
         Cost       O&M       Total Cost      Benefits    Benefits     Benefits    Benefits
Year   (US$OOO)    (US$OOO)   (US$OOO)       (US$OOO)    (US$OOO)     (US$OOO)    (US$OOO)
2005    5,610.00     0.0       5,610.0                   (5,610.0)    (5,610.0)   -5610.0
2006                673.2       673.2         3,784       3,110.6      2,799.5     2099.6
2007                673.2       673.2          5,676      5,002.5      4,502.2     3376.7
2008                673.2       673.2          7,568      6,894.4      6,204.9     4653.7
2009                673.2       673.2          9,459      8,786.2 .    7,907.6     5930.7
2010                673.2       673.2         9,459       8,786.2      7,907.6     5930.7
2011                673.2       673.2         15,136     14,462.7     13,016.4     9762.3
2012                673.2       673.2         15,136     14,462.7     13,016.4     9762.3
2013                673.2       673.2         15,136     14,462.7     13,016.4     9762.3
                                                          ERR =        83.07%     66.60%
                                                          NPV=        $32,479.9   $23,085




                                           -43-
                                                        TABLES

                                        APRECIATION OF LAND VALUES
                                       Aden City: AI Durain's Industrial Estate



                                                               Average     Market                      Gross
          Industrial                                 Average     Price     value of     Market      Benefits Due
            Estate       Estimate       Estimate      Price    per sqm    Industrial    value of         to
            Total         of Net       ofsqm in      per sqm      with       land      Industrial   Appreciation
           Number          Area        Industrial    without    Project    without     land with      of Land
              of         Benefited       Area        Project   increase    Project      Project       Values
Year       Hectares         ha.            m2         (US$)      (US$)    (US$OOO)     (US$OOO)      (US$OOO)
2005           63.24           37.9        379,440     99.72      99.72     37,837.8    37,837.8         -
2006           63.24           37.9        379,440     99.72     109.69     37,837.8    41,621.5       3,784
2007           63.24           37.9        379,440     99.72     114.68     37,837.8    43,513.4       5,676
2008           63.24           37.9        379,440     99.72     119.66     37,837.8    45,405.3       7,568
2009           63.24           37.9        379,440     99.72     124.65     37,837.8    47,297.2       9,459
2010           63.24           37.9        379,440     99.72     124.65     37,837.8    47,297.2       9,459
2011           63.24           37.9        379,440     99.72     139.61     37,837.8    52,973.6       15,136
2012           63.24           37.9        379,440     99.72     139.61     37,837.8    52,973.6       15,136
2013           63.24           37.9        379,440     99.72     139.61     37,837.8    52,973.6       15,136
       Source: Computed for this report.




                                                          -44-
Annex 4.     Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

                                                                    Responsibility/
           Names                       Title              Unit
                                                                      Specialty
Lending/Supervision
Laila AI-Hamad              Sr. Social Dev. Specialist   MNSSO Social Development
Nada M. A. AI-Hamalawy     Voice Secondee                MNSED Project Support
Meskerem Brhane             Sr. Urban Spec.              EASIN  Urban Development
John Bryant Collier        Operations Officer            AFTWR Operational Support
Adama Coulibaly             Sr. Operations Officer       MNCSA Operational Support
Ahmed A. R. Eiweida        Country Sector Coordinator    ECSSD Urban Dev.
Ayman Ibrahim E1-Guindy     Procurement Specialist       MNAPR Procurement
Akram A. H. EI-Shorbagi     Sr. FMS                      MNAFM FMS
Tiguist Fisseha             Consultant                   LCSUW Project Support
Maged Mahmoud Hamed         Sr. Environmental Spec.      MNSEN Environment
Susan Hassan Hameed         Program Assistant            MNCYE Project Support
Ghada Ahmed W. Ismail       Voice Secondee               MNSED Project Support
Stephen George Karam        Lead Urban Economist          ECSS6 Urban Dev.
Ali Khamis                  Sr. Operations Officer       MNSUR 'Operational Support
Comelis Kruk               Consultant                    AFTTR 'Operational Support
Catherine Lynch            Young Professional              YPP  Urban Development
Josephine Masanque          Sr. FMS                      OPCFM FMS
Madhu Raghunath             Urban Specialist             MNSUR Urban
Radha Raju                  Finance Analyst              CTRDM Disbursements
Omar M. Razzaz             Country Manager               MNCA2 Overall Coordination
Deepali Tewari              Sr. Mun. Dev. Specialist     MNSUR Municipal Dev.
Sameh Naguib Wahba          Sr. Urban Specialist         LCSUW Urban
Azeb Yideru                 Program Assistant            MNSSD Project Support
Mario Antonio Zelaya       .Consultant                   MNSSD Project Support
Maya EI-Azzazi             Program Assistant             MNSSD Project Support
ICR
Richard James              Operations Consultant         MNSSD    Primary Author
Barjor Mehta                Senior Urban Specialist      AFTUW    Peer Reviewer
Balakrishna M. ParameswaranSenior Urban Specialist       SASDU    Peer Reviewer




                                          -45-
(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank
                                          Budget Only)
                                                       usn Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle                                 (including
                                          No. of staff
                                                       travel and
                                          weeks
                                                       consultant
                                                       costs)
Lending
  FYOO                                                      0.36
  FYOI                                          7          29.46
  FY02                                         38         187.65
  FY03                                         33         133.54
  FY04                                                      0.72
  FY05                                                      0.00
  FY06                                                      0.00
  FY07                                                      0.00
  FY08                                                      0.00
                                 Total:        79         351.73
SupervisionlICR
  FYOO                                                      0.00
  FYOI                                                      0.00
  FY02                                                      0.00
  FY03                                         8           31.41
  FY04                                        30           95.18
  FY05                                        32          100.13
  FY06                                        29          103.73
  FY07                                        36          159.29
  FY08                                        33          139.09
  FY09                                         8            0.00
                                 Total:       176         628.83




                          -46-
Annex 5.     Beneficiary Survey Results


141. No beneficiary assessment was carried out at project closure as it was not
considered good use of scarce IDA resources. Salient benefits are highlighted in section
3.6 above.




                                          -47-
Annex 6.   Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                                   -48-
Annex 7.      Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


                                      Republic of Yemen
                     Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
                              Port Cities Development Program
                                         Cr. 3729-RY
                                 Implementation Completion


Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective

At IDA's request, the National Coordination Unit (NCU) assisted in the Project exercise of the
implementation Completion Report (lCR) from the Borrower's perspective. The IDA mission
provided guidelines on the preparation of the (lCR) and sample reports of recent missions. The
NCU reviewed its records, and discussed with IDA mission the additional information required.

During implementation period, IDA supervision missions visited the country on average once
every six months. The missions visited the construction sites, reviewed equipment and furniture
lists, held meetings with and advised NCU on Project execution, evaluated performance of the
consultants and advised on IDA's procedures.

In general IDA was responsive to the changes proposed by the Government during
implementation. Moreover, IDA used supervision missions to engage the Government in major
sectorial policy dialogues.

Project Preparation and Implementation:-

Preparation

During preparation and appraisal, the Borrower performance was rated satisfactory. The
Government was strongly committed to the goals of the project and to the participatory process in
the project preparation

Implementation ..

The project was executed largely as agreed during negotiations. Most of the civil works and
delivery of equipment and furniture were completed behind the original closing date (June 30,
2007).The facilities provided to the project institutions are satisfactory and appropriate equipment
and furniture provided are generally of the right type and of high quality. They were satisfactory
installed and are well used.

Extension of the closing date

The effectiveness date of the project was July 14, 2003. The project closing date was extended
twice. The first extension was for one and a half years from June 30, 2007 to December 31, 2008




                                               -49-
and the second extension was for another one and a half years from December 31, 2008 to June
30,2010.

Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement

The Development Credit Agreement was amended twice, first on April 8, 2004 to split the
original category No.4 into two new separate categories. Category No.4 for Incremental
Operating Expenditures for Local Economic Development Department (LEED), and Category
No.5 for Incremental Operating Costs for the National Coordination Unit (NCU) as well as a new
additional Category No.6 for Training and Workshops.

Furthermore, the scope of Component No.3 of the project was expencled from Aden to include the
two other port cities, Hodeidah and Mukalla, and the responsibility for the implementation of
different components was modified, transferring more responsibility to the NCU than planned at
Appraisal. The implementation of the entire project was effectively done by the NCU.

In June 2007 the project closing date was extended to December 31,2008. Proceeds allocated for
works from SDR 10.8m to SDR 8.08 m were revised downwards, and allocation for Consultants
Category was increased from SDR 4.57m to SDR 7.2m In June 2010 a reallocation of Credit
proceeds was done just before the closing date as follows:

Category 1 Works                         from SDR 8.08m to SDR 7.90m
Category 2 Goods & Equipment            from SDR l.37m to SDR 1.40m
Category 3 Consultant Services          from SDR 7.26m to SDR 8.17m

Project Cost Estimate

The total project cost at signing the credit was SDR 17.70 m which is currently valued US$ 27.82
m (due to exchange rate fluctuations). Out of this amount, an amount of US$ 26.01 m has been
disbursed. The remaining fund in the credit at closing is US$ 1.72m which represents 6.18 %.

Lessons Learned

The following key lessons can be drawn from this project implementation experience.
(J) The experience with the project requires the importance of the following:
    • An appropriate design.
    • The needfor close cooperation between local agencies and IDA.
    • The value of effective PMU; and
    • The benefit that can be gainedfromflexibility during implementation.
(2) It is preferable that the project management should include some of those who participated in
    the preparation of the project.
(3) Communities should be involved at the early stage of the project. through an adequate
    structure to assist in planning. supporting and implementing their roles and responsibilities.
(4) The project timetable should be more realistic in order to avoid implementation delays
    beyond the original closing date.



                                              -50-
Annex 8.   Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    -51-
Annex 9.     List of Supporting Documents

1.    Project Appraisal Document (Report No. 25226-YEM), December 18,2002
2.    Back to Office Reports and Aide-Memoires January 2003 through June 2010
3.    Project Status Reports/Implementation Status Reports March 2003 through May 2010
4.    Sixth Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA6) Report, June 18, 2003
5.    Mid Term Review Report, December 5, 2005
6.    Development Credit Agreement Report No. 3729-YEM
7.    Aden Local Economic Development Department. City Economic Development: The
      "Agency" Question (Power Point). LEDD: Aden, Yemen. May 14,2008.
8.    Local Economic Development Department. Aden City Development Strategy. Overview of
      AI Durin Industrial Estate (Power Point). LEDD: Aden, Yemen (Undated).
9.    Local Economic Development Department. Aden City Development Strategy. Overview of
      Crater Intersection Project (Power Point). LEDD: Aden, Yemen (Undated).
10.   Local Economic Development Department. Governor of Aden, Decree 63 of2002:
      Establishment LEDD. (Power Point). LEDD: Aden, Yemen (Undated).
11.   Port Cities Development Program. Aden City Development Strategy. Overview of Sirah
      Bay & Fish Market (PowerPoint). LEDD: Aden, Yemen (Undated).




                                          -52-
                              REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                         46ºE                                         48ºE                                          50ºE                           52ºE                                            54ºE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                      PORT CITIES                                                                                                                                                                                                        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank

                DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          20ºN
                                                                                    20ºN
                                PROJECT PORT CITIES

                                                                                                                REP. OF                                                         SAUDI                     ARABIA
                                CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                YEMEN
                                GOVERNORATE CAPITALS
                                NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                MAIN ROADS
                                GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OMAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          18ºN
                       42ºE        To Abha                  44ºE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sanaw                                          To Thamarit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Habarut
                                                                                                                                                                                            Thamud
                                                         SAADAH                                                                                                                                                                  Mah
                                                           Saadah                                                                                                                                                                        rat                          To Mirbat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AL-                     Mt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ns.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MAHRAT
                                                                                          AL-JOWF                                                                              HADRAMOUT                                                                    Damqawt
                                                                                                                                                   Zamakh
                               Maydi                       ¸ -
                                                           Huth                                                                                          t
                                                                                 Al Hazm                                                           ser                                                                                         Al Ghaydah
                16ºN                    HAJJAH          AMRAN                                                                             n   De                                                                  Mar’ayt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          16ºN
                                                                                                                                      tay
                                                                                                                                b'a
                                                                                                                                                                                    Al Ghuraf                                              Nishtun
                         Al Luhayyah           Hajjah             SANA'A                                                   Sa
                                                                Amran                                            t   as                                           Hawra
                                                                                         MARIB               mla
                               Salif    Al Mahwit                                          Marib        Ra              Shabwah
                                          AL MAHWIT                  SANAA                                                                                                                           t                           Qishn                  0        50         100          150 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                 a u
                                                                                                                                                                                                 o
                                                                                                                                                                                        m                               Sayhut
                                                                                                                          SHABWA
                                                                                                                                                                                    r a                                                                 0             50                   100 Miles
                          Al Hodeidah           Al Gabain                                     Harib
                                                                                                        Nuqub                                                                   d
                                                                DHAMAR
                                                                                                                           Ataq
                                                                                                                                                                           a                    Shihr
                                                    RAIMH
                                                                              (3199 m)
                                                                                  Rida
                                                                                                                Nisab                                                  H
                                                                  Dhamar                                                                                                               Al Mukalla
                                  HODEIDAH                                     AL-BEIDA
                                                                  IBB     AL-         Al Beida                                    Al Huwaymi
                       Re




                14ºN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      14ºN
                                                            Ibb         DHALE'E                                                                              Bir Ali
                          d




                                                                   (3227 m)     Al Dhale'e
                                                         Taiz                                         ABYAN
                              Se




                                       Mocha                                                                              Ahwar
                                                    TAIZ
                                a




                                                                                                  Shaqra
                                                                  At Turbah
                   ERITREA                                               Lahej               Zinjibar                                                                  Gulf                      of              Ade n
                                               At
                                           Turbah         LAHEJ                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Qadub
                                                                                    Aden                                                                                                                                                                       Qalansiyah
                                                                        ADEN
                ETH.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Socotra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         'Abd al Kuri         Samha
                              DJIBOUTI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Darsa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 37822R
DECEMBER 2010




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AT
                12ºN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (HADR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              The Brothers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RN              OR              12ºN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A       MOUT GOVE

                  42ºE                                    44ºE                                        46ºE                                           48ºE                                               50ºE
                                                                                                                                                                                                               SOMALIA               52ºE                                                54ºE
