Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25411
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(PPFB-P2300; CPL-38940)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$66 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
UZBEKISTAN
FOR A
COTTON SUB-SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
March 25, 2003
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 2, 2002)
Currency Unit = Soum
1 Soum = US$ 0.001084
US$ 1 = 922.73
FISCAL YEAR
January -- December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Manager:     David Pearce
Sector Manager:    Joseph Goldberg
Task Team Leader:     Mark Lundell



UZBEKISTAN
COTTON SUB-SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratmgs                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               9
6. Sustainability                                                                  13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 16
9. Partner Comments                                                                17
10. Additional Information                                                         18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matnx                                19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              31






Project ID: P009122                                Project Name: UZBEKISTAN COTTON SUB-
SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Team Leader Mark R. Lundell                        TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                 Report Date: March 25, 2003
1. Project Data
Name: UZBEKISTAN COTTON SUB-SECTOR                   LIC/TF Number: PPFB-P2300; CPL-
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                                          38940
Country/Department: UZBEKISTAN                                          Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishmg and forestry sector
(45%); Agricultural marketing and trade (34%);
Central government administration (11%);
Agricultural extension and research (6%); Irrigation
& drainage (4%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD. 11/05/1992                               Effective: 09/01/1995        12/29/1995
Appraisal: 10/25/1994                                MTR: 05/01/1998           06/25/1998
Approval: 05/25/1995                              Closing: 12/31/2000         05/31/2002
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: REP. OF UZBEKISTAN/PLANNING AGENCY
Other Partners:
S TAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                          Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Dennis de Tray                            Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:      Laura Tuck                                Michael A. Gould
Team Leader at ICR:  Mark R. Lundell                           Salem Gafsi
ICR Primary Author:  Mark R. Lundell; Bekzod
Shamnsiev; Fasliddin Rakhimov
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unhkely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Projec at Risk at Any Time: Yes



Introductiom
The Cotton Sub-Sector Improvement Project (CSIP) was the first Bank financed rural sector project in the
Republic of Uzbekistan. As such, it benefited from a rather limited amount of accumulated lessons from
the country lendmg program at the time of preparation in 1994. Reforms in the sector at the time were in
their infancy, and especially slow in the cotton sub-sector. Thus, the CSIP was designed to initiate
reforms in the cotton sub-sector by targeting the emergence of the private sector in cotton seed production
and processing and providing a safe environment for this private sector activity by simultaneously
addressing the main objective of the Government of Uzbekistan (GOU) in the sub-sector, namely,
increasing the value of Uzbek cotton on the world market.
These two foci of the CSIP were the right ones, but the degrees of their implementation have been quite
different. The private sector development aspects of the CSIP, though attained within the scope of the
enterprises participating in the CSIP, have not been adequately fostered through the rural sector as a
whole. The objective of increasing the relative value of Uzbek cotton on the world market has been
consistently and ever widely attained and the share of the world market price received at the farm gate has
improved substantially over the past few years as well. Thus, although the planned sector reforms were
not implemented, the project achieved its operational goals.
Still, much remains for improvement of yields, efficiency, and income in the cotton sub-sector, with
privatization and a wider role for market mechanisms both being key to such improvements. The GOU
realizes this and pursues a gradual course, often impeded by other rural development objectives pursued
by the GOU, but still capable of making progress. The substantial but circumscribed scope of these
achievements in the cotton sub-sector will be addressed in this report.
3. Assessment of IDevelopnent Objective and Design, amnd of Quality at Enntry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project starts the process of modemizing the cotton sub-sector by supporting selective critical
interventions that aim at improving its efficiency by opening it up to the world market. Thus, it supports
the elimination of state orders for cotton marketing, liberalization of cotton prices, initiation of
privatization of the cotton seed industry, and the enhancement of the cotton sub-sector's foreign exchange
eaming capacity (through the introduction of an improved cotton grading system).
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised
3.3 Original Components:
Project design during preparation started by focusing on the primary objectives of modemizing the sector
and increasing foreign exchange eamings from cotton, through the Seed Enterprises and Seed Quality
Control components and the Marketing component (known more exactly as the High Volume
Instrumentation, or HVI, component). Two components, Irrigation and Integrated Pest Management,
were added during pre-appraisal to address environmental concerns while improving productivity in the
cotton sector.
1. Seed industry supporting the creation of private seed companies to process and market about 25,000
tons of planting seed produced in association with privatized seed farms. It also supported the
strengthening of seed quality control agencies and the introduction of reliable policy and institutional
arrangements in the public sector for seed quality control, seed certification, and continued
development of new improved cotton varieties;
- 2 -



2. Cotton marketing supporting the introduction of cotton grading technology to determine the
characteristics of Uzbek fiber in conformity with internationally recognized standards. It has also
supported the development of a system for the dissemination (to potential buyers, the spinning
industry, gin operators, farmers and researchers) of information generated through the grading
system;
3.  InteRrated pest management - an applied research and development component. It provided for
equipment and technical assistance for the development of insect rearing and dispersal technologies
that would allow the country to economically broaden biological control of cotton pests. It also
supported the development of improved pesticide spraying equipment to allow the integration of
biological and chemical control of pests with proper cropping practices in a manner that would
mitigate the impact of pest control on the environment;
4.  Irmgation. This component provided for equipment and training to introduce irrigation scheduling
technology and demonstrate effective ways to reduce water use in cotton production, while
improving land productivity and avoiding water-based damage to the environment; and
5. Project Management and Program Design. This component supported the strengthening and
development of the capacity of agencies involved in this project to help them implement their
respective components and contribute to the design of future investment programs in agriculture. It
also supports specific preparation activities for investment programs for which Government intended
to seek external financial support.
The original size of loan proceeds to be used by each component is given below:
Component;                              Loan Amount
MARKETING (HVI)                        $21,201,000
SEED ENTERPRISES                       $31,005,000
SEED QUALITY CONTROL                   $3,656,000
INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT             $3,782,000
IRRIGATION                             $2,642,000
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT            $1,926,000
PROGRAM DESIGN                         $1,908,000
3.4 Revised Components:
At the Mid-Term Review of the CSIP, the Bank and the Government agreed to a down-sizing of the
Irrigation and IPM components. This downsizing of the irrigation component reflected the weak
managenal capacity of the Irrigation Component Implementation Unit (CMU) and its inability to produce
an operational plan for implementing the automated Irigation Scheduling System in the area envisioned
by the SAR. Instead, it was agreed to focus this component's activities in six Irrigation Development
Units, in which water scheduling and monitoring tnals through water user groups were executed, with the
results to be applied outside the scope of the project in areas of the country where the development of
water users was eventually targeted by the MAWR. Thus, the component acquired an applied research
nature. The IPM component was downsized to focus on the production of only prototypes for mass insect
rearing, mechanized insect dispersal, and boom sprayers for pesticide application, as opposed to the
subsequent production of a large number of these units. This decision was taken owing to the inability of
the IPM CIU to development an adequate commercialization strategy for the mass production of these
units and their marketing to IPM service enterpnses. Subsequent to the Mid-Term Review, the Seed
Quality Control component was curtailed (with no further expenditures made) as a result of lack of
agreement between the Bank and the GOU on the establishment of a Seed Certification Agency
independent of the MAWR.
In early 2001, an amendment to the CSIP was submitted to the Bank's Board of Directors on a no-
objection basis to add an Emergency Drought Assistance component. This was necessitated by the urgent
- 3 -



need to respond to Government's request for assisting the Republic of Karakalpakstan and Khorezm
province in mitigation of the effects of the 2000 drought. This component financed procurement of
critical agricultural machinery and equipment and livestock vaccines to enable the implementation of the
Government's rehabilitation program in view of anticipated further water shortages in 2001, which did
indeed develop. The agricultural machinery and equipment procured largely focused on equipping the
local water sector agencies responsible for performing cleaning works of irrigation and drainage canals.
The size of loan proceeds eventually used by each component is presented below:
Component                                            Loan Amount
MARKETING (HV1)                                       $26,177,000
SEED ENTERPRISES                                     $25,928,000
SEED QUALITY CONTROL                                 $1,092,000
INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT                            $1,415,000
IRRIGATION                                            $477,000
EMERGENCY DROUGHT ASSISTANCE                          $6,846,000
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT                        $2,063,000
PPF                                                   $477,000
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is considered satisfactory. The Cotton Sub-Sector Improvement Project (CSIP)
addressed the first objective of the CAS which was to "support macroeconomic stabilization and
structural and sectoral reforms" by focusing on enhancing the cotton sub-sector's foreign exchange
earning capacity via its successful introduction of an improved cotton grading system. This success is
documented below in Section 4.1 The CSIP also addressed the second CAS objective of strengthening
market incentives in the two key productive sectors, agriculture and energy", by pursuing initiation of
privatization of the cotton seed industry. The CSIP's success in this latter area has not extended beyond
the private beneficiaries of the CSIP (the cotton ginning and seed processing enterprises), but has clearly
produced a demonstration effect since the emergence of autonomous seed farms and their participation in
six joint-ventures has attracted further investment interest in the cotton sector on the part of private
domestic and foreign companies. Outside the scope of the project, two more seed private processing
enterprises and three private ginnery investment proposals are currently in the process of detailed
feasibility study. Unlike other ECA countries, where foreign investment outside of EFI-financed projects
has been much greater than in the various agro-industry projects themselves, Uzbekistan to date has seen
private investment in the cotton ginning and seed processing sector exclusively through the CSIP. This is
a lamentable fact, but it underlines the importance of the CSIP in expanding private sector activity in the
cotton sector.
Regarding the mix of components targeted under the CSIP, it appears that their relative weight was
correctly dimensioned. Though a number of components had to be downsized during project
implementation, this was largely because of deficiencies in the CIJs' managerial capacity. The
specification in the SAR of a rather decentralized approach to project implementation, through CIUs
without clear subordination to the P1U (known as the Agency for Implementation of the CSIP), reflects an
overly optimistic evaluation of the availability of managers in Uzbekistan who could be quickly made
proficient in Bank procedures, especially as this was the first rural sector project in Uzbekistan.
Eventually, this was partially addressed as the PI1 (which reported directly to the Cabinet of Ministers)
began to exercise tighter control over the CIUs' workplan development, procurement and financial
management activities.
Perhaps the one component which was over-dimensioned in an insoluble manner was the IPM component
since inadequate specification was made during project preparation for the mechanisms for allocation and
cost recovery of the numerous mechanized insect mass rearing lines, which were to be produced and
-4 -



eventually deployed at IPM service enterprises. This was never a priority of the IPM CIU during project
implementation and led to the reduction in the component by more than half.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4 1 Outconie/achievement of objective
In assessing the CSIP's achievement of the objectives of modernizing the cotton sub-sector and improving
its efficiency, one needs to examine the degree to which each component attained its objectives in pursuit
thereof.
The objective of the Cotton Marketing Component was to improve the marketability of Uzbek cotton and
its value in the international market. The results presented in sections 4.2 and 4.3 below show that this
objective was indeed met as the CSIP facilitated the transition from classing of cotton by lot to classing by
bale, which is substantially responsible for the increase over the period 1998-2002 of the Uzbek Middling
index relative to the Cotlook A index by about $55/ton of cotton fiber. This amounts to a benefit generated
by the CSIP of about $8 million yearly (see section 4.3).
The objectives of the Seed Enterprises and Seed Certification Component were to create a private seed
industry, strengthen the institutional framework for the development of an effective private seed industry,
and improve the quality of planting seed as a means to improve cotton yields, quality, and value. The CSIP
was successful in creating a pnvate seed industry through the establishment of six private joint-ventures
capable of producing and processing 22,000 tons of cotton seed annually. At the same time, breeding and
introduction of improved varieties of higher quality and value have moved ahead substantially. Nationally,
however, cotton yields have fallen during the project period, owing largely to the maintenance of low cotton
prices and low profitability in the cotton sector and attendant problems with acquisition by farms of
sufficiently high quality inputs. Prices of cotton seeds are not rigidly fixed by the state as in the past, but
the institutional framework for the development of an effective private seed industry is still quite
underdeveloped. This is because, outside of the seed farms which participated m the CSIP, workmng capital
for farms is provided almost exclusively by the state. As a result, the state (through the Cotton Seed
Department at the MAWR) arranges most seed deliveries to farms through a central allocation mechanism
The cotton seed market is, therefore, still in its infancy. In sum, objectives under this CSIP component
Seed Enterprises and Seed Certification Component were largely met, but full attainment of a developed
cotton seed market awaits wider financial reforms in the agricultural sector.
The objective of the IPM Component was to expand the use of IPM techniques which integrate biological
and chemical practices to control cotton pests and diseases. The results presented in section 4.2 below show
that this objective was indeed met. The project supported development of manuals, safeguards and
technical support documentation (overall more than 80 publications) on ecotoxicology and safe use of
pesticides In 2000, as an acknowledgement of the revival of biological plant protection techniques, the
director of the project component received an "Outstanding Achievement" award from the International
Congress on Plant Protection. Nationwide, the effective area under application of beneficial msects
increased from 3.8 mln hectares in 1996 to more than 6 mln hectares in 2001. This was a result of an
intensification in application of beneficial insects, which increased from 2.6 applications to 4.1 number of
applications on average. The component supported the elaboration of the Law on Plant Protection, which
was adopted by the National Parliament in August 2000.
The objective of the Irrigation Component was to improve management of water at the farm level by
introducing irrigation practices that lead to a substantial reduction in the amount of water used to irrigate
cotton. This objective was met, albeit on a pilot basis. Despite significant water shortages which
- 5-



characterized 2000 and 2001 years, automatic control over the use of irrigation water on the Irrigation
Demonstration Modules has shown that cotton yield was 0.5 to 0.7 tons higher than in the control farms.
Moreover, water consumption per production of one ton of seed cotton in the demonstration plots was
reduced by 7-38% in comparison with the control farms. The irrigation component has developed manuals
for irrigation engineers, over 500 copies of which were distributed nationwide and pioneered the concept of
participatory water management by producing the handbook for creation of water user associations.
4.2 Outputs by components.
Component 1.
(Seed Certification) Establishment of the Central Seed Certification Laboratory at a cost of US$1.1
million. Originally, the project envisaged creation of five regional seed certification laboratories. However,
following the completion of the central laboratory, no further expenditures were authorized, as the
Govermnent did not grant an independent status to the Seed Certification Agency as it was agreed under the
project.
(Private Seed Enterprises) - Creation of six private seed production companies with aggregate processing
capacity of 22,100 tons of cotton seed - at a cost of US$24.1 million. (Table 1 below) This exceeds the
number of enterprises (5) targeted for establishment in the SAR.
Table 1 - Private Seed Enterprises. Subsidiary loan sizes, processing
capacities and cotton seed production volumes in 2001/2002 season.
Name of the Company     Sub-loan     Built    Planting seed  Planting seed
disbursed  processing  produced by  processed (tons)
(US$)   capacity (tons)  associated
seed
farmfs(tons)
Central Asian Seed Company   8,285,000      2,000       1,342            696
JV Bukhara Seed Company*     4,927,925      4,100       2,720           1,531
JV Minshkor Seed Company*    2,856,855      3,000        953             750
V Haqipet Seed Company*      2,744,210      3,000        700             150
JV Oltin Chigit              2,566,312      5,000       2,000           1,052
JV Yaipan"                   2,734,268      5,000        600               0
Sub-loans to participating farms  1,813,278    X           X              X
for agricultural inputs
Total                      25,927,848      22,100      8,315           4,179
e missed part of the processing season in the first year of operation
e missed the processing season, due to start in 2002/2003 season
Component 2.
(Cotton marketing) Cotton marketing - 14 cotton High Volume Instrument (HVI) fiber certification
laboratories at a cost of US$26.2 million, which was in line with the number (17) targeted by the SAR. The
number was slightly reduced owing to higher than expected costs per laboratory and reduction in the cotton
planted areas across the regions. (Table 2)
-6 -



Table 2. Number of Cotton fiber certification laboratories.
Targeted and Actual
Staff Appraisal Report     Actual
Regions          Number of Number of Number of Number of
laboratories HVI Units laboratories HVI Units
Republic of         2          4         1          2
Karakalpakstan
Andijan              1         2         1         2
Bukhara              1         2         1          2
Jizzakh              1         2         1          2
Kahskadarya         2          4         1         4
Navoi                1         2         1          2
Namangan             1         2         1          2
Samarqand            1         2         1          2
Surkhandarya        2          4         1         4
Syrdarya             1         2         1          2
Tashkent             1         2         1          2
Fergana             2          4         1          3
Khorezm              1         2         1          3
City of Tashkent                         1          3
Total               17        34         14        35
Component 3.
(Integrated Pest Management) Development of equipment prototypes. Mass rearing equipment of three
types of beneficial insects - 3 units; beneficial insects dispersal equipment - I unit; pesticides sprayer - 1
unit - all at a cost of US$ 1.4 million.
Component 4.
(Irrigation)
Establishment and maintenance of six Irrigation Demonstration Units (IDUs) at a cost of US$0.5 million.
The activity under the component was substantively less than envisioned in the SAR, but this reduction was
deemed necessary at the Mid-Term Review owing to poor implementation progress at the time.
4 3 Net Present Value/Economic r-ate of return
The SAR estimate of the economic rate of return for the project of 34% was based on the composite
assessment of project gains by Cotton Marketing, Irrigation and Seed Enterprises Components. As a result
of the substantial downsizing of the Irrigation component, the revised ERR excludes assessment of the
benefits from this component. For the similar reason, the revised figure also excludes the befits/losses of the
participating seed farms. CSIP's net benefits attributable to the particular project component were weighted
by the share of the component's size to the overall project costs. The cost of non benefit components were
deducted from the overall project benefits. Overall ERR of CSIP is estimated at 28.3% with a more
detailed description of benefits enumerated below.
Cotton marketing. The annual benefits from the improvement in the average price received by Uzbek cotton
fiber compared to the average intemational price is estimated to be US$55 million. (See Annex 3-
Summary of Economic and Financial Analyses for more details) This figure is consistent with SAR
assessment of US$50 million when adjusted for the actual traded volumes, which is equivalent to about 5%
of total cotton export revenue. However, the estimates of the project gains differ from those in SAR due to
- 7-



the recognition of other non-project factors. In contrast to SAR methodology, the factors behind overall
improvement in the price for Uzbek cotton fiber have been separated into those attributable to the project
and the others which were caused by different reasons. It is believed that the improvement in prices for
Uzbek fiber is a combined effect of i) switch to bale-by-bale certification; ii) introduction of HVI
certification by an agency independent from State Association of ginneries; iii) accumulated international
trading expertise by cotton trading fimns; and iv) improved quality and uniformity of the cotton fiber. The
first two of these factors were interventions under the project Thus, only 20% of the price improvement
was credited to the achievements of the Cotton Marketing Component. This constitutes about US$9 million
in estimated average annual benefits with the ERR of 65%.
Seed Enterprises. Four out of six established seed enterprises had been created during the last two years of
the project and have completed the construction of their processing facilities in time for start-up operations
during 2001/2002 season. Economic projections based on the actual and expected production costs and
sales revenue for each enterprise indicate that all seed enterprises are profitable with ERR ranging from
38% (Bukhara Seed Enterprise) to 9.2% (Haqipet and Yaipan joint ventures). The projections indicate that
enterprises with cotton fiber ginning facilities derive larger economic benefits (average of 26.3%) when
compared to enterprises engaged only in seed processing (average 11.2%). At the same time, when
weighted by the size of the respective subsidiary loans the average ERR of this component is 22%.
Significant reduction in the planting rates, sizable increase in the average quality of seedcotton and cotton
fiber and improved indicators of ginning performance were some other important benefits that were realized
during the project implementation period. However, these benefits were driven mostly by the Government's
parallel effort to address the irregularities in reporting by State Cotton Procurement and Ginning
Association and, therefore, were excluded from the econornic analyses of the project.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Overall project FRR is 18.1%. Similarly to the calculation of ERR, estimate of project's FRR only
includes Cotton marketing and FRR for seed enterprises. The overall FRR for six enterprises is estimated
at 9.4% showing much higher figures for enterprises with cotton ginning activity (11.4%) than those with
only seed processing (4.4%).
The financial analyses of the enterprises indicated that financial profitability of those with cotton ginning
facilities is expected to increase as world market prices slowly recover from the record low levels for the
crop of 2001. The financial stability of these enterprises is reinforced by their ability to generate hard
currency revenue from cotton fiber exports. In contrast, seed enterprises without ginning facilities are more
dependent on their capacity utilization and rely on the supply of unprocessed seed from state-owned
ginneries and MAWR directives. These enterprises have already signed contracts for processing of seed
towards 2002/2003 season with 126% increase in the volume of production compared to 200S1/2002 season
bringing capacity utilization to over 50%. Moreover, these enterprises usually have an additional source of
income through custom cleaning and chemical treatment of grain seed during the summer. All such
enterprises have a sizable amount of ginning equipment and plan to renovate their ginneries in the near
future. All enterprises have been current in payment of interest and repayment of the sub-loans to the
Ministry of Finance.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Based on the ratings of institutional development of each component presented below, the CSIP's overall
institutional development impact is rated modest.
The introduction of bale certification and HVI (high volume instrumentation) cotton fiber classification
-8-



procedures through SIFAT represents a substantial change in the certification process and SIFAT is indeed
an independent agency formed to carry out cotton classing (formerly executed by UzKhlopkoProm, in
charge of cotton procurement and ginning). As shown in the economic analysis section of this ICR, this
institutional change has impressed foreign buyers of Uzbek cotton fiber and increased its price relative to
competing cotton fiber of other origins in world markets. However, it remains to be seen whether the
independence and reliability of SIFAT and its regional cotton classing laboratories can be maintained (as
discussed under the sustainability section of this ICR).
The institutional change achieved under the seed enterprises component is also substantial as this
component allowed for the first time the establishment of private cotton ginning and seed processing firms
in Uzbekistan (of which five out of six were joint ventures with foreign investments of over $10 million).
Cotton fiber exports by these budding pnvate sector actors has reached about $15 million annually, and the
expansion and continuation of their activities each year has come to represent a substantial foothold of the
private sector in cotton processing and export. Still, these farms handle only about 2-3% of cotton fiber
exports.
The direct institutional impact in the irrigation sector was modest as the main achievement was the piloting
of the development of Water Users Groups in the operation and mamtenance of on-farm imgation
structures in six Irrigation Development Units encompassing a much smaller geographic area than
envisioned by the SAR. Still, the focus of the component changed from strictly technical aspects of water
scheduling to organizational ones of WUGs as well. Thus, the pilot activities have been expanded through
many areas of the country as the organizational materials and manuals developed under the CSIP have been
used as the foundation for the setting up of WUGs nationwide. (This has expanded very quickly over the
past three years as about 10% of all large former collective farms have been fully transformed into
individual private farms who use WUGs in managing the distribution of water amongst themselves).
Under the IPM component, a number of IPM specialists in Uzbekistan were exposed to rigorous field trails
and toxicity trial methods for integrating the use of agrochemicals with the use of beneficial insects. The
application of beneficial insects has also been maintained, and a number of efficient prototypes for
application equipment used in IPM with beneficial insects were developed. Still, the institutional
development impact was negligible as no major institutional changes were affected on a permanent basis,
and no major achievements were made in achieving greater commercial focus of IPM service enterprises.
The institutional development impact under the seed certification component was negligible as the
independent seed certification agency envisioned under the SAR was never set up. The cotton seed
department of the MAWR continues to control the development of the cotton seed sector with excessive
rigidity and has effectively thwarted the emergence of a well functioning private seed producers association.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors otutside the control of government or implenienting agency
The Cotton Project was the first World Bank financed investment project in Uzbekistan and in its
agro-industrial sector and, therefore, lack of experience in implementation of donor financed proiects was
the major reason behind delayed realization during the first two years of the project. Some project
activities also got stuck into the numerous disagreements between intemational and domestic norms and
regulations on accounting and remuneration of consultants, taxation and civil construction permits,
approvals and certification of works and imported goods. The project had considerable TA on project
management matters with resident expatriate consultants but could do little in trying to ease implementation
through such complications.
-9-



Although, the multiple exchange rate regime was the main reason to blame for the erosion of cotton sector
profitability, abrupt decline in the world market prices for cotton fiber has also played an important role
during the past three years. The cotton sector was heavily taxed through mandatory conversion of the
cotton fiber export revenue into local currency at highly overvalued administrated exchange rates.
Nonetheless, at a time of substantial devaluation of the exchange rate (by over 500 % since 2000), the
benefits to the producers in real terms were only marginal, because the Govermment's reform effort on the
foreign exchange front unfortunately coincided with the largest decline in the world market prices in the
history of the cotton trade.
Table 3. World prices for cotton fiber
Crop year          1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001 2002* 2003* 2010*
International pnce
(US$/ton, cif Northern
Europe)           2,079 1,887 1,732 1,592  1,299  1,159 1,257  922  1,190 1,257 1,35
* forecast
Source Cotton Outlook and World Bank
Table 3 above shows that at the time of project completion, the world market price lost approximately half
of its 1995 level the year the project was approved. Although, according to various experts, the cotton price
is expected to recover, it is still going to be below than its long-term average of US$1,600/ton.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control
Expectations for rapid a_ricultural reforms were not realized, a fact which had a negative effect on sector
profitability through declined yields, farm losses and deteriorated farm assets.
As mentioned above, the value of the cotton output had declined partially due to the decline in the world
market prices, but also due to lower production. Since 1995, some 40,000 hectares were transferred from
cotton to winter wheat cultivation in line with a grain self-sufficiency program. However, most of the
decline was caused by falling yields, which when compared to 1995 levels declined by 15%.
Decline in yields was caused by the combination of the following: poor farm incentives, lower irrigation
water availability, unreliable inputs supplies and deterioration of the quality of land. Although, all of these
reasons are inter-related, lack of farm incentives was the most influential factor, which, to some extent
enhanced the susceptibility of yields to the other causes. Poor farm incentives are direct consequences of
the existing policies of administrative regulation of farm production decisions, input supply, pricing and
procurement, policies that CSIP intended to change in favor of a more market-based approach.
Table 4 below documents the list of unfulfilled or partially fulfilled reform measures, which were agreed to
take effect at the start of the project. The phasing of the supported deregulation of agricultural production
and trade was not adequately elaborately, and the Government adopted a slow and piecemeal approach to
economic reform.
- 10 -



Table 4. Non-fulfilled or partially fulfilled project agreements
Commitments of the Government                               Actual fulfillment
under the project
I Liberalization of pnces on cotton seeds  Fulfilled partially. Starting from the crop of 1996, free (negotiated) pnces for
(technical and sowing) at the initial stage of all cotton sowing seeds were introduced (resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers
the project                           of October 31, 1995, No. 421). Ltberalization did not apply to the pricing of
technical seeds
2 Approximation of state procurement price for Not fulfilled State procurement prices for seedcotton were denved on the basis
seedcotton to the world market prices,  of the expected costs of production, at planned (overestimated) yields and
starting from 50% of the world market pnces forecasted (underestimated) levels of inflation. On average, procurement pnces
for the crop of 1995.                 derived according to this methodology were not sufficient to cover actual
production costs. The aggregate losses from cotton cultivation averaged 26% of
the sales value during 1997-2000.
3 Phasing-out the state order system for cotton Not fulfllled Starting from the crop 1995 effective levels of state purchases of
and its complete abolition by the crop of  cotton amounted to 100% of actual output. As a condition of the agreement with
1998.                                 the IMF on the SMP, level of the state procurement for the crop of 2002 was set
at 50% of actual production volume. Farms or their agents were at least
nominally allowed to trade freely on the domestic market or export through the
auctions.
4 Simplification of the current export licensing Not fulfilled Although, in 1998 export and import licensing was abolished
system for cotton fiber starting from 1995  altogether, the above mentioned Cabinet of Ministers' Resolution prohibited
crop                                  private (or independent from the state) trade of cotton fiber since 1995 and
established the centralized system for procurement of seedcotton and export of
cotton fiber. This is expected to be changed for 2002 crop as a part of SMP
agreement with the IMF.
5 Liquidation of subsidy system.        Fulfilled partially. There are no more explicit subsidies for material resources
for agricultural enterprises However, water management is still virtually entirely
a government expenditure, fuels and fertilizers are exempt from VAT, and there
are still interest rate subsidies for financing of agricultural production, and for
mandatory purchases of imported machinery.
I
5.3 Factors generallv subjeec to iniplementing agency control-
The project implementing agency was established as a subordinate unit of the Cabinet of Ministers, with
the head of the unit receiving a status of the first deputy minister. Therefore, the agency was able to
generate prompt resolution of the numerous implementation matters, which otherwise would have taken
more time and effort from line ministries and agencies implementing project components. The Agency was
instrumental in the successful completion of private seed processing facilities and fiber certification
laboratones.
The Agency, however, was less successful in completion of the programs implemented jointly with the line
ministries. Seed certification, irrigation and integrated pest management components were executed by
three different organizations with each controlling the implementation with little regard to the efforts of the
Agency. The Agency's involvement in implementation was limited to the supervision of the activities of the
Component Implementation Units (CLUs) which reported to both the Agency and the line
ministry/organization in question. While a primary oversight of these highly specialized components by the
relevant institutions in charge of such matters was justified on the grounds of expertise and learning, it also



proved ineffective.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The SAR estimate of the total project cost was US$84.6 million while the final actual project expenditures
amounted to US$76.3 million. The main differences between these two figures were a) Smaller than
planned Governrment's contribution (US$ 5.8 million); b) underfinancing by the private sector (US$1.2
million) and c) Unused loan funds (US$ 1.1 million). Government's contribution to the project declined as
a result of downsizing of the project activities requiring co-financing from the state budget. Private sector
co-finance exceeded project requirements in each case, however in total they were less than expected due to
underutilization of the available finds under the component by roughly US$3 million. Details on
adjustments to the loan categories are presented in Annex 2.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall CSIP sustainability is considered likely.
Sustainability of the HIVUI (cotton marketing) component is likely. From the point of view of having
changed the institutions governing the grading of cotton the HVI has made substantial impact and the
institution (SIFAT) which runs the cotton grading service clearly understands and seeks to broaden the
impact of the use of HVI grading of individual bales (as opposed to hand classing of lots, i.e. groups of
bales) in the past. In this institutional sense, the sustainability of HVI component is very likely. However,
given the delicate nature of the equipment and the need to retain qualified personnel who operate the
equipment correctly, in a manner that ensures the accuracy of the measurements, there are risks that the
HVI laboratories' performance may degrade over time, if adequate attention is not given to maintenance and
quality of service. For this reason, the rating of highly likely on the institutional aspects of HVI must be
downgraded to only likely for the component as a whole.
Sustainability of the Seed Enterprises component is likely. These enterprises are operating profitably,
possess modest debt burdens, and demonstrate performance that meets the scale of operations set out in
their business plans, when the volumes in custom cleaning done are factored in. Though enterprises which
have cotton ginning capacity tend to be more profitable than those whose profile is limited to seed cleaning,
most of the enterprises without ginning capacity recognize this and are seeking infusions to their equity
funds from their foreign partners. Thus, this sub-group will also reach levels of profitability in the next
two years exceeding 20%. (See Sections 4.3 and 4.4 for a more in-depth coverage of this topic.) The
sustainability rating of this component would be highly likely were it not for the fact that these enterprises
must every year go through strenuous bureaucratic battles in order to be granted in practice the marketing
and export rights they were granted under the CSIP policy conditionalities.
Sustainability of the lrrigation component, as implemented, is likely, though as noted elsewhere the
impact was small. The work of the Irrigation Development Units in five locations is now being built upon
through the Rural Enterprise Support Project, which has a relatively large (c. $15 million) component for
rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage infrastructure in the same five districts. The techniques piloted and
the operational manuals developed are being used by all the Water User Groups (WUGs) formed in the five
RESP tumans, and piloting of WUGs by the Irrigation component has now begun to expand nationwide.
Sustainability of the 11PM component is unlikely. Although a number of useful prototypes were
developed for use in IPM with beneficial insects, a corporatization and business development plan
realistically capable of being implemented was never developed. The wider application of the results of the
-12 -



component in the substantial area in Uzbekistan where IPM with beneficial insects is practiced is,
therefore, not at all guaranteed.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The HVI component and the Seed Enterprise component have already entered into regular operations.
Some of the enterprises under the Seed Enterprise component will continue to expand their output levels
over the next two years and most of those which do not have cotton ginning capacity are expected to
acquire such also over the next two years.
The Irrigation component's activities are widening out to a national level as bankrupt agricultural
enterprises in many regions are being liquidated and split up into private farms (of about 20 hectares each).
One of the first activities which these private farmers engage in is the formation of WUGs through which to
perform the water distribution functions previously executed by the agricultural enterprises themselves. It is
not cleat how the project's IPM activities will actually enter into regular operations, given the lack of a
suitable business development plan (as cited above).
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lkndtng.
Lending overall is rated satisfactory. During project preparation, the Bank placed correct emphasis on the
Marketing and Seed Enterprise components, in terms of recognition of their primary importance, depth of
analysis, and relative shares in project size. The innovativeness of the project investments in irrigation and
IPM could, however, have been greater. The team could have built more on the foundations thereof at the
time, rather than focusing on scaling up what were basically existing Government programs. Still, the SAR
was sufficiently detailed for the main components, and set out institutional approaches that were indeed
later successfully followed during project implementation. One shortcoming that is clear in retrospect is the
excessive optimism regarding the rate of agricultural sector reform and liberalization nationwide of the
cotton sector, but this was likely a result of the Bank's ambitious policy reform efforts at the time under the
Rehabilitation Loan (which was not subsequently implemented successfully).
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision quickly identified problems in implementation throughout each stage of the project and
worked closely with the Cotton Agency and the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources to devise
solutions to the various problems that arose. In the first half of the project implementation, the supervision
effort focused on technical issues in the seed certification, irrigation, and IPM activities and fielded highly
qualified experts that devised solutions that were subsequently implemented in most cases. For the IPM
component, the Bank arranged a $ 1.0 million trust fund which was drawn on to hire a project
implementation assistance team of 1PM specialists (through NRI International) that managed to help
salvage the component when it was under threat of cancellation. When managerial expertise and equity
capital was lacking under the Seed Enterprise component, the Bank also assisted the Cotton Agency to find
foreign joint-venture investors who later proved instrumental in making the component able to achieve its
goals. When serious issues arose under the turnkey contract for the HVI component, the Bank team acted
as a honest broker to help resolve the many differences of interpretation of the contract's requirements when
faced with unforeseen circumstances. Allegations of fraudulent behavior in procurement, including by a
Bank national staff member, were also surfaced by a supervision mission, raised to the precursor of the
Bank's fraud and investigations unit and investigated in detail, leading to dismissal of the staff member, and
the closing of an international ring.
Lastly, the Bank supervision team tirelessly sought to see that the marketing and export rights of the seed
-13 -



enterprises as set out by the Government resolution governing the project's implementation were honored.
This was necessary right through to the last year of the project implementation period. Bank management
(both in headquarters and though the local office) consistently supported the supervision team and made
sure that outstanding project issues were raised at the appropriate level in the Government so that their
resolution was assured. When this was not possible, Bank management took resolute action to cancel
andlor restructure project components. Accordingly, Bank supervision performance is rated satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank perfor mance:
Considering that the Bank's strong preparation effort focused on key problems in the agricultural sector and
devised an appropriate mix of components to address these problems, and given the pro-active, resolute,
and satisfactory supervision effort, overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.
Borrover
7 4 Preparation:
Borrower performance in preparation is considered satisfactory. During project preparation, the MAWR
and other cotton sector institutions provided the Bank with sufficient input and cooperation so as to
facilitate the production of a well-documented and sufficiently detailed SAR. Cost estimates made on the
basis of the materials provided by the Borrower proved to be largely accurate, and the organizational
principles for the HVI component were reasonable and ultimately successful.
7 5 Government implementation performance:
Many difficulties and delays in resolution of problems during implementation were owing to the lack of
ability on the part of the MAWR and the Ministry of Macroeconomics and Statistics (MMS) to ensure
resolute Government action in line with the CSIP SAR and the Cabinet of Ministers Resolution 421
(October 1995) which laid out the policy and organizational principles of the project. The main problems
generated by the MAWR related to the Seed Certification sub-component (which was later cancelled as a
result of the failure to set up an autonomous seed certification agency) and to the Seed Enterprise
component. The latter problem was manifest by the inability of the MAWR to guarantee that seed
enterprises participating in the CSIP could receive in practice the marketing and export rights as set in
Resolution 421. This was also the responsibility of the MMS, as it consistently wrote the CSIP
participating enterprises' cotton fiber output into the state's centralized export balance (thereby preventing
free export until these enterprises' output was removed from the balance after strenuous protests by the
enterprises and the Bank). This impaired the enterprises' cashflows and slowed the pace of their
implementation activities. Other delays in execution of contracts (in this case relating to the contracts for
public sector components) were the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations, which
required excessively long review and approval periods before import contracts could be registered and
initiated. All these factors negatively impacted project implementation and are therefore the basis for rating
Government implementation performance unsatisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency-
The performance of the Cotton Agency which handled project implementation through the full life of the
CSIP is rated satisfactory. During the period of implementation assistance (through SOFRECO) the Cotton
Agency acquired the necessary skills in procurement and financial management to competently run the
project management activities thereafter, despite some problems in staff retention. The Cotton Agency was
consistently able to, jointly with the Bank, facilitate resolution of most problems during implementation,
though this took extended efforts at times. To its credit, the Cotton Agency never ceased reminding project
participants of their obligations under the CSIP nor did it ever relent in pressuring regulatory bodies and
other institutions involved in the CSIP to fulfill the obligations as laid out in Resolution 421. Owing to the
highly persuasive diplomatic interventions of the Cotton Agency, SIFAT and the HVI turn-key supplier
- 14 -



were able to consistently find common ground and successfully complete the HVI contract.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Due to a reasonably strong preparation effort and dedicated effort by the Cotton Agency in implementation,
the Borrower's overall performance is rated satisfactory, despite unsatisfactory Government
implementation performance as mentioned in section 7.5 above.
8. Lessons Learned
Focus on the design of institutional changes.
An improvement in intemational price received for Uzbek cotton did not translate into better farm gate
prices nor did it lead to sector liberalization. Critical aspects of agricultural policy such as introduction of
competition into the ginning industry, farm credit and input supply were not defined. Potential drivers of
sector liberalization such as farm restructuring and land reform were omitted from sector liberalization
scenarios. Design of institutional changes focused on rapid liberalization of marketing of agricultural
products and cancellation of farm subsidies only, when a more comprehensive but yet gradual approach
would have been more realistic and appropriate.
Financial profitability versus economic profitability.
When farm participation is essential to the success of the project, greater attention should be given to the
identification of farms' potential to adopt advanced farmiing technologies that are promoted by the project.
Apart from standard crop budgets analyses, it is important to conduct the analyses of the financial situation
and farm management practices of the farms. While economic analyses provides the magnitude of the
social benefits, financial performance of farms is usually a better indicator of the likely demand for
project's innovations. At the time of appraisal of the project, the majority of the farms in the.country were
already using main off-farm agricultural inputs inefficiently and were heavily indebted for. several years. As
a result, without restructuring, most of the farms would have contributed little to the effective demand for
better quality and more expensive planting seed supplied outside of the state-administered system, with the
latter delivering seed irrespective of the financial situation of farming entities.
The project envisaged that better and more expensive seed would dramatically reduce planting rates, but
failed to see the fact that the appropriate planting equipment was not present in the country.
Number of implementing agencies.
The project design should have minimized the number of project executing agencies to maintain the
integrity of financial control and direct responsibility of the project implementing agency over execution of
the agreed program.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Three months prior to the Loan closing date, the key personnel of the project implementation agency
attended tailor-made WBI courses on monitoring and evaluation in the Bank's headquarters. Shortly, upon
completion of the courses, the PIU jointly with the Bank's task team jointly elaborated a TOR for
quantification of the project outcomes and their impact on the cotton sub-sector in the republic.
The Bank hired an independent consultant to undertake this study and the final report of this study was
distributed among the major project stakeholders including Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources,
Ministry of Macroeconomics and Statistics, Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations, the Ministry of
Finance, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Office of the President The ICR mission attended a round table
with the representatives from the above mentioned entities, all of whom have been closely involved in the
- 15-



day-to-day project implementation matters. The feedback from some organizations was sought during the
additional meetings. The main conclusions of the discussions area summarized below.
Office of the President
Despite the difficulties in the early years of the project, the project's final results could be considered as
very good. The project allowed for objective measurement of cotton fiber quality which led to improvement
in marketing. In effect, after introduction of bale-by-bale certification there were no more claims from
cotton traders over cotton quality. The project also encouraged improved ginning practices and faimess in
the domestic pricing of raw cotton and cotton fiber. Cotton varieties with better fiber characteristics were
promoted, while those with inferior fiber properties as measured by intemational price discounts were taken
out of production.
Starting with 2002 crop, the crop will be priced according to world market prices. The Government intends
to ensure the cotton growing is not less attractive for farms than wheat cultivation.
Cabinet of Ministers
The project design could have benefited from greater focus and specialization. In the opinion of the
representative, shared unanimously by other participants, two smaller project components (Irrigation and
Integrated Pest Management) slowed overall project progress and made only a marginal contribution to the
overall project benefits.
Another comment was about the joint responsibility of the project implementing agencies. It was felt that
shared resporisibility led to complacency on the part of the organizations entrusted with the implementation
of the project. Therefore, in the future, project implementation should be centralized even at the expense of
the larger implementation agency.
Ministry of Macroeconomics and Statistics
The representative of the Ministry expressed its hope that the results of the irrigation demonstration units
would be useful in their replications in several regions seeing accelerated farm restructuring and having
started imtiatives on low cost water saving technologies.
Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations
In the beginning of the project, the Ministry representative had his doubts about whether bale-by-bale
certification was feasible, as many partner traders were expressing their concems about whether universal
HVI evaluation wasn't too early for Uzbekistan. Apparently it worked, and as immediate consequence,
switching to bale-by-bale certification helped to stop the occurrence of quality disputes by traders, which
before were common and costly to handle.
As the Ministry gained more experience in cotton trading, it facilitated introduction of the distinct trade
name of "Uzbek middling" on Liverpool Cotton Exchange as a base quality of fiber of Uzbek origin. Uzbek
cotton is now an established concept in international cotton trading and its samples are registered with all
international cotton exchanges. Introduction of bale-by-bale certification allowed for a receipt of the price
premium for Uzbek cotton fiber when compared to the indicator of the average price - Cotlook "A" Index.
HVI readings for every bale have considerably cut down the number of irregularities in the quantity and
quality reporting by each of 126 ginneries in the country, ensuring more accurate monitoring over the
ginning process.
Ministry of Finance
Representative of the Ministry of Finance, to the contrary of the report's findings, raised doubts over the
- 16 -



economic effectiveness of some project components by questioning the absence of their cost-recovery
record. The representative felt that project components should have been more focused in terms of
obtaining more tangible or financial benefits to ensure cost recovery of the loan funds, as this would have
been a better indicator of economic efficiency.
Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (MAWR)
The representative of the Ministry agreed with the overall satisfactory outcome of the project. The focus on
cotton fiber certification component was "spot-on". On the sector liberalization, the Ministry thought that
project scenarios contradicted country's gradualist approach to reform. Moreover, the reforms envisaged to
accompany the project, were projected to take place too soon.
It was true that some of the reforms were only partially implemented at the outset of the project, however,
the fact that most of those reforms were always on the agenda of the Government, with some of them
having taken place already, shows that the scope of the reforms was well conceived, although their timing
was clearly unrealistic. The representative felt, that the reforms should have been elaborated in greater
detail and should have been more practical.
The Ministry was under the impression that the World Bank had followed a bureaucratic approach, in
particular when dealing with seed certification component, which resulted in regional seed certification
agencies being left unequipped.
On the Integrated Pest Management, the Ministry was of the opinion, that the World Bank should not have
supported "scientific achievements" in the area, which were going on reasonable well already and should
have focused more on new technologies.
SIFAT (Center for Certification of the Cotton Fiber)
SIFAT noted that the international consultants were not effective, given their limited knowledge of local
practices and norms in civil engineering and constructions. The bidding documents and contract was
written by intemational consultants without proper acknowledgement of those. At the same time, the
necessary experience in planning and managing the works under international contracts was lacking. Both
reasons led the PIU and SIFAT rely almost exclusively on the intemational consultants and the Bank in
addressing such disagreements. SIFAT expected the Bank to provide with more effective feed-back on the
recommendations of the international consultants for resolution of the disputes with the contractor at the
early years of contract implementation. SIFAT felt that the Bank's could do more than its semi-annual
reviews of contract implementation during scheduled supervision missions, when prompt reviews of
quarterly progress reports were desired. Numerous day-to-day contract matters had to endure bureaucratic
processes when sent for a review directly to Washington. The Bank's local office was not involved in
implementation of the contract, and hence no support was extended from the ground. Furthermore, SIFAT
was of the opinion that the general contractor was not completely up to the task having no experience in
construction and operation of cotton grading laboratories. When ranking these difficulties by the degree of
their importance, SWFAT thought that lack of experience at the early stages of contract implementation
were responsible for about two-thirds of the experienced delay followed by equally ranked poor
performance of the contractor, inadequate support from the intemational consultants and the Bank's
bureaucracy.
After the draft ICR was distributed to the Government for comments, the Bank has received a letter from
the Project Implementation Agency on January 18th, 2003 with the suggested action plan for each of the
project components after the project. No other comments have been received on the draft ICR
- 17 -



(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
11O. AdditionaRl lnormation
-18-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                ActuallLatest Estimate
1 Pnvate sector participation in ginning and Achieved                      By 2000, the Central Asia Seed Corporation
export of cotton by year 2000                                              (CASC) was, as a project paricipant,
exporting about 7,000 tons of cotton fiber, a
level which has since been roughly
maintained. In 2002, two other CSIP
parbcipabng enterpnses have also exported
cotton fiber (roughly 7,000 tons together)
2 Cotton grading agency (SIFAT)       Achieved by the Central Laboratory in 2000  All 14 laboratones were operabonal by late
operabonal by year 2000                                                    2001, in time for classing of the 2001 cotton
crop.
3, Three pnvate seed companies established Formabon of six pnvate seed enterpnses  Achieved, with 5 joint-venture enterpnses and
by year 2000 This indicator may actually be                                one wholly foreign-owned.
achieved with two seed private companies
already formed and funded and a third
presently (June 1999) in process
4 Establishing six Irrigaton Demonstrabon  Achieved in 2000                 Five of these IDUs are still operational in the
Units by year 2000                                                         distncts covered by the Rural Enterpnse
Support Prolect
5 Appropnate technology developed and  Achievement of this indicator was partial in  The IPM actvities became fully operabonal in
demonstrated for integration of biological and 2000.                        2001
chemical means of pest control by year 2000
Output Indicators:
IndlcatorlMatrix                    Projected In last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
I
End of project
-19 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
-    ~           Component                     US$ million   US$ million
COTrON MARKETING (HVI)                             21.20          26.18           123
SEED ENTERPRISES                                   31.00          25.93          0.84
SEED QUALITY CONTROL                                3.66           1.09           0.3
INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT                          3.78           1.42          0.38
IRRIGATION                                          2.64           0.48          0.18
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT                         1.93           2.06           1.07
PROGRAM DESIGN                                      1.91           0.00             0
EMERGENCY DROUGHT ASSISTANCE*                                      6.85
PPF                                                                0.49
Total Baseline Cost                                66.12          64.50
Total Project Costs            66.12          64.50
Total Financing Required            66.12          64.50
* New component
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement lSlehod'
- Expenditure Category      ICB         2CB   e       thod        IN.B.F.    Total Cost
14CB        Other
1. Works                     0.00         4.00         0.00         0.00        4.00
(0.00)       (3.20)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (3.20)
2. Goods                    15.80         0.00         11.30        0.00        27.10
(12.60)      (0.00)        (9.10)       (0.00)      (21.70)
3. Services                 14.50         0.00         24.20        0.00        38.70
Line of Credit             (12.50)       (0.00)       (18.50)      (0.00)       (31.00)
4. Training                  0.00         0.00         1.20         0.00         1.20
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.20)       (0.00)       (1.20)
5. Technical Assistance      0.00         0.00         6.70         0.00         6.70
and Program Design          (0.00)       (0.00)       (6.70)        (0.00)      (6.70)
6. Recurrent Costs           0.00         0.00         6.30         0.00         6.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.60)        (0.00)      (1.60)
Total                     30.30        4.00         49.70         0.00        84.00
f   (25.10)       (3.20)      (37.10)       (0.00)      (65.40)
Excludes refund of the Project Preparation Facility of US$0.6 million
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Pethod
Expenditure Category     ICB          N           other2 2.B.F.           Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.70        0.00         0.70
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.70)       (0.00)      (0.70)
2. Goods                    23.70         0.00         4.90         0.00       28.60
- 20 -



(23.70)        (0.00)        (3.90)        (0.00)       (27.60)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00          24.10         0.00          24.10
Line of Credit                 (0.00)         (0.00)       (24.10)        (0.00)       (24.10)
4. Training                     0.00          0.00          0.50          0.00          0.50
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.40)        (0.00)        (0.40)
5. Technical Assistance         0.00          0.00          3.10          0.00          3.10
and Program Design             (0.00)         (0.00)       (2.90)        (0.00)        (2.90)
6. Recurrent Costs              0.00          0.00          2.30          0.00          2.30
________________________  (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.30)        (0.00)        (0.30)
Total                        23.70          0.00         35.60          0.00         59.30
(23.70)        (0.00)        (32.30)       (0.00)       (56.00)
Excludes refund of the Project Preperation Facility (US$0.5 mln. (US$0.5 mln) "Other") and new category
"Emergency Goods" introduced after amendment of the Loan dated April 11, 2002 - US$5.9 mln. (US$5.9
mln) - "ICB" and US$0.8 mln (US$0.8 mln) under "Other".
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
v Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
-21 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
SUMMARY ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSES OF CSIP ENTERPRISE AND NON-ENTERPRISE COMPONENTS
ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
(Thousand US$)
ENTERPRISE ANALYSES                           1998/99  1999/00  2000/01  2001/02  2002/03  2003/04 2004/05  2005/06 2006/07  2007/08
OLTIN CHIGIT                                  ($1,050) ($1,388)  $197      $406    $577     $664    $664     $664    $664    $664
ERR   180%
CENTRAL ASIA SEED COMPANY                     ($6,200) ($3,192)  $2,675  $1,058   $2,855  $2,855  $2,855   $2,855  $2,855   $2,855
ERR   218%
MIRISHKOR                                         $0       $0  ($1,765)  ($1,631)  $916   $1,267  $1,267   $1,267  $1,267   $1,267
ERR   28 4%
HAQIPET                                           $0       $0  ($1,685)  ($1,638)  $328     $546    $546     $546    $546    $546
ERR    92%
BUKHARA SEED CORPORATION                          $0       $0  ($3,050)  ($2,366)  $2,476  $2,588  $2,588  $2,588  $2,588   $2,588
ERR   37 8%
YAIPAN                                            $0       $0      $0   ($3,850)   $464     $727    $727     $727    $727    $727
ERR   13 3%
SCALED ENTERPRISE ANALYSES
GINNING AND SEED ENTERPRISES          26 3%    (6,200)  (3,192)  (2,140)  (2,939)  6,248   6,710   6,710    6,710   6,710    6,710
SEED ENTERPRISES                      13 9%    (1,050)  (1,388)  (1,488)  (5.082)  1,368   1,937    1,937   1,937    1,937   1,937
TOTAL OF ABOVE - ERR                  230%     (7,250)  (4,580)  (3,628)  (8,021)  7,615   8,647    8,647   8,647   8,647    8,647
NON-ENTERPRISE COSTS AND
BENEFITS
HVI                                   64 7%    (2,408)     51   (3,344)   3,287    8,745    8,745   8,745   8,745    8,745   8,745
SEED CERTIFICATION                       NA    (1,197)
lPM                                      NA    (1.683)
IRRIGATION SCHEDULING                    NA     (650)
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                       NA    (2,046)
GRAND TOTAL                           28 3%   (15,234)  (4,529)  (6,972)  (4,734)  16,361  17,393  17,393  17,393   17,393  17,393
FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURN
OLTIN CHIGIT                           7.9%
CENTRAL ASIA SEED CORP                 81%
MIRISHKOR                             13 7%
HAQIPET                                2 5%
BUKHARA SEED CORPORATION              17 9%
YAIPAN                                 21%
GINNING AND SEED ENTERPRISES          11 4%
SEED ENTERPRISES                       4 4%
TOTAL OF ABOVE - FRR                   94%
GRAND TOTAL                           181%
- 22 -



Crop season                  1997/98    1998/99    1999/00   2000/01   2001/02   2002/03   2034      2045      2056      2067       2018
CotUook A Index (centsflb)    S0 72      S05         0 3      $   7 S942          $05      20030     ZOu/u $0Su 59IU $0.9   0 5         5
Uzbek Midling (cents/tb)      $0 71      $0 58      $0 53     $0 58     $0 43     $0 60     $0 60     $0 60     $0 60      $0 60     $0 60
Difference - ($/ton)         (S32 62)  ($24 24)    ($0 22)   $13.22    $22.04    $22.99    $22.99    $22.99    $22.99     $22 99    $22 99
Cumulative Difference ($/ton)            $8 38     $32 40    $45 84    $54 66    $54 66    $54 66    $54 66    $54 66     $54 66    $54 66
Volume of Exports (thousand               909       1019       778       780       800       800       800       800        800       800
tons)
Cumulative Difference                    $7 61     $33 00    $35 68    $42 63    $43 73    $43 73    $43.73     $43 73    $43 73    $43 73
Volume of Exports (thousand
US$)
Share Attnbutable to Bale-by-  20%        $1 5      $6 6       $7 1      $8        $ 8 7     $8 7     $8 75     $8 75      $8 75     $8 75
Bale certification and HVI
Classing (%)
HVI Component Expenditures               $3 93     $6 55     $10 48     $5 24    $0 00      $0 00     $000      $0 00      $0 00     $0 00
(thousand US$)
Net Economic                            ($241)     $005      ($334)    $329      $875       $8.75     $875      $875       $875      $875
Benefits
IRR                              65%f.I
- 23 -



SUMMARY OF THE ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF SEED ENTERPRISES (I OUT OF III)
GINNING AND SEED ENTERPRISES
I CENTRAL ASIA SEED COMP
(Thousand US$)
YEARICROP SEASON                1998/99 19991002000/01 2001102 2002/03 2003/04 2004105 2005062006107 2007108 2008/09 2009/102010/11
INVESTMENTS         (US$) -6,200 -6,200                   0       0      0      0      0      0       0      0     0
PRODUCTION
DELINTED COTTONSEED      (TONS)      0    235   398    696     696    696    696     696   696    696     696    696   696
COTTON FIBER             (TONS)      0  7,936  5.521  5,326  5,326   5,326  5,326  5,326  5,326  5,326  5,326  5,326  5,326
AVERAGE SALES PRICE PER UNIT
DELINTED COTTONSEED       (USS)      0    363   363    363     363    363    363     363   363    363     363    363    363
COTTON FIBER              (USS)      0    913  1,012   718   1,056   1,056  1.056  1,056  1,056  1,056   1,056  1.056  1,056
AVERAGE COST PER UNIT
DELINTED COTTONSEED       (USS)      0    193   193    193     193    193    193     193   193    193     193    193    193
COTTON FIBER              (US$)      0    655   655    655     655    655    655     655   655    655     655    655    655
REVENUE LESS COSTS        (USS) -6,200 -3,192  2,675  1.058  2,855   2,855  2,855  2,855  2,855  2,855  2,855  2,855  2,855
SUB-LOAN INTERREST AND    (USS    465    930    930   1,749  1,683  1,616   1,616  1.616  1,616  1,616  1,616  1,616  1,616
PRINCIPAL REPAYMENT      000)
[RR                        22%
IFRR                        8%
GINNING AND SEED ENTERPRISES
11 IBUKHARA SEED     =ANY
YEAR/CROP SEASON                1998/99 1999/00 2000/01 2001/02 2002/03 2003/04 2004/05 2005/06 2006107 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11
INVESTMENTS         (US$)      0      0  3,050  3,050             0      0       0     0       0      0      0      0
PRODUCTION
DELINTED COTTONSEED      (TONS)      0      0     0   1,531  2,548   4,077  4,077  4,077  4,077  4,077   4,077  4,077  4,077
COTTON FIBER             (TONS)      0      0     0   5,024  5,144   5,247  5,247  5,247  5,247  5,247   5.247  5,247  5,247
AVERAGE SALES PRICE PER UNIT
PROCESSED COTTONSEED      (USS)      0      0     0    260     260     260    260    260   260     260    260    260    260
COTTON FIBER              (USS)      0      0      0    718  1,056   1,056  1,056   1,056  1,056  1,056  1,056  1,056  1.056
AVERAGE COST PER UNIT
DELINTED COTTONSEED       (USS)      0      0     0    214     214    214    214     214   214     214    214    214    214
COTTON FIBER              (USS)      0      0      0    655    655     655    655    655    655    6S5    655    655    655
REVENUE LESS COSTS      (USS)      0     0 -3,050  -2,366  2,476   2,588  2.588  2,588  2,588  2.S88  2.588   2,588  2,588
SUB-LOAN INTERREST AND    (US$       0     0    229    458    458     643    861    861    861    861     861    861    861
PRINCIPAL REPAYMENT      000)
IIRR                       38% I|
IIFRR                      18% IL
- 24 -



SUMMARY OF THE ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF SEED ENTERPRISES (11 OUT OF III)
GINNING AND SEED ENTERPRISES
III IMIRISHKOR
YEAR/CROP SEASON                19981991999/002000/01 2001/02 2002103 2003/04 2004/05 2005/06 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11
INVESTMENTS         (USS)      0      0  1,765  1,765             0      0      0      0      0       0      0     0
PRODUCTION
DELINTED COTTONSEED      (TONS)      0      0     0    294     600   3,000  3,000  3,000  3.000  3,000   3,000  3,000  3,000
CUSTOM CLEANING OF WHE,(TONS)        0      10    0      0   5.000   5,000  5,000  5.000  5,000  5,000   5,000  5,000  5.000
COTTON FIBER             (TONS)      0      0     0   1,835  1,800   1,890  1,890  1.890  1,890  1,890   1,890  1,890  1,890
AVERAGE SALES PRICE PER UNIT
DELINTED COTTONSEED       (US$)      0      0     0     350    350    350    350     350   350     350    350    350    350
CUSTOM CLEANING OF WHEi (USS)        0      0      0     0      35     35     35      35    35      35     35     35     35
COTTON FIBER              (USS)      0      0      0      0  1,056   1,056  1,056  1,056  1,056  1,056   1,056  1,056  1,056
AVERAGE COST PER UNIT
DELINTED COTTONSEED       (US$)      0      0      0    205    205    205    205     205   205     205    205    205    205
CUSTOM CLEANING OF WHE, (US$)        0      0      0      0      5      5      5       5     5       5      5      5      5
COTTON FIBER              (USS)      0      0      0     0     733    733    733     733   733     733    733    733    733
REVENUE LESS COSTS      (USS)      0      0 -1,765  -1,631  916    1,267  1,267  1,267  1.267  1,267   1,267  1,267  1,267
SUB-LOAN INTERREST AND    (USS      0      0    132    265    265     372    498    498    498    498     498    498   498
PRINCIPAL REPAYMENT      000)
IRR                        28%
IFRR                       14%
SEED ENTERPRISES
IV JOLTIN CHIGIT
YEAR/CROP SEASON                1998/991999/002000/01 2001/02 2002/03 2003/04 2004105 20051062006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11
INVESTMENTS        (US$)   1,550  1.550                           0      0       0     0       0      0      0      0
PRODUCTION
DELINTED COTTONSEED      (TONS)      0    800  1,052  2,051  3,000   3,500  3,500  3,500  3,500   3,500  3,500  3,500  3,500
CUSTOM CLEANING OF WHE,(TONS)        0  2,300  1,400  5,000  5.500   5,500  5,500  5,500  5,500  5,500   5,500  5,500  5,500
AVERAGE SALES PRICE PER UNIT
PROCESSED COTTONSEED      (USS)     0    341    341    341    341     341    341    341    341    341     341    341    341
CUSTOM CLEANING OF WHE, (US$)        0     45     45     45     45     45     45      45     45     45     45     45     45
AVERAGE COST PER UNIT
DELINTED COTTONSEED       (US$)      0    150    150    150    1S0     150    150    150    150    150     150    150   150
CUSTOM CLEANING OF WHiE, (US$)       0     34     34     34     34      34     34     34     34     34     34      34    34
REVENUE LESS COSTS     (US$) -1,050 -1,388    197    406     577    664    664     664   664     664    664    664    664
SUB-LOAN INTERREST AND    (US$     79    195    195    264    328     317    317     317   317     317    317    317    317
PRINCIPAL REPAYMENT      000)
|IRR                       18% I
IFRR                        8%  I
- 25 -



SUMMARY OF THE ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF SEED ENTERPRISES (III OUT OF DlI)
SEED ENTERPRISES
V hRQfiPET
YEAR/CROP SEASON                1998/991999/002000/01 2001/02 2002/03 2003/04 2004/05 20051062006/07 2007/08 2008/09 20091102010/11
INVESTMENTS         (US$)      0      0  1,685  1,685             0      0      0      0      0       0     0      0
PRODUCTION
DELINTED COTTONSEED      (TONS)      0      0     0     56   1,602   3,205  3.205  3,205  3,205  3.205  3,205  3,205  3,205
CUSTOM CLEANING OF WHE,(TONS)        0      0     0   1,800  5,000   5.000  5,000  5,000  5,000  5,000  5.000  5.000  5,000
AVERAGE SALES PRICE PER UNIT
DELINTED COTTONSEED       (US$)      0      0     0    450    450     450    450    450    450    450     450    450   450
CUSTOM CLEANING OFWHE/ (US$)         0      0     0     60     60      60     60     60     60     60      60     60    60
AVERAGE COST PER UNIT
DELINTED COTTONSEED       (US$)      0      0     0    300    300     300    300     300   300    300     300    300    300
CUSTOM CLEANING OF WHE, (US$)        0      0     0     36     36      36     36      36    36     36      36     36     36
REVENUE LESS COSTS      (US$)      0     0 -1,685  -1,638   328     546    546    546    546    546    546    546    546
SUB-LOAN INTERREST AND    (US$      0      0    126    253    253     475    475    475    475    475    475    475    475
PRINCIPAL REPAYMENT      000)
IRR 9
FRR                         3%,|
SEED ENTERPRISES
VI RYAIPAN                  I
YEAR/CROP SEASON                1998/991999/002000/01 2001/02 2002/03 2003/04 2004/05 2005/062006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11
INVESTMENTS         (US$)      0      0     0   3,850     0       0      0       0     0       0      0      0      0
PRODUCTION
DELINTED COTTONSEED      (TONS)      0      0     0      0   3,000   5,000  5.000  5,000  5,000  5,000   5,000  5,000  5,000
CUSTOM CLEANING OF WHE,(TONS)        0      0     0      0   4.000   5,000  5,000  5,000  5,000  5,000   5,000  5,000  5,000
AVERAGE SALES PRICE PER UNIT
PROCESSED COTTONSEED      (US$)     0      0      0      0    350     350    350    350    350    350     350    350   350
CUSTOM CLEANING OF WHEi (US$)        0      0     0      0     75      75      75     75     75     75     75     75     75
AVERAGE COST PER UNIT
DELINTED COTTONSEED       (US$)      0      0     0      0     220    220    220     220    220    220    220    220    220
CUSTOM CLEANING OF WHE, (US$)        0      0     0      0      45     45     45      45    45      45     45     45     45
REVENUE LESS COSTS      (US$)      0      0     0  -3,850   464     727    727     727   727    727     727    727    727
SUB-LOAN INTERREST AND    (US$       0     0      0    289    289     248    798    758    720    684     650    617    586
PRINCIPAL REPAYMENT      000)
|IIRR                 - -13%- -
[FRR                    _  2% 2I
- 26 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty       Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year   Count         Specialty                   Progress    Objective
Identification/Preparation
09/15/1993                2   TEAM LEADER (1), AG.
ECONOMIST (1)
Appraisal/Negotiation
01/20/1995                2   TEAM LEADER (1), AG
ECONOMIST (I)
Supervision
03/01/1996                3   TM (1), FIN. CONTROL (1);       S           U
IPM (1)
05/27/1996                2   TASK MANAGER (1);               S           U
FINANCIAL CONTROL (1)
11/04/1996                2   TASK MANAGER (1),              S            S
FINANCIAL CONTORL (1)
07/09/1997                2   TASK MANAGER (1), FIN           S           S
CONTROL (1)
11/08/1997                3   TEAM LEADER (1),               S            S
MONITORING/EVALUATION
(1), PROCUREMENT (1)
03/12/1998                3   TEAM LEADER (1),                U           U
FINANCIAL CONTROL (1),
PROCUREMENT (1)
11/10/1998                4   SR. AGRIC. ECONOMIST (1);      U            U
TEAM MEMBER (2),
ECONOMIST (I)
06/18/1999                5   MISSION LDR, AG ECONOM          U           U
(1), PTL, AG ECONOMIST (1),
SECTOR LDR, QUAL ASSUR
(1), OPERATIONS OFFICER
(1), PROCUREMENT
SPECIALIST (1)
12/22/1999                4   PTL-SR AG ECONOMIST (1),        U           S
DEPUTY TTL (ECONOMIST)
(1), CONSULTANT
(ENGINEER) (1); OP. OFFICER
(ECONOMIST (1)
06/17/2000                4   TTL, SR. AG ECONOMIST (1),      U            S
OP.OFF. - HVI & IPM (1);
OP.OFF. - PRIV ENTS (1),
CONS. - WUA/PROJ MNGMT
(1)
02/20/2001                4   TTL, SR. AG ECONOMIST (1),      S           S
AG OPERATIONS OFF. (I);
PROJECT IMPL. SPECLST (1),
IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1)
- 27 -



09/17/2001                 4   SR AG ECONOMIST (1);             S            S
OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
PROCUREMENT ANALYST
(1); PROCUREMENT OFFICER
(1)
03/01/2002                 5   SR. AG. ECON., TTL (1);          S            s
OPERATIONS OFFICER (1),
PROCUREMENT ANALYST
(1), COTTON SECTOR SPEC
(I); PROCUREMENT OFFICER
(1)
ICR
4    SR AG ECON., TTL (1);           S            S
OPERATIONS OFFICER
(1); PROCUREMENT
ANALYST (1); COTTON
SECTOR SPEC. (1)
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks            US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation             152                    609,492
Appraisal/Negotiation                   51                    204,251
Supervision                            189                    947,334
ICR                                     14                     48,000
Total                                  406                  1,809,077
-28 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H-High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                       OH   O SU * M   O N   O NA
O Sector Policies                      O H  O SU * M   O N   O NA
O Physical                             O H * SU O M    O N   O NA
O Financial                            O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
O Institutional Developmerit           0 H 0 SU * M    0 N   0 NA
O Environmental                        OH   OSUOM      ON    O NA
Social
L Poverty Reduction              O H OSUOM       O N   * NA
O Gender                         OH   OSUOM      ON    * NA
O Other (Please specify)         OH   OSUOM      O N   O NA
Ol Private sector development          0 H   * SU O M  0 N   0 NA
El Public sector management            0 H  O SUO M    0 N   0 NA
O Other (Please specify)               0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
- 29 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
O Lending                                          OHS Os OU OHU
O Supervision                                      OHS Os       OU     OHU
O Overall                                          OHS OS       OU     O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
I Preparation                                      OHS OS       O U    O HU
O Government implementation performance            O HS O s     0 U    0 HU
fO Implementation agency performance               O HS O S     O U    0 HU
OI Overall                                         OHS Os       Ou     O HU
-30 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Uzbekistan: Integrated Pest Management Component. Cotton Sub-Sector Improvement Project. Final
Report. Natural Resources International. 2001
2 Cotton Policy Note (Draft). Marc Sadler. February 2003
3. Results of the implementation of the Cotton Sub-Sector Improvement Project. Boris Gorshkov. July
2002
4. Uzbekistan - Cotton Sub-Sector Improvement Project (Loan 3894-UZ) Proposed Amendment to the
Loan Agreement. March 2001.
5. Letter from the PIU on the action plan for each component after project completion. January 2003.
-31 -















iRe,oi No.:        25411
Type:     ICR



