Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13805-UZ
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
COTTON SUB-SECTOR IM4PROVEMENT PROJECT
MAY 2, 1995
Agriculture, Industry and Finance Division
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region



Currency Equivalents
(as of July 1, 1994)
Sum per US$1
July 1994          US$1 =  9 Sum      December 1994      US$1 = 25 Sum
September 1994     US$1 = 15 Sum    March 1995           US$1 = 26 Sum
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AOSCA                    Association of Official Seed Certifying Agencies
CIU                      Component Implementation Unit
GDP                      Gross Domestic Product
GOSKOMPROGNOZSTAT State Committee on Forecasting and Statistics (Planning Agency)
HVI                      High Volume Instrument (Cotton grading equipment)
IPM                      Integrated Pest Management
ISS                      Irrigation Scheduling System
ISTA                     International Seed Testing Association
MFERT                    Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade
MOA                      Ministry of Agriculture
MOF                      Ministry of Finance
MWI                      Ministry of Water and Irrigation
PIU                      Project Implementation Unit
SA                       Special Account
SIFAT                    Enterprise for Standardization and Certification of Cotton
SOE                      Statement Of Expenditures
STF                      Systematic Transformation Facility
UPOV                     International Union for Protection of Plant Varieties
UZAGROINFORM             Uzbekistan Information Division (in MOA)
UZKHLOPKOPROM            Uzbekistan Cotton Ginning Organization
UZNIIZR                  Uzbekistan Institute of Crop Protection
UZOPTBIRZHETORG          Uzbek Association of Wholesale and Commodity Exchange
Traders
Uzbekistan - Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



ii
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
COTTON SUB-SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary.o .Chowdhury.(Consultants.                                                                              iv
ri.    SECTOR  BACKGROUND.1 guidance..                                                      Michael.A. G
A. INTRODUCTION ..................
B. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR.............                                                                       3
C. THE COTTON SLUB-SECTOR..............                                                                       4
II.    BANK LENDING ExPERIENCE AND STRATEGY FOR UZBEKISTAN ......                                                        .    9
A. BANK LENDING ExPERIENCE ..............9
B. BANK STRATEGY IN AGRICULTURE............11
C. RATIONALE FOR BANK PARTICIPATION IN THE PROJECT......13
III.  THE PROJECT.......................14
A. PROJECT RATIONALE ................14
B. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES ...........14
C. PROJECT SUMMARY DESCRIPTION ............14
D. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION ............15
IV.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS...........25
A. PROJECT COSTS..................25
B. FINANCING PLAN .................25
C. SPECIAL AcCOUNT.................27
D. FLOW OF LOAN FUNDS ...............28
E. ON-LENDING TERMS ................29
F. COST RECOVERY .................29
G. PROCUREMENT..................31
H. DISBURSEMENT..................36
I. ACCOUNTING...................37
J. REPORTING ...................37
K. AUDITING....................39
[This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission (October/November 1994) led by Salem Gafsi (Task Manager). The report
was prepared by the core Bank team of Salem Gafsi (EC3AI), Gulnaz Abdukadir and Frank Kenefick (Consultants). Sergei Haritonov
(RMU) and Viren Sirohi (EMTEN). Others who participated in the Bank mission and/or contributed to ths report include Jorge Garcia-
Garcia (EC3AI), Ger-ard Fischer and Farook Chowdhury (Consultants). Elton Thigpen (TECIT and John Hayward (EMTIWU) were peer
reviewers. Claude Bianchi (ECAVP) and Marc Blanc (EC3DR) provided operational guidance. Michael A. Gould and Yukon Huang
are respectively the managing Division Chief and Departrnent Director for this operation.



iii
V.   PROJECT MANAGEMENT, IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION .........     ... 40
A. PROJECT MANAGEMENT ............................ 40
B. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  .......................... 41
C. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE ......................... 44
D. SUPERVISION PLAN ............................... 46
VI.  BENEFITS AND RISKS ..................................... 47
A. PROJECT BENEFITS ............................... 47
B. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ................... 48
C. PROJECT BENEFICIARIES . ........................... 50
D. RISKS ..... 50
E. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT ........................ 50
VII.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION  .......... ..          .............. 52
A. AGREEMENTS  .................................. 52
B. RECOMMENDATION  ............................... 54
TABLES
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS ...................................... 26
Table 4.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN ......................................... 26
Table 4.3: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS ........      ................. 32
Table 4.4: DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE ......................................... 37
ANNEXES
A.   IMPLEMENTATION PLAN AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS .55
B.   PRIVATE SEED INDUSTRY - AGREEMENTS REACHED WITH GOVERNMENT .60
C.   A SAMPLE OF SEED FARMS INTERESTED IN FORMING SEED COMPANIES .64
D. PROJECT COSTING DATA .65
E.   SEED COMPONENT - FINANCIAL TERMS AND ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA .76
F. PROCUREMENT SCHEDULES .79
G.  DISBURSEMENT ACCOUNTS BY FINANCIERS .82
H. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT .91
I.  SUPERVISION PLAN AND SCHEDULE .92
J.    LIST OF DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE .97
MAP IBRD 25454



iv
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
COrrON SUB-SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Republic of Uzbekistan.
Beneficiaries:              Private Seed Companies and associated private seed farms, Ministry of
Agriculture (Institute of Crop Protection: UZNIIZR and Information
Division: UZAGROINFORM), State Enterprise for Cotton Certification
(SIFAT).
Poverty Category:           Not applicable.
Amount:                     US$66.0 million.
Terms:                      20 years, including 5 years of grace at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Commitment Fee:            0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:           The proceeds of the loan will be channeled in two ways: First, funds to
Government agencies involved in the project will be channeled as grants
through the regular budgetary process. Second, funds to private seed
companies and associated private seed farms will be on-lent in US$ by
the Government through a commercial bank on an agency basis. The
sub-loans will have a maximum repayment period of 10 years, including
a three-year grace period. The on-lending interest rate will be equal to
the long term dollar rate (US 10-year Bond rate) in effect at the time of
the sub-loan (the base rate) plus a margin of 3.0 percent.  The
Government will bear the default risk and the cross-currency exchange
risk in the Bank Loan. The sub-borrowers will bear the exchange risk
between the US dollar and the Sum.
Financing Plan:            See paragraph 4.3.
Net Present Value:         The net present value is calculated on 86 percent of project costs and is
estimated at US$110.4 million. ERR = 34 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report:    Report No. 13805-UZ.
Map:                        IBRD 25454.
Project IED Number:         UZ-PA-9122






REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
COTTON SUB-SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. INTRODUCION
1.1          The Government of Uzbekistan has requested World Bank assistance to finance a project
to improve the productivity of the cotton sub-sector. The proposed project will support policy reforms,
finance priority investments and initiate a process of institutional change that will contribute to the
development of a market economy in Uzbekistan. The proposed project will be the first Bank-financed
investment in Uzbekistan and the first for agriculture.
1.2          Since the country's independence, the Government has taken a gradual approach to
reforming the economy to maintain stability and protect the interests of those likely to unduly suffer due
to rapid change. As conditions have permitted, the Government has accelerated the pace of reform. On
January 22, 1994, a Presidential Decree was issued which called for broader reforms, including
acceleration of privatization and enterprise reform, development of the private sector, reduction of the
state orders, and liberalization of foreign exchange controls. These changes aim at stabilizing and
adjusting the economy, eliminating distortions and fostering a market economy. The changes conform
to the policy reforms that the Government and the World Bank discussed in the context of economic and
sector work and in connection with the Rehabilitation Loan.  Agricultural reforms under the
Rehabilitation Loan include:  (i) progressive reduction in state orders for grains and cotton; (ii)
progressive increase in the procurement price of grain and cotton; (iii) phasing out of subsidies on
agricultural inputs; and (iv) streamlining of the export licensing system.
1.3          Reforms under the proposed cotton sub-sector improvement project will complement the
above reforms by supporting implementation and deepening of all the reforms affecting the agricultural
sector in general and those aimed at fostering the growth of a market economy, in particular. More
specifically, reforms agreed by the Government under the project include:
*     liberalizing prices for cotton seed (gin-run and planting seed) at the onset of the
project;
*     bringing the price paid to producers for lint marketed under the state order
system progressively closer to international prices, starting with 50 percent of the
world price for the 1995 crop;
*     phasing out of the state order system for cotton by the 1998 production season;
*     streamlining of the cotton export licensing system, starting with the 1995
production season;
*     creating a private cotton planting seed industry;



2
*     elimination of input subsidies; and
*     shifting from barter-based to cash-based export of cotton lint, as the state order
system is phased out.
1.4          The proposed project supports high priority, selective interventions which have high
potential returns and lay the basis for future, more comprehensive investments:
(a)    Seed Industry. This component will help improve the quality of cotton planting
seed by supporting the establishment of a private cotton seed industry, along with
marketing channels and a reliable system for seed certification and quality
control, and for development of improved varieties;
(b)    Cotton Marketing. This component will introduce a system of grading cotton
which will generate information about the characteristics of Uzbek cotton to give
it a recognizable identity in the international markets, resulting in higher prices
for cotton and, ultimately, higher quality cotton lint for export;
(c)    Integrated Pest Management. This component will help establish the cost-
effectiveness of biological pest control through the development and production
of improved technology for rearing and dispersal of beneficial insects in
conjunction with environmentally safe use of chemicals;
(d)    Irrigation. This component will introduce irrigation scheduling equipment and
practices to help reduce on-farm water consumption and, thus, increase crop
yields and prevent environmental degradation; and
(e)    Project Management and Program Design. This component will help strengthen
and expand the implementation capacity in the agencies executing this project,
and will provide for the preparation of investment programs suitable for future
international financing in support of agricultural development.
1.5          The proposed project is part of a broader World Bank assistance strategy. The Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) Report No. 14019-UZ, dated March 3, 1995, is designed to: (i) support
macroeconomic stabilization and structural and sectoral reforms with focussed analytical inputs and
lending; (ii) strengthen market incentives particularly in the two key sectors of agriculture and energy;
(iii) protect vulnerable groups through the establishment of an effective social safety net and more
efficient targeted service delivery; and (iv) strengthen the Government's institutional capacity. This
strategy combines support for: (i) policy reforms to facilitate the transition to a market economy; and
(ii) specific investment programs to address priority development needs and help maintain and strengthen
the existing production capacity in the country.  Given the agricultural sector's importance in the
economy, the Bank has been closely involved with the Government in identifying an approach for
fundamental structural change in agriculture. To allay concerns about possible adverse effects on
employment and productive capacity during the transition, the Bank agreed with the Government on a
phased program of sectoral interventions, beginning with the establishment of an appropriate incentive
framework followed by investments geared to redress key sectoral constraints. The first two operations
prepared under this strategy are the Rehabilitation Loan and the Cotton Sub-sector Improvement Project.



3
Subsequently, shifting control of land resources and ownership of farm assets to private producers will
be crucial to ensure efficient agricultural production in the medium-term.  The proposed Farm
Restructuring and Development Project, tentatively scheduled for FY97, would support institutional
arrangements and intra-farm organizational arrangements to enhance productivity and sectoral efficiency.
The loan would finance basic infrastructure and inputs, strengthen agricultural services and develop
models for privatization and farm restructuring. The Bank is evaluating the Government's approach to
land reform in the Agricultural Sector Review. This analysis will be deepened in the context of the Farm
Restructuring and Development Project. A number of options for subsequent sectoral investments will
be considered in view of the findings of the Agriculture Sector Review, now under preparation.
Possibilities include, a Sector Investment Loan, and an Export Development Project for fruits and
vegetables and sericulture.
B. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
1.6          Agriculture accounts for over one-third of the country's GDP, generates about three-
quarters of the country's foreign exchange earnings, mainly from cotton, and employs about half of the
labor force. Through a complex pricing system for inputs and outputs, agriculture has been transferring
about 50 percent of the income it generated to the Government and urban sectors. Land and water
resources are limited. Only 10 percent of the land area can be cultivated, and 95 percent of that uses
irrigation. The total cultivated area of about 4.5 million hectares (ha) has been on average used as
follows: 33 percent in cotton, 33 percent in grain crops, 6 percent in fruit orchards, 5 percent in
vegetables, and 23 percent in fodder and other crops.
1.7          Cultivable land is organized around 1,966 collective farms, and 14,250 private farms,
occupying about 3.6 million ha, and 0.9 million ha, respectively. The State owns the land and most farm
assets, sets production targets, determines and allocates inputs for collective and state farms, and sets
input and output prices. Private farmers have a 10-30 year lease contracts on the land allocated to them.
They do not have to meet state orders, and can sell freely what they produce.
1.8          Gross agricultural product increased at 1.6 percent per year between 1976 and 1990 (in
constant 1983 prices).  The growth was primarily attributable to the livestock sub-sector.  Since
independence, agricultural production in Uzbekistan faltered but did not collapse. Gross agricultural
product in 1992 and 1993 was only 6 percent lower than in 1990 and 1991, and preliminary results for
1994 indicate that gross agricultural product remained at the 1993 level.
1.9          Expansion of agriculture between 1960 and 1990 was primarily attributable to an increase
in the cultivated area. Irrigation works made it possible to expand cultivated area from 2.3 million ha
to 4.5 million ha, at an average of 70,000 ha per year. Besides increasing production, the expansion in
area reduced the pressure of population on arable land, and made it possible to keep in the rural sector
the growing population, thus avoiding undue strain on urban infrastructure and keeping at a minimum
the problems associated with rural/urban migration.
1.10         Yields grew little during the expansion period, as the country increasingly specialized in
producing cotton and extended that production to less and less fertile soils. In the absence of any
substantive technological innovations and in an attempt to prevent a decline in yields, the Government
tried to increase soil fertility and combat pests by distributing large quantities of fertilizers and pesticides
to collective and state farms. It also concentrated on developing new cotton varieties of the expense of
other crops. This strategy appeared to succeed in the early years of the expansion. As irrigated area



4
continued to expand, however, and as the use of chemicals intensified, the quality of soil and water in
the country began to decline. The strategy led to the reverse of its intended impact; it became clear that
the selected strategy could not be sustained. As the Government became aware of the extent of the land
and water contamination, and as the country's dependency on imported food grew, the Government
started to decrease the area planted in cotton from a peak of about 2 million ha in the mid-1980s to about
1.5 million ha in 1994. Government's current intention is to stabilize the area under cotton at about 1.2
million ha.
1.11         Crop yields are lower than in other countries with similar climatic and technological
conditions. For example, Uzbek yields have averaged 2.7 tons per ha for seed cotton, 3.2 tons per ha
for paddy rice, 8.8 tons per ha for potatoes. 4 tons per ha for maize, and 5.4 tons per ha for grapes.
These yields are respectively about 25, 70, 35, and 50 percent lower than in other countries that produce
these products under similar conditions. These relatively low yields contrast with the excessive amounts
of chemicals fertilizer and water used. Farms used on average about 220 kg. of fertilizer per ha in the
early 1990s, a high rate of usage when compared with most cotton-growing countries, which apply
between 120 and 150 kg. per ha under irrigation. Water consumption reached about 13,000 cubic meters
per ha, almost double the 7,000 cubic meters per ha used in other cotton-growing countries. Pesticide
consumption, on the other hand, has fallen sharply; the expansion of biological methods of pest control
and, more recently, the lack of foreign exchange to import pesticides, have reduced pesticide use from
its peak of over 10 kg/ha in the mid-1980s. a lot higher than other countries, to less than 1 kg/ha in
1994, much lower than in other cotton-producing countries.
C. THE COTrON SUB-SECTOR
1.12         Cotton has been the most important commodity in the Uzbekistan agricultural economy.
It has accounted for about 40 percent of the gross value of agricultural products and has been the main
source of income, employment and foreign exchange. The cotton sub-sector has also generated about 80
percent of the Government tax revenue.
1.13         During the 1980s, cotton production averaged about 5 million tons, and the area planted
averaged about 2 million ha. Low lint yields and low quality of lint were typical. Although the varieties
planted have had the potential to generate higher yields and better quality, that had been prevented by
technical, economic and institutional factors which discouraged efficient farming and ginning practices
and lowered yields and quality. Lint yields ranged around 850 - 900 kg/ha compared to 1,500 kg/ha in
Australia, 900 - 1,100 kg/ha in China, and 1,100 - 1,500 kg/ha in the U.S. Ginning out-turn fluctuated
around 32 percent, compared to 33 to 40 percent in other countries. Yields also showed a wide variance
across and within regions.
1.14         Decisions on how much cotton to produce have traditionally been taken by the Forecasting
and Statistics Committee GOSKOMPROGNOZSTAT (former GOSPLAN), the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) and the Ministry of Water and Irrigation (MWI). The chain of command went from the
Forecasting Committee to the farm. The Forecasting Committee decided on the overall needs of the
country for food and foreign exchange, and in agreement with MOA and MWI, established the desired
amount and composition of agricultural production. These plans were then passed on to the regions and
from there to the districts where implementation plans were drawn and orders given to farms on what,
how much, and how to produce.
1.15         The Ministry of Finance (MOF) has had primary responsibility for pricing cotton.



5
Producer prices were established separately from production quotas, often after planting, and played little
part in determining production levels. The government, however, compensated farmers for the difference
between production costs and planned income. either through budgetary transfers (the State Farms) or
through input subsidies (the collective farms). Moreover, only those farms that had agreed on a
production plan with the government were assured of inputs at subsidized prices. Price response has,
thus, been nonexistent because of a lack of incentives to increase production and/or efficiency. State
production orders, highly subsidized fixed input prices, and fixed output prices determined artificial
profits pre-set for each farm.
1.16          State enterprises have distributed agricultural products and inputs internally. In addition,
state enterprises or official "contractors" have been responsible for all international trade--import and
export--of agricultural products controlled by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations (MFER).
Barter has been the principal mechanism to effect international trade. Bureaucratic hurdles made access
to export licenses very difficult. The law prohibited individuals from exporting, and required independent
firms to deal through state trading companies. Collective farms had no access to markets and could not
deal with traders.
1.17          At the farm level, cotton production has suffered from poor quality planting seed, low
quality (and in the past, excessive application) of pesticides and defoliants and excessive use of water and
fertilizers. In addition, extending cotton production to unsuitable land has led to large differential in
yields. Under similar cropping conditions, 15 percent of the area produced less than 2 tons/ha, 50
percent produced 2-3 tons/ha, and 35 percent produced more than 3 tons/ha.
1.18          The planting seed supply system handles about 40 varieties, but has no mechanism for
maintaining varietal purity beyond the Elite Seed Farms. No facilities exist for grading planting seed,
for testing them for vigor, or for treating and properly storing them. As a result, resowing tends to be
the rule and the sowing rates tend to be up to 10 times those normally used in other countries. Mixed
varieties and uneven plant stand due to multiple sowing contribute to the poor quality of the seed cotton
supplied at the farm level.
1.19          Although the Elite Seed Farms appear to have well organized seed operations, no laws
and regulations and no independent mechanisms exist for disinterested seed testing, certification and
quality control. Information tends to flow in one direction from varietal breeders to seed multiplication
farms. This has not allowed for feed back on varietal performance which could provide the basis for the
removal and replacement of old varieties with better, newer releases.
1.20          During the 1970s and early 1980s, pesticide use in Uzbekistan was extremely intensive.
Aerial spraying of large quantities of toxic pesticides with inefficient spraying equipment resulted in high
concentration of suspended pesticides in the air in cotton growing areas. Both surface and ground water
supplies were also contaminated. As the impact on the population of such contamination became
apparent, the Government and researchers started focusing on developing alternative means of controlling
agricultural pests. The Central Asian Institute for Crop Protection was created to perform that task. The
Uzbek IPM program developed to the point that in 1993 over 2 million ha were treated with 304 releases
of beneficial insects. In parallel, the use of pesticides has decreased substantially. Since Uzbekistan's
independence, however. funding for the IPM program has decreased to the point where it is currently
insufficient to finance the operation and maintenance of existing facilities. In addition, the restructuring
of the Uzbek economy and the low efficiency of the on-going manual IPM operations raise doubts about
the economic viability of the existing labor intensive biological control technology, thus creating the need



6
for intensive research to develop mechanized technologies for the production and dispersal of beneficial
insects. Moreover, further reduction in pesticide use requires the mass rearing and release of additional
types of insects to control a wider range of pests.
1.21         Water has been overused on all crops, including cotton. Farmers irrigated when the
authorities delivered the water rather than when the plants needed it. Over-irrigation during harvesting
and heavy post-harvest irrigation--to leach out accumulated salts from heavy doses of fertilizers--
aggravated waterlogging and soil salinity and reduced soil fertility. Excessive irrigation raised the water
table and encouraged vegetative growth on the cotton plants late in the season, thereby creating defoliation
problems and increasing the trash content of machine-picked cotton. All crops grown in Uzbekistan,
including cotton receive excessive amounts of irrigation water. The results of over-irrigation have been:
(i) increased use of fertilizers to compensate for leached nutrients; (ii) soil pollution by the leached
nutrients; (iii) rising water tables; (iv) salinization of soils; and (v) discharge of saline drainage water into
rivers. The Government has already recognized the problems associated with over-irrigation and has
issued two decrees. Decree No. 4, of January 6, 1993 calls for improved irrigation design and layout
and provides for its application on an initial area of 50,000 ha per year for 1993 and 1994, to be
subsequently increased to 100,000 ha per year. Decree No. 385, of August 3, 1993 restricts the amount
of water that farms can have and calls for fining farms for any water used in excess of their allocated
quota.
1.22         Organizationally, the production, processing and marketing of cotton have been totally
controlled from the Center. Government Departments and Government-controlled trading organizations
have held full responsibility in all segments of the production and marketing chain for cotton from the
allocation of acreage up to the export of lint. The chain has been regimented and inflexible and has not
allowed market forces to bring buyers and sellers together to determine the price and the size of the
cotton crop.
1.23         Starting with production, the target size of each year's crop has been traditionally
determined by the Government on advice from GOSKOMPROGNOZSTAT. This target production has
then been assigned to oblasts, rayons, districts, and then down to individual farms on the basis of past
performance and land productivity. Government then assigned state orders to the target levels of
production to be delivered to the Government at the Government's procurement price. It has been
Government policy that the portion of a crop between the state order level and the target level production
and production over and above the target level of production would be the property of the farm to be
disposed of at the discretion of the producers but within the constrictions of prevailing Government
policy. In return for fulfilling state orders, the Government managed an input supply system which
guaranteed farmers equipment and inputs at subsidized prices. No alternative system for the supply of
inputs and equipment existed.
1.24         As the seed cotton is picked, it is delivered to Government-owned regional cotton storage
stations in trailers. After testing, seed cotton is stored in "bunts' (modules) of between 350 tons and 500
tons on a basis of farm, variety, and grade as determined by a set of standards determined each year by
the Government cotton classing department (SIFAT).
1.25         The Government-owned ginning organization - UZKHLOPKOPROM - has controlled all
ginning activities. It has owned most gins and performed ginning services on behalf of the Government,
not farmers. Gin managers have had a very limited role in decision making at the gins. Their primary
function has been to achieve budgetary and production targets set by Government. The ginning season



7
has tended to be artificially extended to a ten to eleven month period, reportedly to maintain constant
employment.
1.26         The Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations has been responsible for negotiating and
settling all cotton contracts for export. UZKHLOPKOPROM provided MFER with quality estimates on
the forthcoming crop by undertaking quarterly reviews of information which flowed through the gin
laboratories and other regional offices such as the regional oblast offices of UZKHLOPKOPROM.
MFER approved each export contract on the basis that the sale price was equal to, or greater than, the
CIS quote in the Cotlook "A" index on the day of the sale less the relevant selling costs. The quotes
published by Cotlook represented an average of about 10 quotes from the leading cotton buyers. As
such, it was the buyers who determined the purchase price as it was they who submitted the quotes that
made up the Cotlook "A" index. Once MFER concluded a contract, it passed all responsibility for
delivery on to UZKHLOPKOPROM. Here the regional offices were advised to allocate a set number
of bales of the quality prescribed in the contract. Most export contracts tended to have a range of quality
requirements allowing some flexibility in delivery.
1.27         Uzbek cotton has been selling at an estimated 15 percent discount compared to other
cotton of similar quality because most of it has been traded through barter arrangements. Government
agencies have had to rely on such trade practices because they lacked experience in dealing in the
international market both for buying and selling. Another major reason has been that the international
market lacked reliable information on the fibre characteristics and on the spinning performance of the
Uzbek cotton.
1.28         Production and marketing of cotton have been controlled through the state order system.
In 1993, the state order system required farners to sell 80 percent of their allocated quota to the
Government at fixed prices, which were about 20 percent of the international price. Above-quota cotton
is marketed through the sate controlled Uzbek Association of Wholesale and Commodity Exchange
Traders (UZOPTBIRZHETORG), which operates through regional joint stock companies, and exports
lint for cash or barter. This organization has the monopoly on necessary export licenses and rail cars
required for the export of lint. Although the system allowed for farmers to receive about 70 percent of
the international price for above-quota cotton, in reality farmers are often coerced to participate in barter
arrangements which deprive them of the true value of their cotton but which are the only means for them
to access to certain inputs.
1.29         The Government regulates all steps in the production and trade of cotton, and taxes the
sub-sector harshly. The Bank estimated that such taxation reached an estimated US$800 million in 1993,
about 50 percent of the value of lint output, and financed Government expenditures and income transfers
to the urban sector.
1.30         Ginneries can increase turnout by 4 percentage points and produce a better quality of lint.
In order to meet standards demanded by the Government, ginneries over-clean cotton, remove large
amounts of fiber, and increase short fiber content. Moreover, the current system biases grading towards
lower categories and makes it difficult to market cotton in Western markets. The grading system groups
different types of cotton in one broad category, and underrates cotton quality. It is estimated that
exporters can gain an extra US$50-US$100 per ton of cotton sold in Western markets by improving
cotton grading and by making the characteristics of Uzbek cotton known in the international market.



8
1.31         Cotton research is concentrated on the genetic aspects of cotton production. It has no
links with cotton producers or users. In addition, there are no organized channels for farm technology
development and supply. As a result, on-farm production practices are deficient. Although Uzbekistan
has a well developed plant breeding program in cotton, the farmers and the country do not benefit from
it as much as they could because the country does not have the capacity to produce quality planting seed
that would allow farmers to take advantage of the productive potential of the generic material developed.
Farmers plant poor quality seed because the system supplies only ungrained seed that cotton gins produce.
Since gins do not delint the seed, they cannot separate (gravity grade) the weak from the strong seed, and
cannot treat the seed with chemicals. The deficiencies in seed production and processing lead to variety
mixing, loss of varietal purity, and low seed quality. Low-quality seed germinates poorly, and produces
weak plant stands and low yields. Because the seeds that are planted have different characteristics, each
field produces a mixture of varieties and qualities of cotton, which reduces the efficiency of harvesting,
ginning and marketing.
1.32         Government control and lack of well-defined property rights have prevented the sector
from achieving higher output and efficient growth. Producer prices are established separately from
production quotas, often after planting, and play little part in determining production levels. Only those
farms that have agreed on a production plan are assured of inputs at subsidized prices. The Government
pays ginneries a fixed fee per ton of ginned seed cotton. Because the Government does not pay fees
according to performance (quality and out-turn delivered), ginneries are not motivated to achieve higher
out-turn and produce better lint. Thus, neither farmers nor ginners respond to prices because prices do
not represent a basis for decision making about production level and efficiency. Institutional and
economic barriers discourage export and the emergence of a group of skilled traders. The law prohibits
individuals from exporting, and independent firms have to export through state trading companies.



9
II. BANK LENDING EXPERIENCE AND STRATEGY FOR UZBEKISTAN
A. BANK LENDING EXPERIENCE
2.1          The Bank began only recently to support agricultural projects in countries of the Former
Soviet Union, and has limited experience with projects in countries with economies in transition. The
Bank has, however, supported in other parts of the world, diverse agricultural projects with objectives
similar to those of this project. The paragraphs below summarize Bank experience in projects from which
lessons were drawn while designing this project.
2.2          Bank experience in irrigation, seed and agricultural marketing projects shows that
appropriate project preparation, local involvement and strong institutional support, proper training,
adequate incentives, a satisfactory legal framework, and the correct distribution of responsibilities between
the public and private sectors contribute to the success of projects. More specifically, it has been
demonstrated that project success has been closely linked with:
(a)   local ownership of project design and commitment to its implementation;
(b)    strong, tailor-made training programs for planners, high- and mid-level
managers, and grassroots decision-makers and producers in support of technology
transfer;
(c)    agreement on and implementation of effective procurement procedures to ensure
the timely supply of equipment, goods and services and the execution of civil
works needed for meeting project objectives; and
(d)    favorable and stable macroeconomic conditions and policies.
2.3           The Bank shared this experience with Government. As a result, Government took full
responsibility for project design. All ministries and institutions concerned participated in project design
from the onset. MOA, the Crop Protection Institute, The Uzbekistan Cotton Production and Marketing
Institute (UZKLOPKOPROMSBYT), collective seed farms, SIFAT and MWI worked together with
GOSKOMPROGNOZSTAT, as the coordinating agency, to design the project. A team consisting of
Government personnel, collective farm managers, and lint testing specialists involved in project
preparation and execution came to the U.S.A. on a study tour to visit the cotton industry, and gather
information about the technology available for cotton production, processing seed, and marketing lint.
With the information gathered during this study tour and the support of the technical assistance procured
through an advance under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF), Government was in a position to
identify the primary weaknesses in the cotton sub-sector and to design the project to address them.
2.4          With specific reference to seeds, the Bank's experience shows that:
(a)    producing seeds of the required quality does not need overly sophisticated seed
processing technology which is beyond the local capability to operate and
maintain, both physically and financially;



10
(b)    a vigorous varietal breeding program that releases superior genetic quality seed
is fundamental to sustain the seed industry;
(c)    private sector has a comparative advantage over the public sector in seed
processing and marketing;
(d)    quality seeds do not require subsidies from Government to be accepted by
farmers;
(e)    market determined prices for seed are a prerequisite for financial viability of the
seed industry;
(f)    a favorable legal and policy framework is essential for attracting long-term
investments in the seed industry; and
(g)    an autonomous and effective public sector seed certification and quality control
service is necessary to promote efficient growth of the seed industry.
2.5           Uzbekistan has had a strong varietal breeding program, which has produced many cotton
varieties, all of which continue to be used in the country. Although there is a need for screening these
varieties and maintaining the breeding program, the more urgent need identified by Government is to
improve seed processing to ensure access by farmers to quality seeds of the variety of their choice. The
seed component was, thus, designed to primarily improve seed processing taking into account the above
identified lessons.
2.6           One major lesson from the Bank's world-wide experience as well as from Uzbekistan's
own experience relates to the impact of development programs on the environment. Uzbekistan learned
the hard way that agricultural development that is detrimental to the environment, not only cannot be
sustained, but also leads to the destruction of the very basis of development, namely land, water, and
human resources. Thus, although project design started with the primary economic objective of
increasing foreign exchange earnings from cotton, two components were added specifically to address
environmental concerns while improving productivity. These are the irrigation and the integrated pest
management components.
2.7           With regard to irrigation, experience shows that:
(a)    effective irrigation practices combined with proper use of inputs and cultural
practices can mitigate any potential harmful effect on the ecology;
(b)    investment in irrigation has to be justified on empirically demonstrated economic
potential of irrigation in the project area;
(c)    beneficiary participation in the design of irrigation programs is critical to their
success, and is a prerequisite to developing and implementing a cost recovery
mechanism for public sector investment in irrigation infrastructure; and



11
(d)    support services such as extension, input supply and marketing enhance the
profitability of investment in irrigation and, thus, motivate farmers to engage in
such investments.
2.8           Government prepared the on-farm irrigation scheduling component with information
gathered from a well tested pilot program in which several collective farms from the Tashkent area
participated. The pilot program was designed and implemented with full participation of the farms
selected for the test.
2.9           With regard to pesticide use, experience shows that:
(a)    economic benefits derived from the use of excessively toxic pesticides are
outweighed by their harmful impacts on the ecology and the people who handle
them;
(b)    even pesticides known to be less toxic can cause major ecological harm if not
used at the proper rate and with the right equipment; and
(c)    properly applied pesticides can be an effective element in a package of integrated
pest management practices involving beneficial insects and cultural practices.
2.10          The above concerns were the basis for including an integrated pest management
component under the project targeted at developing alternatives to pesticides, selectivity in pesticide use,
developing equipment for proper use of pesticides, and training farmers in their handling and use.
2.11          In cotton projects in general, Bank experience indicates that:
(a)    complex project design hinders project implementation;
(b)    open access to markets, along with a market-based pricing system, are essential
for enhancing production efficiency at the farm and gin levels and the quality of
lint; and
(c)   the generation and dissemination of information about the characteristics of cotton
is essential for attracting buyers, enhancing the market value of cotton in both the
local and international markets, and motivating farmers and gin operators to
preserve the intrinsic quality of their product.
2.12          The cotton marketing component was designed by Government with due consideration
given to the above lessons. The primary objective selected for this component was the generation and
dissemination of information about the characteristics of cotton. The component's design was simplified
by focussing on specific actions to increase the country's foreign exchange earnings from cotton.
B. BANK STRATEGY IN AGRICULTURE
2.13          The Government has identified agriculture as an important sector requiring assistance
from the World Bank. Such assistance is expected to help in providing an impetus for quick supply



12
response, support the transition to a market economy, demonstrate tangible benefits from the reform
program, and build the basis for a sustained, long term supply response. The Bank, through its continued
dialogue with Government, has played an important role in helping build the foundation for designing
and implementing priority structural reforms in the agricultural sector. An important contribution of the
Bank has been in facilitating the exposure of key policy makers and key players in the management of
agriculture to market principles, and in working with them in the design of basic reforms to accelerate
transition to a market-based, private sector led agriculture. The Government's recent actions in the
agricultural sector appear to be driven by their concern over the possibility of: (i) loss of employment
opportunities in the rural areas, in general, and in the agricultural sector, in particular; (ii) further
deterioration of the sector's current production capacity; (iii) further deterioration of the sector's primary
physical production assets - land, water; and (iv) the absence of an operational mechanism to take over
from the Central Government the responsibility for the supply of agricultural services and inputs.
2.14          The Bank agrees with these concerns. Its strategy has been to help put in place the
fundamental building blocks which would protect against further deterioration in the sector while initiating
actions that would reverse the trend and initiate the process of building a market-oriented agricultural
sector. To that end, the Bank's strategy gives priority to the creation of an enabling environment,
including effective policies, a legal framework, and an institutional capacity to serve a well functioning
market agriculture and to facilitate the effective implementation of agricultural reforms. The Agricultural
Sector Review (under preparation) will provide the basis for developing a consensus on how to facilitate
the creation of such an enabling environment and future investment programs will support agreed actions
and reforms.
2.15          In support of these goals, the Bank's lending strategy in agriculture as described in the
CAS focuses on financing operations that would: (i) foster development of a more supportive policy
regime; (ii) help develop critical institutions and infrastructure to support a market-driven rehabilitation
and restructuring of production units; (iii) promote long term, sustainable development in agriculture; and
(iv) enhance the development of management skills and flows of market information to guide production
decisions. Such investments would require substantial technical assistance and training which the Bank
expects to support through direct lending and co-financing arrangements supplemented by ongoing and
planned economic and sector work.
2.16          The project is consistent with the CAS. It complements three other operations in the
Bank's current lending program for agriculture for the period FY95 - FY97:
(a)    the agricultural component of the Rehabilitation Loan helps create a supportive
policy environment. It supports removal of State orders, liberalization of the
price of cotton, and introduction of automatic export licenses for cotton;
(b)    the Drainage Project planned for FY97 aims to develop the means for the safe
disposal of drainage water in the Amu Darya basin in Uzbekistan. In the
process, the project will lead to improved water quality and enhanced agricultural
production; and
(c)    the Farm Restructuring and Development Project planned for FY97 aims at
developing farm infrastructure and support services, and replicable and
sustainable models for restructuring state farms in a manner that would improve
farming efficiency along the lines of a market-based agricultural system.



13
2.17         Through the integrated pest management and irrigation scheduling interventions, the
project also supports the environmental objectives of the Aral Sea Program.
C. RATIONALE FOR BANK PARTICIPATION IN THE PROJECT
2.18         The Government, working with the Bank in the context of Economic Work and the
Rehabilitation Loan, and with the IMF in the context of the STF, has introduced important reform
measures to accelerate the transition to a market economy. This project will provide the framework for
putting those reforms to work on a sustained basis, thus giving them the chance to have a lasting impact.
The project will also build on the reform measures already adopted and deepen their penetration at all
levels of the cotton sub-sector. It will support the removal of critical institutional constraints which
currently impede private sector initiative and participation in the cotton industry. The project will also
provide an added medium for maintaining the policy dialogue and contribute to the prospects for
continuing the policy reform process.



14
III. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT RATIONALE
3.1           This is the first investment project in Uzbekistan supported by a World Bank loan. The
cotton sub-sector represents the most important part of agriculture in terms of its development potential
in the foreseeable future. The Government selected this project on the basis of the potential short-term
impact of interventions in the cotton sub-sector on: (i) enhancing the country's foreign exchange earning
capacity; (ii) developing an approach for addressing environmental concerns in agriculture; and (iii)
building a basis for effective transition to market-oriented agriculture. By design, the project concentrates
on a few critical interventions intended to open the door for the broad range of possible future
investments in the cotton industry which would target all stages of production, marketing and processing.
B. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
3.2           This project starts the process of modernizing the Uzbek cotton sub-sector by supporting
selective critical interventions that would open it up to the world market and build the basis for improving
its efficiency. It supports: (i) the elimination of state orders, the liberalization of prices, and the
privatization of the seed industry in the cotton sub-sector; (ii) the development/introduction of technology
to help avert negative impacts on the environment and productivity of past irrigation and pest control
practices; and (iii) the enhancement of the cotton sub-sector's foreign exchange earning capacity.
Performance indicators are given in Annex A.
C. PROJECT SUMMARY DESCRIPTION
3.3           To help achieve the above development objectives, the project supports five components.
These are summarized below:
(a)    Seed Industry: This component supports the creation of private seed companies
to process and market about 25,000 tons of planting seed produced by private
Seed Companies in association with privatized seed farms. It will also support
the strengthening of seed quality control agencies and help introduce reliable
policy and institutional arrangements in the public sector for seed quality control,
seed certification, and continued development of new improved cotton varieties;
(b)    Cotton Marketing. This component supports the introduction of cotton grading
technology to determine the characteristics of Uzbek cotton in conformity with
internationally recognized standards. It also supports the development of a
system for the dissemination (to potential buyers, the spinning industry, gin
operators, farmers and researchers) of information generated through the grading
system;
(c)    Integrated Pest Management: This is an applied research and development
component. It provides for equipment and technical assistance for the
development of insect rearing and dispersal technologies that will allow the
country to economically broaden biological control of cotton pests. It also
supports the development of improved pesticide spraying equipment to allow the



15
integration of biological and chemical control of pests with proper cropping
practices in a manner that will mitigate the impact of pest control on the
environment;
(d)    Irrigation. This component provides for equipment and training to introduce
irrigation scheduling technology and demonstrate effective ways to reduce water
use in cotton production, while improving land productivity and avoiding water-
based damage to the environment; and
(e)    Project Management and Program Design.  This component supports the
strengthening and development of the capacity of agencies involved in this project
to help them implement their respective components and contribute to the design
of future investment programs in agriculture.  It also supports specific
preparation activities for investment programs for which Government intends to
seek external financial support.
D. DETAILED PROJEcT DESCRITON
Seed Industry
Objectives
3.4          The objectives of the seed component are twofold: (i) create the enabling policy and
institutional framework for the development of an effective seed industry in the private sector; and (ii)
improve the quality of planting seed as a means to improving yields and fiber quality and value.
Detailed Features
3.5          The seed component has two sub-components. The first deals with creating/strengthening
the institutional (legislative, administrative and policy) framework to enable private seed companies to
perform their functions effectively, and the second deals with creating a private seed industry.
3.6          Institutional Framework. This sub-component supports the strengthening of the seed
quality control functions of public sector agencies. Provisions under this sub-component assume that the
seed companies to be established will strive to build confidence in their products among farmers and will,
thus, perform their own internal quality control functions. External quality control is intended to
guarantee that seed producers operate within the framework of the country's seed law and policy, and
that the seeds farmers buy possess the characteristics as described on the label which is issued by the seed
certification agency.
3.7          National Seed Policy and Seed Law. Draft proposals were prepared by the Government
for a National Seed Policy and a new Seed Law. These draft proposals include articles, procedures and
practices as defined or recommended by international bodies, such as the International Seed Testing
Association (ISTA), the International Union for Protection of Plant Varieties (UPOV) and the Association
of Official Seed Certifying Agencies (AOSCA). The draft National Seed Policy provides direction for
Government agencies, research institutes, breeders, seed producers and farmers for the long-term
development of seed. By enacting such a policy, Government will be able to provide a framework for



16
the development of a seed industry. The draft Seed Law proposes regulatory procedures for ensuring
quality of seed at the stages of production, marketing, certification, importation and breeding. The Plant
Variety Protection Law was prepared based on the Model Law on Plant Variety Protection developed by
the UPOV. This draft law provides the legal basis for the seed breeders' rights. The draft Seed Policy
and Seed Law were discussed during negotiations. Their enactment will be a condition of disbursement
against the public sector part of the Seed Component.
3.8            Seed testing and Certification. Present seed testing and certification practices are far
behind ISTA standards. Laboratories which are located at the ginneries are poorly equipped and staffing
is minimal. Staff of laboratories are employed by the MOA and seed certification personnel are
employees of the seed producers, i.e. elite seed farms, seed farms and ginneries. Thus, under the present
organization and system, farmners cannot be sure of the purity and germination of seed which they are
ordered to plant. The seed certification organization and activities need to be upgraded as follows:
(a)    The central and regional seed certification offices and laboratories need to be
autonomous (including ultimately financial autonomy) and independent of seed
producers and/or seed buyers. They need to be able to work independently, free
from interference from vested interests;
(b)    All planting seed (elite and multiplication) needs to be certified. Since this will
increase the requirements for seed certification, there is a need to increase the
staff and their skills and to provide more and better quality equipment; and
(c)    New standards and procedures need to be introduced. The new agency will
follow the procedures for seed certification and testing of the International Seed
Testing Association (ISTA). This should be done not only for the cotton sector,
but also for the whole agricultural sector. This will provide a standard and
uniform system of seed testing and will greatly improve the trade in seeds and
plant material and the comparison of test results.
3.9           Under the project, external quality control will be the responsibility of a single
Govermnent seed certification, testing and quality control agency, using procedures tested and proven in
other countries. The MOA Cotton Seed Department through the Central Seed Certification and Seed Law
Agency and the Oblast Seed Certification and Seed Law Units will: (i) certify cotton seed fields, gins,
plants and seed lots to ensure varietal purity; (ii) test seed destined for the market and farms, to ensure
high seed quality; and (iii) sample and test seed in the market, sold to farms, etc. to ensure that it meets
established standards. The Plant Variety Protection Office under the MOA Commission of Agricultural
Crops Sort Testing will: (i) test varieties and disseminate the testing results to allow private seed
companies to decide on which varieties to maintain and varieties to discontinue; and (ii) implement plant
variety protection rules and regulations. Activities related to external quality control include establishing:
(a)    a quality, development-oriented Seed law;
(b)    a development-oriented National Seed Policy;
(c)    adequate Plant Variety Protection rules;



17
(d)    Seed Certification rules and procedures, with built-in protection against misuse;
and
(e)    establishing and equipping one Central Referee seed testing laboratory and 5
Regional Service seed testing laboratories.
3.10           Improving external quality control will also require organizing and equipping an
integrated unit in MOA to implement the above external quality control operations. This will require
extensive training along with technical assistance to help establish, plan, and manage operations and
develop proper procedures.
3.11           The administratively-combined external quality control structure to be established under
the project will include: (i) the Seed Certification and Seed Law Agency with a Central and Referee Seed
Testing Laboratory; and (ii) five oblast Seed Certification and Seed Law Units with service testing
laboratories. These agencies will be under the administrative oversight of the Cotton Seed Department
of MOA. The Plant Variety Protection Office will be under the State Commission of Agricultural Crops
Sort Testing in MOA.
3.12           The Seed Certification and Seed Law Agency will be responsible for the implementation
and coordination of the seed certification and seed law. Their central laboratory will serve as a referee,
an import/export testing station, a coordinator, a supervisor and a training institute for the oblast
organizations.  The Oblast Seed Certification and Seed Law  Units, each with their own oblast
laboratories, will serve as inspector, certification agency, monitoring agent of the quality control
department of the seed producers, and trainer of seed producers.
3.13           Once fully established and operational, the seed certification agencies should derive a
major part of their income by charging a fee for their services.  Government confirmed during
negotiations that no later than June 30, 1998, the Seed Certification and Seed Law Agency will under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan for the full cost
recovery of its services. Thereafter, this plan will be finalized taking into consideration the Bank's views
and will be implemented starting no later than June 30, 1999.
3.14           Plant Variety Protection and Cotton Research: Four organizations are currently active
in cotton breeding: the Cotton Seed Breeding Institute, the Institute of Experimental Biology, the Uzbek
Cotton Production Research Institute, and the Institute of Genetics. Presently there are about 40 cotton
varieties released for planting. Some varieties are grown on less than 10,000 ha and it is not clear
whether farmers would continue to grow them if they were given the opportunity to select their own
varieties. The Plant Variety Protection office will be strengthened to register new varieties on the basis
of advice from breeders, the Seed Certification and Seed Law Agency, seed producers, and cotton
producers.
3.15           The project will support the strengthening of the Central and Oblast seed certification and
Seed Law offices, and the Plant Variety Protection Office. It also provides funding for equipment and
training for cotton breeding institutes which are interested in close cooperation with the seed industry.
The project will provide for: (i) upgrading equipment required for testing, certification and registration;
(ii) specialized technical training and study tours to facilitate interaction with international bodies involved
in cotton breeding, seed certification, and seed production and marketing; and (iii) technical assistance
to make up for the absence in Uzbekistan of the requisite expertise to establish and manage a private seed



18
industry (details are given in Annex 1 of the Implementation Volume). In order to encourage cooperation
between researchers and seed producers, the project provides for limited training and technical assistance
for cotton research agencies involved in seed breeding to help them initiate a reorientation of the research
system to make it user responsive and to help develop links between the research and production systems.
3.16          Seed Companies and Seed Farms.  This sub-component consists of a line of credit to
support the establishment of private seed companies and the transformation of collective seed farms into
private seed farms. Agreements reached with Government during appraisal relating to private seed
companies and seed farms are summarized in the Government letter in Annex B. The line of credit is
necessary because this component represents a test case for privatization in the agricultural sector for
which there is no alternative source of credit to support the development of a private seed industry. The
sub-loans will be provided to eligible, legally constituted private seed companies, on the basis of a
detailed business plan which describes the company (ownership, assets, liabilities), proposed operations,
and documents the technical, institutional and financial features of the proposed investment. The business
plan may cover the credit requirements of both seed companies and the working capital requirements of
the seed farms associated with them for purposes of seed multiplication. Credit to seed farms will, thus,
be channeled through the seed companies in the form of supplier credit. The seed companies will be
responsible for appraising the credit requirements of their associated seed farms. They will also be
responsible for allocating to seed farms their part of the loan and for its repayment. The line of credit
will be administered by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in GOSKOMPROGNOZSTAT. The PIU
will be responsible for sub-loan appraisal (para 5.9). The sub-loans will be channeled to sub-borrower
seed companies using a commercial bank acting as the agent for accounts, disbursements and collections.
Estimates of financing requirements over the project period are based on a seed processing capacity to
produce 25,000 tons of clean planting seed which should be sufficient to meet the country's requirements
once the planting rate is adjusted to reflect the improved seed quality and once the area under cotton is
stabilized around the country's long tern target of around one million ha. A processing unit of 5,000
ton capacity is expected to require about US$5 million. The actual capacity of individual seed companies
to be created under the project will, however, be decided by the investors themselves.
3.17          Seed cotton will be produced by privatized seed farms, acting as contract growers for the
seed companies. These contract growers, which can be shareholders in a seed company, will operate
under the technical guidance of the seed company to: (i) produce stock seed for re-multiplication by
owner/member farms; (ii) multiply certified seed; and (iii) deliver to the seed company all seed cotton
produced.
3.18          Seed companies will be equipped to receive and gin seed cotton owned by the
participating seed farms. At the end of the ginning process, they will buy the cotton seed from the seed
farms and return the lint, unless a prior arrangement exists for the seed company to act as the selling
agent for the lint, in which case, the companies will be given automatic licenses to export the lint as
marketing agents of the seed farms. They will then delint, condition, treat, bag, store, distribute and
market the seed found suitable for planting and dispose of any seed found unsuitable for planting through
the oil mills. To ensure proper cultural practices and varietal purity, the seed companies will assist the
seed farms in the preparation of production plans, in the certification of their seed, and in getting
necessary supplier credit for spare parts, equipment and pesticides as provided for under the line of
credit.
3.19          About 50 farms were consulted on their interest to join a partnership to create seed
companies. A sample of those which expressed a clear interest is given in Annex C. To do that, these



19
and other seed farms need to become legally registered as fully private farms. The number of farms
interested in participating in seed companies is likely to be much higher as many other seed farms exist
which have not been informed about the project and many of these which were contacted have not had
time to reflect on it. Interest has also been expressed by international seed companies to enter into joint
venture arrangements with local interests, including privatized seed farms to create seed companies.
3.20          The demand for quality seeds is expected to develop in tandem with the supply. Crop
budget analysis demonstrates farmers' ability to pay substantially higher prices for quality seeds than they
do at present, especially once the price of lint has been fully liberalized. The price of certified cotton
seed in other countries is in the range of US$800 to US$1200/ton. Since suitable varieties are already
available in the country, the seed industry can operate, at least for few years, with a low overhead by
taking advantage of the sunk cost associated with variety development. On this basis a price as low as
US$150 to US$200/ton would allow the seed industry to break even in the early years without affecting
the profitability at the farm level, especially given the fact that quality seeds will decrease the planting
rate to 10 to 20 percent of the current planting rates and will eliminate the need for resowing. The seed
industry can, therefore, charge relatively low prices in the early years and adjust them progressively as
farmers learn the advantages of quality seeds, and as their cost structure requires.
3.21          The line of credit will finance the requirements of seed companies in relation to civil
works, ginning, seed processing, laboratory equipment, and incremental working capital. It will also
finance spare parts, urgent equipment and pesticides for seed farms. The list of pesticides to be financed
under the project will be mutually agreed between the Government and the Bank. Funding for pesticides
will be channeled through the Institute of Crop Protection for the first year and, thereafter, through the
line of credit. Given the current weakness of the banking system, the line of credit will be channeled
through an agent bank under the overall administrative responsibility of the Project Implementation Unit,
pending the strengthening of a suitable banking institution to take over this responsibility as soon as
possible.
3.22          The size of the line of credit was estimated on the basis of a seed processing capacity of
25,000 tons of certified seed to meet the requirements for planting a cotton area in the order of 1 to 1.2
million ha. The line of credit in the amount of US$38.8 million is expected to be on-lent through 4 to
6 sub-loans. The exact number of sub-loans will depend on the processing capacity individual seed
companies would decide to install, given the overall objective of developing a system that would supply
25,000 tons of planting seed annually.
Cotton Marketing
Objectives
3.23          The objective of the Cotton Marketing component is to improve the marketability of the
Uzbek cotton and its value in the international market. Information generated on fibre characteristics will
provide the basis to more accurately identify and differentiate the Uzbek cotton and enhance sellers' and
buyers' knowledge about its quality and spinability. An associated objective of this component is to
improve the quality of the Uzbek cotton in the long term through research and better ginning practices.
Using the information on fiber characteristics, cotton breeders will be able to select varieties more
responsive to market and industry needs. Gin operators will also use the information to preserve the fiber
quality by adjusting ginning speeds, the amount of cleaning carried out, and the engineering of the



20
machinery used in the ginning process. Fiber property information will also facilitate a tighter selection
of cotton qualities used in domestic spinning, thus improving the efficiency of the spinning industry and
providing feedback to breeders and farmers on the industry's requirements.
Detailed Features
3.24          The Cotton Marketing component consists of three sub-components: a High Volume
Instrument (HVI) cotton grading system; an information processing and dissemination system; and
Training and associated Technical Assistance.
3.25          HVI Cotton Grading System. The project will support the installation of 34 HVI lines
in 16 regional and one central classing centers. Each of these classing centers will incorporate data from
manual classing techniques for color, preparation, and leaf content of raw cotton to internationally
recognized United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) standards with data on fiber property from
HVI testing. The central classing center in Tashkent will play the dual role of the central quality control
and research laboratory, as well as, that of the regional classing center for the Tashkent area. The center
will be operated by the cotton quality control agency SIFAT. Through a check test program, SIFAT will
maintain vigilance on the testing performance and accuracy of the regional classing centers. The HVI
fiber testing devices to be installed in the central and regional testing laboratories will have the capacity
to test for the following parameters: color, elongation, span length, fineness (micronaire), length
uniformity and strength, and leaf content.
3.26          Information Processing and Dissemination. Information generated through HVI tests
along with manual classing data will become available for each bale of cotton produced. This information
will be useful to those involved in cotton production, raw cotton marketing, cotton spinning, ginning,
and cotton seed breeding. The system will allow the allocation of individually tagged bales by grade to
sales contracts.  It will also provide feedback to the gins and farmers about the impact of their
production/handling practices on the characteristics, and thus, the price of their cotton. A computerized
system will be installed that will allow automatic sharing of information between various operations, such
as growers' supplies, gin inventory, gin processing, bale inventory, marketing information, warehousing,
stock location management, and sales contracts management. In addition, the research section of the
central classing center will produce and disseminate information on fiber characteristics and on market
performance of various varieties for researchers to use in making their work more relevant to the needs
of cotton producers and cotton processors. All information generated under this project will, initially,
be made available by SIFAT, as a public good to demonstrate its utility during the first two cropping
seasons, and create a demand for the grading service. The objective, however, is for SIFAT to recover
the full cost of the service from users. To that end, a proposal will be prepared by SIFAT about
alternative approaches to effective cost recovery. Agreement was reached during negotiations that this
proposal will be submitted to the Bank for review by June 30, 1998. This plan will be finalized taking
into consideration the Bank's views and its implementation will start no later than June 30, 1999.
3.27          Training and associated Technical Assistance. To ensure effective introduction and
operation of the cotton classing system, the project will provide for establishing a central Cotton Grading
and Marketing School, with possible branches in the Regions, if necessary. The curriculum in these
schools will cover, inter alia,: (i) HVI operation; (ii) operation of other fiber testing instruments in the
central laboratory; and (iii) cotton classing. The training programs will address the needs of SIFAT
personnel in the central and regional classing centers, personnel of cotton trading and cotton processing



21
agencies, gin operators, cotton producers, and cotton research personnel. To ensure the operational
orientation of training, the same specialits involved in establishing the cotton grading system will also be
responsible for providing the training.
3.28          The training will consist of classroom training in the Grading and Marketing Schools, on-
site training at the classing centers, and study tours abroad for key laboratory personnel. The primary
emphasis in training will be on introducing and on making effective use of a standardized system of
cotton quality evaluation which complies with the internationally accepted grading system. In parallel
to that, the training program will seek to facilitate the utilization of the information generated by the
cotton classification system in improving the practices/processes of handling the raw material, ginning,
warehousing, marketing, and spinning.
3.29          To support the introduction of the HVI technology, the project will provide for a training
program to create or strengthen the local skills in the areas of expertise which include HVI operations,
technical repair and maintenance; classing techniques; computer system design, operation and
management; data analysis and interpretation, and information dissemination. The emphasis on training
will be on rapid, on-the-job transfer of knowledge and skills. Terms of reference for the technical
assistance are provided in Annex 2 of the Implementation Volume.
Integrated Pest Management
Objectives
3.30          The Integrated Pest Management (IPM) Component is an applied research component
aimed at developing the technology for strengthening and expanding the use of IPM techniques which
integrate biological and chemical methods along with cultural practices to control cotton pests and
diseases. Its ultimate goal will be to define a set of insect control practices that will contribute to
increasing cotton yields and quality with minimal negative impact on the ecology and the health status
of the people involved. Specifically, the project will support the development of technology that will
make feasible: (i) an expanded use of biological control through mass release of beneficial insects and
the conservation of those already in nature; and (ii) selective and reduced use of pesticides through
effective application practices and improved equipment. The project will also support the preparation of
a national strategy for the use of pesticides in agriculture and the development of a farmer pesticide
handbook to inform farmers on appropriate and safe ways to select and use pesticides.
Detailed Features
3.31          The IPM component has four sub-components: development of automated mass rearing
technology, development of mechanized dispersal technology, development of effective equipment for
application of pesticides, and training and technical assistance.
3.32         Automated mass rearing technology. The current breeding method for beneficial insects,
developed in the early 1970s, involves substantial manual handling, resulting in heavy losses. The project
will provide for: (i) the preparation of plans and specifications for mass automated rearing units; (ii) the
production and trial of a prototype automated mass rearing unit; and (iii) the development of 45 new
automated mass rearing units - 15 for Trichogramma, 15 for Bracon, and 15 for Crysopa to be used in
strategic breeding locations.



22
3.33          Mechanized dispersal technology. Currently, dispersal of all beneficial insects is done
by hand. One person can cover 7 to 10 ha per day with deposition points 10 m apart. This system does
not allow for uniformity in coverage, nor does it allow for quick spread of beneficial insects to find their
targets. Possible solutions to be tried and, if found successful, developed include dispersal by aircraft,
by tractor, and by ultra-light aircraft.  A prototype disseminator for aircraft was developed and
successfully tested in one district. Under the project, the Institute for Crop Protection will provide for
building six such disseminators for further testing and evaluation in six oblasts using leased aircrafts.
A prototype disseminator for dispersal by tractor was also developed and tested in one district. The
project will provide for building twelve such prototype disseminators for further testing and evaluation
by the Institute for Crop Protection in six oblasts. Dissemination by ultra-light aircraft has not been tried
in Uzbekistan. The project will provide for the purchase of an ultra-light aircraft to be modified and
tested for the distribution of beneficial insects, possibly as a more economic alternative to regular
aircrafts.
3.34          Equipment for application of pesticides. The current technology for application of
pesticides uses air-blast sprayers which give excessively large droplets. It is estimated that about 80
percent of the pesticides applied is lost and ends up polluting the environment. Moreover, the 20 percent
which reaches the plants is too poorly distributed to be effective in controlling the targeted cotton pests.
An alternative technology has been under development using a boom spray with a redesigned nozzle.
With this technology, the fluid is mixed with air and the mixture is dispersed with an air jet. The
development of this technology is advanced, but further work is needed. The project will provide for
completing the development of the boom spray, the production of prototypes for testing in different
regions, and the import and testing of equipment known to have the characteristics desired for
Uzbekistan.
3.35          In parallel to supporting the development of equipment, the project will support the
preparation and the dissemination of a "Farmers Pesticide Handbook" intended to help farmers with the
selection of pesticides, and spraying equipment to make the application of pesticides an environmentally
safe integral part of the IPM program. The project will also provide for the development of a national
strategy for the use of pesticides in agriculture, including regulatory options, handling, disposal and
application. Terms of reference for the preparation of the Farmers Pesticide Handbook and the National
Pesticide Policy are included in Annex 3 of the Implementation Volume. The Policy and the Handbook
will be prepared by the Institute for Crop Protection with technical assistance, as needed, and will be
submitted to the Bank before they are finalized.
3.36          Training and Technical Assistance.  To support the IPM  technology development
program described above, the project will provide for on-the-job training and study tours for scientists
and IPM technicians, both in Uzbekistan and abroad. It will also provide for technical assistance to
support the development of the technology and the base for manufacturing it. Terms of reference are
provided in Annex 4 of the Implementation Volume.
On-Farm Irrigation Scheduling
Objectives
3.37          The objective of the irrigation component is to improve the management of irrigation
water at the farm level. More specifically, the component will aim to: (i) introduce irrigation practices



23
that would lead to a substantial reduction in the amount of water used to irrigate cotton; (ii) increase
awareness of the economic value of irrigation water among farm managers and technicians; and (iii)
reduce environmental pollution due to excessive use of water.
Detailed Features
3.38          The On-Farm Irrigation Scheduling component has two sub-components. The first
supports the development and operation of a computer-based irrigation scheduling system, and the second
supports training and technical assistance to develop a capability to run the systemn and expand its
application.
3.39          The Irnigation Scheduling System (ISS). The basis of the ISS is a computer software
that UZAGROINFORM has developed, validated and tested on eight farms in the Pskent District covering
18,000 ha of irrigated land where the water table is deeper than 3 m, which is the case for about 60
percent of the irrigated land. The project will support expanding the use of this system to cover an area
of 200,000 to 300,000 ha, and enhancing its capability by adding a feature for monitoring soil and plant
water status in order to check the validity of the computer predictions and the efficiency of water
application at the farm. The monitoring technology consists of tensiometers and pressure chambers which
will provide feedback on plant water status to ensure that the ISS is maintaining water in the soil at
adequate levels. The project will also support the introduction of a more powerful computer program
developed by UZAGROINFORM which, in addition to monitoring the water level, calculates the water
balance in each layer of the soil, calculates the vertical and horizontal water flow, and determines the
movement of salts and nutrients in the soil and down into the water table and the drainage system. These
added features will enable the system to estimate salinity hazards and to manage salinity and nutrient
pollution. Priority for the introduction of irrigation scheduling will be given to areas where: (i)
supporting investments needed are minimal; and (ii) the need to conserve water is very strongly felt for
cost and/or environmental reasons.
3.40          Training and Technical Assistance.  The pace at which the use of the ISS can be
expanded will be closely connected to the pace at which on-the-job training can be provided. As the
technology to be used was developed in Uzbekistan, the training will be primarily on-the-job. It will
involve engineers operating the ISS at the district level who, in turn, will train their support staff and the
staff involved in irrigation at the farm level. The project will also provide for technical assistance to
support the evaluation of the use of tensiometers and alternative technology for the control of water
application, and help design and implement the training program. Terms of reference are given in Annex
5 of the Implementation Volume.
Project Management and Programn Design
Objective
3.41          This component has three objectives: (i) to provide the project coordinating agency -
GOSKOMPROGNOZSTAT - with critically needed institutional support to help the agencies involved
and the private sector implement this project; (ii) to strengthen the capacity of Departments which were
assigned responsibility for implementing project components; and (iii) to support the necessary analytical
work to design future investment programs for potential funding by international financial institutions.



24
Detailed Features
3.42         The Project Management and Program Design Component has two sub-components; the
first deals with managing the implementation of this project, and the second deals with the design of
future investment programs.
3.43         Project Management. Existing Government Departments will be responsible for the
implementation of the public sector part of the project. Each Department will constitute within their
existing structure a Component Implementation Unit (CIU) to manage the implementation of each
component. In addition, given the limited experience individual Departments have in implementing joint
programs and in dealing with external funding agencies, the Government has established a Project
Implementation  Unit (PIU) to coordinate project implementation.   The PIU  is located in
GOSKOMPROGNOZSTAT and is headed by a Project Director who answers to the Deputy Chairman
of GOSKOMPROGNOZSTAT. The PIU will oversee and monitor project implementation and assist the
public agencies involved in the execution of their respective components. The PIU will also manage the
studies aimed at designing future investment programs. In addition and in cooperation with a commercial
bank, the PIU will administer the line of credit supporting the seed component to be executed by the
private sector. The PIU will perform its coordination function with support from a Project Working
Group (PWG) consisting of senior officials from Government agencies participating in the project under
the chairmanship of the Deputy Chairman of GOSKOMPROGNOZSTAT. The seed industry component
will be implemented by the private sector. The project will provide for equipment, training and technical
assistance for the PIU and the CIUs (Chapter V).
3.44         Design of future programs. This sub-component will support the analytical work needed
for the Government to prepare feasibility studies for investments in support of the intensification of
agricultural production. Areas, so far, identified by Government for potential investment include:
collective farm restructuring and development, agricultural support services (research, extension,
marketing, farm management), irrigation rehabilitation, modernization of the cotton ginning industry,
rehabilitation and development of pasture resources, and development of agricultural exports (fruits,
vegetables, silk, grapes, berries, etc). The project provides a US$1.9 million lump sum allocation for
that purpose, including about US$0.6 million for pilot activities in support of project preparation. These
resources will be allocated to specific feasibility studies on the basis of detailed proposals prepared by
PIU and carried out through consulting services. The studies will be mutually agreed between the
Government and the Bank. An assurance to that effect has been given by Government during
negotiations.



25
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. PROJECT COSTS
4.1          Total project costs, including contingencies and applicable taxes and duties, are estimated
at US$84.6 million. This estimate covers expected expenditures in foreign exchange in the order of
US$62. 1 million (73.4 percent of total costs) and expected expenditure in local currency, other than taxes,
equivalent to US$22.5 million (26.6 percent of total costs). Taxes and duties are estimated at the
equivalent of US$6.1 million (7.2 percent of total costs). Table 4.1 summarizes project cost estimates
by component and category of expenditures. Details on project costs are given in Annex D. (Additional
project cost information is contained in Annex 6 of the Implementation Volume). The line of credit
supporting the private seed industry amounts to US$38.7 million, equivalent to about 46 percent of
project costs.
4.2          Cost estimates were derived from mission analysis based on discussions with Government
officials and intended project beneficiaries, and on the feasibility study and preparation reports submitted
by Government. Price contingencies are based on official Bank projections as of December, 1994.
Physical contingencies are estimated at 10 percent of base costs for civil works and equipment in line with
established Bank practice and experience under similar projects. Taxes and duties were estimated at 10
percent of base costs of equipment and civil works. This is the least firm estimate as Government has
not yet adopted a tax policy, nor made a decision on the tax status of externally supported development
programs. Assurance was given by the Government that any tax liability associated with public sector
project activities beyond the amount already covered will be financed by Government through their
annual budgetary process.
B. FINANCING PLAN
Sources of Funds
4.3          A Bank loan of US$66.0 million will finance 100 percent of expected expenditures in
foreign exchange and about 17.3 percent of expected expenditures in local currency. Bank financing of
incremental expenditures in local currency is needed because the project requires substantial and rapid
buildup of expenditures which Governrment is not yet organized to meet. Bank financing of recurrent
expenditures for the public sector part of the project will be provided on a declining basis (25 percent for
the first two years, 15 percent for the third and fourth year, and 0 percent in year five) in such a way
that Government will assume full funding responsibility through the normal budgetary process for all
recurrent expenditures associated with project activities in the public sector, starting with the fifth year
of the project period. The Bank loan to the Republic of Uzbekistan will have a maturity of 20 years,
including a 5-year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. The Government, through
GOSKOMPROGNOZSTAT, will finance about 47 percent of local costs, including payment of applicable
duties and taxes for the public sector components and sub-components. Similarly, the participating
private enterprises will finance about 34.7 percent of local costs, including applicable duties and taxes,
for the private sector components and sub-components. Table 4.2 summarizes the project financing plan.



26
TABLE 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(US$ MILLION)
Project Costs
Foreign    Component
Foreign    Local      Total    exchange    % of total
exchange  currency             % of total
Project Component
Seed Industry
Seed companies and          28.0      10.7       38.7        72.3         45.8
farms
Seed quality control         3.4       1.7        5.1        66.7          6.0
Marketing                      20.8       7.1       27.9        73.2         33.0
Integrated Pest Management      3.6        1.5       5.1        70.6          6.0
Irrigation                      2.5       1.1        3.6        69.4          4.2
Project Implementation Unit     1.9       0.4        2.3        82.6          2.7
Program Design                  1.9        -         1.9       100.0          2.2
Total                          62.1      22.5       84.6        73.4        100.0
Category of Expenditures
Civil works                     3.2       0.8        4.0        80.0          4.7
Equipment                      21.8       5.3       27.1        80.4         32.0
Training                        1.2        -         1.2       100.0          1.4
Technical Assistance            5.2       0.1        5.3        98.1          6.3
Program Design                  1.9        -         1.9       100.0          2.3
Line of credit                 28.0       10.7      38.7        72.4         45.7
Recurrent costs                 0.8       5.6        6.4        12.5          7.6
Total Costs                    62.1      22.5       84.6        73.0        100.0
TABLE 4.2:  PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ MILLION)
Foreign       Local                    Percent
Sources of Funds         exchange     currency  j   Total       of Total
IBRD                                62.1          3.9         66.0         78.0
Governnent                           -           10.8         10.8         12.8
Private sector                       -   1        7.8  |       7.8  |       9.2
Total                              62.1          22.5         84.6       100.0__1
Percent of Total                    73.4         26.6        100.0         --   1



27
Counterpart Funds
4.4           Timely implementation of public sector components and sub-components depends, to a
large extent, on the availability and timely flow of budgetary resources to the executing agencies. The
counterpart funds will be included in the approved annual budgets of the respective executing agencies
in conformity with provisions under the project, and will be made available to them at the beginning of
each budget year to give them the management flexibility and real authority to commit resources and sign
contracts in a timely manner. The Government provided assurances during negotiations to this effect
and that a line item will be introduced in the national budgetfor the cotton project, with all budgetary
allocations under that line item restricted for the sole use of the project. The executing agencies, in
turn, will allocate and transfer resources to their representative units at the level of Oblast and District
in a manner that will allow them to make timely decisions and give them unrestricted working authority
to enter into contractual arrangements. To facilitate the flow of budgetary contributions to the project,
a Project Account in the name of the PIU will be established to receive all counterpart funds in
conformity with provisions under the project. This revolving account will be established in a commercial
bank with an initial deposit of a minimum of US$0.5 million equivalent. The PIU will channel the funds
in this account to the executing agencies in conformity with the provisions under the project or any
subsequent agreements between Government and the Bank modifying such provisions. The Government
will replenish this account promptly on the basis of documentation covering eligible project expenditures.
Loan effectiveness will be conditional upon the Project Account being established and the initial deposit
of US$0.5 million being made into it.
Co-Financing
4.5           Training, technical assistance, and program design represent, respectively 1.4, 6.3 and
2.3 percent of total project costs. If the Government identifies a source of grant funds to finance part
or all of such expenditures, the use of Bank funds for that purpose will be reduced correspondingly and
reallocated to other project components on the basis of a joint review and mutual agreement between
Government and the Bank.
C. SPECIAL AccouNT
4.6           To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower will establish a Special Account (SA)
in US dollars in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to cover the IBRD's
share of expenditures. The commercial bank selected should have the capacity to perform the services
required under the project. To that end, the bank selected should have: (i) a significant foreign
correspondence network covering all major currencies; (ii) reasonable capacity and experience for issuing
letters of credit, for making direct foreign payments and other international transactions; (iii) the capacity
to perform a wide range of banking services, at local domestic branches, including cash payments,
transfers to other domestic banks, issuance of debit notes, application of conversion rates from foreign
currencies; (iv) the capacity to maintain adequate accounts for the SA as required by the World Bank and
provide monthly bank statements to the PIU; (v) the willingness to issue a Comfort Letter to assure that
amounts deposited in the SA will not be set off or otherwise seized or attached to satisfy amounts due
to the commercial bank by the Borrower; and (vi) the willingness to charge competitive rates for their
services and provide reasonable interest income on balances held.



28
4.7          The commercial bank selected to manage the SA will also manage the sub-loans accounts
under the line of credit for the Seed Component. The bank's primary responsibility in relation to the sub-
loans will be limited to disbursement of sub-loan proceeds and collection on behalf of the Government
of loan repayments. Approval of the sub-loans will be the responsibility of the finance department of the
PIU. Selection procedures for a bank to manage the SA were confirmed during negotiations.
Agreement between the Government and the World Bank on the commercial bank to effectively
maintain, disburse and collect projectfunds, and the signing of an agency agreement between this bank
agent and PIU will be a condition of disbursement against the private sector part of the seed
component.
4.8          The authorized allocation to the SA will be US$1.0 million, representing about four
months of average expenditures effected through the SA. The SA will not be used for payments in
foreign currency over US$50,000 which will be made through direct payments from the Loan Account.
At the request of the Borrower and, based on the project needs, the World Bank will make an initial
deposit or deposits into the SA up to the amount of the authorized allocation. Applications for the
replenishment of the Special Account may be submitted by PIU to the Bank on a monthly basis or when
one-third of the balance has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for
replenishment will follow the usual Bank procedures. In addition, monthly bank statements of the Special
Account which have been reconciled by the PIU will accompany all replenishment applications.
D. FLOW OF LOAN FUNDS
4.9          The proceeds of the loan will be channeled in two ways (see Annex 11 of the
Implementation Volume). First, funds to public sector implementing agencies will be received by the
Central Bank and channeled as special line items through the budgetary process. Second, due to lack of
established financial intermediation mechanisms, and due to the importance of supporting the
establishment of a seed industry in the private sector at this time, the funds earmarked for the line of
credit for private seed companies and their associated seed farms will be channeled by the Government
through the agent bank under a sub-loan agreement acceptable to the Bank.  Under the latter
arrangements, the selected commercial bank will serve as an agency bank primarily to disburse funds,
maintain accounts and recover sub-loans on behalf of the Government in exchange for a commission.
The Government will bear any default risk. The PIU, through the Credit Committee constituted by its
Finance department, will be responsible for the appraisal of sub-loans. PIU staff and their advisors will,
upon request, arrange for independent technical assistance to help sub-loan applicants develop business
plans and determine funding requirements to support their planned seed operations. The PIU Finance
department, assisted by the specially appointed Credit Commnittee, will appraise credit applications and
determine the conformance of such applications to the agreed sub-loan criteria. Once the appraisal is
completed and the eligibility for the sub-loan established, each credit application will be submitted to the
World Bank for review and clearance. Bank review will cover all technical, financial, institutional, and
environmental considerations related to the sub-loans. Following receipt of a "No Objection" from the
World Bank and on the basis of agreed eligibility criteria and terms of sub-loans (Annex E), the Deputy
Chairman GOSKOMPROGNOZSTAT will formally approve sub-loans upon the recommendation of the
PIU and concurrence by the cooperating commercial bank. The Government and the seed companies
benefiting from sub-loans will enter into sub-loan agreements specifying the terms and conditions of sub-
loans, security arrangements in case of default, procedures for withdrawal and utilization of loan
proceeds, monitoring and reporting arrangements, repayment schedule, and independent financial audit.
These arrangements were confirmed during negotiations.



29
4.10         A high proportion of the World Bank loan will be used for payments to foreign suppliers
of goods and services, either through the Special Account or direct from the World Bank by order from
the PIU. Financing of local, Bank-financed project expenditures will be on a reimbursable basis: the
agency incurring the expenditure will first make a payment for the eligible goods or services, submit a
withdrawal application to PIU which will authorize reimbursement from the loan-funded Special Account.
4.11         The PIU will include, in its accounting arrangements, procedures for recording all project
funding, whether as sub-loans to individual seed companies, direct contribution by seed companies,
and/or funds through budgetary process for public sector executing agencies to cover agreed project
expenditures. GOSKOMPROGNOZSTAT, on behalf of the Government, will enter into an agency
agreement with an agency bank to monitor disbursement of the line of credit and recover repayment
(principal and interest) of the sub-loans, including the part borrowed by the seed companies on behalf of
their associated seed farms.
4.12         The Government share of financing will be channeled directly through the budgets of the
executing agencies concerned in accordance with normal Government procedures, with appropriate
accounting, reporting and audit arrangements for the project. The expenditures to be financed through
the contribution of private seed companies and private seed farms will be financed directly by them, with
appropriate records maintained and subject to independent audit.
E. ON-LENDING TERMS
4. 13        The prevailing macroeconomic situation makes it difficult to devise appropriate Sum-based
on-lending terms. Accordingly, the Government and the World Bank agreed that the sub-loans to private
seed companies will be denominated in US dollars. The interest rate to sub-borrowers will be the long
term dollar rate (US 10-year Bond rate) in effect at the time sub-loans are made (the base rate) plus a
margin of 3.0 percent. This margin will cover administrative costs, including commissions to the
commercial bank for processing disbursements and the recovery of sub-loans, the cost to the PIU for
administering the line of credit, and the Government cross-currency exchange and default risks. The sub-
loans to private seed companies will have a maximum maturity period of 10 years, including a three-year
grace period. Financial terms of the sub-loans and eligibility criteria are given in Annex E. Since the
amount outstanding and the repayment will be in US dollars, the exchange risk (between the US$ and
the Sum) will be borne by the private seed companies. The Government will bear the cross-currency risk
between the basket of currencies in the Bank loan and the US dollar. The private seed companies are
expected to be able to bear the foreign exchange risk because these companies and the private seed farms
associated with them are expected to have access to foreign exchange from export sales of lint, and to
be commercially viable (para 6.8) at the liberalized market price for cotton seed and lint. In case the
activities of seed companies are limited to the processing and sale of planting seed on the local market,
arrangements will be made in the sub-loan agreement for repayment of the sub-loan to be made in the
local currency - Sum equivalent. During the World Bank's five-year grace period, reflows from sub-
loan repayment will be used for the same purpose as specified under the project for the private seed
industry.
F. COST RECOVERY
4.14         Private sector activities will account for about 47 percent of the loan proceeds. These
funds will be repaid with interest to the Government within the agreed terms of individual sub-loans



30
which will not exceed 10 years. The remaining 53 percent of loan proceeds will finance priority public
sector activities aimed at facilitating the transition of the cotton sub-sector into the market economy. The
value to potential beneficiaries of the services emanating from these public sector activities will not be
obvious to them at the onset of the project, and possibly not even during the project period. Accordingly,
no provision is made under the project for the recovery of the cost of the public sector components. The
project, however, will be instrumental in introducing the principle of "fee for service" under the
marketing and the irrigation components, and under the seed testing and certification sub-components and
provides for technical assistance for that purpose. Although their potential value to the cotton sub-sector
as a whole is obvious, individual beneficiaries will take time to recognize how such services affect the
profitability of their individual operations, and thus attach a financial value to each service. It will not,
therefore, be practical to expect beneficiaries to start paying for the services at the onset of the project,
nor will it be practical to expect Government develop the capacity and workable mechanisms to recover
the full cost of those services during the project period. Accordingly, the following provisions are made
for cost recovery under the public sector part of the project:
Seed Testing and Certification
4.15          It will take two to three years for the first seed companies and the associated seed farms
to become operational. It will also take two to three years for Government to develop a capacity for cost-
effective seed testing and certification. A period of learning and experimentation will be needed. The
Seed Certification and Seed Law Agency will, therefore, concentrate during the first three years of the
project on establishing an effective testing and certification system and on demonstrating to seed
producers, processors and users the value to them of seed testing and certification. By the end of the
third project year (June 30, 1998), this agency will prepare a plan for the full recovery of the costs of
their services and submit it to Government and the World Bank for review and approval. It is expected
that cost recovery will start in the fourth year of the project period (June 30, 1999).
Cotton Marketing
4.16          The cotton grading system is expected to be introduced in three phases to accommodate
the need for training the staff in the use of equipment and in the interpretation and dissemination of the
information generated. The first phase, which is critical for defining work procedures and standards,
involves the installation of a limited cotton grading capacity. The bulk of the classing equipment is
expected to be installed during the third and fourth years of the project period. For these reasons, and
in order to allow SIFAT to assess the true costs of the cotton grading services, SIFAT will not be
required to concentrate on the cost recovery issue until the third year of the project period. A plan to
that effect will be prepared by June 30, 1998 and submitted to Government and the World Bank for
review and approved. The plan will be implemented, starting the fourth cropping season under the
project (June 30, 1999).
Irrigation Scheduling
4.17          The concept that water has a financial cost is alien to farmers in Uzbekistan. The project
aims to introduce irrigation water saving practices on about 5 percent of the irrigated area. The
Government hopes that, through the demonstration effect of this intervention, farmers will learn how to
address the problems associated with excessive use of water and will recognize the benefits to them from
effective irrigation. In addition, to motivate farmers to use water economically, Government will
introduce measures to recover the cost of irrigation water from farmers. To that end, UZAGROINFORM



31
will use the experience gained during the first two years of the project to prepare a plan for the
recovery of the cost of irrigation water to be submitted to Goverrnment and the World Bank by June 30,
1997 for review and approval. The agreed plan will provide the basis for pricing of irrigation water
under this and future projects supporting irrigated agriculture, and for initiating the collection of water
charges under this project no later than June 30, 1998. This will assist Government in realizing their
objective to introduce water charges in irrigation as stated in the letter of Development Policy sent to the
Bank in conjunction with the Rehabilitation Loan.
G. PROCUREMENT
4.18          The procurement of all goods funded from the loan proceeds will be in accordance with
the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January, 1995) ". Local
goods will be eligible for a preference as provided in the Guidelines. The Bank's standard bidding and
contracting documents for the Procurement of Goods and the construction of (Smaller) Works will be
used for International Competitive Bidding (ICB), Direct Contracting (DC) and National Competitive
Bidding (NCB). Consultants hired for training and technical assistance will be employed in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines "Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as
Executing Agency (August 1981)". The methods of procurement under the project are summarized in
Table 4.3. Details for procurement arrangements are provided in Annex F hereto and Annex 7 of the
Implementation Volume.
4.19          Primary responsibility for overseeing implementation of procurement procedures will rest
with the PIU. (See Annex H for details). It will be guided by a Procurement Specialist, financed under
the Loan, familiar with Bank procedures, and if needed, other donors' rules and procurement guidelines.
The program of assistance will include general training for PIU and appropriate staff of executing
agencies on procedures and contract administration to support the procurement of the indicated
equipment, civil works and technical assistance. PIU staff will provide advice regarding the preparation
of necessary documentation and implementation of the Bank's Standard Bidding and Procurement
documentation, with needed addenda or supplements, as approved by the Bank, prior to solicitation,
evaluation and contract negotiation, as appropriate. Terms of reference for technical assistance and
vendor lists will be routed to the Bank, as appropriate, for needed reviews, concurrence or no-objection.
The PIU will include information on its procurement activities in periodic reports to the Bank. (See
Annexes H and I hereof.)
4.20          The project will include procurement by private sector seed processing companies and
their associated seed multiplication farms, and procurement by public sector agencies. Private sector
activities under the credit line will constitute about 45 percent of overall, non-tax expenditures for capital
and recurrent costs. Within the private sector portion, about 38 percent is expected to involve purchases
under International Competitive Bidding, 51 percent will be purchased using International Shopping and
the balance (11 percent) will be expended using Local Shopping. The public sector portion will involve
55 percent of non-tax project costs and will be divided between equipment and works expenditures (about
68 percent), recurrent costs (14 percent), and training, consultant services and program design (about 18
percent). About 58 percent of public sector purchases of equipment will be done through International
Competitive Bidding. Although there will be different procurement method thresholds for the public and
private sector elements of the Project, the PIU will administer reviews and process documentation for
both segments.



32
TABLE 4.3: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ MILLION)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category                            ICB*               NCB*                 Other                Total
Civil works                                                   -                  4.0"1                                     4.0
(3.2)                -                   (3.2)
Equipment                                                   15.8                  -                  11.3'               27.1
___________________________                 ~~~(12.6)     __   _   _  _   _(9. 1)                         (21.7)
Training                                                                       =-                     1.2) 3               1.2
_____________                       ~~~~~~(1.2)           (1.2)
Technical Assistance                                                              -                   4.8 3                4.8
(4.8)                (4.8)
Program  Design                                               -                   -                   1.93/                1.9
(1.9)                (1.9)
Line of Credit                                              14.5                  -                 24.24'               38.7
(12.5)                                 (18.5)                (31.0)
Recurrent Costs                                                                   -                   6.35'                6.3
(1.6)                (1.6)
Project Preparation  Facility                                 -                   -                  0.66/                 0.6
(0.6)                (0.6)
Total                                  30.3                  4.0               50.3                  84.6
(25.1)               (3.2)              (37.7)               (66.0)
* ICB: International Competitive Bidding; NCB: National Competitive Bidding, per Bank Guidelines.
i/        Competitive (sealed bid) procurement of construction services for public sector cotton/seed grading facilities.
2/        Includes Direct Contracting (DC) for proprietary computer software, spare parts, etc. purchased under the Guidelines (US$.980 million). Also included
are International Shopping (IS) purchases for off-the-shelf items (US$8.3 million), and Local Shopping (LS) (US$2.0 million), in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines, January, 1995.
3/         Training and study tours (US$I.2 million), and program design and project support/consulting services ($6.7 million) shall be procured in accordance
with World Bank Guidelines: Use of Consultants, 1981.
4/         Goods and materials (including ancillary installation services) and seed multiplication inputs procured under the Credit Line: IS for off-the-shelf items
(US$19.9 million); Local Shopping for small value, locally available equipment and construction inputs (US$1.0 million). Also included are US$3.3
million for taxes and/or incremental recurrent costs procured using Local Shopping and Statements of Expenditure, approved by the Bank as elements
of annual component budgets.
5/         Public sector taxes (US$2.8 million) and miscellaneous purchases/incremental recurrent costs approved by the Bank as part of annual budget reviews
(US$3.5 million), procured using Local Shopping and Statements of Expenditure.
6/         Project Preparation Facility (PPF) - US$550,000 - financing initial consulting services, start-up equipment, supplies, communications, and misc. expenses
for PIU and CIU units.



33
Public Sector Procurement
Goods and Equipment
4.21         Procurement actions by public sector agencies for goods and equipment are expected to
be undertaken within the following guidelines:
(a)   ICB Procurement. International Competitive Bidding (ICB) will be conducted
in accordance with Section 11 of the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January, 1995 (the Guidelines). ICB
procedures will be used for all public sector equipment and materials purchases
expected to exceed US$300,000 per contract. In this manner, out of a total of
approximately US$27.1 million (about US$21.7 million of Loan funds) allocated
for the purchase of goods and equipment, about US$15.8 million (US$12.6
million in Loan funds) or 58 percent will be obtained using ICB procedures.
Principal categories for ICB procurement are seed testing and certification
equipment, HVI lines, cotton classing and marketing equipment, and materials
and equipment for the Irrigation component. In the comparison of bids for
equipment purchased under ICB, domestic goods will be allowed a preferential
margin over the competing price of imports, as provided for in Appendix 2 of
the Bank Guidelines. The public sector element is expected to have about six
ICB contracts, averaging approximately US$2.64 million each;
(b)    Direct Contracting.  Direct contracting is expected because some computer
netware and materials testing components would need functional compatibility
and standardization for training, operations and spare parts purposes. Such
equipment, software and spares would only be available from a proprietary
source.  These purchases would be implemented in accordance with the
Guidelines and are expected to involve two contract actions, totaling
approximately US$1.0 million (US$800,000 in Loan funds). The Bank will
review and clear ICB and DC procedures, bid documentation, evaluations/awards
and resulting contracts on an ex-ante basis; and provide "No-Objections" as
provided for in the Guidelines;
(c)   International Shopping. International Shopping (IS) may be authorized for
readily available, off-the-shelf purchases valued at under US$300,000 per
contract. International Shopping will be based on quotations from at least three
suppliers, from at least two different eligible Bank-member countries, as
indicated in the Bank's Guidelines. International Shopping is expected to total
about US$8.3 million (US$6.6 million in Loan funds) and involve approximately
35 purchases averaging about US$238,000 each. Procurement and contracting
actions would be cleared by the PIU and subject to review by Bank staff on an
ex-post basis during supervision missions; and
(d)    Local Shopping. To support project needs for minor equipment and materials,
office support and supplies, transport, communications, etc., it is expected that
the PIU and CIUs will need to initiate small value purchases using Local



34
Shopping techniques described in the Guidelines. Local Shopping will also be
the method for procuring miscellaneous supplies and services that are part of
recurrent costs. These purchases are expected to cover contracts under
US$50,000 equivalent each and be effected by obtaining at least three price
quotations from different eligible suppliers.  These purchases (expected to
average about US$36,300 each) will be used for small value and readily
available, off-the-shelf items. Such purchases are expected to number about 55
transactions over the life of the project and involve about US$2.0 million
(US$1.6 million in Loan funds). Small value purchases will be subject to ex-post
documentation reviews, with payments being reimbursed by Special Account and
Statement of Expenditure.
Civil Works
4.22         Procurement actions by public sector agencies for renovation of buildings and construction
of small inspection and testing facilities are expected to be geographically dispersed and, because they
are low in value, would probably not be of interest to foreign contractors. Nevertheless, to promote
competitive procurement, the PIU will help the CIUs implement informal, but structured procurement
procedures to obtain these construction services. These small civil works activities are expected to
involve about twenty contracts, averaging about US$205,000 each. The total for public civil works
would be about US$4.0 million (US$3.2 million in Loan funds). All civil works contracts shall be
procured locally on a competitive basis, following procedures acceptable to the Bank. For contracts
above US$250,000 equivalent, national competitive bidding procedures shall be used. This procedure
will be consistent with Section 3.4 of the Guidelines and include the use of the Region's standard bidding
documents (for works over US$250,000), dated July 1994. At the option of the Government, the
procedure may include payments in local currency, publications and documentation in the local language,
and local procedures for the settlement of disputes. Works contracts under US$250,000 each (estimated
to involve about US$2.1 million in loan funds) would use the Region's standard Local Competitive
Bidding (small works) documentation, dated June 1994. To avoid inefficiencies in the administration of
these small value (under US$250,000) works activities, project participation would follow a more stream-
lined procedure. While competition among interested finns, obtaining sealed bids, public bid opening
and structured evaluations would be in accordance with Section 3.4 of the new Guidelines, this under
US$250,000 procedure would also include, for small value (e.g. renovation) works, the option of
procurement based on comparison of the least three bids from qualified contractors that was a feature of
local shopping in the former Guidelines. Such procedures will be acceptable to the Bank. Except for
the first two works bid packages and all those over US$600,000, documentation and procurement steps
subject to ex-post review. Public sector works procurements not getting prior Bank review would be
subject to examination during supervision missions or audits. If post-qualification is used, it would be
based on specific requirements clearly stated in the bidding and evaluation documents.
Consulting Services
4.23         Professional and technical services will be obtained to assist PIU and CIU staffs with the
planning, implementation and monitoring of project activities. Services will also be purchased for
training and for the design of future investment programs. The use of local consulting firms and
personnel will be encouraged to develop domestic capabilities. Firms and individual experts will be
engaged in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the
World Bank as Executing Agency, published in August, 1981. Terms of Reference for all consultant



35
assignments, solicitation methods and all documentation and contracts for consultant services valued at
greater than US$100,000 each for firms and US$50,000 each for contracts with individuals will be subject
to prior Bank review and approval. These are expected to be about thirteen consulting services contracts
under the public sector portion of the project, totaling approximately US$8.3 million and averaging about
US$610,000, that will be subject to prior Bank review and approval. It is expected that three contracts
with individuals, averaging about US$140,000 will also be subject to prior Bank review. Where
practicable, technical assistance, such as that needed for systems installation and/or maintenance services,
will be sought as part of procurement packages to improve accountability and reduce costs and
administrative burdens.
Private Sector Procurement
4.24          The project will include a US$38.7 million credit line for the private seed companies to
use for seed plant construction and equipment and to improve production activities of their associated seed
multiplication farms. Procurement under this credit line will be the responsibility of the private sector
with guidance, as needed, provided by the PIU Procurement Advisor and staff. Procurement procedures
and documentation will be reviewed by the PIU and the Bank as part of the sub-loan application approval
process. Equipment, materials and site improvements for the seed plants, and farm machinery and inputs
to improve seed multiplication, will be purchased from international and domestic sources. Details on
such procurements will be included in sub-loan applications and annual business plans. Local taxes will
be financed by sources other than loan funds.
4.25          The threshold for ICB equipment procurement under this credit line will be US$3.0
million per contract. Purchases above this threshold will be implemented in accordance with the
Guidelines and Schedule 4, Part B, of the Loan Agreement. Items or groups of items estimated to cost
the equivalent of less than US$3.0 million per contract will be procured on the basis of procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Private sector procurement plans, procedures and, as needed documentation will
be reviewed and approved in advance by the Bank. The construction or modification of seed processing
facilities by the private seed companies is expected to be handled by the owners or their equipment
suppliers. Turnkey plant contracts could be used, but are not contemplated at this time. If construction
contracting is needed in some facilities, it would be carried out using the procedures and threshold for
civil works described in paragraph 4.22.  Requests for proprietary contracting authority will be
considered by the Bank, as required. Recurrent costs - utilities, consumables, parts, etc. - of the seed
plants and farms may be eligible for financing if they are included in the firms' annual operating plans,
approved in advance by the Bank, be procured using procedures acceptable to the Bank. Procurement
plans and documentation will be included in the sub-loan applications and annual budgets. These plans
will be reviewed by the Bank for each sub-loan; comments or "No-Objection" will be given by the Task
Manager.
4.26          In view of the lack of experience of private sector importers with international purchasing,
the PIU Procurement Specialist will also be available to assist private sector project participants develop
procurement procedures, market searches, pre-qualification, specifications development, bid documents,
evaluations, contracts, logistics controls, and payment procedures.
4.27          An expatriate Procurement Specialist will be engaged under the Loan to help the PIU
develop procurement plans and establish procurement procedures. The specialist will help prepare
documentation and, via consultations and site visits, guide PIU and CIU staffs with planning, bid



36
packages, solicitations, evaluations, contracting and reporting requirements. The procurement specialist
will also help coordinate documentation flows needed to secure the World Bank's clearances and "No-
Objections" on consultants' TORs, equipment packages, and other documentation needing prior reviews.
In addition, the Bank will monitor procurement activities, contract administration and project record
keeping during periodic supervision missions.
4.28          In summary, public sector ICB and DC purchases will be subject to prior Bank reviews
and "No-Objections", as provided for in the Guidelines. This procurement plan will result in the Bank's
prior reviews of approximately 62 percent of Bank's funds committed for materials and equipment. Bank
prior reviews of private sector ICB procurement will comprise about 41 percent of loan funds supporting
the Credit Line. In addition to reviewing TORs, reviews of contracting actions for consulting services
will cover an estimated 94 percent of total Bank funding for public sector consulting services inputs.
H. DISBURSEMENT
4.29          The project is expected to be completed within a five-year period, the completion date
being June 30, 2000. The disbursement profile for the project is based on Bank experience with similar
projects in other countries. Disbursement will follow normal World Bank procedures, as summarized
in the Disbursement Handbook. Loan proceeds will be disbursed against eligible categories of project
expenditures: (i) by means of special commitments to support letters of credit issued by the borrower's
bank in favor of foreign suppliers of goods; (ii) directly to suppliers; or (iii) by way of reimbursement
against eligible expenditures already incurred by Government agencies/private companies participating
in project execution (Annex G).
4.30          The loan will finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange expenditures. It will also
finance about 20 percent of incremental local currency expenditures, net of taxes. In the aggregate, the
loan is expected to be disbursed against 80 percent of the expenditures associated with the public sector
components and the one associated with the private sector component. Disbursements will be made in
the ratios indicated below against total expenditures actually incurred under the project:
(a)    Civil Works (US$4.0 million). The Bank will disburse against 80 percent of total
expenditures;
(b)    Equipment (US$27.1 million). The Bank will disburse against 100 percent of
foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures ex-factory cost, or 80
percent of local expenditures for imported equipment procured locally;
(c)    Training (US$1.2 million) and technical assistance (US$7.1 million). The
Bank will disburse 100 percent of total expenditures;
(d)    Program Design (US$1.9 million). The Bank will disburse against 100 percent
of total expenditures;
(e)    Line of Credit (US$38.7 million). The Bank will disburse against 100 percent
of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures ex-factory cost, or 80
percent of local expenditures for imported equipment procured locally;



37
(f)    Recurrent costs (salaries, communications, office equipment and maintenance,
vehicles operation and maintenance, travel related to public sector components
(US$6.3 million). The Bank will disburse against 25 percent of total expenditures
for the first two years, and 15 percent for the third and fourth years. No
recurrent costs will be financed from the Bank loan during the fifth year; and
(g)    Refinancing of PPF. Amount due to the Bank US$0.55 million.
Disbursements will be fully documented except that Statement of Expenditures (SOE) will
be used for: (i) contracts for goods, civil works and consulting companies costing less than US$250,000
equivalent; and (ii) contracts for individual consultants and training programs costing less than US$50,000
equivalent. All other disbursements will be fully documented. Full documentation in support of SOEs
will be retained by the PIU for at least two years after disbursement. This information will be available
for review by World Bank missions during supervision and by auditors. The minimum application size
for direct payments, special commitments or replenishment of the Special Account will be US$50,000.
The estimated disbursement of the IBRD Loan by years is indicated below and in Annex G.
TABLE 4.4: DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ MILLION )
Bank Fiscal Year (ending June 30)
1996      1997      1998  (  1999        2000
| Annual             3.5      12.0      22.0      18.0        10.5
| Cumulative         3.5      15.5      37.5      55.5        66.0
I. AcCOUNTING
4.31         The project will have sound accounting and internal control systems capable of reliably
recording and reporting all financial transactions. (See Annex 10 of the Implementation Volume.)
Accounting and internal control systems acceptable to the Bank will be put in place to allow PIU to
determine that procurement procedures are being followed and that only eligible expenditures are included
in disbursements and replenishments through the Special Account. This system must be operational when
project expenditures begin. For the use of Statements of Expenditures, the PIU will process and maintain
SOE documentation. For the Special Account mechanism, the PIU and the depository commercial bank
will introduce arrangements for proper accounting of receipts, payments, and submission of disbursement
documentation to the World Bank for replenishment of the account.
J. REPORTING
4.32         The PIU will establish and maintain a Management Information System (MIS) to track
activities under the public and private sector elements of the loan. The information system should enable



38
the PIU to determine that procurement procedures are being followed and that only eligible expenditures
are included in the Government's Special Account reimbursement requests. Such information will allow
the PIU to monitor critical project activities, provide the basis for its periodic and project completion
reporting, and support project accounting and audit needs. PIU will provide quarterly reports to the
World Bank covering the financial and physical performance of the project.
4.33          The financial status will be reported through the quarterly and annual accounts which will
reflect the cash receipts from all sources and expenditures related to each component and category and
the overall financial performance of the project. The detailed annual accounts for the project will not
only include expenditures directly financed by the World Bank Loan, but also the expenditures financed
by the participating private entities and the government agencies. These reports will reflect actual project
expenditures versus budgeted expenditures for the most recent fiscal quarter, fiscal year-to-date, and
project inception-to-date. The Project's annual audited financial statements will be prepared following
the generally accepted accounting principles as prescribed by the Laws of Uzbekistan. It will comprise
a balance sheet, a statement of income and expenditures, a statement of cash flows, and notes to financial
statements, together with any additional information that may be required by the World Bank.
4.34          As Special Accounts and SOEs will be used in this project, the PIU will be requested to
submit, together with accounts for the project, on a quarterly basis: (i) a schedule of SOE expenditures;
and (ii) a summary of the Special Account activity and reconciliation with the Special Account balance
in the commercial bank account and a summary of the activity in the project account. All unaudited
quarterly reports will be submitted to reach the World Bank no later than 30 days after the end of the
quarter in question.
4.35          The annual audited financial statements that will be required of participating private
companies will comprise a balance sheet, a statement of income and expenditures, a statement of cash
flows, and comprehensive notes to financial statements. The financial statements will be prepared by the
participating private companies on an annual basis, following the generally accepted accounting principles
as prescribed by the laws of Uzbekistan, together with any additional information that may be required
by the World Bank. In addition, the participating private companies will provide to the PIU, on a
quarterly basis, unaudited accounts for the seed operations summarizing the cash receipts and
expenditures, by components and categories financed (e.g., civil works, equipment). The account will
include not only the expenditures directly financed by the World Bank through the sub-loans, but also
the expenditures financed by the participating private companies themselves. The account will reflect
activity for the most recent fiscal quarter, fiscal year-to-date, and project inception-to-date. All unaudited
quarterly reports will be submitted to reach the World Bank no later than 30 days after the end of the
quarter in question. (See Annex 12 of the Implementation Volume.)
4.36          Quarterly project reports on the physical performance of the project showing actual and
planned performance for the quarter and progress todate will also be prepared and submitted to the Bank.
These reports, also submitted to reach the Bank no later than 30 days after the end of each quarter, will
include comments highlighting project progress and significant bottlenecks, showing an action plan for
remedial actions where necessary. Detailed reporting requirements will be finalized during the project
launch workshop and will include key physical and financial indicators. In addition, a comprehensive
joint mid-term review will be carried out by the PIU and the World Bank, within three months from the
end of 30 months from project effectiveness. Agreement on reporting procedures, accounts for the
project, financial statements and monitoring targets will be reached during negotiations.



39
K. AUDITING
4.37         Annual reports for the project accounts, including SOEs and Special Account for each
fiscal year, will be audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards by an independent
auditor, acceptable to the World Bank. The sub-borrowers will also provide, to the PIU, annual financial
statements and accounts for the sub-projects which are audited in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards by an independent auditor, acceptable to the World Bank.
4.38         The auditors will be appointed annually by the PIU and sub-borrowers at the beginning
of the fiscal year, so that the auditors may commence reviews sufficiently early in the fiscal year to
complete the audit in a timely manner. The auditors will prepare and submit an annual Engagement
Letter, which will be discussed and accepted by the World Bank prior to commencement of the audit.
The financial statements and the auditors' opinion and auditors' management reports, including PIU's
response to the auditors' comments should be submitted to the World Bank no later than six months after
completion of the fiscal year in question.



40
V. PROJECT MANAGEMENT, IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION
A. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
5.1          The Government Planning Agency GOSKOMPROGNOZSTAT, acting through the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), will be responsible for coordinating project implementation. It will also
administer the line of credit and support the Component Implementation Units (CIUs) in the execution
of their respective project components. The Cotton Quality Control Agency SIFAT, through its CIU,
will be responsible for implementation of the cotton marketing component. The Institute of Plant
Protection UZNIIZR, through its CIU, will be responsible for implementation of the Integrated Pest
Management Component. The Ministry of Agriculture, acting through its Seed Department, will oversee
the implementation of the seed component by the Central and regional Seed Certification and Seed Law
Units, the Plant Variety Protection Office, and, in connection with the adherence to the provisions of the
Seed Policy and Seed Law, the private seed companies. The Ministry of Agriculture, acting through
UZAGROINFORM, will also be responsible for implementation of the Irrigation component.
5.2          The PIU was established in GOSKOMPROGNOZSTAT as part of the capacity building
effort under the project. The PIU will be fully integrated in this agency. The need for the PIU is
justified on the basis that the project involves multiple agencies at the national and regional levels, all
of which have not had experience with the implementation of externally funded programs. For that
reason, the Government gave the PIU responsibility to coordinate the management and implementation
of the project. A Project Working Group (PWG) consisting of senior officials from agencies participating
in the project was established to assist and advise PIU to coordinate project implementation. The PWG
is chaired by the Deputy Chairman of GOSKOMPROGNOZSTAT and includes representatives from
MOA (Seed Department and UZAGROINFORM), UZNIIZR, and SIFAT. The membership of the PWG
will be expanded to include a representative of the private seed companies once such companies are
constituted, a representative of the Ministry of Finance, and a representative of the commercial bank
handling the project accounts. The PWG will meet periodically at the request of PIU to address
implementation problems that require inter-agency coordination and intervention.
5.3          The  Project Director heading  the  PIU  reports  to  the  Deputy  Chairman
GOSKOMPROGNOZSTAT. Under the project, the Director will have the authority and associated
accountability to: (i) recruit, manage and supervise qualified staff; (ii) open and operate accounts in local
and foreign currencies; (iii) select and supervise professional consulting services; and (iv) decide on and
execute operational plans. The PIU will consist of four departments: (i) Finance; (ii) Procurement; (iii)
Monitoring, Evaluation and Program Design; and (iv) Administration and Personnel. Each of these
departments will be headed by a deputy director to be appointed by the Deputy Chairman
GOSKOMPROGNOZSTAT. Agreement reached during appraisal on the detailed organizational
structure, functions, staffing plans, operational procedures and scope of authority of the PIU were
confirmed by Government during negotiations (Annex H). Further details on the PIU are given in
Annex 8 of the Implementation Volume.
5.4          The Finance department of the PIU will be responsible for: (i) maintaining overall project
accounts; (ii) all disbursement activities, including management of the Special Account; (iii)
administration of the line of credit for the seed component until a suitable financial institution is identified
to take over that responsibility; and (iv) monitoring the project accounts and initiating action for their
replenishment. The Finance department staff, with sufficient technical experience and qualification, will,



41
on demand, assist private seed companies and associated seed farms in the preparation of loan applications
supported by business plans to meet requirements under the line of credit. They will also cooperate with
the participating commercial bank in developing an effective system for timely processing of applications
for sub-loans. An international financial management specialist, with experience in accounting and in
managing credit operations will provide the Finance department with necessary support in managing
project accounts and organizing the use of the line of credit (18 staff months). An international business
development/organization specialist will help the finance department with promoting the effective use of
the line of credit by the private sector (24 staff months). The two international specialists will work with
the deputy director Finance and will report to the Director PIU. In addition, a credit specialist will be
attached to the agency bank for a period of 18 months to assist in the development and introduction of
procedures for administering the line of credit.
5.5           The Procurement department will assist CIUs in organizing procurement in conformity
with World Bank guidelines. This assistance will be in the form of: (i) training; (ii) dissemination of
information on guidelines and procedures; (iii) arranging for collective procurement of items of a similar
nature such as computers and vehicles to attract lower prices and minimize overhead procurement costs;
and (iv) monitoring adherence to World Bank procurement guidelines. An international procurement
specialist with familiarity with World Bank procedures will provide the procurement department with the
necessary support in overseeing and supporting procurement activities under the project (18 staff months).
The international specialist will work with the deputy director Procurement and will report to the Director
PIU.
5.6           The Monitoring, evaluation and program design department will coordinate and monitor
the implementation of various project components and sub-components. The department will also
organize and manage the studies intended to serve as the basis for designing future investment programs.
Quarterly and yearly progress reports will be prepared by this department based on their monitoring and
evaluation activities and on the reporting received from the CIUs. An international agricultural economist
with experience in monitoring and evaluation and in project design will provide this department with
needed support to develop its internal capacity to perform their functions (18 staff months). The
international agricultural economist will work with the deputy director Monitoring, evaluation and
program design and will report to the Director PIU.
5.7           The Director PIU has been appointed. The deputy directors will be appointed prior to
loan effectiveness. Arrangements (Terms of reference and short list agreed with the Bank of Firms
invited to submit proposals) for the engagement of a fi7n/organization to supply the international staff
for PIU will be in place prior to loan effectiveness.
B. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.8           GOSKOMPROGNOZSTAT will be responsible for coordinating project implementation
through PIU which will coordinate all the work related to budgeting, procurement, disbursement, audit,
monitoring and evaluation, reporting, and appraisal of the sub-loans. Actual implementation of project
components and sub-components will be the responsibility of individual CIUs located within the executing
agencies, in the case of public sector components, and the responsibility of the management of individual
seed companies in the case of the private sector component. As part of the capacity building under the
project, the core part of each executing department will constitute the CIU for its respective component.



42
The CIU managers will be selected and appointed prior to loan effectiveness. GOSKOMPROGNOZSTAT
will take the necessary steps to secure appropriate assurances for project support from the authorities
concerned in the Regions.
Seed Industry
5.9           Coordination of the on-lending program and monitoring the flow of funds to seed
companies will be the responsibility of the PIU in cooperation with the participating agent bank. A credit
committee constituted by the Finance department of PIU will appraise the sub-loan applications submitted
by seed companies. The Credit Committee will include, inter alia, the PIU Finance Department Director,
the Financial Management Specialist, the Credit Specialist, a representative of the Ministry of Finance,
and a representative of the agent Bank. This committee will ensure that the proposals meet the eligibility
criteria as specified in Annex E and, on that basis, make recommendations to the Director PIU on the
advisability of approving the sub-loan. Those recommendations will be reported in an evaluation report
prepared by the Credit Specialist, in his/her capacity as Committee Secretariat. The PIU Director will
then submit each sub-loan application, along with the evaluation report to the World Bank for review.
Bank review will cover the technical, financial, institutional and environmental considerations related to
the sub-loan. The final approval will be given by the Deputy Chairman GOSKOMPROGNOZSTAT
following receipt of a no-objection from the World Bank. Once the sub-loan is approved and the
subsidiary loan agreement is signed, funds will be released by the participating agent bank following an
agreed disbursement schedule. PIU and the participating agent bank will cooperate in all activities related
to accounting, reporting, and recovery of sub-loans. The day-to-day implementation activities and
associated decisions in establishing and operating the seed companies will be the responsibility of their
respective management appointed by their respective boards of directors in conformity with their
constituting charters.
Seed Quality Control
5.10          The Seed Certification and Seed Law Agency under the Cotton Seed Department, and its
associated Oblast Seed Certification and Seed Law Units will operate as an autonomous agency to provide
disinterested and impartial oversight on the application of the national seed law and seed policy, and to
ensure that seed produced have the characteristics stated on their label. The Plant Variety Protection
Office will establish variety protection rules and maintain a registry of cotton varieties. Agreement on
transforming the Seed Quality Control Agency into an autonomous unit was confirmed by Government
during negotiations (paras. 3.14 and 4.15).
5.11          To assist the Seed Certification and Seed Law Agency in ensuring timely and effective
project implementation, the project provides for technical assistance. Terms of reference are given in
Annex 1 of the Implementation Volume. This includes:
(a)    one seed certification specialist (18 staff months) to train and assist the local staff
during the first three years of the project;
(b)    one seed testing and laboratory management specialist (18 months) to help the
agency introduce ISTA testing procedures, and set up a management scheduling
system for seed testing and for reporting test results. The specialist will also
train local staff to help them take over responsibility for these functions within
the first three project years; and



43
(c)    short term  specialists (12 staff months) to meet project requirements in
specialized subjects as the need arises.
Cotton Marketing
5.12          SIFAT will be responsible for implementing this component. It will establish facilities
with sufficient capacity for grading all cotton produced in the country. It will organize the training of
sufficient staff to run those facilities and interpret and disseminate the information generated to potential
users. Training for the HVI operation during the installation period should be made part of the contract
for the supply of the instruments. In addition, because HVI machines operate at high speed through a
combination of hydraulic robotics, electronic circuit boards, integrated computer data collection systems,
and manual operation, they are susceptible to breakdowns and malfunctions. Training in malfunction
diagnostics and repair procedures will, therefore, be essential. This training will be in the form of study
tours to participate in internship type programs and workshops abroad, as well as on-the-job training
provided by international specialists. These specialists' primary function will be to train local staff in
the classing schools and by working with them at different stages of project implementation. The
specialists needed will include an HVI technical repair and maintenance specialist (18 staff months), a
classing specialist (27 staff months), a classing systems specialist (18 staff months), a computer systems
analyst/senior programmer (21 staff months), a database administrator/management specialist (18 staff
months), a cotton marketing specialist with HVI expertise (3 staff months), and a ginning specialist with
HVI experience (12 staff months). Indicative terms of reference for these specialists are given in Annex
2 of the Implementation Volume. In addition to training staff in charge of grading cotton, major
emphasis will be given to training industry-related personnel (marketing, spinning, ginning, seed
breeding) in the use of the data generated to its full advantage. A training program, along with a
timetable for hiring the international specialists will be part of the annual work program for the HVI
component which will be discussed and agreed with the Bank. In order to ensure the operational
orientation of the training at the classing school, the same specialists hired for on-the-job training in the
labs will provide the needed support in the classing school.
Integrated Pest Management
5.13          UZNIIZR will be responsible for implementing this component. Since this component
involves technology development type work, implementation has to take place in stages involving close
monitoring, continuous evaluation, and when necessary adjustment in program design. To ensure
integration and complementarity of biological and chemical approaches to pest control, UZNIIZR will
be responsible for the development of the technology for rearing and dispersing beneficial insects as well
as for developing or adapting equipment for safe spraying of pesticides and the preparation and
dissemination of a handbook for educating farmers on effective and safe use of pesticides. UZNIIZR will
also take the lead in developing a national pesticide policy. Annexes 3 and 4 of the Implementation
Volume provide additional details. To assist UZNIIZR in implementing this component, the project
provides for technical assistance, including:
(a)    international experts to help finalize prototype equipment for aerial and tractor-
mounted dispersal of beneficial insects and test the effectiveness (9 staff months);
(b)    an international specialist in technology application (9 staff months) to help
design and evaluate pesticide spraying equipment;



44
(c)    one international pest control economist (9 staff months) to help with field trial
evaluations to assess changes in pest infestation from biological and selective
pesticide treatments, and to evaluate their costs; and
(d)    short term specialists (9 staff months).
Irrigation
5.14          UZAGROINFORM will be responsible for implementation of the Irrigation component.
Its staff will work closely with the Department of Irrigation in the MOA, which deals with on-farm water
related issues, and with the Ministry of Water Management, which deals with irrigation water distribution
system up to the farm gate. Provision is made under the project for technical assistance (16 staff months)
to help evaluate the use of tensiometers and alternative technology for the control of water application,
and to assist with the training of staff, particularly in the use of the soil and plant water status monitoring
equipment. Annex 5 of the Implementation Volume provides terms of reference.
C. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
5.15          Project implementation is scheduled to proceed at a pace determined by the
implementation capacity of the executing agencies. The schedule is based on an assessment of the
expected implementation capacity made at the time of appraisal. The CIUs will prepare annual work
plans, including technical assistance requirements and training programs, based on their own expectations
and assessment of their work environment. These plans will be collated by PIU and discussed with the
Bank before the beginning of each project year. The work plans will include financial and physical
targets, resource requirements and performance indicators against which to assess progress. Further
details on the implementation plan and performance indicators are given in Annex A. Work plans and
associated budgets for the first project year will be prepared by PIU and submitted for Bank review
prior to loan effectiveness.
Cotton Marketing
5.16          The HVI component will be implemented in three stages. The first stage will be critical
as it will determine when the second stage can conunence. During this stage, three regional labs
(Tashkent, Andijan, and Samarkand) and the central lab will be established to start testing lint. A review
of the first stage will be undertaken about one year after the commencement of testing at the Stage One
labs. The first season of testing will be used as a learning device through the operation of the central and
two regional classing centers. The information generated on fiber quality from the three regions will be
collated and studied. Operational procedures will be reviewed and improvements introduced as needed.
Once convinced that the new classing system is fully operational in the first three regions, SIFAT will
proceed with extending the system to the rest of the country, keeping in mind the need for continued
evaluation of the system and its adjustment as the learning process and the pace of training allow. The
second stage will commence once: (i) the lessons are drawn from the stage one experience and
adjustments introduced in the design of stage two labs; and (ii) all equipment and personnel are fully
operational and functioning as a cohesive and integrated unit with one year of testing experience in stage
one labs.



45
5.17         The installation of the remaining equipment has been split into two stages (two and three)
to ensure that there is adequate supervisory staff and logistical support during the equipment installation
period and that pre-installation training has been completed adequately. About eighteen months have been
allowed during Stages Two and Three for the development of a central warehousing and handling facility.
The tender process for Stage One equipment will also include the later supply of all equipment for the
remaining two stages. This will ensure that all HVI equipment will be compatible and the necessary
support and service available from one manufacturer and supplier. This point is particularly important
in view of the necessity to ensure consistency and repetition of test results. For uniformity and efficiency
reasons, the equipment for the Classing and Marketing School will be included in the tender for the
supply and installation of equipment for the HVI Component.
5.18         Computing equipment will be installed in each laboratory at the same time as the HVI
equipment. As with the HVI equipment, the tender for all the computing equipment will be undertaken
during stage one to ensure that the same equipment will be used by each laboratory. The tender for the
HVI and computing equipment will not be combined into one as this may restrict the competition for the
supply of computing equipment. The technical assistance will be started at the commencement of the
project.
Irrigation Scheduling
5.19         The key determinant of the pace of implementation of the irrigation component is rate of
recruiting and training proficient project irrigation engineers. Emphasis will, therefore, be on training
from the onset of the project. A review of the component will take place at the end of the second full
year of the project to determine how effectively the tensiometers are being used and the need for any
adjustment in component design, and to propose a basis for introducing water charges to motivate farmers
to use water saving technology and practices.
Integrated Pest Management
5.20         The IPM  component will be implemented over five years through the UZNIIZR.
Essentially the program is applied research and development oriented. It aims to produce improved
breeding lines for predator insects and to research and develop methods for their distribution. It also
aims to develop and introduce improved equipment and practices for the safe use of pesticides. The
annual work plans will, therefore, be developed on the basis of progress in the research work.
Seed Industry
5.21         Implementation of the private sector part of this component will be strictly demand
driven. PIU will endeavor to develop such a demand by disseminating information about project
objectives and Government actions to create the enabling environment for an effective and profitable
cotton seed industry. PIU will also arrange for assistance, on demand, for seed farms during their
privatization process and the seed companies in the course of their incorporation. Timely implementation
of the public sector part of this component is critical for the timely startup of the private sector part.



46
D. SUPERVISION PLAN
5.22          As this project represents the first investment operation in Uzbekistan, three Bank
supervision missions will be required during the first project year, followed by two supervision missions
during each of the ensuing three years and three supervision missions during the last year (Annex I). To
cover all aspects of the project, each mission will last for three weeks and will review the institutional,
financial and physical aspects of the project. They will also review the implementation targets and
procedures agreed in the context of the annual work plans, identify implementation constraints and agree
on remedial actions. The supervision missions are expected to involve the task manager, at least three
specialists from Headquarters, as well as a project officer and a procurement officer from the Resident
Mission. This input will be supplemented by local consultants on an as needed basis. About 45 staff
weeks will be required the first year in addition to the project launch workshop, followed by about 30
staff weeks for each year 2 to 4, and 50 staff weeks for the last year.
5.23          The supervision mission in the last quarter of each project year will assess progress during
the previous year and discuss the work plan and budget for the next year. A detailed mid-term review
will be carried out about 30 months after the loan becomes effective and will involve the Bank and all
agencies involved in project implementation.
5.24          Benchmarks for measurement of progress in project implementation will include: (i) the
operational status of the PIU and the CIUs; (ii) progress in implementation of training and technical
assistance packages; (iii) privatization of seed farms and creation of private seed companies; (iv)
operational status of the seed testing and certification agency; (v) installation of HVI lines; (vi) extent of
dissemination of information on cotton characteristics; (vii) area covered by the irrigation scheduling
system; and (viii) equipment developed and tested for biological and chemical pest control.



47
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. PROJEcT BENEFITS
6.1           The project's potential benefits include increased production of cotton, better seed and
fiber quality, reduced water consumption, reduced costs and risks associated with pesticides, improved
environment, higher farm income, and higher foreign exchange earnings. As importantly, this project
will lay the foundation for future policy reforms in the agricultural sector and will help accelerate the
implementation of ongoing reforms.  The successful implementation of the Cotton Sub-sector
Improvement Project will benefit future projects in the country by introducing procedures and operational
guidelines mutually acceptable to the Government and the Bank which will facilitate the implementation
of future projects.
Marketing
6.2           The Marketing Component will produce higher foreign exchange earnings through greater
gin turnout and better quality of fiber. First, better cotton grading is expected to increase foreign
exchange earnings by about US$38 million per year, once the project is fully implemented. Second,
information from the testing laboratories to the ginneries will help ginners increase gin turnout and
improve cotton quality. Third, information on fiber characteristics will improve the penetration of Uzbek
cotton in international markets. This information will also assist local spinners to increase productivity
and improve the quality of the cotton textiles produced.
Seed
6.3           A modem planting seed industry will bring, among others, the following benefits: First,
certified seed will prevent varietal mixture and the use of low germination seed, thus increasing yields
by 5 to 10 percent. Second, uniform varieties will improve fiber quality and uniformity, enhancing
Uzbekistan's cotton marketability in international markets; uniform varieties will also help reduce the
content of lint in short fibre, neps, and seed coat fragments left during the ginning process. This is
expected to increase the value of lint by about US$24 million per year, once the project is fully
implemented. Third, seed testing and certification will permit farmers to reduce planting rates and
replanting, saving up to 60 percent of currently planted seed for oil mill use. This is valued at over US$1
million per year. Fourth, as delinted seed can be precisely treated with lower rates of chemicals, the use
of field pesticides will be reduced.
On-Fann Irrigation Scheduling
6.4           Better timing of irrigation is expected to increase the current yield of seed cotton by at
least 10 percent. It will reduce water use by an estimated 25-30 percent, and will substantially reduce
the current excessive tail-water discharge. This amounts to savings in the order of 3300 cu m water per
ha which can be valued in terms of: (i) cost to the Ministry of Irrigation to supply the water; (ii) the
opportunity cost of water for production of cotton or other crops; and (iii) the environmental value of
decreased run off and soil salinization. Moreover, the irrigation scheduling system, by relating field
water use and fertilizer availability in the crop, will reduce fertilizer requirements and the contamination
of underground water.



48
Integrated Pest Management
6.5           The main benefit from this component will come from the development of automated
technology for biological pest control that will allow its expansion nationwide, along with the
development of improved equipment and the introduction of improved practices for the safe application
of pesticides. A well-designed IPM program will help reduce environmental pollution due to excessive
or improper use of pesticides by integrating biological and chemical approaches to pest control. This
approach will help shift research emphasis in the direction of variety resistance to pests and diseases, thus
reducing insect mutation pressure. It will also help to reduce expenditures of hard currency on pesticide
imports, and costs and risks associated with pesticide application. The IPM component could also help
develop an important marketing tool for Uzbek cotton since the market for pesticide-free grown cotton
has been increasing internationally.
B. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
6.6           The economic and financial analysis indicates that investments in private seed companies,
in seed farms, in developing the cotton grading system, and in introducing improved irrigation are viable
Details are given in Annex 9 of the Implementation Volume. The combined economic rate of return for
these four components is estimated at 34 percent. The analysis assumes that Government will fully
liberalize the price and marketing of cotton seed and lint, including the export licensing system. It also
assumes that Government will eliminate institutional barriers to import/export and to financial transactions
by the private sector.
Seed Companies
6.7           Uzbekistan has a comparative advantage in the production of cotton seed. The direct
production costs (excluding variety development costs, and with the current lower technological input)
are currently less than 20 percent of production costs in Australia or the United States due to lower
development costs of parent line seed, lower capital input, low wages and low processing costs. The cost
of production may increase substantially as a result of the introduction of improved technology and rising
wages. Sensitivity analysis shows that Uzbekistan will, nevertheless remain competitive.
6.8           The economic analysis was done on the basis of a hypothetical production capacity of
8,000 tons of cleaned seed for a company. Investments were assumed to take place over a four year
period allowing the company to reach full operating capacity in the fifth year. The economic rate of
return is 33 percent. Sensitivity analysis was undertaken to evaluate the impact of cost increase and
benefit decline. The economic rate of return remains in the range of 19 to 30 percent for increases in
costs in the range of 10 to 35 percent. It is, however more sensitive to decline in benefits, with the ERR
falling to 17 percent when benefits decline by 25 percent. The financial rate of return (FRR) for a 8,000
ton capacity seed processing operation is estimated at 28 percent.  Revenues from the proposed
investments will be adequate to enable sub-borrowers to repay the loan within a maximum period of 10
years with a 3 year grace period. Sensitivity analysis shows that investment in seed companies is resilient
to an increase in costs. Increase in costs in the range of 10 to 35 percent result in FRR in the range of
15 to 25 percent. With regard to seed farms, assuming a 5 percent increase in yields as a result of better
quality seeds and decreased need for replanting, the ERR for investments in seed farms is estimated at
35 percent. Sensitivity analysis indicates that the ERR remains in the range of 27 to 33 percent when



49
costs increase by 10 to 35 percent or benefits decline by 10 to 35 percent. The FRR for seed farms is
estimated at 29 percent.
Cotton Marketing
6.9           Market analysis undertaken in the context of project preparation indicates that Uzbekistan
could increase the average price it gets for cotton lint by about 20 percent by selling it through the normal
international market channels. The primary requirement for that to happen will be to grade the cotton
according to internationally recognized standards.
6.10          The economic analysis was done on the basis of a total production of 600,000 tons of lint.
About 500,000 ton will be graded to international standards and exported. The economic rate of return
for the marketing component is 35 percent. Sensitivity analysis was undertaken to evaluate the impact
of changes in investment costs, operating costs, total costs and benefits. Results indicate that this
component is resilient to an increase in project costs. For instance, an increase in investment, operating
and total costs by 35 percent yields economic rate of return of 30 percent, 35 percent, 30 percent,
respectively. The economic viability of the marketing component is more sensitive to a decrease in
benefits, but remains viable. A 35 percent decline in benefits yields a rate of return of 28 percent.
Furthermore, sensitivity analysis, expressed in terms of switching values using an opportunity cost of
capital 12 percent shows that this component could withstand a 75 percent decline in revenues.
6.11          The financial analysis was done on the basis that SIFAT will operate on a full capacity
starting with the project fifth year. The financial rate of return on the marketing component is estimated
at 32 percent. With regard to financial autonomy, financial projections indicate that SIFAT can generate
the revenues to cover their capital and operating costs, and start generating a positive cash flow starting
with the fifth year. SIFAT would have to charge a fee of about US$0.41 per bale tested to recover its
capital and operating costs when the laboratories test the entire crop (the international price of a bale of
cotton is over US$300). When the laboratories are not operating at full capacity, SIFAT has to subsidize
part of the cost. For example, when the laboratories are operating at 20, 40, 60 percent of their
capacities, the subsidies will be US$1.35, 0.62, 0.28 per bale respectively.
Irrigation
6.12          Improved irrigation scheduling has been shown to lead to a yield increase of over 10
percent and save a minimum of 25 percent of the current water use per ha. Given the complexity of
allocating increases in yield to one particular factor of production, the economic analysis was undertaken
on the basis of a 8 percent increase in yield as a result of improved irrigation and a saving of 15 percent
in current water use per ha. The analysis was limited to 200,000 ha expected to be covered under the
project. The economic rate of return is estimated at 30 percent. Sensitivity analysis indicates that the
economic rate of return is strongly affected by decreases in benefit and moderately affected by increases
in costs. For example, rates of return of 25 percent and 19 percent are obtained if the total cost increased
or benefit declined by 35 percent respectively. Furthermore, the analysis indicates that the component
would have to suffer a shortfall in benefits by 52 percent or increase in total cost by 149 percent before
the rate of return falls to the level of the opportunity cost of the capital.
6.13          UZAGROINFORM  would have to charge about US$4.63 per hectare to recover its
operating and capital costs. Assuming that the farmers get 80 percent of international cotton price and



50
are able to market 80 percent of their cotton at that price, the financial rate of return is estimated at 19
percent.
C. PROJECT BENEFICIARIES
6.14          The primary beneficiaries of the project will be cotton producers, cotton processors,
private seed farmers, and private seed companies. The Government decision makers, policy makers and
private traders will benefit from increased availability of timely information related to cotton quality. In
the medium to long run, the nation will benefit through increased cotton production, higher quality fiber,
increased foreign exchange earnings, and a safer environment.
D. RisKs
6.15          The project does not face any significant risk associated with the technology and practices
being introduced. It finances internationally well known and tested seed processing, cotton grading, and
irrigation scheduling technologies. The main risk facing the project relates to the country's capacity to
implement it in an effective and timely manner.  Factors that could cause problems in project
implementation include: the possible delay in Government decision making on liberalizing the cotton
market, limited interest by the private sector in creating seed companies, lack of counterpart funds, and
lack of personnel with the skills needed under the project. The maintenance of a free market for the sale
of cotton seed and lint is critical for the commercial viability of participating private seed companies and
seed farms. This is also critical for cotton farmers at large since the profitability of seed companies will
depend on the level of demand for higher priced quality seeds. Availability of counterpart funds and
trained personnel will determine the availability of public services in support of project objectives, both
in the public and private sectors. The project introduces the necessary measures to minimize these risks
in the form of legal covenants, provision for training and technical assistance and provision for close
monitoring and regular review of project activities. The establishment of a strong Project Implementation
Unit with appropriate support for project management, procurement, and accounting is expected to help
mitigate project risks. In addition, the project will be intensively supervised (including a Project Launch
Workshop, reviews of annual work programs, and a comprehensive mid-term review) in order for timely
action to be taken to overcome implementation problems.
E. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
6.16          The project is expected to have a positive impact on the environment. The move toward
private sector control of cotton farming is expected to foster more prudent use of water, land and
chemical inputs. The use of pesticides on cotton will be reduced and their application will be integrated
with biological control methods. The use of chemical fertilizers will be reduced as a result of more
effective irrigation.
6.17          The irrigation component will help introduce a technology to deliver water according to
plant requirements, thus significantly reducing the effect of irrigation on salt accumulation and rising
water table. This will also reduce the leaching of chemicals into the ground water and the drainage
system.
6.18          The seed component will help replace the current outdated technology used in seed
production and processing with technology (equipment and inputs) that meet international environmental



51
and safety standards, including those related to dust control inside and outside work areas, and to the use
of pesticides in seed processing. The list of pesticides to be financed under the project will be mutually
agreed between the Government and the Bank and the Seed Companies will comply with that agreement.
6.19         The Integrated Pest Management Component will have a beneficial impact on the
environment through decreased use and more effective use of pesticides. To that end, it will help develop
more effective ways of raising and releasing beneficial insects to substitute for pesticides. It will also
support the development of a national pesticide policy covering the use of all pesticides, the preparation
and dissemination of a "Farmers' Pesticide Handbook", and the introduction of improved spraying
equipment.
6.20         The Project has a "B" environmental assessment category.



52
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. AGREEMENTS
7.1          In a letter of Development Policy signed by the Deputy Prime Minister dated April 27,
1995 and through the agreed Minutes of Negotiations, the Government confirmed that:
(a)    The State Order system for cotton will be eliminated before the 1998 crop
session;
(b)    Privatized seed farms will be exempt from any obligations under the State Order
system;
(c)    Sub-loans under the line of credit will be denominated in US$ and disbursed in
US$ or Sum as requested by sub-borrowers;
(d)    Government will amend the Statute of SIFAT, and the Seed Certification and
Seed Law Agency to allow them to become managerially autonomous and
ultimately financially self reliant;
(e)   In addition, Draft Seed Policy and Seed Law were submitted to the Bank for
review and comments were provided by the Bank; and
(f)   responsibility for the Line of Credit administration will be transferred to a
suitable banking institution as soon as one becomes ready.
7.2          Assurances were obtained from Government during Negotiations that:
(a)    The Seed Certification and Seed Law Agency will prepare a cost recovery plan
to be discussed with the Bank no later than June 30, 1998. Implementation of
the agreed cost recovery plan will start no later than June 30, 1999 (paras 3.13
and 4.15);
(b)    SIFAT will prepare a cost recovery plan to be discussed with the Bank no later
than June 30, 1998. Implementation of the agreed cost recovery plan will start
no later than June 30, 1999 (paras 3.26 and 4.16);
(c)    The PIU will prepare and submit for Bank review and approval proposals for
feasibility studies to be funded under the program design component of the
project (para 3.44);
(d)    Any tax liability associated with public sector project activities beyond the
amount already covered under project cost estimates will be financed by
Government through their annual budgetary process (para 4.2);



53
(e)    Counterpart funds for the public sector components and sub-components will be
included in the approved annual budgets of their respective implementing
agencies in conformity with provisions under the project and will be made
available to them at the beginning of each budget year (para 4.4);
(f)    A line item will be introduced in the national budget for the project and the use
of all allocations under that line item will be restricted to project activities;
(g)    Sub-loans will be approved on the basis of eligibility criteria and terms of sub-
loans agreed between Government and the Bank (para 4.9);
(h)    UZAGROINFORM will, no later than June 30, 1997, prepare and submnit for
Bank review a plan for the recovery of the cost of irrigation water and will
initiate the collection of water charges no later than June 30, 1998 (para. 4.17);
(i)    The PIU will operate on the basis of agreed detailed organizational structure,
functions, staffing plans, procedures, and scope of authority agreed with the Bank
(para. 5.3); and
(j)    Work plans including training, technical assistance programs, and associated
budgets will be prepared and submitted for Bank review before the beginning of
each project year (para. 5.15).
7.3           Loan effectiveness will be conditional upon:
(a)    A Project Account being opened in the name of the PIU with an initial deposit
of a minimum of US$0.5 million equivalent (para. 4.4);
(b)    Appointment of Deputy Directors for the PIU and finalization of arrangemens
for engaging a firm/organization to supply international staff to PIU (para. 5.7);
(c)    CIU managers appointed (para. 5.8); and
(d)    Submission by PIU for review by the Bank of work plans and associated budgets
for the first project year (para 5.15).
7.4          Loan disbursement will be conditional upon:
(a)    Adoption of the seed policy and enactment of the agreed Seed Law will be a
condition of disbursement against the public sector part of the seed comnponent
(para 3.7); and
(b)    Agreement between the Govemrnent and the Bank on the banking entity to serve
as an agent bank under the project, the signing of an agency agreement between
this agency bank and the PIU, and approval of the sub-loans on the basis of
agreed criteria and procedures will be a condition of disbursement against the
private sector part of the seed component (para 4.7).



54
B. RECOMMENDATION
7.5          The Cotton Sub-Sector Improvement Project constitutes a suitable basis for an IBRD Loan
of US$66.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Uzbekistan for a period of 20 years, including a five-
year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



55                                  Annex A
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
COTTON SUB-SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX A
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
A. CRITICAL START-UP TASKS
1.           Project Implementation Unit. Making the PIU operational, establishing the CIUs and
staffing them are the most critical steps to initiate project implementation.
2.           Training. Arrangements need to be made to start training activities soon after loan
negotiations, or following Board approval at the latest.
3.           Technical Assistance. Technical assistance for the PIU should be on board shortly
following loan effectiveness. To that end, arrangements to select a firm/agency to supply that technical
assistance should be made prior to loan effectiveness. Plans for hiring the TA under various project
components should be part of the annual work plan to be submitted to the Bank for review prior to loan
effectiveness.
B. MARKETING COMPONENT
Phase I
4.           On the basis of a detailed work plan, SIFAT will organize its administrative and
accounting system, recruit needed personnel and technical assistance and set up its computer system.
SIFAT will install the Central and two Regional Laboratories and initiate HVI testing. An intensive
training program will be undertaken. Once the system is fully operational in these three laboratories and
once enough staff are trained, SIFAT will move to Phases 11 and 111.
Phase II and III
5.           During these phases, SIFAT will build its reputation as an objective cotton grading
agency. It will become managerially autonomous and ultimately financially independent by adopting a
"fee for service" approach in its operations. During this phase, SIFAT will install HVI equipment in the
regions at a pace that will ensure that trained staff are available to operate the new laboratories.
C. IRRIGATION COMPONENT
6.           UZAGROINFORM will strengthen its CIU (already established) on the basis of a detailed
work plan. Staff trained at the Tashkent central office will be placed in the offices of AGROPROM in
the Districts where the system will operate. UZAGROINFORM will monitor the effectiveness of the
system. The information generated will be used after two full production seasons to evaluate the
effectiveness of the system and to introduce any needed adjustments in program design before continuing
program implementation.



Annex A                                    56
D. SEED COMPONENT
7.           Between loan negotiations and loan effectiveness, PIU will undertake an information
campaign to inform seed farms and other interested parties about the objectives of the seed component.
Interested Seed Farms will be assisted in organizing themselves into private farms, in developing business
plans, and in creating private seed companies (if they are so inclined to do). GOSKOMPROGNOZSTAT
will enter into an agency agreement with an agent bank mutually agreed with the World Bank.
8.           Following credit effectiveness, GOSKOMPROGNOZSTAT will appoint representatives
from the PIU, a selected commercial bank, and the Ministry of Finance as members of a committee
responsible for appraising sub-loan applications.
E. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
9.           The detailed implementation plans are presented below in the form of Gantt charts for
each component. Physical and financial progress will be monitored on the basis of those charts.
Performance indicators for the project development objectives will include:
(a)    Government actions on:
*     State orders
*     Price of lint
*     Price of seed
(b)    Privatization of Seed Farms
(c)    Creation of private seed companies (Processing capacity created)
(d)    Area covered under the irrigation scheduling program, water use per ha, fertilizer
use per ha.
(e)    Number of prototypes developed and successfully tested under the IPM program,
pesticide use.
(g)    Volume of cotton graded and sold at international prices through the open market
channels.



57                                            Annex A
E. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
10.             Implementation of the project is expected to proceed according to the following schedule.
However, it is implicit that the speed and efficiency with which initial project establishment activities are
brought on-stream, and the effectiveness of implementing and moving project management and technical
activities, will influence implementation schedule.
Activity                        Year I       Year 2        Year 3        Year 4        Year 5
_  112   2/2   1/2   2/2   12   2/2    1/2    2/2   1/2    2/2
Project Implementation Unit
Appoint Project staff                             X
Set up accounting, reporting, audit procedures    X
Submit reports, accounts, fund requests, etc.     X      X     X      X      X     X      X       X     X       x
Systematic monitoring, support to components      X      X     X      X      X     X      X       X      X      x
Intervene as required to ensure progress          X      X     X      X      X     X      X       X     X       x
Appraise and monitor sub-loans                                 X      X      X     X      X       X     X       x
HVI Component
Phase I
Establish component offices, assign staff         X      X     X      X
Prepare component operating procedures            X      X
Set up new SIFAT structure, admin. system         X      X     X
Identify sites of Phase 1 labs & classing schools  X
Plan lab and school buildings, space, layout      X      X
Issue tender to construct labs and schools        X      X
Contract with firms, construct labs and schools   X      X
Hire, assign lab and school staffs                X      X
Prepare equipment specifications                  X
Issue tender for equipment                        X
Contract with equipment supplier(s)               X      X
Equipment delivered, installed, tested                   X     X      X
Conduct intensive English language training       X      X     X      X      X     X      X       X     X       x
Train personnel overseas                          X      X     X      X      X     X      X       X     X       x
Train personnel in-country                        X      X     X      X      X     X      X       X      X      x
Establish quality control lab & system                   X     X
Develop quality control procedures                       X     X      X
Develop grading standards, procedures                    X     X      X
Establish computer system                                X     X      X
Test fiber of cotton crop                                      X      X
Review Phase 1, plan Phase 2                                   X      X



Annex A                                                58
Actvity                          Year I         Year 2        Year 3         Year 4       Year 5
I______________________________  11/2r 2/2                       1/2   2/2   1/2    2/2    1/2   2/2   1/2   2/2
Phase 2 and 3
Identify locations of labs                                       X
Plan lab building, space, layout                                 X
Issue tender to construct labs                                   X
Contract with firms to construct labs                            X      X
Determine lab staff requirements                                 X
Hire, assign lab staff(s)                                                X
Prepare equipment specifications                  X      X
Issue tenders for equipment                       X       X       X
Contract with equipment supplier(s)                       X       X      X     X
Equipment delivered, installed, tested                                   X     X       X      X
Conduct intensive English language training                       X      X     X       X      X      X      X     X
Train personnel overseas                                                 X     X       X      X      X      X
Train personnel in-country                                               X     X       X      X      X      X     X
Test fiber of cotton crop                                                                     X      X      X     X
Seed Component
Establish CIU office                              X
Issue tender to contract technical assistance     X       X
Technical assistance in place                                     X      X     X       X      X      X
Short-term technical assistance provided                         X       X     X       X      X      X      X     X
Enact Seed Legislation, Certification             X
Issue tender for quality control equipment        X
Sign contract for quality control equipment       X
Quality control equipment delivered, installed            X      X
Quality control in operation                                             X     X       X      X      X      X     X
Establish plant variety protection (PVP) unit     X       X
Design, construct PVP offices, labs                      X       X
PVP in operation                                                 X       X     X       X      X      X      X     X
Conduct overseas training                                X        X      X     X       X
Conduct in-country training                              X       X       X     X       X      X      X      X     X
Seed Cos. organized                                      X       X       X     X
Seed Cos. produce, supply seed                                           X     X       X      X      X      X     X



59                                             Annex A
Activity                          Year I        Year 2         Year 3        Year 4        Year S
1/212/2    1/2 [ 2/2    1/2 1 2/2   1/2 1 2/211/2!  2/2
On-Farm Irrigation Scheduling
Establish component office, admin. system           X
Restructure UZAGROINFORM                            x      X
Plan working system, procedures                     X      X
Hire UZAGROINFORM  staff and TA as required         x      X      X
Train UZAGROINFORM  staff                           X      X      X      X
Train farm staff                                    X      X      X      X      X       X      X      X      X      X
Identify farms & areas to include each year         x      X      X      X      X       X      X      X      X      X
Prepare equipment specifications                    x
Issue tender for equipment                          x
Contract supplier for equipment                            X
Equipment delivered                                               X
Apply irrigation scheduling on farms                              X      X      X       X      X      X      X
Use and improve computer models                     X      X      X      X       X      X      X      X      X
IPM Component Implementation Schedule:
Establish project management office                 x
Issue tender for technical assistance               X
Sign contract for technical assistance                     X
Technical assistance in place, as required                 X      X      X      X       X      X      X      X
Complete design of equipment                                      X
Prepare specs. for materials, equipment                           X
Issue tender for materials, equipment                             X      X
Materials and equipment delivered                                        X      X       X
Fabricate prototypes, equipment in-country                               X      X       X      X      X      X
Conduct trials to evaluate, compare biological and                       X      X       X      X      X      X
chemical technologies
Complete evaluation, comparison of technols.                                                   X      X      X
Produce entomophagus insects                                             X      X       X      X      X      X
Distribute entomophagous insects                                                X       X      X      X      X
Develop pesticide strategy                                        X      X                                          X
Develop Farmers Pesticide Handbook                                X      X
Disseminate Farmers Pesticide Handbook                                          X       X      X      X      X      X






60                                   Annex B
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
COTTON SUB-SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX B
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY FOR AGRICULTURE
Dear Mr. Thalwitz:
Development of the Cotton Sub-sector and Strategy for Agricultural Development
Uzbekistan has initiated a comprehensive reform program aimed at moving the
agricultural sector toward the market economy. We are appreciative of World Bank support to our
endeavors in this sector through the Rehabilitation Loan and the Cotton Sub-sector Improvement Project
Loan. We also look forward to continued World Bank support in the process of transforming our
agriculture into a sector that would effectively and economically enhance the well-being of our people.
The imperative to make the best to serve our people with the limited resources available
to us dictates that we motivate our private sector to participate to the full extent of its potential in the
development process. It also dictates that we create the appropriate incentives to ensure that our
resources are used economically and effectively. In order to facilitate the transformation of the cotton
sub-sector into a market-based sub-sector, the Government confirms the following decisions:
(a)    The seed companies will be fully private and owned by one or more of the
following:
*     one or more former collective farms or farm association units once fully
privatized (i.e., farm workers, technicians and managers would own
shares in the privatized collective farm on which they work). The
shareholders would have the right to unrestricted sale of their shares
without the need for any permission or right of first refusal by other
shareholders. Shareholders would also have the unrestricted right to
bequeath their shares;
*     other private individual or private company, private cotton-producing
farms, cotton-producing units, private farmers and private farmers'
associations which can create their own seed companies and/or initially
subscribe or purchase shares in seed companies being established;
*     foreign investors; and
*     existing ginning companies, once privatized.
(b)    Prvatized collective farms through their individual shareholders or members will
be given long term (99 years) transferable leases on the land they currently
cultivate, and will be allowed to procure their inputs and to sell their products
freely in the market;



Annex B                                     61
(c)    Seed companies will be given long-term (99 years) leases by the Government on
land needed for administration buildings, operating facilities, and ginning and
seed processing plants. They will also be allowed to procure their inputs and sell
their products freely in the market. A line of credit will be established to support
the creation of seed companies.  It will be administered by the Project
Implementation Unit using a Commercial Bank as an agent to disburse sub-loans
denominated in US$ and collect repayments in local currency or in US dollars;
(d)    Decisions to create the seed companies, invest in necessary equipment and
materials, and to operate the enterprises will be made exclusively by the
shareholders and the management they select;
(e)    Charters of seed companies and articles of association of privatized seed farms
and other terms and conditions of incorporation will ensure effective governance
by shareholders, operational autonomy, financial autonomy and accountability of
the managers selected by the representative of shareholders;
(f)    The Government will not have any role in selecting the management of the seed
companies and the privatized seed farms or in the making of their managerial
decisions. Government will, however, facilitate efficient implementation of those
decisions in all respects as provided for in the charter of the production units.
Government facilitation will include, inter alia, timely issuance of licenses for
import and export of equipment and commodities, use of currencies and
accounts, and related activities and transactions;
(g)    The price of planting seed and gin-run seed will be completely free by the end
of the 1996 cropping cycle. Free price means that each seed company and all
other entities producing gin-run seed will be free to sell the seed they produce
to domestic and other parties at a price determined by the market. Local or
central government agencies will not intervene in such sales and in the
determination of prices;
(h)    The Government will decrease the state order system for all cotton progressively,
and will abolish it completely starting with the 1998 cotton cropping cycle. The
Government will also increase progressively the procurement price for cotton
remaining under the state order, initially to 50 percent of world prices for the
1995 crop and will reach the level of the World market price at the time state
order is eliminated;
(i)    In order to facilitate the creation of planting seed companies and considering the
expected burden of sub-loan repayments, starting with the 1996 cropping season,
the Government will leave out of the state order all the cotton lint produced by
privatized seed farms;
(j)    Although all farms producing seed cotton have officially been given the right to
market an increasing share of their production (currently 40 percent) in the open
market, in practice it has proven difficult for them to exercise fully that right.



62                                    Annex B
The Government has decided that farmers can access export markets directly and
that cotton sold through the commodity exchange is exempt from export licenses.
The Government has also introduced a simplified procedure for granting export
licenses for cotton not sold through the commodity exchange. Under this
procedure, a license will be granted within 10 days after receipt by the Ministry
of Foreign Economic Relations of a prepared contract, and other documents
confirming the existence of the cotton;
(k)    A draft national seed policy and a draft seed Law covering seed marketing, seed
certification, variety registration, seed import, and plant variety protection are
being considered by the relevant Government bodies. These documents will be
subsequently sent to the Bank for review and discussion before they are submitted
to Parliament for consideration; and
(1)    In order to guarantee quality to farmers using seed cotton, the Government will
transform the Republic Seed Inspection Service into an autonomous Agency and
will not allow interference into its activities by special interests. This agency will
consist of a Central Seed Certification and Seed Law Unit with a Central and
Referee seed testing laboratory, and five Oblast Seed Certification and Seed Law
Units with Service Seed Testing Laboratories. The quality control functions will
be unified within a single Seed Certification, Testing and Quality Control Agency
under the overall direction of the Ministry of Agriculture.
The process to liberalize the output and input markets has already been initiated and it
is our intention to complete that process as soon as feasible. Under the Cotton Sub-sector Improvement
Project, we intend to introduce the principles of "fee for service" and develop methodologies and practical
plans for recovering the cost of services/inputs supplied through public channels such as seed
certification, cotton grading, and irrigation water. Although our intention is to move as swiftly as
possible on these matters, we want to move with enough caution to make sure that our actions are right
and sustainable. We also intend to encourage our private sector to develop a market-based supply system
that is cognitive of our country's environmental concerns, and production support systems covering the
whole gamut of activities from planting to harvesting to storage, to transportation, processing and
marketing. We recognize the complexity involved in changing our system of production and we intend
to proceed with promoting change methodically and systematically.
The agricultural sector is the backbone of our economy. We intend to develop its
potential in a sustainable and environmentally safe manner.  Our first priority is to correct past
distortions. The state orders system will be terminated in the next two to three years. The old
centralized system of production by directive is being replaced by a participatory farming system whereby
farmers control their factors of production and make all decisions as to what to produce, how much to
produce, and how to dispose of their products. Prices are being liberalized, input subsidies are being
removed, and responsibility for output marketing and input supply is being shifted to the private sector.
The mandate of the Government machinery is being redefined from one of control to one of support and
motivation. Through these actions, we hope that we will succeed to have in place in the near future the
conditions that will motivate farmers to intensify production and the private sector to invest in revitalizing
our agri-business complex.



Annex B                                    63
The foreign exchange earning capacity of agriculture is currently built almost exclusively
around cotton. We need to expand the export potential in other sub-sectors. Uzbekistan has a
comparative advantage in the production of fruits, vegetables, berries, grapes, and silk for which a ready
demand exists in the world market. We also need to develop self-reliance in food in the country through
an optimum combination of domestic production and import. To help develop our production system to
the full extent of its potential, we intend to invest in building the necessary infrastructure to support the
rehabilitation and restructuring of our farms. In addition, our agri-business complex needs to be rebuilt
our agro-industry to enhance the value added in the sector and create productive and sustained
employment for our people. Our grazing lands need to be rehabilitated and restored. Our animal
husbandry needs to be developed. The productive potential of land resources needs to be protected and
the economic potential inherent in our water resources needs to be realized. We need to do all this while
protecting our environment and providing equal opportunity for all our people.
In order to make more effective and environmentally sustainable use of our water
resources, we have started a process to diversify our agriculture by shifting land from cotton in favor of
crops requiring less water. We also plan to introduce water charges to motivate farmers to use water
more economically.
We look forward to continuing our dialogue and hope that the Cotton Project will usher
in an era of close and productive cooperation between the Republic of Uzbekistan and the World Bank.
Sincerely,
Bakhtiar A. Khamidov
Deputy Prime Minister



64                               Annex C
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
COTTON SUB-SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX C
A SAMPLE OF SEED FARMS INTEREsTED IN PARTICIPATING IN THE CREATION
OF SEED COMPANIES
Region                         Seed Farms               Area under Cotton
Bukhara                        Madaniat                       1,400
Dustlik                         900
Uzbekistan                     1,200
Khamza                          800
Namangan                       Soliev                         1,000
Uzbekistan                      600
Ahunbabaeva                     900
Konobad                         600
Navoy                           700
Surkhandarya                   Baimatov                       2,500
Mirzaev                        1,600
Ulyanov                        1,200
Kumkurgan                       700
Tashkent                       Khakikat                       1,100
Yangi Turmush                   700
Uzbekistan                      800
Kaytmas                         600
Fergana                        Kulam                          1,200
Pakhakor                        900
Soybkor                         400
Obod                           2,100






REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
COTTON SUB-SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX D
ExPENDITURE ACCOUNTS PROJECT COST SUMMARY
I__ ___ __ ___ __ _ _   (Sum  '000)    _US_                           W )i
%     % Total                                   %    % Total
Foreign   Base                                  Foreign   Oas
Local     Foreign      Total   Exchang  Costs    Local    Foreign        Total   Exchange Costs
L. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                              15,312.5    65,057.3    81,369.9     80       5      709.2    2,828.6    3,537.8      80       5
B. Equipmenl                               105,659.7   434,432.1   540,091.8     80      32    4,593.9   18,888.4   23,482.3      80      32
C. Training                                       -    26,128.0    26,128.0     100       2          -    1,136.0    1,136.0     100       2
D. Technical Assistance                      1,656.0   155,319.0   156,975.0     99       9       72.0    6,753.0    6,825.0      99       9
E. Investment Credit                       155,152.3   550,591.3   705,743.5     78      41    6,745.8   23,938.8   30,684.5      78      41
Total Investnent Costs                       278,780.5  1,231,527.6  1,510,308.1   82      88   12,120.9   53,544.7   65,685.6      82      88
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaris                                  42,542.6     4,727.0    47,269.6     10       3    1,849.7      205.5    2,055.2      10       3
B. Communuicadon                             8,445.6      938.4     9,384.0      10       1      367.2       40.8      408.0      10       1 I
C. Equipment Operatlon & Maintenance         5,779.4      642.2     6,421.6      10       -      251.3       27.9      279.2      10       -
E. SuppLies                                  6,313.5      701.5     7,015.0      10       -      274.5       30.5      305.0      10       -
F. Staff Travel Expenses                     4,761.0      529.0     5,290.0      10              207.0       23.0      230.0      10
H. Services                                  2,173.5      241.5     2,415.0      10       -       94.5       10.5      105.0      10       -
I. Other                                    49,082.0     8,234.0    57,316.0     14       3    2,134.0      358.0    2,492.0      14       3
J. Inves tment Credit                       57,960.0     6,440.0    64,400.0     10       4    2,520.0      280.0    2,800.0      10       4
Total Recurrnt Costs                         177,057.7    22,453.5   199,511.2     1 1     12    7,698.2      976.2    8,674.4      1 1     12
Total BASELUNE COSTS                         455,838.2  1,253,981.2  1,709,819.3   73    100   19,819.1   54,520.9   74,340.0       73    100
Physical Contingencies                      30,909.4   100,891.1   131,800.5     77       8     1,343.9    4,386.6    5,730.5     77       8
Price Contingencies                       1,526,523.5  3,683,785.2  5,210,308.7  71    305    1,334.2    3,189.7    4,523.9       71       6
rTota PROJECT COSTS                         2,013,271.1  5,038,657.4  7,051,928.6  71    412   22,497.1   62,097.2   84,594.3       73    114



REPUBUC OF UZBEKISTAN
COTTON SUB-SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
COMPONENTS PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(Sum 000)                   _       I             (US$S 00)                     _
%    % Totai                                    %    % Total
Foreign   BTase                                 Foreign   Base
Local     Foreign      Total   Exchang  Costs    Local    Forelgn       Total   Exchang  Costs
A. Project Implementaton Unit                  8,686.6    40,710.5    49,397.1     82       3      377.7    1,770.0    2,147.7      82       3
B. Seed Component
1. Seed Variety Breeding                      460.0     7.820.0     8,280.0      94               20.0      340.0     360.0       94       -
2. Seed Testing & Certification             29,778.1    59,353.8    89,131.9     67       5    1,294.7    2,580.6    3,875.3      67       5
3. Plant Variety Protection Office           4,625.3     2,527.7    7,153.0      35       -      201.1      109.9      311.0      35       -
4. Seed Multiplication                      74,584.4   239,489.8   314,074.2     76      18    3,242.8   10,412.6   13,655.4      76      18
5. Seed Processing & Marketing             138,527.9   317,541.5   456,069.3     70      27    6,023.0   13,806.2   19,829.1      70      27
Subtotal Seed Component                      247,975.7   626,732.8   874,708.4     72      51   10,781.6   27,249.3   38,030.8      72      51
C. Classing Component
1. Classing and Marketing Schools           16,733.9    54,455.7    71,189.6     76       4      727.6    2,367.6    3,095.2      76      4
2. HV1                                     127,705.2   366,079.5   493,784.7     74      29    5,552.4   15,916.5   21,468.9      74      29  o
Subtotal Classing Component                  144,439.1   420,535.2   564,974.3     74      33    6,280.0   18,284.1   24,564.1      74      33  o7
0. Irrigation Scheduling Component            21,363.3    51,566.2    72,929.6     71       4      928.8    2,242.0    3,170.9      71       4
E. Integrated Pest Management Component       33,373.5    73,036.5   106,410.0     69       6    1,451.0    3,175.5    4,626.5      69       6
F. Program Design                                   -   41,400.0    41,400.0      100       2-         -    1.800.0    1,800.0     100       2
Total BASELINE COSTS                         455,838.2  1,253,981.2  1,709,819.3   73    100   19,819.1   54,520.9   74,340.0       73    100
Physical Contingencies                      30,909.4   100,891.1   131,800.5     77       8    1,343.9    4,386.6    5,730.6      77       8
Price Contingencies                      1,526,523.5  3,683,785.2  5,210,308.7   71    305    1,334.2    3,189.7    4,523.9       71       6
Total PROJECTS COSTS                       2,013,271.1  5,038,657.4  7,051,928.6   7 1 412   22,497.1   62,097.2   84,594.3         73    114



RuPUiLC OF UZUEKTAN
COTTON 5U346CFoR _1Rov0UEN PROJECT
ExPm  ACCOUN BREAKDOW
Cant Pksa
Base Cost                  hsical Contnanchs              Prik Confnenc * s                 Total Ind. Cont        Base Costs  PriCe
Local                             Local                                                       Local                    + Pice   Cont. on
(Excl. Dutis &                 (Excl. Duties &                (Excl. Duties a                 (Excl. Dutis &          Cont on   Physical
For. Exch  Taxes)  Taxes   Total For. Exch Taxes) Taxes   Total For. Exch Taxes)  Taxes   Total  or. Exch  Taxes)  Taxes   Total  Base Costs  Cont
1. Investment Costs
A. Civi Works                    2,828.6   387.6  321.6  3,537.8   282.9  38.8   32.2  353.8   138.5   18.5   15.7  172.7  3,249.9   444.9  369.5  4,064.3    3,694.9    369.5
B. Equipment                    18,888.4  2,459.2  2,134.8 23,482.3  1,888.8 245.9  213.5 2,348.2  1,058.9  137.7  119.7  1,316.2 21,836.1  2,842.7  2,467.9 27,146.7   24,678.8  2,467.9
C. Trahinig                      1,136.0              -  1,136.0    10.0             -    10.0    49.2       -           49.2  1,195.2       -       -  1,195.2    1,184.9    10.3
D. Tedcmical Asssance            6,753.0    72.0      -  6,825.0    15.0     -            15.0   323.7    3.4       -  327.1  7,091.7    75.4        -  7,167.1    7,151.6    15.5
E. Invesment Credit             23,9388  3,956.3 2,     30,684.5  2,168.91 370.6  254.0 2,793.5  1,546.9  2641   181.1  1,992.1 27,654.5  4,590.9  3,224.5 35,470.0   32,510.8  2,959.2
Total Investment Costs          53,544.7  6,875.0 5,245.9 65,66S.6  4,365.6 655.3  499.6 5,520.5  3,117.2  423.7  316.5 3,857.4 61,027.5  7,954.  6,061.9 75,043.4   69,220.9  5,822.
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                       205.5  1,849.7      -  2,055.2                                  15.0  134.6        .   149.5   220.5  1,984.2      -  2,204.7    2,204.7
B. CommunicatIon                   40.8   367.2            408.0             .       .             2.8   25.4            28.3    43.6   392.6            436.3      436.3
C. Equipment Operation & Maintenance  27.9   251.3         279.2       .     .               .     1.9   17.2            19.1    29.8   268.5            298.3      298.3        - C
E. Supplies                        30.5   274.5            305.0                                   1.4   12.5            13.8    31.9   287.0            318.8      318.8        -
F. Staff Travel Expenses           23.0   207.0            230.0                                   1.4   12.6            14.0    24.4   219.6        .   244.0      244.0        -
H. Services                        10.5    94.5            105.0                     .             0.8    6.8             7.5    11.3   101.3             112.5     112.5
1. Other                          358.0  2,134.0         2,492.0             -                    24.3  160.31          184.6   382.3  2,294.3          2,676.6    2,676.6
J. Investment Credit              260.0  2,520.0          2,800.    21.0 189.0           210.0    25.0  224.7           249.7   326.0  2933.7           3,259.7    3,032.3    227.4
Total RecurrentCosts              976.2  7,698.           8674.4    21.0     0           2        72.5  594.1        -  666.5   ;       848i.2 1069, -2         7.4
Total                           54,520.9 14,573.2 5,245.9 74,340.0  4,386.6 844.3  499.6  5,730.5  3,189.7  1,017 .7  316.5 4,523.9 62,097 82 16,481.2 6,061 i0    9323 38,544.5    227.49,
__ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ __ __              - 7    2  5.246_  74__ __7                                                    4,2.9  6,076               06     8 5 43   7 544.5   6, 9.



Annex D                                          68
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
CoTrON SUB1SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
EXPENDITURE ACCOUNTS BY YEARS - TOTALS INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES
(USS '000)
Totals Includin I Contingen as
1996      1997      1998       1999      2000      Total
I. Investment Cosb
A. Civil Works                              766.3     837.5    2,454.0       6.6         -    4,064.3
B. Equprmnt                               4,435.0    7,291.0    9,511.5    4,637.9   1,271.3   27,146.7
C. Traning                                 308.1      454.4      227.8     101.2    103.8    1,195.2
D. Technical Assitance                      893.9    2,757.4    2,257.0    1,158.4    100.4    7,167.1
E. lnvestnent CredIt                      1,411.0    8,544.4   17,315.9    5,109.8   3,088.9   35,470.0
Totl Investnmnt Cos                         7,814.1   19,884.7   31,766.2   11,013.9   4,564.5   75,043.4
II. Rocurrent Costs
A Salaries                                  165.2     357.3      533.2      551.2    597.7    2,204.7
B. CommunIcation                            50.5       71.3       98.5     106.6    109.4       436.3
C. Equipment Operaton & Maintenance         38.9       49.1       62.5      73.1      74.8      298.3
E. Supplies                                 70.7      103.3       79.5      59.8       5.6      318.8
F. Staff Travel Expenses                    30.3       62.0       63.6      43.5      44.6      244.0
H. Services                                 10.1       17.6       27.5      28.3      29.0      112.5
1. Other                                    188.9     424.5      609.3     690.7    763.3    2,676.6
J. Investment Credit                        130.3     310.9      683.5      935.4   1,199.7    3,259.7
Total Recurrent Cosb                          684.9    1,395.8    2,157.6    2,488.6   2,824.1    9,550.9
otal PROJECT COSTS                          8,499.0   21,280.5   33,923.8   13,502.5   7,388.5   84,594.3



69                                                  Annex D
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
COTTON SUB-SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPONENTS BY YEAR - INVESTMENTIRECURRENT COSTS
(USS '000)
1316 1     tS7        1998        1999       2000       Total
A. P     I*c npra      Unit
Iheebuent Costs                                         557.0       594.9      355.0       244.7          -     1,751.8
RcunWent Cost                                            95.3       108.9       104.3      105.7       91.3      505.5
Subal Proct Implementation Unit                         652.4       703.8      459.2       350.5       91.3     2,257.1
S. S"d Compo_et
1. ed  Vaty Brredhg
hnwbet Coes                                                       409.0          -           -                 409.0
. Sed  T_eng & Catkllcon
Irwent Coats                                          208.2     1,252.3     1,796.4       97.9                3,354.9
Recurrent Costs                                        49.5       205.5      218.3       238.2      250.0      961.5
Subal Sd  Tetng & CeDficaion                            257.7    1,457.8      2,014.7      338.1      250.0    4,318.3
3. PS"t Vslty Proteton Office
Iweebuent Coet                                        146.7                                                    14.7
Recwret Cost                                           37.8        38.8        37.5       38.5       39.5      189.9
SubtO  PbentV Vwkty Proctlon OlMce                       184A        36.6        37.5       38.5       39.5      335.5
4. Sed MapU caon
Investment Costs                                     1,411.0    3,179.7     3,947.1     4,548.5    2,839.3    15,723.8
S. Sed Proelng & Mlriating
: Invstent Coets                                           -    5,364.7   13,368.8       563.3      449.7    19,748.4
Recunt Costs                                          130         310.9      683.5       935.4   1,199.7      3,259.7
Subtl Sed Pro_oueng & Marketng                           130.3    5,675.5   14,052.3      1,498.7    1,849.3   23,006.1
Subtl Sed Component                                    1,983.4   10,758.6   20,051.6      6,419.8    4,578.1    43,791.5
C. Cleng Componnt
1. CinIng  nd Mwkedng Schools
Investment Coets                                     1,035.0       46.5    2,028.7           -          -     3,110.1
Recurent Coes                                          30.7,       35.5       98.8       110.1      112.9      388.0
SubtldlaC ng andMekengSchoob                           1,065.7       82.0     2,127.4      110.1      112.9    3,498.1
2 HVI
Invebtmnt Coats                                      3,537.8    6,627.5    7,008.0     4,096.6      678.7    21,948.5
Recumrdnt Coats                                       121.2       347.0      842.1       859.1      878.3     2,445.7
Sub',tal HVI                                           3,659.0    6,974.5    7,648.1      4,755.7    1,355.0    24,392.3
Subtotal Claing Comnpoent                              4,724.7    7,056.5     9,775.5    4,865.8    1,467.9    27,890.4
D. rlgipon Schodulig Component
Inveelment Costs                                        169.7       663.1       564.1      710.0      793.5     2,900.2
Recurrnt Costs                                           39.8        75.21      114.7      187.1      290.4      707.1
Subtotl irrigation Scheduling Compnent                  209.5       738.2      678.7       897.0    1,083.8     3,807.3
E. ntgratd Pet Mangemet Comnponwt
Innvesent Coats                                         746.8      1,127.4    2,084.4      102.3        3.3    4,048.4
Recurrent Cost                                          180.3       276.3      258.5       214.5      164.0     1,093.6
Subttabl Intgraed Ptd Mnagmwnt Component                929.1     1,403.7    2,323.0       316.81     187.4     5,140.0
F. Progrm Deelgn
Investment Comb                                             -       619.7      535.8       652.6          .     1,908.0
Subotal Program Dolgn                                       -       619.7       635.8      652.6          -     1,908.0
Tobl PROJECT COSTS                                       8,49.0    21,280.5    33,923.8    13,502.5    7,388.5   84,594.3
Tota Irwetment Cots                                    7,814.1    19,884.7   31,768.2    11,013.9   4,564.5    75,043.4
Total Recument Costs                                    664.9      1,395.8    2,157.6     2         2,824.1     9,550.



REPUBUC OF UZBEKISTAN
COTTON SUB4ECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
EXPENDITURES ACCOUNTS BY COMPONENTS - TOTALS INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES
(US$ i00)                                                                                               t
SWz Component                                                    Cbming Cemponent
Plumt                                dmining                          Inead
Prcoc       S"d    Sed Teng    Valey                             Seed        ard                 ron           Post
Implementation  Variety                Protcon         Seed       Processing  Maretng              Schedubg  Management  Progrm
Un__B____________  lndfta C rtifcaton  Office                S           Schools       HVI    Component  Copon    Cben               ToUtl
I. nveatment Cosal
A. CNi VAbka                                         24.4        -          67Z8           -                                 151.5       86.5           -       2,349.4               4,064.3
B. EqinIO                                           165.1    125.0        1,928.8      146.7                                2,711.0   18.903.5    2,225.3        941.6               27.14t.7
C. Trat*rg                                           62.3    113.6              -          -                                  62.6      336.3       423.5         196.9               1,195.2
D. Tednlc AAaltance                               1,499.8    170.4          753.7                                            185.1    1,840.3       251.4        568.4   1,906.0    7,167.1
E. I   mnane    Cd                                      -        -'                                 15,723.6    19,746.4         .-                            -           -         35,470.0
Total Iwonveala  coeta                            1,751.6    409.0        3,364.9      148.7        15.723.6    19,748.4   3,110.1   21,946.5    2,900.2        4.046.4   1,906.0   75.043.4
I. Recurrnt Coesx
A. Salas                                            122.0        .          172.8       76.4                           -      170.4    1,239.0      255.7         166.4               2,204.7
B. Cowvrn1cabn                                       74.5                    96.5       21.2                           -      23.7       157.2                     64.1                 436.3
C. Equiprnen Opera-in &Makfte                                                                -                -                        -          -               298.3                296.3
E. Suppis                                                                                                                                                         318.8                318.8
F. SUall Travl Expenses                                 -        -                                                                                                244.0                244.0
H. Service                                           10.6                               15.9                                  17.1        68.8          -                               112.5
I. Other                                           296.3         -         693.1        76.3              -           -      176.8      960.7      451.4 92,678.6   _1
J3. Itweinteit Crada                                    -   -                   -.                               3,259.7                                                              3,250.7    O
TotA Recurrent Co4t                                 505.5                   961.5      189.9                     3,259.7     388.0    2.445.7       707.1       1,093.t               9,560.9
TotaIPROJ.ECT COSTS                                 2,257.1    409.0        4,316.3      336.5        15,723.6    23,006.1   3,498.11  24,392.3    3,6073         6100       ,980       454.
TaXe                                                 17.2     11.4          236.5       13.3         1,429.4      1,795.1    200.2    1,797.3       202.3         299.2               6,061.9
Forlgn Exdep                                      1,853.4    368.2        2,897.2      121.2        11,972.7    16,007.6   2,686.    18,140.6    2,666.3        3,667.4   1,908.0   82,07.2



71                                         Annex D
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
COTTON SUB-SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
COMPONENTS BY FINANCIERS
(USS '000)
Participating Private   The Govemment of   World Bank   Total
Enterprise             Uzbekistan
_____________________________________   Amount                Amount            Amount   Amount
A. Project Implementation Unit                                                         331.5    1,925.6    2,257.1
B. Seed Component
1. Seed Variety Breeding                                                             22.7      386.2      409.0
2. Seed Testing & Cerlification                                                    1,205.3    3,111.0    4,316.3
3. Plant Variety Protection Office                                                   178.2      158.3     336.5
4. Seed Multiplication                                      2,696.2                    0.0   13,027.4   15,723.6
5. Seed Processing & Marketing                              5,028.1                    0.0   17,978.0   23,006.1
Subtotal Seed Component                                       7,724.3                1,406.3   34,660.9   43,791.5
C. Classing Component
1. Classing and Marketing Schools                                                   760.7    2,737.4    3,498.1
2. HVI                                                                             5,928.5   18,463.8   24,392.3
Subtotal Classing Component                                                          6,689.2   21,201.2   27,890.4
D. Irrigation Scheduling Component                                                     965.3    2,642.0    3,607.3
E. Integrated Pest Management Component                                              1,357.7    3,782.3    5,140.0
F. Program Design                                                                         -     1,908.0    1,908.0
Total Disbursement                                            7,724.3               10,749.9   66,120.0   84,594.3



Annex D                                                     72
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
COTTON SUB-SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
LOCALIFOREIGN TAXES BY FINANCIERS
(USS '000)
Participating Private Enterprise    The Government of Uzbekistan       World Bank                  Total
Amount                           Amount                       Amount                   Amount
1. Foreign                  _   _                                                                         62,097.2                 62097.2
11. Local (Excl. Taxes)                          4,499.8                          7,912.6                  4,022.8                 16435.2
111. Taxes                                       3,224.5                          2,837.4                        .                  606l.9
Total Project                                      7,724.31                         10,749.9                66,120.0                 S4594.3



REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
COTrON SUB-SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
WORLD BANK
(US$ '000)
Suggested Allocation of Loan Proceeds                                   Loan Amounts
Loan Amount Disbunement            Totl Project Cost        Averag* Disbursemnt %                      Unallocated                    Allocated
#          Total      Local    Foreign   Total  Local Foreig    Total         Total   Local  Foreign    Total        Local   Foreign
1. Civil Works                   2,954.5          80.0    4,054.3      814.4    3,249.9    80,0       -   100.0    3,249.9    295.4       -     295.4    2,954.5               2,954.5
2. Equipment                    19,854 .1         80.4   27,146.7    5,310.6   21,836.1    80.4    0.1  100.0   21,839.5   1,9e5.4       0.3   1,985.1   19,854.1       3.1   19,851.0
3. Training                      1,184.9         100.0    1,195.2          -    1,195.2   100.0       .   100.0    1,195.2      10.3      -       10.3    1,184.9              1,184.9
4. Technical Assistance          7,161.6         100.0    7,167.1       75.4    7,091.7   100.0   100.0  100.0    7,167.1       15.5       -      15.5    7,151.6      75.4    7,076.2
5. Investrnent Credit           28,441.6          80.1   38,729.7   10,749.2   27,980.5   80.1    28.1   100.0   31,005.3   2,563.7   244.0   2,319.7   28,441.6   2,780.9   25,660.8 
6. Recurrent Costs               1,662.9          26.4    6,291.2    5,547.5      743.7    26.4    16.6  100.0    1,662.9          -       -         -    1,662.9    919.2       743.7
Unallocated                      4,870.4             -                                      -              -            -         -         -                   -         -          -
Total                           66,120.0          7a.2   84,5S4.3   22,497.1   62,097.2 ,             -= -=  66,120.0   4,870.4   244.3   4,626.1   61,249.7   3,778.6   57.471.1



Anex D                                            74
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
COTTON SUB-SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
EXPENDITURE AcCOUNTS BY FINANCIERS
(US$ '000)
Participating The Govemment World Bank         Total
Private          of
Enterprise    Uzbekistan
Amount         Amount         Amount        Amount
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                               814.4        3,249.9      4,064.3
B. Equipment                                               5,307.2      21,839.5      27,146.7
C. Training ,                                                             1,195.2      1,195.2
D. Technical Assistance                                        0.0       7,167.1       7,167.1
E. Investment Credit                       5,140.4             0.0      30,329.6      35,470.0
Total Investment Costs                     5,140.4          6,121.6     63,781.3      75,043.4
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                                                 1,667.8        536.9       2,204.7
B. Communication                                             323.3         112.9         436.3
C. Equipment Operation & Maintenance      -                  219.9          78.4         298.3
E. Supplies                                                  207.6         111.3         318.8
F. Staff Travel Expenses                                     173.9          70.1         244.0
H. Services                                                   84.5          28.0         112.5
1. Other                                                    1,951.3        725.3       2,676.6
J. Investment Credit                       2,583.9            -0.0         675.7       3,259.7
Total Recurrent Costs                      2,583.9         4,628.3       2,338.7       9,550.9
Total DISBURSEMENT                           7,724.3        10,749.9      66,120.0      84,594.3



75                                     Annex D
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
COTTON SUB-SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPONENTS BY YEAR - TOTALS INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES
(US$ '000)
1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    Total
A. Project Implementation Unit                652.4    703.8   459.2    350.5    91.3  2,257.1
B. Seed Component
1. Seed Variety Breeding                        -   409.0         -        -        -   409.0
2. Seed Testing & Certification              257.7  1,457.8  2,014.7   336.1    250.0  4,316.3
3. Plant Variety Protection Offioe           184.4    36.6    37.5    38.5    39.5   336.5
4. Seed Multiplcation                      1,411.0  3,179.7  3,947.1  4,546.5  2,639.3 15,723.6
5. Seed Processing & Marketing               130.3  5,675.5 14,052.3  1,498.7  1,649.3 23,006.1
Subtotal Seed Component                    1,983.4 10,758.6 20,051.6  6,419.8  4,578.1 43,791.5
C. Classing Component
1. Classing and Marketing Schools          1,065.7    82.0  2,127.4   110.1    112.9  3,498.1
2. HVI                                     3,659.0  6,974.5  7,648.1  4,755.7  1,355.0 24,392.3
Subtotal Classing Component                4,724.7  7,056.5  9,775.5  4,865.8  1,467.9 27,890.4
D. Irrigation Scheduling Component            209.5   738.2   678.7   897.0  1,083.8  3,607.3
E. Integrated Pest Management Component    929.1  1,403.7  2,323.0   316.8    167.4  5,140.0
F. Program Design                                 -   619.7   635.8   652.6           -  1,908.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                        8,499.0 21,280.5 33,923.8 13,502.5  7,388.5 84,594.3



76                                  Annex E
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
COTTON SUB-SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX E
SEED COMPONENT
FiNANCIAL TERMS AND ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
1.           Financial Terms for Loans to Sub-Borrowers. The following financial terms will apply
for lending to the sub-borrowers:
(a)    A loan ceiling of US$5.0 million would be established (this would meet the
financing requirement, excluding equity capital) for an expected seed production
capacity of 5,000 ton seed processing units. The loan ceiling will be adjusted
correspondingly for lower or higher capacity;
(b)    A maximum of 25 percent of the loan may be utilized for the purposes of
working capital needs;
(c)    The sub-loans to seed companies would be given for a maximum period of 10
years, including a three-year grace period, at the long term Dollar rate (US
Treasury 10-year Bond rate) in effect at the time sub-loans are made (the base
rate) plus a margin of 3 percent to cover administration costs and default risks;
(d)    A maximum loan ceiling of US$700,000 will be established for borrowings by
a seed company on behalf of any one associated seed farm to meet the credit
requirement of that seed farm for the purposes of spare parts, equipment and
pesticides;
(e)    Loans to seed farms would be for a maximum 6 years, with a two-year grace
period, carrying the same interest rate as above;
(f)    The exchange risk between the US dollar and the Sum would be borne by the
sub-borrowers, the cross-currency risk between the US dollar and the basket of
currencies in the World Bank loan would be borne by the Government, the
default risk would be borne by the Government;
(g)   If Sum is drawn instead of US dollars, the principal addition will be calculated
in US dollars on the basis of the exchange rate in effect at the time of such
drawdown;
(h)    Repayment schedules for sub-loans will be calculated in US dollars. Repayment
of principal and interest will be made in US dollars, or in Sum equivalent based
on the foreign exchange rate prevailing on the repayment date;



Annex E                                     77
(i)    Repayment of principal and interest will be made by the sub-borrowers and will
be deposited for credit through an agreed account in a commercial bank to be
designated by the Government;
(j)    Any reflows during the World Bank five-year grace period (the difference
between borrower's repayment obligations to the Bank and sub-borrower's
repayments to the borrower) will be held in a separate account for use by the
Ministry of Finance. These funds will be used on a revolving basis, and on
similar terms and conditions, to finance similar private sub-projects acceptable
to the Bank; and
(k)    Collateral (in the form of assets) will be required from the participating private
enterprises in favor of the government as a preferred creditor and will be
specified in the sub-loan agreement.
2.           Eligibility Criteria For Loans To Sub-Borrowers.  Loans to sub-borrowers will be
approved on a first-come-first-serve basis. Sub-borrowers must meet the following criteria before loan
approval would be processed:
(a)    Seed companies and eligible seed farms must be fully private legal entities;
(b)    The charter and other terms and conditions of incorporation of the seed
companies and privatized seed farms will have to ensure freedom of governance
by their shareholders, and operational autonomy and financial accountability of
their managers;
(c)    Sub-borrowers and seed farms will possess legal long-term leases on farm land
and land needed for ginning and seed processing plants, and for administrative
buildings;
(d)    Planned minimum statutory capital for a seed company will be at least the Sum
equivalent of US$40,000; paid in capital will be at least the Sum equivalent of
US$25,000. Equity funding of the total capital requirement must be at least
15%;
(e)    Sub-borrowers must prepare a comprehensive and acceptable business plan,
including:
*     descriptions of marketing and distribution channels;
*     technical soundness, including descriptions of machinery to be purchased
and layout of the plant;
*     financial analysis and viability of the investments;
*     management capability and effective organization of the project; and
*     compliance with internationally recognized environment and health
standards.



78                                  Annex E
(f) Sub-borrowers must demonstrate their capacity for the preparation of adequate
financial accounts and property controls, and meet independent audit requirements;
(g)  The sub-loan agreement must provide sub-borrowers with on-demand export and
import licenses to support their operations and guarantee on-demand convertibility
of Sum into US dollars for the purpose of making US dollar interest and principal
repayments; and
(h)  Each  sub-borrower  must sign  a  subsidiary  sub-loan  agreement with
GOSKOMPROGNOZSTAT acting through PIU as administrator of the loan, with
the commercial bank as the channel for disbursement and collector of repayment.
The agreement will stipulate the terms of the loan, security arrangements in case
of default, procedures for withdrawal and utilization of loan proceeds, monitoring
and reporting arrangements, repayment schedule, and provision for independent
financial audit. The Deputy Chairman GOSKOMPROGNOZSTAT will sign the
agreement on behalf of Government following review of the sub-loan by the Bank.
The Director of the PIU and a representative of the commercial bank will
countersign the agreement as an indication that appropriate arrangements exist for
the respective agencies to carry out their responsibilities for monitoring compliance
with the contractual provisions on the seed companies' use of the sub-loan proceeds
and their repayment.



79                                           Annex F
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
COTTON SUB-SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX F
SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ACTIVITIES
Categ-Contracts Ce                            Loan Funds      GOUIPSCo   Total (USSxOOO)
Technical Services                                 18            8,362             0              8,362
PIU AdminlTech. Services                            I             1,500            0              1,500
Strat. Analyses & Sector Studies                   6              1,908            0              1,908
HVI & Class-Mkting Technical Assistance             1             1,840            0              1,840
Irrigation Tech. Assistance                        2              251              0              251
IPM Tech. Assistance                                1             558              0              558
Seed Certification Tech. Assist.                    1             754              0              754
Seed Breeding TA                                    1             170              0               170
Training I Study Tours                             3              1,195            0              1,195
Other Consulting Contracts                         2              186              0               186
Equipment & Goods                                  98            21,840          5,307           27,147
ICB                                                6             12,720          3,120           15,840
DC                                                 2              785             195             980
IS                                                 35            6,670            1660           8,330
LS                                                 55            1,665            332             1,997
Civil Works                                        20            3,250            814            4,064
HVI Labs                                           6              693             173             866
IPM Facilities                                     5             1,880            469            2,349
Other Small Works                                  9              680            7,724            849
Investment Credit Line                             28            31,005          7,724           38,729
Gin / Seed Buildings & Connections                 6              300             100             400
Equipment                                          17            30,705          4,364           35,069
Pvt. Sector Recurrent Costs                                        0             3,326           3,260
Other Recurrent Costs                             N/A            1,543           4,749           6,292
Program Totas                                     164            66,000         18,594           84,594



Annex F                                                                          80
REPUBUC oF UZBEKISTAN
COTTON SUB-SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PLAN AND SCHEDULE FOR MAJOR PROCUREMENTS
CdaeVi    Itcm, 0                       Conlraci                    Buidges          Prom                                Procurement Sche4Adk
Issre Bid
Gre p                    Package                     Anw_ ont         Method          Documents          Bid Recipt   Comnract Award Begn Ddeihw
Teocnical
Servk'             I             P)U Tadmcl Saice                 _    1500       Shoam List/lndivs.   4/95 * 9/95 _     695 - 11193         95 - 2J96        0/95 - 4/96
2            tresvi&   eey&olicyPaEn                 2,908        Shot Lists        4/95 - 1/97        6/95 - 3/97       8/95 - 5/97       1095 - 6W97
3              HVI /  ms-Miing TA                    1,840        Share Lits        6/95 - 9/96          95 -11/96         095 - 2W97       196 - 497
4                lnd    Tedunodg                     251            ledivi             7/1/95             1/1/95           10/1/95            1/11_5
5               IPM Tedu] Assistance                 555          Shot Lists        7/95 - 4/96        9195 - 6/96       11/95 - V/96      1/96 - 10/96
6             Soed CaufiteiosSpedalit                754          Sht Lists            9/1/95            11/1/95            I/1/96           3/1/96
7                  Saed BeedngTA                     170            lndivs            12//95              V1/96            4/1/96            I/296
I                Tain4lnStuy Tounr                  1,195         Shotn Lists       6195 - 9/96        8/95 - 11/96    I0O5 - 2/97           /95 -3/96
9              Ofm Cowltdng Contracts                186          Short Lists       6195 - tl95        M/95 - 10195     10/95 - 12/95      IW95 - 2/96
__________                       ~~~~~~~suab-total              8.32       _  _  _  _  _      _  _  _ _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _      _  _  _  _
Equipment
and Goods          to           Sed Tet &  Centific. Equipment           955             ICB               4/2/96             6/1/96            t/1/96           201/96
1 1         Seed Te   & Certifir Equinau             945              is,            6/95 - 3/97        V/95 - 5/97      9/95 - 7/97      9IIM  - 897
22        lead Pcung&M ketnnglEqfip.                 2,370           ICB-              3/15196           5/15/96           7/15/96           101/296
13         Seed Proceedan&MrhedngEquip.             12790            ICBE             10/1/96            12/1/96            21/97            4/2/97
14         Seed Pocesirg&Mrketing Equip.             3,300           IC'               6/1197             8/l/97           10/1/97           I1V5S97
Is         Seed Procesing&MorkatingEquip.            2,350           ICB-             1/25/98            10/21598          12/1598           V1599
16          S.,d Procssing&Mrkeing Plant             2,260            Is.              10/1/96           IV1196            2V/97             41197
17          Seed Pmcsing & Marketing Plsnt          2,260            is,               611/97             8/197            28/2/97           12/2/97
Is          Seed Processing&Mvkesing PIant          2X260             IS,              6/1/98             1/1/98           101/9tm          1215/9
19          Se*d Proneesing A MSrkieing PlAet        2,260            IS               3/1/98             5/1/98            7/1/98            9/119
20          Seed Pmceuing&MerkesngPlAnt               600            LS                8/2/96             9/2/96            11/1(96          1211S6
21            Seed Fem  Equip. (20Sets)              4.00            IC-             39 - 6/97          5/96 - U97        796-10/97        9S6 - fV97
22             Sed Fwm Equip. (20 Sets)              4.790            IS             2/97 - 5/98        4/97-719S         6/97 - 9/9        /97 1-/9
23               SedltFweoCropInpuus                 2,100        _    S    _        2/96-6/98          4/96-8l9S        696-lOi9t          /96-2298
24               Seed Pam CropTputs                  1,900            IS,            2/96-6/98          4/96-8/98        6/96- [209       V896-12/98
25               Seed Fns Crop Inpus                 2,030            IS             2/96 - 6198        4/96 - /98       6/96 - lO91       U96 - 129
26            HVI Equipmemt and Materials            6.100           ICCB              1/5/96             3/1/96            V/I26             7/2/6
27            HVI Equipmsent nd Mmteials             2,700           IC                3/1197             5//917            7//97             9//97
28            HVI Equipment nd Materias              2.200           ICB              3115/97            5/15/97           7115/97           9/15197
29            HVI Equipment ed Materials             1,370            IS,            6/95 - 3/97       8/95 - 5/97       9/95 - 7/97       2I/95 - S7
30            HVI Equipenent ndMeteiels               205             LS             3/96 6/96          5/96 - 96         7/96 -1096       9/96 - 12/96
31            HVI EupsnemutadMaterisls                980             DC               10/1/96            I221/96           VI97             4/1/97
32            HVI Eq!2pnutsnd Mauels                 1,435            IS,              6/2/96             1/U/96            10/1/96          IVIS6
33            HVI EqlpnmetandMsteeials               975             IIS            6/95 - IS96        n95 - 396        /IO95 - 5/6        I225 - 7/96
34             /VI_ E2mtKndMeusis                    12650            IS.            7/96-10/96        9/96-12296         I/96.2/7          1/97.4S97
35            HVI E  mspnentsd Maeids                 805            IS,               9/2/96             II/I2S6           1/1/97            3/1197
36               Clas /MktIn  Schools                2,460           ICB               S/1196            10/1/96           22/2/96          V21197
37               Clus/Mbitng Schools                  250             IS             6/96 - 9/96          6 - 11/96        0/9 - W97       12/96 -4/97



81                                                                Annex F
REPUBUC OF UZBEKiSTAN
CoTToN SUBSECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PLAN AND SCHEDULE FOR MAJOR PROCUREMENTS
Ciatgery    Item I                    Contrad t                   Bued            Proc.                              Procurement Schedule
________   Group                             e P                   m Amnow       Medw&d          Decumlents   Did Receit Contrat Award Begin Deive
31                Inipdm Sdediin                   1425            ICB              VI9 __/1/95 S12il95                                 2/S96
39                Inig eSdiadli                    255             IS,              1/l/95           1O/I95            1V195           2V1t96
40                hIgdinSdali,g                    460             LS            695 - I96         5/93 - 3/6        10/95 - 5/96     12/95 - 7:96
41           1n1 _adPMMp  tM4ans                   615             IS               1/1197           3/1/97            3/1/97           7/1/97
42  _                 PFM    hgua1_1a              295              IS              1/197           311i97            5/1/97           7/lS7
43                  Sftd i3m_%                      90              is             lOil195           12/1/95           21/i96           4/1/96
SWPWt                       6i1
CavII Works         44             SWdTTN"  & cSuflbm                  570             NO               6i1/96            Vl/96            10/1/96          1211/96
45           Gin I 1.d Bldg MoUft300LS 30                          L              397 - S91         5i97 - 7/9       7/97-9/91        9/97 - 11/9
46                 HV Lsbuuiu                      N05            NCR               6/1/96            1/196            1011,96          12/1196
47           CW4lMt            Sd cbooh&P PIU      176            NCB               VlM/S 1/01/95                      12/1/96          2/1/96
41                  1PM Fadilu                     2,350_         NCB              10d1/96          V12i/96       _    Vl/97            4/11/97
Sb-btId                     4.,U             ___
Recrrae                                                                                                                                _
CoetadTaxes        49                PubiSc Seem, Salmi.              2,205           F/A                                 _ _               __               _ 
50             Otr RopeK CTIIco/rm                4.016           IS4L               _ _               _ __
5I_          Pit Scbrbw.C omtrame                3.260            U LS              __ 
Sub-ted                     9.551                       _
Tee                       U,354                                         .






82                                       Anne G
REPUBUC OF UZBEMSTAN
COTTON SUB-SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX G
DISBURSEMENT AccouNTs By FINMCIERS
(US$ MO)
Participating  The Government  World Bank          Totla
Private           of
Enterpise      Uzbekistan
Amount          Amount          Amount         Amount
1. Clvil Wborks                                    814.4        3,249.9         4064.3
2. Equipment                          -          5,307.2        21,839.5       27,146.7
3. TraIning                                            -         1,195.2        1,1962
4. Technical Assistance                              0.0         7,167.1        7,167.1
5. Investment Credit            7,724.3              0.0        31,005.3       38,73.7
6. Recurent Costs                     -          4,628.3         1,662.9        6,291.2
Total                           7,724.3         10,749.9       66,120.0        84,504.3
REPUBUC OF UZBEKISTAN
COTTON SUB-8ECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT BY SEMESTERS AND GOVERNMENT CASH FLOW
(USS '000)
_______________    __________  Financing  Avible                              |
Parucipang Private  World Bank   Total   Costs to be The Government of Uzbeldstan
_________   ________   Financed
Amount         Amount    Amount    Project       Cash Fbow    Cumulade
_Costs                     Cash Flow
I                      -           -         -      4,249.5      -4,249.5     *4,249.5
2                  188.7      3,451.5    3,620.2    4,249.5        429.3       -4,878.8
3                  168.7      3,451.5    3,620.2    10,640.2     -7,020.0     -11,8J9.8
4                  694.6      8,806.7    9,501.3    10,640.2     -1,138.9     -13,037.8
5                  694.6      8,806.7    9,501.3    16,961.9     -7,460.6     -20,496.4
6                 1,386.2    13,900.3   15,286.5    16,961.9     -1,675.4     -22,173.8
7                 1,386.2    13,900.3   15,286.5    6,751.3       8,535.2     -13.638.5
8                  808.3      4,850.2    5,658.6    6,751.3      -1,092.7     -14,731.2
9                  808.3      4,850.2    5,658.6    3,694.3       1,964.3     -12,766.0
10                 804.3      2,051.3    2,855.6    3,694.3       -838.6     -13,6065.
1 1                804.3      2,051.31   2,855.6         -        2,855.6     -10,749.9
rowaI             7,724.3    66,120.0   73,844.4    84,594.3    -10,749.9    -10,749.9






83                                   Annex H
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
COTTON SUB-SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX H
A. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
1.           The Project Implementation Unit (PIU), will report to the Deputy Chairman
GOSKOMPROGNOZSTAT through its Director. It will be responsible for daily direction and
coordination of project activities, assisting participants with implementation requirements, administering
funding flows, monitoring progress under the components, and reporting to the Goverrnment, World Bank
and other donors, as appropriate, on progress with project implementation.
2.            The PIU was established under GOSKOMPROGNOZSTAT during CY1994 and expects
to be fully staffed and ready for operations by mid-CY 1995. It is expected that the PIU will operate at
full capacity for about three years during the stages of project start up and initial implementation. It will
then be scaled back in phases to a smaller staff needed for monitoring, accounting and reporting for the
remaining two years. The PIU will be staffed by Uzbek nationals and some foreign advisors, who will
help initiate operations while training their local counterparts. In later stages, PIU functions will be
absorbed into relevant Government organizations, completing the objectives of institutionalization.
3.            The proposed organizational structure and funding channels for the project are illustrated
in the following chart.
4.            The Government will require technical assistance for establishing and running the PIU.
While the PIU will have a qualified Director who would be an employee of the Government, foreign
consultant assistance will be expected to be a principal resource, in the beginning, for ensuring prompt
and efficient implementation of the PIU's technical, administrative and advisory functions. Foreign
technical assistance will also be provided for advising in business development/credit operations, project
accounting and procurement functions. Some equipment will be provided to support PIU office
operations. A foreign advisor will be engaged to assist the Agent bank(s) with credit application reviews
and approvals and administration under the credit line component of the project.
5.            The counterpart staff will be trained by the expatriate advisors to perform unit functions
and otherwise prepare themselves for lead responsibility for PIU actions. Therefore, support functions
and duties of expatriate staff during the first year or two will shift to the counterpart staff during the
second and third years. Expatriates' roles will correspondingly evolve from operations and training to
that of being counselors and coaches.  Their service levels will phase down as their individual
counterparts become capable of executing daily operations. Certain units (procurement, accounting) may
be capable of such changeovers earlier than in the general management and business development areas.
At later stages of the program, and as the Uzbek banking system evolves, PIU business advice and credit
oversight functions could be transferred to one or more of the banks that function as credit intermediaries.
It might also be appropriate for the PIU, if requested, to arrange for guidance to project participants (seed
companies, seed multiplication units) in financial and legal matters.



Annex H                                         84
Proposed Organizational Structure and Funding Channels for the Project
|~~  _ __ _____                                                                    -
Loan 
Project
Working
l          Group               Project Implementation Unit                     Participating
K \                    Director                               Credit-Line
Payments to                                                                            Bank(s)
Consutants &
Suppliers and  ;              |Admin.          Fnc         Prc       Mon.
Spec. Acct.                  ____________________
|Irigation     IPM          HSeed Certif    Plant Protection]                  Seed Companies
lfams  ee/
Sedfam        See   frs     Seed   arms  Seed fam         ee   m



85                                   Annex H
6.            PIU departments will be providing guidance and operations oversight to subsidiary
implementation units in each of the Government-managed project components. The PIU will also be
providing them, and the seed companies and seed farms, with administrative support regarding
procurement and funding actions, and World Bank approvals associated therewith. The PIU will also be
responsible for setting up the overall project accounting system and arranging for periodic audit services,
as required by the World Bank.
B. PIU ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
7.           The PIU consists of a management section and three functional service units: Finance,
Procurement, and Administration and Monitoring.
PIU MANAGEMENT
8.           The PIU will be headed by a full-time Director with overall responsibility for project
administration. The Director will be an employee of the GOU and appointed by, and reporting directly
to, the Deputy Chairman of GOSKOMPROGNOZSTAT. To fulfill his assigned responsibilities, the
Director will be authorized to recruit, manage and supervise the PIU's domestic employees and its
expatriate consultants, and to decide and execute PIU operations. The Director will be assisted by the
expatriate advisors. The PIU may also reserve some funds for other expatriate assistance, such as for
solving unforeseen technical problems, conducting analyses or e.g., legal services. The Director may
also engage other technical assistance, such as for required periodic audit services. The Director will
regularly liaise with the World Bank's project staff and visiting supervision missions.
9.           The Director's primary focus will be to direct the overall program and supervise the
consultant team which will be supporting the PIU's functional units. The PIU loan committee will review
and, as appropriate, endorse credit applications and submit them to the World Bank for its review and
"No-objection. Finance Department staff will assist the bank(s) with initial administration of these loans,
including preparation of typical documentation, periodic specification of interest rates and tracking
repayments of principal and interest to the commercial bank(s) and the MOF. The Finance Department
will also be responsible for setting up disbursing procedures, a program accounting system, and helping
participants with accounting and reporting. Project accounting activities will include helping the bank(s)
with the installation of a system to track the incidence of expenditures under the credit line and post them
to the respective sub-borrower's loan principal. The Procurement Department will provide advice and
assistance to GOU project participants to effect bidding, contracting and payment actions, and lender
approvals, and could organize combined solicitations and transactions for groups of like items. This
Department will also advise and assist, as requested, on external procurement actions by Seed Companies
and seed farms and, if appropriate, regarding domestic purchases. The Procurement Department will
also organize transmittal of documents to the World Bank for review and clearance and will maintain a
database on all procurement activities.  The Administration and Monitoring Department will be
responsible for assisting Government and private project participants with actions to engage technical
services (such as refining terms of reference, locating suitable candidates, evaluating offers, obtaining
visas, making payments) for their components, and the efficient application and supervision of these
resources.



Annex H                                     86
10.          PIU duties and responsibilities can be grouped in three broad categories:
PIU Program Service Activities
*      assistance, as requested, with institutional strengthening and control systems
within participant components;
*      assistance, as requested, in coordinating activities under these packages, and
between departments, to ensure timely and efficient implementation;
*     providing advice and guidance, as requested, to participants and potential
participants on project implementation procedures and requirements, focusing on
planning, procurement activities, project accounting, reporting requirements and
preparations for periodic GOU or Bank supervision visits;
*     promoting the credit line component by providing information to potential
applicants and providers of goods and services regarding steps for participating
in the activities;
*     maintaining an information database on procurement services, audit and
accounting services, technology services, suppliers of equipment, World Bank
procurement and disbursement guidelines, standard and model bidding
documents, and other resources needed by participants;
*     organizing training for participant staffs on procurement planning, and basic
procurement and logistics management procedures;
*     assisting project staff, as requested, in learning about World Bank project
documentation and procedures for obtaining needed clearances;
*     where appropriate, arranging for consolidated procurement on behalf of
participants in cases of standardized and semi-standardized equipment; and
*      as requested, providing technical advisory services or assisting in the
identification and procurement of such services.
Project Administration Activities
*      Pre-review and approval of commitment and disbursement requests for small-
value procurement transactions and referral of documentation to the World Bank
for larger procurement;
*     clearing disbursement request packages, maintaining project accounting according
to World Bank requirements, and arranging for regular audits of project
activities; and



87                                  Annex H
*     arranging for transmittal of documents between participants and the World Bank,
as appropriate, to ensure that proper and timely clearances are received.
Project Reporting Activities
*     Monitoring and reporting on overall project implementation, e.g., progress in
technical assistance, procurement of goods and services purchased through the
Loan, disbursements, and audit activities;
*     assisting the World Bank supervision missions by collecting and processing
participants' progress reports;
*     monitoring and reporting on disbursements under the Loan, including the
administration of the Special Account; and repayments made by participants
which are involved in the credit line aspect of the project;
*     highlighting implementation problems as they arise and offering recommendations
for resolution;
*     preparing and forwarding periodic reports to the Government and, as required,
the World Bank; and
*     preparing the overall Project Completion Report, which will be submitted to the
World Bank.
PIU UNIT FUNCTIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES
11.          Finance Department. The Finance Department will be responsible for all matters dealing
with project accounts, disbursement requests and loan administration of the line of credit. This Unit will
also be responsible answering questions from potential loan applicants, ensuring understanding of and
conformance with eligibility criteria, and helping the participating bank(s) with developing criteria and
a system for processing sub-loans. Development of the accounting system for project components and
credit line activities will take place in this Department as well.
Specifically the Finance Department will be required to, inter alia:
*     Prepare and negotiate the Credit Line service agreement to be executed with the
participating bank(s);
*     Work with Seed Companies, seed multiplication entities, project participants and
the credit-line bank(s) to help promote good business planning and the use of the
credit line;
*     prepare and distribute an operations handbook which advises potential sub-
borrowers about environmental parameters that must be met within their seed
multiplication and processing activities;



Annex H                                     88
*     Review candidates' business plans and credit application proposals and confirm
their consistency with project requirements and sub-loan criteria;
*     Work with the bank(s) regarding their administration of the Credit Line and sub-
loan agreements - including collaborating with them and sub-borrowers, as
necessary, regarding committed/undisbursed balances, posting of principal
increments, interest rates, and processing and recording repayments of principal
and interest by sub-borrowers and by the bank(s) back to the MOF;
*     Refer to the World Bank all final sub-loan applications for clearance;
*     Confirm satisfaction of sub-loan criteria, including environmental matters, if
appropriate, of sub-projects based on GOU and World Bank requirements;
*     Analyze and consolidate sub-loan portfolio management reporting, including
arrears;
*     Develop and administer the project's overall accounting, auditing and reporting
procedures;
Establish Special Account(s) according to World Bank criteria and procedures;
Engage an accounting firm to review project accounts, accounting system,
documentation controls, data bases covering financial, technical and procurement
information, etc., as required for periodic audits;
Make or arrange for disbursements and payments to participants, suppliers and
contractors, and arrange for periodic replenishment of the World Bank Special
Account and the project's local currency resources;
Collect and submit documentation for contracts above US$250,000;
Submit Statements of Expenditures for contracts under US$50,000; and
*     Prepare documents and submit withdrawal applications to the Bank for: (i) direct
payments to third parties for contracts of US$250,000 and above; and (ii)
replenishments of the Special Account.
12.          Procurement Department.   While project participants will be responsible for the
procurement of most goods and services under the Loan and sub-loans, the PIU will assist them by
providing procurement services, such as information on guidelines and procedures, assistance with
document preparation, and the provision of technical support on a case-by-case basis. The Department
will also assist participants, where appropriate, by arranging for collective procurement for items of a
similar nature, especially those purchased from external suppliers. The Procurement Department will
establish an information base on potential suppliers of goods and services which can be utilized by the
participants. The Department will also provide information and data as needed to the World Bank for
purposes of procurement supervision.



89                                     Annex H
The Procurement Department will be required to, inter alia:
*      Set up the project procurement system and basic operations manual, including
essential steps for different procurement modes: Local/International Shopping,
NCB, DC, ICB actions;
*      help project participants develop procurement strategies, bidding packages, solicit
for major program purchases and answer questions about the process;
*      provide or help arrange advice or technical support, as needed, for participants
market searches, solicitations, procurement/contracting and/or inspection and
other logistics management actions;
*      carry out collective procurement activities on behalf of participants, based on
identification by the Administration and Monitoring Department of standard and
semi-standard equipment;
*      develop and implement training for project participants in basic procurement,
evaluation, contracting and logistics management practices;
*      outline a procurement plan and develop documentation packages for PIU
solicitations and purchases of goods and services, (e.g., technical services,
office/operations equipment, audit support, staffing contracts);
*      carry out Local Shopping/IS/ICB/DC actions for PIU and, as requested, other
participants' purchases; and
e      prepare and transmit procurement packages to the World Bank for all required
"No Objection" Letters on behalf of participants.
13.           Administration and Monitoring Department.  This department will be responsible for
assisting project participants with actions to engage technical services for their components, and the
efficient application, support and supervision of these resources. The Department will coordinate with
the Procurement and Finance Departments and assist component staffs and participants by:
*      Helping assess problems or shortcomings, planning actions and budgets for
technical assistance and developing appropriate terms of reference for needed
consultants or technical specialists;
*      Researching possible sources of technical services and/or potential candidates for
short-lists;
*      Developing solicitation packages, including the use of standard formats and
contracting instruments, as appropriate;
*      Advertising for or contacting potential providers of technical services;
*      Receiving service/consulting proposals and conducting evaluations of offers;



Annex H                                     90
X     Obtaining, if appropriate, GOU and World Bank clearances of invitation
packages, evaluations and negotiated contracts;
*     Making arrangements for the arrival, establishment, application and efficient
direction of the technical assistance contractors, as well as the quality, positioning
and operational availability of their Uzbek counterparts;
*     Assisting directors and consultants of different components coordinate their plans
and efforts so maximum program efficiencies and benefits are achieved;
*     Ensuring timely arrangement of payment mechanisms, physical support of
contractors and clearances of payments for work completed; and
*      Reviewing and accepting final contract deliverables, and conducting contract
close-outs, audits and contractor evaluation actions.



91                                       Annex H
PROJECT IPLEMENTATION  UNIT
STAFFING CONCEPT
Item                       Number of           Three Year         Foreign or
People       Input Requirement      Local Staff
(months)                        l
Higher Level Staff                                                                               |
Director                                        1                   36                Local
Organization/Business Development               1                   24               Foreign
Specialist
Assistant Manager                               1                   36                Local
Economist                                       1                   36                Local
Technologist / Planning Specialist              1                   36                Local
Credit Officer                                  1                   36                Local
Procurement Specialist                          1                   18               Foreign
Procurement Officer                             1                   36                Local
Procurement Specialist                          2                   60                Local
Financial Management Specialist                 1                   18               Foreign
Senior Accountant                               1                   36                Local
Disbursement Specialist                         2                   72                Local
Credit Specialist for Agency Bank               1                   18               Foreign
Agricultural Economist                          1                   18               Foreign
Assistant Level Staff                                                                            |
Credit Assistant                                1                   36                Local
Technology Assistant                            1                   36                Local
Planning / Reporting Assistant                  I                   36                Local
Accounting Assistant                            2                   72                Local
Support Staff                                   6                  216                Local






92                                Annex I
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
COTTON SUB-SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX I
SUPERVISION PLAN AND SCHEDULE
1.          Introduction.  This project involves four components with participation of
different institutions and enterprises at dispersed locations.  Timely implementation and
adherence to agreed project objectives and activities will require an effective supervision plan.
2.          PIU Supervision. The PIU is expected to play an important role in project
supervision, since it is primarily responsible for coordinating all the work related to
implementation, budgeting, procurement, disbursement, audit, reporting, monitoring and
evaluation and appraisal of all sub-loans. It will prepare quarterly supervision reports to be
submitted to the World Bank for review. The component-specific implementation units will be
responsible for the day-to-day implementation and supervision of their respective work programs
as agreed in the annual work plans.
Bank Supervision
3.          Supervision Schedule. The proposed Bank supervision plan and supervision
schedule for the project are summarized in the table below.
4.          Project Launch Workshop. The main objective of the project launch workshop
is to reinforce project implementation strategies of the various components. This will be carried
out by holding a project launch workshop in Tashkent in June, 1995. It will bring together
various representatives from institutions and enterprises responsible for implementation of each
component. The main topics to be covered will be: (a) detailed description of each component's
objectives, sub-components and detailed features; (b) implementation schedule; (c) mechanism
to obtain project funds; (d) procurement procedures; (e) loan conditions and covenants; (f) PIU
and Bank supervisory scope and content; and (g) monitoring and evaluation and performance
indicators.
5.          Supervision Missions. Periodic Bank supervisions will be undertaken by Bank
staff assisted by appropriate technical specialists. The supervision missions will be supplemented
by follow up activities to be undertaken by Agriculture Office staff at the Resident Mission.
Local consultants will also be used to supplement supervision efforts on a continuing basis.
Although this may likely result in higher than Bank average supervision coefficients, the
emphasis will be placed on combining supervision missions with other Bank related activities to
ensure cost-effectiveness and minimize manpower requirements.
6.          The supervision missions will follow established Bank guidelines (Operational
Directive No. 13.05). Thus, the Bank supervisions will focus on the following key indices:



Annex I                                 93
(a)   compliance with project development objectives, legal covenants, project
management performance, availability of counterpart funds;
(b)   compliance with procurement guidelines;
(c)   implementation schedule, project cost, and disbursements;
(d)   special account operations;
(e)   audit and accounts;
(f)   training and technical assistance;
(g)   environmental aspects; and
(h)   compliance with technical standards, sub-loan management, and financial
health of the private sector seed companies and seed farms.
7.          The implementation plan presented in Annex A will provide the basis for Bank
supervisions, which will be reviewed during negotiations.
8.          Mid-Term  Review.  A mid-term  assessment of the project status, design,
objectives, detailed features, organization and management, expected benefits in relation to costs
and implementation will be carried out during the first quarter of 1998. The purpose of this
assessment is to determine what has worked and what has not, constraints to channeling funds,
delivery of technical assistance and training, implementation bottlenecks, technical, organization
and management aspects. Following this mid-term review, appropriate changes, as required,
both in scope and size, will be made to ensure timely completion of the project and achievement
of project objectives.
9.          Project Completion Report. A project completion report will be prepared at the
close of the project in accordance with standard Bank guidelines.



94                                 Annex I
TABLE 1: PROPOSED SUPERVISION PLAN AND SCHEDULE
Approximate
Date of Input                                                           Staff
(mo/yr)             Activity        Expected Skill Requirement      Weeks
June 1995      Supervision mission    Task Manager                     24
(FY95)       Project launch         Irrigation Specialist
workshop              HVI Specialist
IPM Specialist
Seed Specialist
Financial Analyst
Procurement Specialist
Disbursement Specialist
September 1995   Supervision mission    Task Manager                      15
(FY96)                              HVI Specialist
Seed Specialist
Financial Analyst
Procurement Specialist
Institutional Dev. Specialist
January 1996     Supervision mission    Task Manager                     15
(FY96)                              Irrigation Specialist
HVI Specialist
Seed Specialist
Procurement Specialist
Financial Analyst
June 1996      Supervision mission    Task Manager                     15
(FY96)                              HVI Specialist
Financial Analyst
Seed Specialist
Procurement Specialist
Institutional Dev. Specialist
September 1996   Supervision mission    Task Manager                      13
(FY97)                              Financial Analyst
Seed Specialist
Institutional Dev. Specialist



Annex I                                  95
Approximate
Date of Input                                                            Staff
(mo/yr)              Activity        Expected Skill Requirement       Weeks
March 1997      Supervision mission    Task Manager                       18
(FY97)        (mid-tern review)      Irrigation Specialist
HVI Specialist
IPM Specialist
Seed Specialist
Financial Analyst
Procurement Specialist
Disbursement Specialist
September 1997   Supervision mission     Task Manager                       14
(FY98)                               HVI Specialist
Seed Specialist
Financial Analyst
March 1998      Supervision mission    Task Manager                       15
(FY98)                               Financial Analyst
Procurement Specialist
Seed Specialist
Irrigation Specialist
September 1998   Supervision mission     Task Manager                       15
(FY99)                               HVI Specialist
IPM Specialist
Seed Specialist
Financial Analyst
March 1999      Supervision mission    Task Manager                       15
(FY99)                               HVI Specialist
Seed Specialist
Financial Analyst
Irrigation Specialist
September 1999   Supervision mission     Task Manager                       15
(FY2000)                              HVI Specialist
Seed Specialist
Financial Analyst
Irrigation Specialist



96                                 Annex I
Approximate
Date of Input                                                          Staff
(mo/yr)             Activity        Expected Skill Requirement     Weeks
January 2000    Supervision mission    Task Manager                     15
(FY2000)                             HVI Specialist
Seed Specialist
Financial Analyst
Irrigation Specialist
June 2000      Supervision mission    Task Manager                    20
(FY2000)      and PCR preparation    HVI Specialist
IPM Specialist
Seed Specialist
Financial Analyst
Irrigation Specialist



97                                Annex J
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
COTTON SUB-SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX J
LIST OF DoCumENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FiLE
1.    Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan: Uzbekistan Cotton Sub-sector Improvement
Project supported by World Bank -- Feasibility Report, September-October 1993.
2.    Charles L. Sciple: Uzbekistan  Cotton  Sub-sector Improvement Project, Pre-
Implementation Study -- Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan, Report, July-August
1994.
3.    Draft Proposal for Official Seed Policy; Draft Proposal for Seed Law.
4.    Regulations on Joint Stock Companies; Memorandum of Association of Seed Companies.
5.    Cameron/Hearn: Uzbekistan Cotton Sub-sector Improvement Project -- Integrated Pest
Management Component, Draft Report, August 1994.
6.    Donald N. Baker: Uzbekistan Cotton Sub-sector Improvement Project -- Real Time On-
Farm Irrigation Scheduling, Mission Report, June-July 1993.
7.    Cotton Sub-sector Improvement Project -- On-Farm Irrigation Scheduling Component,
August 1994.
8.   John Cameron: Uzbekistan Cotton Sub-sector Improvement Project, 1st and 2nd
Preparation Missions -- Financial & Economic Assessment, Cotton Production Efficiency
and Project Components, Report, July 1993.
9.    Fred E. M. Gillham: Cotton Production, Research and Marketing in Uzbekistan, Report,
January 1994.
10.   Gillham/Mathews: Cotton Pest Management in Uzbekistan.
11.  Integrated Pest Management Task Force: Integrated Pest Management in Developing
Countries -- Experience and Prospects, Consultants' Report, 1992.
12.   United States Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service: Cotton-
Integrated Pest Management -- Proceedings of a Symposium, September 1990.
13.   Dennis Wilchelns: Economic Evaluation of Agricultural Water Resources in Uzbekistan,
Report, November 1994.



Annex J                                 98
14.   BMB Management Consulting for Development BV: Development of the Seed Industry,
Uzbekistan, Mission Report, December 1994.
15.   Roger J. Tomkins:  Uzbekistan  Cotton  Sub-sector Improvement Project, Pre-
Implementation Study -- HVI and Classing Systems, Report, August 1994.
16.   Stephen Brown: Uzbekistan Cotton Sub-sector Improvement Project, Pre-Implementation
Study -- Ginning, Report, August 1994.
17.   John P. Farish: Uzbekistan Cotton Sub-sector Improvement Project -- Computer
Management Support System, Report, July-August 1994.
18.  Implementation Volume: Table of Contents - Seed Component - Technical Assistance;
Marketing Component and Classing Schools - Technical Assistance; Terms of Reference
for Development of Pesticide Policy;  Integrated Pest Management Component -
Technical Assistance; Irrigation Scheduling - Technical Assistance; Project Costing
Data; Procurement Schedules ; Project Implementation Unit; Economic and Financial
Analysis;  Accounting and Financial Reporting Procedures; Flow of Funds; and
Procedures for IBRD Loan Disbursements.






IBRD 25454
USSIAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUSA
60'  .                       \X~~~~~~~~~~~~~SSIAN                                EEDUERALTION
60' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FD.
ERaAIJAN                         KAZAKHSTAN
A~~~~~~~~~~~~\  s                <          KCL2SP;Cn SeG  < >    \L ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LOke L3.Ik-Sh   m GOLIA
a/ Sea~~~~~~~~~~~~~C~po ~
KAZA K H STA N  {                     \                            \                                                   /         )          D              CHIOA
Mu a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHINA
\  |         a   Muynrn7t                 \                                          25e   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~AFGHANISTAN  >
PAKIS.
Th, boundaries, co7ors.
denominations and  any ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~uku                                                                 KKH TA
odtehneor niinnfaotrmranatio'vn dshownU Z U                      E                 K I S T A N
on  this ma   do  not~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hrd    c
y on                                                                                        thris e                                                              Uport of  urga
The World Bonk Group.                                                                \n   T mugab
denuSomiain any    anrioy                                                                                                Dh                                                  0
or any endorsement                                                                Ch  z ou
or acetanc  of such
buancd orirn                                                                                         Krsh       /             )           T A J I K I S T A N
boundIAMICariRes./                                                                       e      \          <        DenrnuroDushoDuh
OF IRAN                                                    c                         ,             Surch)J 
U  Z  B E K I S T A  N                                                                                                   urgon3                              ,
*        National Capital                                                                                     To Mo.,- Shodrif
o        Selected Cities
Railroads                                                                                   A F G  H A N  I S T A N 
Main Roads
~ Rivers                                                  l,           ,,,,E5 0           100            200                                        PAKISTAN
International Boundaries                                           OaLOMERTESa      loo       200                                 70'
60'                                                                                         7,0.
DECEMBER 1993












