Page  1
November 18, 1997
His Excellency
Bakhtiar Khamidov
Deputy Prime Minister
Mustakillik Meydani
House of Government
Tashkent
Republic of Uzbekistan
Re:
AgrEvo Grant for Integrated Crop Management Demonstration 
and Training Activities in Uzbekistan - Grant No. TF021499     
Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by Hoechst Schering AgrEvo GmbH, Berlin (AgrEvo), a company of the 
Federal Republic of Germany, in an amount not exceeding one million US Dollars 
(US$1,000,000) (the Grant) to the Republic of Uzbekistan (the Recipient).
The Grant is made for financial assistance and for the purposes and on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient hereby 
confirms its request that the Bank carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 
of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to 
contract the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned on behalf of 
the Recipient, this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the 
countersignature. 
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ishrat Husain
Country Director
Azerbaijan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, and
Aral Sea Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
CONFORMED AND AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
By /s/ Bakhtiar Khamidov
Deputy Prime Minister
Date: August 25, 1997
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purposes of the Grant are to assist the Recipient in selection of most 
optimal methods for crop protection. The activities (Activities) for which the Grant 
is given consist of the provision of technical assistance to support the introduction 
of proven technology and to carry out Integrated crop management demonstration 
activities designed to test approaches for the integration of biological and chemical 
methods for control of pests and diseases in various cropping patterns, particularly 
cotton.:
Page  2
2.
According to the Attachment hereto, the Grant shall be used to finance 
consultants’ services required for the Activities, training, workshop and field days 
for local staff, farmers, and private dealers for chemical and biological means of 
pests control.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The 
Recipient shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to 
carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the 
Activities. The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities 
incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection with the 
Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of 
its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by December 3, 1999.  After 
that date, the Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the 
Bank and shall be done according to the Bank’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Recipient on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ 
personnel (other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the 
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient have made such a request, the Bank may at any 
time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any 
other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to 
make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit 
agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any 
fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any 
portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
Attachment
Use of the Grant Proceeds
Unless otherwise determined by the Bank based on the requirements for 
implementation of the Activities, the amount of the Grant will be allocated as follows 
among the following items of expenditures:
Amount
Percentage of
Allocated (expressed
Expenditures to
Item
in US dollars)
be financed
(1)
Long term consultants
600,000
100%
(2)
Training, study tours, 
field days
200,000
100%
(3)
Short term consultants
100,000
100%
(4)
Unallocated
100,000
100%
