Page  1
November 18, 1997
Hoechst Schering AgrEvo GmbH
Hurausts 54
132509 BERLIN
Germany
Dear Sir:
Agreement between the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development and Hoechst Schering AgrEvo GmbH, a company established 
under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany concerning the 
carrying out of Integrated Crop Management demonstration and training 
activities in Uzbekistan (Grant No. TF021499)                                                                       
1.
We are pleased to acknowledge on behalf of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development ("the Bank or IBRD") intention of Hoechst Schering 
AgrEvo GmbH of the Federal Republic of Germany (the "Donor") to make available to the 
Bank the sum of US$1,000,000 (one million United States dollars (the "Contribution") 
as a grant for the purpose of financing the carrying out of Integrated Crop Management 
demonstration and training activities in Uzbekistan (the "Project".)
2.
The Contribution shall be used for the purposes described in the Attachment to 
this letter of Agreement which forms an integral part thereof, and the Donor 
authorizes the Bank to use the Contribution funds for such purposes.
3.
The Donor shall deposit the Contribution into the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development’s Cash Account "T" ABA 0210-8002-5 maintained with the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York (FRBNY) in New York City (the "T-Account") following 
confirmation of this Agreement by the Donor, in two equal installments to be 
transferred on January 15, 1998 and June 15, 1998. When making payment, the Donor 
shall instruct the FRBNY, Foreign Department, to advise the IBRD’s Treasury Operations 
Department by SWIFT (IBRDUS33), telex (MCI 248423) or fax (202-522-1564) as to the 
amount received, that it is from the Donor for the Uzbekistan Integrated Crop 
Management Demonstration and Training Program (Grant No.TF021499), and the date of the 
deposit.  In addition, the Donor shall send by fax a copy of the Donor’s payment 
request to the Bank’s Trust Fund Administrator  (Fax: (202) 522-3397).
4.
The Contribution will be administered by the Bank on behalf of the Donor in 
accordance with the terms of this Agreement.  The Contribution may be commingled with 
other trust funds assets maintained by the Bank, but shall be kept separate and apart 
from the funds of the Bank.  The Contribution funds may be freely exchanged by the 
Bank into other currencies as may facilitate their disbursement.
5.
It is expected that the Contribution funds will be fully utilized in accordance 
with the provisions of this Agreement by December 31, 1999.  The Bank shall only 
disburse the Contribution funds after such date with the prior approval of the Donor.
6.
The Bank shall exercise the same care in the discharge of its functions under 
this Agreement as it exercises with respect to the administration and management of 
its own affairs and shall have no further liability to the Donor in respect thereof.
7.
In order to assist in the defrayment of the costs of administration and other 
expenses incurred by the Bank under this Agreement, the Bank may invest and reinvest 
the Contribution funds provided by the Donor pending their disbursement and retain all 
such investment income of the amount of the Contribution funds provided up to ten 
percent (10%) of such amount for its own account. The Bank shall utilize for purposes 
of the Activities any investment income in excess of ten percent (10%) of the amount 
of the Contribution.
8.
The selection and recruitment of consultants financed from the Contribution, and 
the administration and enforcement of any provisions of any Agreement entered into 
between the Bank and the consultants and/or third parties, shall be the responsibility 
solely of the Bank and shall be carried out in accordance with its normal procedures.
9.
The Bank shall maintain separate records and ledger accounts in respect of the 
Contribution funds and disbursement thereof.  Within 90 days of each March 31, June 
Page  2
30, September 30 and December 31, for as long as any Contribution funds remain in the 
T-Account, the Bank shall prepare a financial statement with respect to the 
Contribution funds and forward a copy to the Donor.
10.
The Bank shall provide the Donor annually a management assertion together with 
an attestation from the Bank’s external auditors on the satisfactory performance of 
the procedures and controls used by the Bank in administering trust funds.  The costs 
of such attestations shall be borne by the Bank.  In addition, upon the request of the 
Donor, the Bank shall cause the annual financial statements prepared by the Bank with 
respect to the Contribution funds to be audited by the Bank’s external auditors and 
shall forward a copy of the auditors’ report to the Donor.  The cost of such audits 
shall be met by the Donor.
11.
The Bank and the Donor shall consult each other from time to time, at the 
request of either party, on all matters arising out of this Agreement, and the Bank 
shall keep the Donor informed of the progress and results of the Project.
12.
This Agreement may be terminated by either party with three months’ prior notice 
in writing.  Upon such termination, unless the parties hereto agree on another course 
of action:
(a)
any Agreement entered into between the Bank and any consultants and/or 
third parties and to be funded from the Contribution shall not be affected by the 
termination and the Bank shall be entitled to receive and disburse Contribution funds 
in respect of such Agreements to the extent necessary to fulfill the Bank’s 
obligations thereunder as if this Agreement had not been so terminated; and
(b)
the Bank shall return to the Donor the balance of Contribution funds in 
the T-Account including investment income in excess of the ten percent (10%) referred 
to in paragraph 7 above.  The Bank shall also furnish to the Donor a final report on 
the Project and a final unaudited financial statement with respect to such funds.  
Upon the return of such funds and the provision of such report and financial 
statement, the Bank’s functions pursuant hereto shall be considered terminated.
13.
In case of termination of the Agreement to be entered into between the Bank and 
Uzbekistan for purposes of Activities, the Bank shall promptly inform the Donors 
thereof. There upon, the two parties shall enter into discussion in order to agree on 
the course of action to be taken for termination of this Agreement and for making a 
final account for the Grant.
14.
Upon completion of the disbursements required for the Project, the Bank shall 
return the balance of the Contribution funds in the T-Account including investment 
income in excess of the ten percent (10%) referred to in paragraph 7 above to the 
Donor.  The Bank shall also furnish to the Donor a final report on the Project and a 
final unaudited financial statement with respect to such funds.  Upon the return of 
such funds and the provision of such report and financial statement, the Bank’s 
functions pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered terminated.
15.
The office responsible for coordination on behalf of the Donor of all matters 
related to the implementation of this Agreement is:
Hoechst Schering AgrEvo GmbH
Licensing & Cooperations, K607
D-65926 Frankfurt
Eva Scholz-Tonga
Tel:   49-69-305-3833
Fax:  49-69-305-81478
16.
This Agreement shall enter into force on the date of the confirmation written 
below.
17.
This Agreement may be amended only by written Agreement between the Bank and the 
Donor.
Please indicate your Agreement to the above by signing, dating and returning to 
us the enclosed copy of this letter of Agreement
Sincerely,
By /s/  Ishrat Husain
Page  3
Country Director
Azerbaijan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, and
Aral Sea Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
CONFIRMED AND AGREED:
Hoechst Schering AgrEvo GmbH
By /s/  Dr. Jurgen Asshauer
Director
Date:  January 22, 1998
By /s/ Hans Jorg Timner
Director, Marketing
Date:  January 22, 1998
Attachment
Use of the Contribution’s Proceeds
The Project to be financed from the Contribution consists of the carrying out of 
crop protection demonstration activities designed to test approaches for the 
integration of biological and chemical methods for control of insects in various 
cropping patterns, particularly cotton.
Unless otherwise determined by the Bank based on the requirements for Project 
implementation, the amount of the Contribution will be allocated as follows among the 
following items of expenditures:
Amount
Percentage of
Allocated (expressed
Expenditures to
Item
in US dollars)
be financed
(1)
Long term consultants
600,000
100%
(2)
Training, study tours, 
field days
200,000
100%
(3)
Short term consultants
100,000
100%
(4)
Unallocated
100,000
100%
