                                     Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                    Report No: NCO00002292



                       NOTE ON CANCELLED OPERATION
                                (IBRD-76410)



                                         ON A

                                         LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$18 MILLION


                                         TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS

                                         FOR A

 MAURITIUS ECONOMIC TRANSITION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT



                                  March 25, 2013




Finance and Private Sector Development
Eastern and Southern Africa - AFTFE
Africa Region
              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective March 2013)
                 Currency Unit = MUR
                US$ 1.00 = MUR 30.00

                     FISCAL YEAR
                 January 1 – December 31

          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD      Agence Française de Développement
BFA      Business Facilitation Act
BOI      Board of Investment
BOM      Bank of Mauritius
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
DB       Doing Business
DPL      Development Policy Lending
EU       European Union
FM       Financial Management
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GoM      Government of Mauritius
GPN      General Procurement Notice
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICA      Investment Climate Assessment
IFC      International Finance Corporation
IFRs     Interim Financial Reports
ISR      Implementation Status Report
JEC      Joint Economic Council
LAVIMS   Land Administration Valuation Information Management System
MCCI     Mauritius Chamber of Commerce and Industry
MCIB     Mauritius Credit Information Bureau
M&E      Monitoring & Evaluation
METAP    Mauritius Economic Transition (TA) Project
MIC      Middle Income Country
MoFED    Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MUR      Mauritian Rupees
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCC      Project Coordinating Committee
PERU     Public Enterprises Reform Unit
PIMS     Parastatal Information Management System
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
PPP      Public Private Partnership
PSD      Private Sector Development
PSIP     Public Sector Investment Program
SIL      Specific Investment Loan
SMEs     Small and Medium Enterprises
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
WB       World Bank
      Vice President: Makhtar Diop
   Country Director: Haleh Bridi
     Sector Manager: Irina Astrakhan
Project Team Leader: Khoudijah Maudarbocus-Boodoo
 NCO Team Leader : Brinda Devi Dabysing
                  REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
   MAURITIUS ECONOMIC TRANSITION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE)
                        PROJECT



                                                     CONTENTS




A. Basic Information....................................................................................................... 1
B. Key Dates ................................................................................................................... 1
C. Ratings Summary ....................................................................................................... 1
D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... 2
E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... 2
F. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ..................................................................... 2
1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design .............................................. 3
2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation. ....................................... 10
3. Assessment of Bank Performance ............................................................................ 12
4. Assessment of Borrower Performance ..................................................................... 12
5. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 13
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 15
Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents ..................................................................... 16



MAP
        DATA SHEET
        A. Basic Information
                                                                           RW-Economic
Country:                 Mauritius                Project Name:
                                                                           Transition (TA) Project
Project ID:              P105669                  L/C/TF Number(s):        7641-MU
ICR Date:                03/30/2012               ICR Type:                NCO
                         Specific Investment                               REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:                               Borrower:
                         Loan                                              MAURITIUS
Original Total                                    Disbursed Amount:
                         US$ 18 Million                                    US$ 1.56 Million
Commitment:                                       (nearest million)
Revised Amount:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Board of Investment
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development which housed the PIU
Ministry of Business, Enterprises and Cooperatives
Ministry of Renewable Energy and Public Utilities
Competition Commission
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
None

        B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process               Date                Process          Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review: February 13, 2008 Effectiveness:                April 6, 2009     April 08, 2009
                      September 15 to
Appraisal:                            Closing:                  Sep 30, 2014      April 01, 2011
                         19, 2008
Approval:             January 29, 2009



        C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by NCO
Outcomes:                                      Not applicable
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Not applicable
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Satisfactory




                                                 1
        D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original               Actual


Banking                                                           16%                  16%
Law and Justice                                                   5%                   5%
Public Administration – Energy and Mining                         19%                  19%
Public Administration – Industry and Trade                        41%                  41%
Public Administration – Water, sanitation and flood
                                                                  19%                  19%
protection



Theme Code (as percent of total Bank financing)
Legal institutions for a market economy                           8%                   8%
Other financial and private sector development                    27%                  27%
Other public sector governance                                    3%                   3%
Regulation and competition policy                                 35%                  35%
State-owned enterprise restructuring and privatization            27%                  27%

        E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At NCO                        At Approval
Vice President:           Makhtar Diop                        Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:         Haleh Bridi                         Ruth Kagia
Sector Manager:           Irina Astrakhan                     Gerardo Corrochano
Project Team Leader:      Khoudijah Maudarbocus-Boodoo Constantine Chikosi
NCO Author:               Brinda Devi Dabysing


F. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                               Actual
            Date ISR
No.                                 DO                   IP                Disbursements
            Archived
                                                                           (USD millions)
  1   February 4, 2009              MS                   MS
  2   March 5, 2009                 MS                   MS
  3   December 14, 2009             MS                   MS
  4   June 28, 2010                 MS                   MS
  5   March 27, 2011                MS                   MS                    1.56
  6   Dec 20, 2011                  MS                   MS                    1.56
  7   Nov 30, 2012                  MU                   MU                    1.56



                                                 2
1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design

1. Country Background: The Mauritius Economic Transition (Technical Assistance)
Project (METAP), financed with a US$18 million IBRD loan, was designed at a stage
where Mauritius started investing in an ambitious economic reform program which aimed
at moving the country away from dependence on trade preferences to global
competitiveness. The sustainability of the Mauritian economy depended on improving
productivity and competitiveness. The project intended to contribute to achieving the
country’s development strategy by addressing the challenges to private sector
development. This included easing constraints related to (i) the business environment,
(ii) inadequate service delivery in key public enterprises by helping restore fiscal
discipline and reducing the budgetary burden of the parastatal sector, and (iii) private
investment in key infrastructure sectors.

2. Rationale for Bank Assistance. The Investment Climate Assessment 2006 Study
and various Doing Business reports had identified the key constraints to the growth of the
private sector in Mauritius. The METAP supported part of the broader and longer-term
economic reform program of Mauritius. The METAP Project was an integral part of the
Country Partnership Strategy: 2007-2013 which was anchored in the Government’s long-
term development program of: (i) fiscal consolidation and improved public sector
efficiency; (ii) improving trade competitiveness; (iii) improving investment climate; and
(iv) democratizing the economy through participation, social inclusion and sustainability.

3. In support of these objectives the Government of Mauritius requested two SILs in the
period 2009-2010, including the METAP and the US$20million IBRD-financed
Manufacturing and Services Development and Competitiveness Project. Both SILs were
intended to support enterprise growth, competitiveness and employment creation in
manufacturing and services sectors. These two operations represented a significant re-
engagement with the Bank following a seven-year gap.

4. Development Objectives. The Project development objective was to improve the
performance of selected public enterprises and services that contribute to an improved
investment climate in Mauritius.

5. The Project was structured around the following three pillars: (i) Component One:
Business Facilitation; (ii) Component Two: Public Enterprise Reform; and (iii)
Component Three: Utility Regulation & Public Private Partnerships.

Component One: Business Facilitation (US$5.88 million)

6. The Business Facilitation component was aimed at financing activities that would
strengthen investment climate reforms in order to induce supply-side investment
responses and accelerate economic growth. It was structured around the following



                                            3
activities: (i) Simplifying Business Licensing Procedures; (ii) Improving Access to
Commercial Justice; (iii) Improving Land Title Registration Services; (iv) Extending
Coverage of the Credit Reference Bureau to Improve Access to Finance; and (v)
Streamlining the Legal Framework for Business.


Subcomponent A: Simplifying Business Licensing Procedures (US$0.69 million)

7.      At the time the project was in preparation, it was observed that the regulatory
burden was excessive and needed improvement to allow Mauritius to benefit from a first
class investment climate. This excessive regulatory burden was caused by a large number
of complex regulations, as well as by uncertainties and high compliance costs created by
non-transparent rules. The objective of Subcomponent A of the Project, therefore, was to
reduce the number of steps, time and cost it took to obtain a business license and to
position Mauritius as a transparent and rule-based destination for doing business. This
was to be done through technical assistance to: (i) devise and implement a program to
streamline the business licensing regime in Mauritius; (ii) develop IT infrastructure to
enhance the efficiency of the business licensing system and to develop an IT-based
business registration system; (iii) create a national database of business licenses; (iv) map
the re-engineered business licensing processes and workflow systems to allow online
submission and processing of applications for a business license; (v) develop an effective
ex-post control program across line Ministries to verify compliance with established
business licensing guidelines, and; (vi) provide outreach seminars to the public service
officials concerned and the business community, both to disseminate information on the
business licensing reforms and to help change mind sets.

Subcomponent B: Improving Access to Commercial Justice (US$0.85 million)

8.      This Subcomponent of the Project was to reduce the time and cost it took to settle
commercial disputes in Mauritius and relieve the backlog of commercial cases in the
court, by providing technical assistance for the establishment and running of a dedicated
commercial division of the Supreme Court, where delays of up to 2 years in the
resolution of commercial disputes were the norm. To achieve this goal, the Project was
to fund: (i) procurement and installation of information systems for efficient case and
mediation services management; (ii) a short term consultant to conduct a systematic
training needs assessment for the judges and other staff of the Commercial Division of
the Supreme Court; (iii) training and study tours for judges, registrars and mediation
administrators in other countries with similar legal systems; and (iv) procurement of
commercial law reports including specialized reports on intellectual property and
building contracts for the commercial division of the Supreme Court.

Subcomponent C: Improving Land Title Registration Services (US$0.54 million)

9.      The Doing Business Survey 2008 showed that in 2008, it took 210 days to register
land titles in Mauritius. The Project included funding technical assistance to support
computerization of the Registrar General’s Office and the improvement of land registries’



                                             4
effectiveness so as to facilitate the registration and securitization of land based assets.
The objective was to reduce the number of days taken to register land titling.

Subcomponent D: Extending Coverage of Credit Reference Bureau (US$2.80 million)

10.     The 2006 Investment Climate Assessment and the 2008 Doing Business Report
confirmed that both access to and cost of finance were major constraints to the growth of
the private sector in Mauritius, particularly for small and medium sized enterprises. This
Subcomponent was to provide technical and financial assistance to the Bank of Mauritius
to transform the existing Mauritius Credit Information Bureau (MCIB) into a credit
bureau offering services of best international standards. The following technical
assistance was identified: (i) review of the IT application to support extension of the
coverage of the MCIB to sectors other than the banking sector, including retailers, trade
creditors and utility companies; provide for on-line availability of two year credit history
and sale of credit information to private credit rating agencies, and (ii) consultancy
services to set up the procedures and operating guidelines for private credit rating
agencies.

Subcomponent E: Streamlining the Legal Framework for Business (US$1.00 million)

11.     There were a significant number of economic laws that were considered to be
outdated and which required revision so as to bring identified improvements in the
investment climate. At that time of project preparation, legal amendments were carried
out on a piece meal basis as and when specific reforms were needed. The project was
designed to fund the following activities: (i) legal researchers to conduct a comprehensive
census and prioritization of the business laws that need updating based on their impact on
the cost of doing business in Mauritius; (ii) drafting of identified priority legislation; (iii)
capacity building for legislative drafting for officers in the Attorney General’s Office;
and (iv) the setting up of a specialized library in relation to legislative drafting and
business/trade law.

Component Two: Public Enterprise Reform (Total USUS$6.0 million)

12.     To assist the Government to reduce the budgetary burden of the parastatals and
improvement in the efficiency and delivery of public services, the Project was to support
the Government’s public enterprise reform program in the following three areas: (i)
support for the setting up of a Public Enterprise Reform Unit (PERU) and for cross-
cutting reforms; (ii) support for sector and enterprise level reforms and; (iii) support for
the establishment of a Competition Commission.

Subcomponent A: Support for PERU and Cross-Cutting Reforms (US$2.3 million)

13.     This subcomponent intended to support the following: (i) design and
implementation of a public enterprise management and tracking system; (ii) technical
assistance to design and implement a comprehensive five year parastatal reform strategy
and action plan; (iii) training to PERU staff in public enterprise diagnostics and



                                               5
implementation of reforms programs at sector and enterprise levels, and (iv) technical
assistance in cross-cutting aspects of the parastatal reform program including corporate
governance reforms, design of performance management systems for parastatals, treasury
management, mergers, rationalizations and divestments, and design and implementation
of public information and outreach strategies and of social mitigation strategies.


Subcomponent B: Support for Sector and Enterprise Level Reforms (US$2.1 million)

14.    This Subcomponent was meant to provide funding to Government for the
preparation of a detailed, enterprise level reform strategies. Specifically, the Project
intended to fund: (i) consultancies, training and equipment to improve parastatal
monitoring systems at the line ministry level; and (ii) support to sector working groups
and selected public enterprises to prepare and implement enterprise level restructuring
programs.

Subcomponent C: Support for Establishment of the Competition Commission
(US$1.6 million)

15.      In order to improve competition in the economy and prevent collusive and
restrictive practices, the Government decided to implement a Competition Commission.
The sub component intended to provide financial and technical support for the setting up
of the Competition Commission. Specifically, it was supposed to finance consultancies
and training to: (i) help design, set up and run the Commission itself; (ii) to develop the
Commission’s operational strategies and methodologies; (iii) develop its human
resources and implementation capacity and that of other practitioners, such as judges,
other legal practitioners and public officials, who would be involved in the
implementation of competition law and policy; (iv) provide training and establish
twinning arrangements for staff development with similar bodies in other countries; (v)
implement IT support for the Commission’s operations; and (vi) support the Commission
in devising and executing an advocacy and public outreach program on the implications
of the Competition Act (2007) and related Government policies.

Component Three: Utility Regulation & Public Private Partnerships
(US$4.98 million)

16.     Inadequate infrastructure was identified as one of the key challenges that were
impacting on the growth potential of Mauritius. Investment was being undertaken
exclusively by Government which lacked the capacity to discharge this important
mandate adequately. Increased private participation in ownership and management in the
infrastructure sector was therefore a key focus under the Government’s investment
climate reform plan. A Public Private Partnerships (PPP) Unit already existed within
MoFED to promote private investment in infrastructure sectors but was not considered as
being effective in promoting PPPs in key projects. The International Finance
Corporation recommended the institutional arrangements for an independent utility
regulator. The Project intended to provide support to the PPP reform program in the



                                            6
following two areas: (i) Strengthening the Institutional Framework for PPPs; and (ii)
Establishing the Utility Regulation Authority.

Subcomponent A: Strengthening the Institutional Framework for PPPs (US$4.52 million)

17.     Under this subcomponent, the Project was supposed to finance the following
capacity building activities for the PPP Unit: (i) a Resident Advisor to the PPP Unit as a
consultant for a period of at least 24 months to support preparation of a pipeline of PPP
projects, in-house training of PPP Unit staff and advise the PPP Unit on appropriate PPP
development strategies; (ii) transaction advisory services to structure PPP projects and
assist Contracting Authorities (e.g. line ministries, municipalities and other public legal
entities) in identifying private investors; (iii) a specialized IT system in the PPP Unit; and
(iv) training in preparation and promotion of PPP and workshops to enhance the
awareness of the key stakeholders about the benefits of PPPs.

Subcomponent B: Establishing the Utility Regulation Authority (US$0.46 million)

18. To support the establishment of the independent utility regulator, the Project was to
fund the implementation of a sound policy and institutional framework through (i) short
and long term resident advisers to help establish reporting and monitoring systems; (ii) IT
investments to build the regulator’s capacity to discharge its mandate effectively; and (iii)
capacity building measures including study tours and training for the regulator’s staff in
specific technical areas such as economic regulation and tariff setting.

Lending Instrument

19. This project was a standalone Specific Investment Loan (SIL), and financed through
an IBRD Loan. The duration of the project was five years and the Project costs and
financing are summarized in the following table:

               Table 1 Project Components, Costs and Sources of Financing
                                                                                            US$
          Project Cost by Component and or Activity                                        million
          Component One: Business Facilitation                                              5.88
          A. Business Licensing reforms                                                     0.69
          B. Improving Access to Commercial Justice (CJO)                                   0.85
          C. Improving Land Title Registration Services                                     0.54
          D. Extending Credit Reference Bureau to improve access to finance                 2.80
          E. Streamlining the Regulatory Environment for Business                           1.00
          Component Two - Public Enterprise Reform                                          6.00
          A. Support for the Public Enterprise Reform Unit and for Cross-cutting Reforms    2.30
          B. Support for Enterprise Level Reforms                                           2.10
          C. Support for the Establishment of the Competition Commission                    1.60



                                                 7
          Component Three - Utility Regulation and Public Private Partnerhips            4.98
          A. Strengthening the Institutional Framework for PPPs                          4.52
          B. Establishing the Utility Regulation Authority                               0.46
          Total Baseline Cost                                                            16.86
          Physical Contingencies                                                         1.10
                                           Total Project Costs                           18.00



Implementation Arrangements

20. A major challenge at the design stage was to identify the most effective structure that
would oversee the implementation of the project. The METAP was the first project after
the reengagement of the country with the Bank. As such, the Government’s capacity to
deal with World Bank procedures was relatively low. The PERU was the main
counterpart of the Bank team during project preparation and since it was housed at
MoFED, it was identified as the Project Coordination Unit with fiduciary and M&E
functions. The implementation of specific project components was to be carried out by
individual ministries and agencies.

21.    The project had a Project Coordinating Committee (PCC), chaired by a Director
in MoFED with focal points designated by the Project’s beneficiary agencies and a
representative of the private sector. The PCC was expected to provide strategic guidance
and oversight of the overall reform process being undertaken by the Government under
the METAP Project, approve annual work programs and budgets, review progress reports
prepared by PERU, clearing and forwarding periodic reports to IBRD, address any major
problems affecting project implementation; and review key reports including the audit,
mid-term review and implementation completion reports.




                                                  8
         Risk Analysis

22. The overall project risk was assessed to be low. The table below summarizes the risk
assessment and mitigating measures that were identified at project appraisal:

                                                                                                         Risk rating
                       Risk                                    Risk mitigation measures
                                                                                                        with mitigation
Sustainability Risk.
A change in Government would be a risk if it          This risk would be mitigated by ensuring that           L
resulted in a departure from current reforms and      ownership and understanding of the program
the role of the private sector in driving economic    is both broad and deep throughout the civil
growth.                                               service, and therefore able to withstand
                                                      changes in political leadership.
Macro-economic / Fiscal Risk.
Macro stability was a pre-requisite for sustainable   Credibility of the current Government was
private sector development. Hence ensuring that       closely linked to the maintenance of macro
Mauritius achievements in this regard were            stability and an important element of the               M
maintained was essential to the success of the        program would be mainstreaming PSD issues
program.                                              across Government and society.
Staff turn-over in Government.
Availability of skilled personnel in Government       To address this challenge, staff at all levels,
was a constant challenge for building and             across the departments involved and other               L
maintaining capacity.                                 key institutions were involved from the
                                                      beginning of Project design.
Procurement
Capacity and prior experience with Bank projects.     Procurement assessment was performed and                M
                                                      mitigation plans agreed including capacity
                                                      building/ on-going training and close
                                                      monitoring
Financial Management.
Capacity and prior experience with Bank projects.     FM assessment was performed and
Transactions might not be properly accounted for,     mitigation plans agreed included review of              L
and IFRs might not be presented in time and in        the Project Chart of Accounts, elaboration of
conformity with Bank requirements.                    the Project Implementation Manual,
                                                      capacity building/ on-going training and
                                                      close monitoring




                                                      9
2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation.
(main events leading to cancellation, steps taken to resolve problems, exogenous factors,
identification of causes and responsibility if project failed, implications of failure):

23.     The METAP was approved on January 29, 2009 and became effective on April 8,
2009. In March 2011, after 23 months’ effectiveness, the Government of Mauritius
requested the cancellation of the METAP project as well as of the other Private Sector
Development SIL, the Manufacturing and Services Development and Competitiveness
(MSDC) Project. The request for cancellation followed May 2010 elections, whereby the
new Minister of Finance had a different preferred modality of collaboration with the
Bank. The Government requested to replace both operations with a new Development
Policy Loan (DPL) which was considered a more appropriate lending instrument to
deliver the high quality Bank advisory services which Mauritius as a middle income
country valued. The DPLs served as a useful instrument for engendering the necessary
policy and institutional reforms in the area of private sector development, as the
Government preferred to strengthen the institutional and policy environment for business
growth through budget support operations. Furthermore, the decision to move to DPOs
would address other issues that had hampered project implementation including fiduciary
challenges, lack of political will to tackle SOE reform, and problems arising from the
implementation of Program Based Budgeting (PBB).

24. The Government underestimated the fiduciary and compliance requirements under a
SIL. Despite the fact that a special unit was established under the MOFED to monitor
same and technical assistance was provided to the staff to support them in these
responsibilities, the procedures were deemed to be too cumbersome by the client. On top
of this, Mauritius, like other middle income countries, assigns more importance to the
Bank’s high quality advisory services than its financing terms or safeguards. Here again,
DPLs were considered to be a more appropriate instrument to meet the requirements of
the client.

25. Although there was high-level political buy-in of the lending operation at the design
stage for reforms in the parastatal sector, the political commitment, support and
ownership for implementing these reforms eroded quickly during the pre-electoral period.
One of the major signals of the diminished government ownership occurred during the
pre-electoral period, when the Minister of Finance refused to sign off on the recruitment
of a resident advisor for PERU.

26. The Bank team had not anticipated the impact of the implementation of the Program
Based Budgeting. In 2010, the government implemented PBB around the same time as
the project was declared effective. The new PBB tool was introduced to monitor the
financial discipline and performance of the various agencies within ministries through
effective budgeting outlays. In this regards, any additional funding given to these
agencies through the SIL would have undermined this initiative. Budget support,
possible under DPL, was a preferred alternative. The activities to be funded under the
project had not been included in the PBB of relevant ministries, making it difficult for
Ministry of Finance to allocate funds to the activities as per the Procurement Plan. This



                                           10
caused a delay of almost one year in the disbursement schedule, having to wait for the
next financial year to include the activities to be funded in the PBB.

27. Until the decision to replace the METAP financing with DPL was taken by Bank
management, implementation continued unevenly and selectively, with only a few sub-
components having been implemented satisfactorily and some components not
implemented at all. The first Subcomponent on Business Facilitation was largely
implemented, with progress achieved in improving access to commercial justice and land
titling registration services, largely through funding from the Investment Climate Facility
Fund (ICF) and hence cannot be fully attributed to the METAP project. In contrast, the
e-regulations platform was developed but only as an information platform instead of a
fully transactional one. Procurement of consultancy services for establishment of private
credit rating agencies, as well as the review and modernization of the IT systems at the
Mauritius Credit Information Bureau, were not implemented within the scope of METAP
but independently by the Bank of Mauritius, where they are housed. Similarly, the
planned activities to streamline the legal framework for business were not carried out
under METAP.

28. As regards Component Two, Public Enterprise Reform, the project did finance the
setting up of the Competition Commission including baseline training for staff. The
project also provided financial assistance for the review of Development Bank of
Mauritius (DBM) and the Agricultural Marketing Board (AMB), but did not proceed with
implementation of the reforms as had been programmed. Progress with public enterprise
reform stalled due to the delayed development of a less comprehensive Public Enterprise
Monitoring and Information Tracking System (PEMITS) with internal resources and the
policy decision not to go ahead with the recruitment of a resident Public Enterprise
Reform (PER) adviser.

29. In Component Three, the Utility Regulatory Authority (URA) was not set up as it is
no longer a priority for the Government. The panel of experts to be set up was not
implemented and no public awareness workshops were organized. The Government
benefitted from financing from PPIAF to carry out a review of the policy, legal and
institutional framework for public private partnerships in Mauritius and training for staff
based in the PPP Unit. The resident advisor as defined at project approval stage was not
recruited and no IT systems enhancements were carried out.

30. The METAP was cancelled on April 01, 2011, having disbursed 8.67% or US$ 1.56
million, thus reaching beyond the percentage and quantum thresholds of 5% and USD 1
million as per the Implementation Completion and Results Report Guidelines (OPCS
2006, updated 10/05/2011). Nevertheless, management decided to prepare an NCO
instead of an ICR as the operation failed to reach significant implementation. This is the
second operation that was cancelled by the client, the first one also having failed to reach
significant implementation and for which an NCO has already been submitted and
approved.




                                            11
       3. Assessment of Bank Performance

31. Quality at Entry is rated moderately satisfactory. The Project design was based on
the findings from the Bank’s Economic and Sector Work, such as the Investment Climate
Assessment and the Doing Business reports, as well as analytical work carried out in the
country by various authorities. The issues addressed in the project were aligned with
Government’s own priorities and consistent with the Bank’s CPS. While potential risks
were identified during the preparatory phase of the project and mitigation factors spelled
out, some risks, especially those linked with public sector reforms, were underestimated.
The program for carrying out sector wide reforms across a range of public enterprises
was too ambitious. For some crucial activities, Government either allocated their own
funds or used funding from other agencies to keep the momentum of the reform plan.

32. Quality of Supervision was moderately satisfactory. The Bank team in the field was
able to provide just-in-time technical and advisory support to the implementing agencies
and MoFED. This was important given that the Bank was re-engaging in Mauritius after
seven years, and that the implementing agencies as well as the PCU required capacity
building in Bank’s systems and procedures. The Bank was proactive in responding to the
expectations of Government and was able to bring in sector expertise to strengthen the
field team. However, a number of warning signals were slow to be noticed and acted
upon, mainly in the area of political economy (elections-related) shifts in priorities,
including the government’s desire to fund reforms without Bank support. Moreover,
PIU capacity constraints were also not adequately addressed.

33. The preparation of the Implementation Status and Results (ISR) reports has been
irregular because at one point the audit report from the client was delayed and also
because of the financial reconciliation matters that took a while to be resolved.

34. Given the above ratings for quality at entry and quality of supervision, the overall
Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory.


4. Assessment of Borrower Performance

35. The performance of the Borrower was moderately satisfactory. The Government
had committed to the project at the design stage where timely discussions were held on
how to implement the reform program at a time of transition from a preference-based
economy. However, while the Government was very enthusiastic to work with the Bank
on policy issues, it was less keen to collaborate on implementation of specific activities
that were to be supported by the METAP financing agreement. Instead, the Government
went ahead to implement reforms using funding sources that it considered as more
advantageous. Although the Government is to be commended for implementing some
reforms on its own, it turned away from the financing it has previously requested and
negotiated with the Bank under the METAP, and moreover with little dialogue with the
Bank over possible reallocation of the funds to other activities within the same PDO.




                                           12
36. The performance of the Implementing Agencies was moderately unsatisfactory.
The PERU was dedicated to manage the operation with specific responsibilities assigned
to staff within the unit. Despite this, the PCU staff could not accommodate additional
tasks of procurement, financial management and M & E in addition to their day to day
work. Furthermore, these staff was not conversant with the Bank’s fiduciary procedures,
rendering their coordinating role more difficult. Although this lack of familiarity with the
Bank’s requirements was noted during Project preparation, it appears that the deficient
capacity of the PCU was not properly addressed and made a priority consideration when
determining the size and nature of the interventions to be supported by METAP.
Training requirements were flagged and on the job intervention solicited. Interventions
from the Fiduciary team were mostly of an auditor approach rather than support and
mentoring.

37. Given above ratings for government performance and implementing agency
performance, the overall borrower performance rating was moderately satisfactory.

5. Lessons Learned

38. Relevance of design: Throughout the process of Project design and preparation, the
government was actively involved and supportive of the objectives and desired impact of
the SIL. However, when the time came for implementation, the authorities found the
Bank’s fiduciary compliance requirements to be cumbersome, dragging on efficiency and
the desired speed of reforms, thereby resulting in slow disbursement and limited progress
toward achievement of the PDOs. Furthermore, Government dramatically changed
priorities during implementation of the project, including the desire to control the
implementation of reforms through one central implementing agency, the Ministry of
Finance, rendering the SIL irrelevant as the Bank’s choice instrument. At the same time,
the Government continued to press the Bank for technical assistance, analytics and policy
dialogue. This brings to the forefront the issue of Middle Income Countries which value
highly and desire the Bank’s knowledge services to help learn from and apply global best
practices in the reform planning and implementation process, but do not need or demand
the accompanying Bank financing or wish it but at customized terms and/or delivery
mechanisms. These clients wish to maximize access to the Bank’s technical assistance
but without the associated administrative requirements imposed by the use of SIL as a
lending instrument. This calls for continuous improvement and/or innovation of Bank
lending instruments to suit the requirements of this ‘emerging’ client segment.

39. Proactivity and agility to develop a customized solution for meeting the
changing needs of a MIC client: The cancellation of the METAP provided an
opportunity for the Bank to demonstrate its service responsiveness and agility to
meet the evolving development priorities of an MIC client. In complying with the
government’s concerns, wishes and priorities, t he Bank team moved quickly to
prepare a single DPL operation supporting the same competitiveness agenda that were
to have been addressed under the SILs.




                                            13
40. Risks underestimated: With hindsight, a review of the operation suggests that the
implementation challenges associated with the public sector reforms, and capacity gaps
within the implementing agencies, were underestimated at the design stage. Clearly,
more attention should have been afforded to an understanding of the political economy
environment of Mauritius, especially during a period of elections, while the fiduciary
capacity of authorities to implement Bank projects should have been assessed with
greater care for quality and reliability.

41. Timing of sensitive reforms: Although there was high-level political buy-in of the
Project at the design stage for reforms in the parastatal sector, the political commitment,
support and ownership for implementing these reforms eroded quickly during the pre-
electoral period. This was signaled to the Project team very early, about one year in
advance of the elections, when the then Minister of Finance refused to sign off on the
recruitment of a resident advisor for PERU, and should have been factored into the
Project preparation accordingly. Strong ownership of any reform program must be
obtained at the onset and maintained throughout the duration of the program.
Furthermore, sensitive reforms should be launched in the early phases of a Government
mandate, when they are most likely to be implemented, instead of during the pre-election
political cycle when resistance to reforms and the potentially negative distributional
impact on some stakeholders tends to weigh on Government’s resolve and commitment
to implement the reforms.

42. Clear M & E framework: Elaborating a realistic Results Framework with clear
baseline data allows proper monitoring of progress towards performance. For the
METAP, the Project performance indicators contained in the PAD’s Results Framework
were mainly derived from the Doing Business indicators, some of which were supposed
to be achieved at the end of the project but ended up instead being met in the first year of
operation. It is also important to have a results framework with more tailored KPIs so as
to better measure the impact of the project achievements.

43. PCU Capacity: The successful implementation of policy and institutional reforms
required adequate capacity in key areas. The PCU needs to be staffed and equipped with
commensurate quality and quantity. Capacity building of the fiduciary team and focal
points at the implementing agencies should be provided during project preparation in
order to have a fully prepared functioning implementation unit by the time of project
effectiveness. Inadequate PIU capacity is one of the risks to be flagged before the Project
is approved, and often it means that the Project design should be revisited.

44. Decentralization of Project Supervision: In countries with limited institutional
capacity, having the TTL in the field is pivotal to timely resolution of issues encountered
during implementation, providing the ability to engage in problem solving dialogue with
the PCU, implementing agencies and the Government with responsiveness required for
achieving a constant implementation pace and orientation toward the PDO.




                                            14
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

                                                                                  Responsibilit
          Names                                Title                    Unit           y/
                                                                                   Specialty
Lending

Supervision/NCO
Andrew Osei Asibey               Senior Monitoring & Evaluation        AFTDE
Mariella Beugue                         Program Assistant              AFMMU
Irene F. Chacon                         Operations Analyst             AFTFW
Wilfrid Bernard Drum                         Consultant                 LCSPE
Efrem Fitwi                           Procurement Specialist           AFTPC
Sidonie Jocktane                        Executive Assistant            AFMGA
Patrick Kabuya                  Sr Financial Management Specialist     AFTFM
Khoudijah Bibi
                               Private Sector Development Specialist   AFTFE
Maudarbocus-Boodoo
Francois Marie Maurice
                                Sr Financial Management Specialist     AFTFM
Rakotoarimanana
Lova Niaina Ravaoarimino               Procurement Specialist          AFTPC
Ann Christine Rennie              Lead Financial Sector Specialist     SASFP
Nko Etesin Umoren                  Resource Management Analyst         AFTRM
                                 Lead Private Sector Development
Chunlin Zhang                                                          AFTFE
                                              Specialist
Brinda D Dabysing              Private Sector Development Specialist   AFTFE




(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands (including
                                          No. of staff weeks
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY07                                                                          45.95
  FY08                                                                          84.79
                               Total:                                          130.74
Supervision/NCO
                               Total:                                            0.00




                                               15
Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents

   1. Mauritius - Economic Transition (TA) Project, Project Appraisal Document
      December 2008
   2. Loan Agreement Economic (TA) Project, February 2009
   3. Missions Aide Memoires, 2009-2010
   4. Project Status Reports and Implementation Status and Results Reports, 2009-
      2010
   5. Progress Report from PCU – Project Implementing Agency (2009-2010)
   6. Doing Business 2013, Economic Profile of Mauritius, 2012




                                       16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 33446
                                                                                                           57°30'E                                                                                             Rodrigues Island                                                         INDIAN
          MAUR I T I U S                                                                                                                                                 Flat
                                                                                                                                                                      Island                                   19°40'S                              Port Mathurin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OCEAN

                    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Grand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Montagne
                    DISTRICT CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Petit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     La Femme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Gabriel
                    NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                      Gunner's
                    RIVERS                                                                                                                                             Quoin                                   19°45'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0   1       2   3 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Crab
                    MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                       Island                             0       1        2    3 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                63°20'E                     63°25'E                          63°30'E
                    DISTRICT BOUNDARIES

                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                  57°45'E
                                                                                                   20°00'S Cannoniers                                                                                                                                                                    20°00'S
                                                                                                                         Point
                                                                                                                                                                                    Grand
                                                                                                                                      Grand                                         Gaube
This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                        Baie
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                    Goodlands
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ile D'Ambre
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                     Triolet
                                                                                                                                     Triolet                       RIVIÉRE                                      Poudre d'Or
                                                                                                                                                                      DU
                                                                                                                PAMPLEMOUSSES
                                                                                                                PAMPLEMOUSSES                                     R E M PA R T
                                                                                                                                                                                                Riviére
                                                                                                                                                                                                Rivié
                                                                                                                                                                                                Rivi ére du
                                                                                                                                                   Pamplemousses                                 Rempart
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Rempart
                                                                                                                                          Riviér
                                                                                                                                                e Citro
                INDIAN                                                                                           Terre
                                                                                                                 Terre
                                                                                                                Rouge                                                                                   m   pa
                                                                                                                                                                                                              rt




                                                                                                                                                            ns
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Re
                                                                                                                                                                                                 e
                OCEAN                                                                                                                                                                   Ri
                                                                                                                                                                                          vi   ér

                                                                                    PORT LOUIS
                                                                                                                                                          La
                                                                                                                                                                                         Bon
                                                                                                               PORT                               Nicoli
                                                                                                                                                  Nicoliéére
                                                                                                                                                  Nicoliére
                                                                                                                                                                                         Accueil
                                                                                                               LOUIS                                         N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              cq
                                                                                                                                                            Découve




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Fla
                                      Point                                                                                                                    ou ll                                                  te
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           du        Centre
                             Petite Riviére                                                                                                                      ve e                                          P os                  de Flacq
                                                                                                                                                                    rt                                   du
                                                                                                                                                                                                   re
                                                                                                                                                                          e
                                                                                                                                                                                               v ié
                                                                                                                Moka                                                                      Ri
                                                                                                                                       MOKA                                                                                                                             Pointe
                                                                                                                                                      Quartier
                                                                                                                                                      Quartier
                                                                                                                                                      Militaire
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FLACQ                                             Quatre Cocos
20°15'S                                                                      Rose Hill                                                                                                                                                                                                   20°15'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Bel Air
                                                                                                                                                       Q




                                             Bambous
                                                                                                                                                            ua




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ile aux Cerfs
                                                                                                                                                             rt




                                                                                                                                       Piton de Milieu                              Montagne
                                                                                                                                                                 ie




                                                                                                                                          Reservoir
                                                                                                                                          Reser voir                                Blanche
                                                                                                                                                                  r




                                                                                                                 Phoenix
                                                                                                                                                                  M




                                                                                                                                                                        lit
                                                                                                                                                                      i




                                                             Riv                                                                                                              ai
                                                                   re                        Vacoas
                                                                                             Vacoas                                                                                re
                                                               ié




                                                                             du
                                                                                                                                                                       r South East
                                                                                  Re




                                                                                                                                                                                                             Bambou M ts
                                                                                                                        Curepipe
                                                                                                                                                            Grand Rive
                                                                                    mp




                                                 Rivié r e Tamarin
                       Tamarin
                                                                                         ar
                                                                                           t




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Pointe
                                           BLACK                                                          PLAINES                                                                                                                                            du Diable
                                           RIVER                                                          WILHEMS                                                     GRAND                                                      Vieux
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Vieux
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Grand
                                           Gra
                                              n                                                       s              Mare Nouvelle
                                                                                                                     aux    France
                                                                                                                                                                       PORT                                                      Port
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Port
                                                                                               a
                                                 d




                                                                                                                     Vacoas
                                                                                                                     Vacoas
                                                                                              co




                                                     vié
                                                   Ri




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            INDIAN
                                                                                         Va




                                                                                                                                                                                Rivi
                                                        re




                                                                                                                                                                                    ére
                                  Mont Piton               No                                                                                                                           L
                                                             ir e                                                                              Rose Belle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                                           a




                                    (828 m)                                                                                                                                                                                      Mahebourg
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ch




           Ile aux                                                                                                   Grand Bois                                                                         a ux
          Bénitiers
                                                                                                                          G
                                                                   Riv e r




                                           Cap
                                                                                                   Sa




                                      du
                                                                                                                            ra


                                                                                                                                           R iv




                                                                                   Mt. Cocotie
                                                                                                          va




                                                                                                                              nd


                                                                                                                                               er
                               Baie




                                                                     des




Pointe                                                                              (771m)
                                                                                                          ne




                                                                                                                                                  d




                                                                                                                                                      Po
                                                                                                                                  e


                                                                                                                                                  u




  Sud                                                                                                                                                   s
                                                                 A
                                                               S AVVA N N E
                                                                 AVA
                                                                                                                                      Sa


                                                                                                                                                        te
                                                                                                               Mt




Ouest
                                                                                                                                                                   L'Escalier
                                                                                                                                        va
                                                                                                               s
                                                                             G




                                                                                  le t          Chemin
                                                                              a




                                                                                         s                            Riviére
                                                                                                                      Rivi
                                                                                                                      Riviéére des
                                                                                                                                           nn




                                                                                                Grenier                 Anguilles
                                                                                                                                               e




20°30'S               Baie du Cap
                                                                                                               Surinam

                                                                                                                          Souillac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MAURITIUS



          0   1 2 3 4          5 Kilometers


          0     1      2      3       4          5 Miles

                                                                                                          57°30'E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DECEMBER 2004
