                                                                                                          95521
Results Profile: Backing Reform in Mauritius                                                           March 16, 2010




 ACCELERATING REFORM

 Mauritius averts worst impacts of financial crisis




Overview
Mauritius has built much of its successful development record since independence in 1968 on
proactive and effective growth strategies. A long-term development vision based on
                                        skills development, and a knowledge-intensive economy
diversification, value-added activities,
was conceived during the 1990s. Over time, piecemeal reforms were implemented toward
these goals, but results were limited. After suffering trade shocks in 2005, Mauritius
accelerated much-needed and difficult economic reforms in 2006, enabling the country to boost
growth and avert the worst impacts of the global economic downtown.

  Full Brief—6 Pages
Backing Reform in Mauritius—PDF, April 2010


Challenge
In 2005, a triple trade shock caused by an erosion in textile
                                                                   More Results
and sugar preferences, and combined with rising energy
prices, shaped a very difficult outlook for Mauritius. Old

                                                                   6,000
growth drivers were already faltering, the unemployment rate
was close to double digits, public sector debt was growing
rapidly and the country’s external balance was threatened.
                                                                   workers placed in jobs by
                                                                   government programs – more
                                                                   than 1 percent of the labor force
Approach
In 2006, a newly elected government announced an
ambitious and comprehensive plan for accelerating                  MORE INFORMATION
implementation of key reforms based on four pillars: fiscal
consolidation and public sector efficiency; trade                   Government of Mauritius
competitiveness; an improved investment climate; and social         Central Statistics Office of
inclusion. The International Bank for Reconstruction and            Mauritius
Development (IBRD) backed Mauritius with a $210 million             World Bank in Mauritius
development policy lending program from 2006 to 2010,
representing close to 2.5 percent of the country’s 2008 GDP.        International Monetary Fund in
                                                                    Mauritius
The task for the IBRD was to fine-tune homegrown policies
and institutional reforms, supporting their swift and successful    European Union in Mauritius
implementation through a range of analytical and advisory           African Development Bank in
activities.                                                         Mauritius

A 2006 “Aid for Trade” report analyzing the competitiveness
of the Mauritian economy put forward recommendations for           PARTNERS
fundamental restructuring and reform.  A series of policy
loans provided a structured platform for policy dialogue and        African Development Bank
timely identification of entry points for deploying the Bank’s      Agence Française de
expertise. It also provided a platform for coordination of          Développement
development partners' budget support. This approach also              European Union
favored good sequencing of reforms as the preparation cycle
of each operation created a platform for planning, monitoring         United Nations Development
                                                                      Programme
and course-correcting.


Results
                                                                   
Between 2006 and 2008, growth in GDP averaged 5.3
percent annually. This contrasted with the average of 3.3
percent between 2002 and 2005. The unemployment rate declined to 7.2 percent in 2008 from
9.5 percent in 2005, and the unemployment rate for women went down significantly as new job
opportunities emerged in the service sector. The budget deficit shrank to 3 percent of GDP in
2008/09 from 5.4 percent of GDP in 2005/06, and the debt-to-GDP ratio eased to just over 50
percent of GDP from nearly 70 percent.

The outlook turned gloomy by the end of 2008, but improved substantially throughout 2009,
despite continuing uncertainty worldwide. Most importantly, overall economic activity did not
collapse and 2009 GDP growth is projected at 2.8 percent. Mauritius’s unemployment rate is
expected to have increased only mildly to 8.1 percent in 2009 from 7.2 percent in 2008. Private
investment for 2009 is expected to fall by 2.2 percent while foreign direct investment for the
first nine months of 2009 compared to the same period last year declined by a relatively
moderate 13 percent.

A set of targeted and temporary microeconomic interventions was put in place and helped to
contain social costs. In particular, the interventions helped to save more than 3,000 jobs.
Targeted and temporary incentives to boost vulnerable sectors (including tax relief) have also
avoided a profitability plunge at companies particularly sensitive to external demand.

Several initiatives have been launched to help the poor and vulnerable adapt to a transforming
economy. More than 6,000 workers (a little more than 1 percent of the labor force) have been
placed in jobs by government programs. Vulnerable groups, such as older women displaced
from textile occupations, are being supported through other targeted initiatives. The government
has also started to rationalize the social protection system in Mauritius to improve its targeting
and the efficiency of its programs.

The economic landscape has also been profoundly reoriented through key pieces of new
legislation and bold trade policy. Notable among these were the Business Facilitation Act, new
insolvency legislation, and employment legislation, and the establishment of the competition
commission. At the same time, the joint World Bank and IFC Doing Business surveys confirm
that it now takes only three working days to start a new business in Mauritius. Mauritius’ global
ranking in the annual Doing Business Survey was 49 in 2007, 32 in 2008, 24 in 2009 and 17
in 2010; and stayed at No. 1 in Africa through those last three years.


Toward the Future
As the first development policy lending series comes to a close in 2010, the government has
expressed interest in further IBRD support along these lines. At the same time, new technical
assistance and investment lending operations have been approved in 2009 and 2010. While
the IBRD will certainly continue to deepen its engagement and support to policy reforms in
Mauritius, the precise instrument with which it will accomplish this is still being discussed. A
new Country Partnership Strategy Progress report currently under preparation will outline the
IBRD’s agreement with the Mauritian government on the program going forward. Under the
Mauritius Economic Transition Project (METAP), the IBRD is also providing support to a range
of investment climate reforms.
 

 


                                                    Last updated: 2010-04-20
