Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 18355-DJI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.0 MILLION
(US$14.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
FORA
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT
May 5, 1999
Human Development 4
Country Departnent 8
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(April 26, 1999)
Currency Unit = Djiboutian Franc
US$ 1.00 = DJF 175
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADETIP   Agence djiboutienne d 'exkution des travaux d 'int&r&t public
AfDB      African Development Bank
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
DINAS    National Bureau of Statistics
Direction nationale de la statistique
EDAM-BC National Household Expenditures Survey
Enqu&te Djiboutienne aupres des Aènages avec module Budget-Consommation
ESAF      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FGM       Female Genital Mutilation
FRUD      Front pour la restauration de I'Unife et de la D6mocratie
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GPN       General Procurement Notice
GNP       Gross National Product
HIV       Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IASC      International Accounting Standards Committee
IEC       Infornation Education Communication
IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF       Intemational Monetary Fund
IMS       Integrated Management System
IDA       Intemational Development Association
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
LA        Local Associations
LACI      Loan Administration Change Initiative
MEFPP    Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning, with Responsibility for
Privatization
MIS       Management Information System
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
PHRD      Japanese Grant for Human Resources Development
PPA       Participatory Poverty Assessment
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
PMR       Project Management Report
QCBS      Quality and Cost-Based Selection
SIA       Social and Institutional Assessment
UCSALP   Unit for Coordination and Monitoring of Poverty Reduction Activities
Unite de coordination et de suivi des actions de lutte contre lapauvrete
UJNDP     United Nations Development Program
Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo
Country DirectoT for Djibouti:   Michael Sarris
Sector Manager:   Arvil Van Adams
Task Manager:   Nadine Poupart



DJIBOUTI
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective .....................................................................
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ..................................2
B. Strategic Context ...................................................................                                                                                                      2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project .......................................................2
2. Main sector issues and Governmuent strategy ...............................................................3
C.  Project Description   Sum m ary  ....................................................................5
1. Project components ...................................................................                                                                                     5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .....................................6
3. Benefits and target population ....................................................................6
4. Institutional and implementation anrangements ............................................................7
5. Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements ....................................9
D. Project Rationale ...................................................................                                                                                                    10
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ........................................... 10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ..... 12
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in proposed project design .......................................... 13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ................................................. 13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ............................................................... 14
E. Summary Project Analysis ....................................................................                                                                                              4
1. Economic ...................................................................                                                                                             14
2. Financial ...................................................................1l4.
3. Technical ...................................................................                                                                                            14
4. Institutional ...................................................................                                                                                        15
5. Social ...................................................................                                                                                               15
6. Environmentalassessment .................................................................... 16
7. Participatory approach ...................................................................                                                                               16
F. Sustainability and Risks ...................................................................                                                                                             L7
1. Sustainability ...................................................................                                                                                       1.7
2. Critical risks ...................................................................                                                                                       17
3. Possible controversial aspects ...................................................................                                                                       19



G. Main Loan Conditions ........................                                19
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                       19
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                       19
FIGURES
Figure 1: Identification and Submission of Annual Program of Subprojects
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1: Project Design Summary
ANNEX 2: Project Description
ANNEX 3: Estimated Project Costs
ANNEX 4: Economic Analysis
ANNEX 5: Financial Summary
ANNEX 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C. Allocation of Credit Proceeds
ANNEX 6 (B): Financial Management
ANNEX 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
ANNEX 8: Documents in Project File
ANNEX 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ANNEX 10: Country at a Glance
ANNEX 11: Letter of Sector Policy
ANNEX 12: Poverty Map
Map:       IBRD Reference Number 23069R



Project Appraisal Document                                                Page 2
Country: Djibouti                       Project Title: Social Development and Public Works
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1)
The project's ultimate goal is to contribute to poverty reduction in the Republic of Djibouti. The project
development objective is to enhance the living standards of the poor in the city of Djibouti (which
accounts for about 83% of the total population) by increasing the quality of and access to basic economic
and social infrastructure and services and by generating employment opportunities. The project is
expected to achieve this objective through approaches that foster labor-intensive techniques, community
participation and the development of small local entrepreneurs in the construction sector.
Achievement of the Project's objective will be measured by the following key performance
indicators:
1)    Percentage of subprojects included in community development plans in target zones, in
relation to total number of subprojects financed by ADETIP (excluding cultural heritage
subprojects).
2)    Percentage of rehabilitated or constructed infrastructure which are operational and routinely
maintained.
3)    Number person-months of work created.
4)    Improved capacity of private construction and engineering firns that have been awarded
contracts, as measured by the progression in the volume of activities, number of permanent staff
and investments in equipment.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see
Annex 1)
The last formal Country Assistance Strategy for Djibouti was prepared in 1991, i.e., before the
1991-94 civil war. A new CAS will be prepared in FY00, on the basis of preparatory work to be
undertaken by the Bank over the current fiscal year, and extensive in-country discussions
(involving government, the civil society, the private sector and other donors). The CAS will also
take into consideration the close economic links with neighboring Ethiopia and the effect on
Djibouti of the conflict between Eritrea and Ethiopia.
Present Bank involvement in Djibouti is guided by the Government's 1997 Policy Framework
Note which emphasizes regional integration, the expansion of the resource base, and the
consolidation of social cohesion as the three strategic pillars to sustainable development. Key
objectives are to consolidate civil peace and to resume economic growth. Accordingly, Bank
assistance aims at helping the Government to: (i) lay the foundation for sustainable development
through a process of social and economic inclusion and employment generation, and (ii) outline a
human resources strategy. The Bank is currently working with the IMF to improve the
macroeconomic framework and to enhance competitiveness.
The human resources strategy draws on the Bank's 1997 Poverty Assessment which focuses on
strengthening the weak human capital base, increasing the limited access to potable water and
sanitation, generating employment and improving the situation of women. The poverty reduction
strategy, endorsed by the Government, recommends: (a) raising growth and generating
employment; (b) increasing investment in human capital; and (c) developing targeted
interventions for the poor. The proposed operation supports this strategy by generating
employment through labor-intensive activities and improving access to basic social and economic
infrastructures and services in poor neighborhoods.



Project Appraisal Document                                                Page 3
Country: Djibouti                        Project Title: Social Development and Public Works
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Rising poverty as a result of the deepening economic andfinancial crisis. Since 1991, the
Djiboutian economy has experienced a series of exogenous shocks, namely: (i) a sharp inflow of
refugees from Somalia and Ethiopia; (ii) the 1991-94 domestic armed conffict between the
Government and the FRUD (Front pour la restauration de V 'unite et de la d6mocratie); (iii) a
sharp decline in foreign aid; and (iv) a reduction in French military presence. Large internal and
external deficits led to the signing, in April 1996, of a Stand-By Arrangement with the IMF.
Government performance under the Stand- By has been mixed but has improved recently. The
IMF is currently considering entering into an ESAF arrangement with Djibouti.
Djibouti's GDP per capita, estimated at US$780 in 1997, does not reflect the standards of living in
the country. Firstly, although the cost of living in Djibouti is very high, GDP and GNP per capita
are generally much lower in terms of Purchasing Power Parity. Secondly, the GDP per capita
estimate is inflated by the very high wages prevailing in the civil service sector (they remain so,
relative to the national average, despite cumulative cuts of about 20% in nominal wages over the
past two years). In fact, living standards are more comparable to those of Ethiopia than with those
in countries with similar per capita levels. According to the Poverty Assessment Report, 45 percent
of the population were living below the poverty line in 1996, and 10 percent were extremely poor.
At the Donors Roundtable held in June 1997, the Government committed itself to reduce poverty
and requested IDA's assistance for a Social Fund-type operation. The Ministry of Economy,
Finance and Planning, with Responsibility for Privatization (MEFPP), has prepared a draft policy
letter for poverty reduction. By April 2000, MEFPP will develop a Poverty Reduction Action Plan,
based on the strategy presented in the Poverty Assessment Report.
High incidence of urban poverty. Although poverty is deeper outside the capital city, most of
the poor (52 percent) and 72 percent of the extremely poor live in Djibouti-city. Hence, the
proposed project will target poor neighborhoods of Djibouti-city. It will complement the recently
approved AfDB-financed Social Fund for Development Project which supports poverty reducing
intervention in the rest of the country. This social fund is being implemented by the Poverty Unit
of the MEFPP (UCSALP). With IFAD's assistance, the Government is also defining an action
plan to reduce rural poverty, including for nomads.
High unemployment and abysmal social indicators. The average unemployment rate in the
country is about 45 percent and exceeds 60 percent among the poor. In the medium- to long-
term, restored competitiveness of the economy and improved education levels will be key to
reduce the high unemployment rate. In the meantime, however, the Government would like to
generate low-skilled employment opportunities which will directly benefit the poor. The
proposed project supports this objective by creating economic opportunities for small and
medium enterprises in the construction sector.
The Republic of Djibouti also faces abysmal social indicators. About 33 percent of the Djiboutians
do not have access to potable water and most of the population live in appalling sanitary conditions.
Overall, health indicators are below regional standards. Life expectancy at birth is low at 49 years.
The infant mortality rate, at 114 deaths per 1,000 live births, is one of the highest among Middle-
Eastern and Sub-Saharan countries. Diarrhea and malnutrition together constitute the leading cause
of death among children under 5 years of age. The poor quality of water and the ineffective (and in
some cases, virtually non-existent) sanitary services contribute to the spread of diarrhea. High
maternal mortality, estimated at 740 deaths per 100,000 live births, can be largely attributed to hig1f
fertility rates, anemia caused by malnutrition, and the widespread practice of Female Genital
Mutilation. Djibouti has also a very high HIV seroprevalence rate. Large consumption of khat, a



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page 4
Country: Djibouti                         Project Title: Social Development and Public Works
drug imported from Ethiopia, poses enormous health, social, and economic problems. The poor
complain about the quality of health infrastructure in Djibouti-city (Participatory Poverty
Assessment, December 1996) which sometimes lack potable water. On the education side, the
illiteracy rate is 57 percent for the total population and is as high as 64 percent for the poor.
Although progress has been made to expand access in recent years, the primary gross enrolment
ratio is still low at 60%. Approximately 40 percent of children leave school after the primary level
(6' grade) because inter alia of the insufficient number of secondary schools. In targeted poor
neighborhoods, the proposed project will address these issues by contributing to improve sanitary
conditions, access to potable water, improved quality of and access to social and economic
infrastructures, and access to social services.
Centralization and weak consultation. Highly centralized administration, along with limited
public resources and lack of appropriate sectoral strategies, partly explain the limited impact of the
public investment program on poverty reduction. The city of Djibouti does not have administrative
or financial autonomy. The Chief of District for the city (also Commissaire de la Republique), and
the chiefs of arrondissements and chefs lieux are nominated by the Minister of Interior. At the
lowest administrative level, the heads of quartiers are nominated by the Chief of District. Heads of
quartiers, who sometimes originate from another quartier or another city, are rarely viewed by the
population to represent their needs. The Government is preparing, with slow progress, a
decentralization law, the draft of which is being discussed since September 1997. Simultaneously,
urban associations are booming. More than 160 associations already exist, and could be useful
vehicles to implement development programs. TheAfDB-financed Social Fund will develop
micro-credit associations inside Djibouti-city and will support community projects in the rest of the
country. In addition, UNDP is financing a program (about US$ 500,000) to strengthen local
associations. The proposed project will also contribute to strengthen urban associations and poor
urban communities so that their priority investment needs are reflected in the public investment
program.
Lack of Poverty Monitoring. Currently, there is no poverty monitoring mechanism that links
programming of public investments with poverty reduction. The first household survey (a priority
survey) produced in 1996 provides an initial reliable set of data on poverty. The project will
finance a second survey (an integrated survey), which will provide comprehensive information on
consumption and expenditure and will allow assessing the evolution of poverty over the last four or
five years. On the basis of existing poverty data, the government has established a map of the city
of Djibouti, using the following criteria: percentage of renters, type of dwelling, level of water and
electric power infrastructure, household size, and percentage of female-headed households. This
poverty map, which will be updated during the course of the project, will facilitate a more efficient
targeting of project activities in poor neighborhoods.



Pro]ect Appraisal Document                                                Page 5
Country: Djibouti                        Project Title: Social Development and Public Works
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
The proposed project has three components: (1) Social and Economic Infrastructure; (2) Support to
Community Development; and (3) Institutional Capacity Building.
Component 1: Social and Economic Infrastructure (US$ 10.8 million equivalent). This
component aims at improving the physical environment in poor neighborhoods of Djibouti-City; it
will consist of small basic infrastructure works improving mainly: (i) street works and drainage on
secondary and tertiary networks; (ii) construction/rehabilitation of commercial infrastructure
(markets, public places, etc.); (iii) construction/rehabilitation of social infrastructure (standpipes,
health posts, primary and secondary schools); and (iv) rehabilitation of public buildings fonning
part of the city's cultural heritage. To maximize the impact of civil works on employment
generation and local private sector development, the design of civil works will rely on labor-
intensive techniques and the works will be carried-out mainly by local small- and medium-size
contractors.
Component 2: Support to Community Development (US$ 2.6 million equivalent). This
component complements activities financed under component 1. Its specific objectives are to
increase community participation in project implementation and to provide selected social services
to poor communities. NGOs and/or Local Associations (LAs) with the requisite experience and
proven track records will be key players in the implementation of this component, which includes
the following activities:
(a) Social Mobilization Program (US$ 0.1 million equivalent): The sub-component will
support the design and implementation of a social mobilization program focused on the
preparation of Community Development Plans. These plans will include community
priority investments which can be financed under Components 1 and 2, and proposed
arrangements for maintaining and sustaining these investments.
(b) Community Subproject Grants (US$ 2.5 million equivalent): The sub-component will
finance subprojects proposed directly by communities, or through LAs or international
NGOs in the following areas: (i) basic social and economic infrastructure; (ii) management
of infrastructure built or rehabilitated under the project, to ensure the sustainability of such
investments; and (iii) management and organization of water supply, hygiene, sanitation,
and environmental services (for example, street cleaning and pre-collection of household
waste), including related Information Education Communication (IEC) campaigns in
support of these services. These areas of action an be reviewed and modified during the
course of project implementation.
Component 3: Institutional Capacity Building (fJS$ 3.2 million equivalent). This component aims
at building the institutional capacity of various stakeholders involved in the implementation of the
two other components and in poverty reduction monitoring. It has two sub-components:
(a) Poverty monitoring and analysis (US$ 0.5 million equivalent): The sub-component
project will enable the central Government to monitor and analyze poverty by providing
financial support for a national survey of household living standards (EDAM-BC) and to
use survey data in the elaboration, execution, and evaluation of poverty reduction policies
and programs. This sub-component will also finance the design and updating of a poverty-
map of Djibouti-city, and surveys/studies to assess the poverty impact of the project.



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page 6
Country: Djibouti                           Project Title: Social Development and Public Works
(b) Project management and implementation (US$ 2.7 million equivalent): Under this
sub-component, the project will finance: (i) advocacy planning for the poor (i.e. NGO staff
training on community mobilization; training sessions of key Government officials to
increase the poverty impact of the budgetary process); (ii) training programs for local
private fums, consulting fimns, and associations to implement subprojects; and (iii)
ADETIP equipment, operating costs and capacity building to implement the project in a
transparent and efficient manner.
1. Social and Economic
Infrastructure
a) Works                            Physical          10.8      62%         9.1          53%
b) Studies                        infrastructure
c) Supervision
2. Support to Community
Development
a) Social mobilization             Institution        2.6       15%         2.2          13%
b) Conumunity subprojects         building and
Physical
infrastructure _
3. Institutional Capacity Building
a) Poverty monitoring and analysis  Institution       0.5       3%          0.4           2%
building
b) Project management and      Institution building   2.7       16%         2.4          14%
implementation
Refinancing of PPF                                    0.7       4%          0.7           4%
TOTAL                          17.3      100%        14.8          86%
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project is not designed to support any key policy or institutional reform. The existing policy
and institutional framework in the sector will not inhibit project viability and sustainability.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project has several benefits that will contribute to reduce poverty in Djibouti.
Economic Benefits. The project will create jobs and increase the income of the poor by providing
contract opportunities accessible to local enterprises, for works requiring a high proportion of
unskilled labor. It is expected that salaries will represent about 30 percent of the cost of the works.
The economic infrastructure works (markets, roads, etc.) will reduce transaction and opportunity



ProjectAppraisal Document                                                   Page 7
Country Djibouti                          Project Title: Social Development and Public Works
costs, and will increase work time. The social infrastructure works will boost the productivity of
human resources as a result of improved health, drinking water, hygiene, and school learning
conditions.
The contract management system adopted for the project will promote the development of the local
private sector and will help lower unit costs by encouraging competition among private
construction enterprises.
By establishing mechanisms - based on a partnership with the beneficiaries - for financing the
maintenance of the infrastructure works created, the project will help to prolong infrastructure life.
Social Benefits. Improved access to and quality of social infrastructure and services will result in a
better quality of life for target populations.
Under Component 2 (support to community development), the project will develop social capital in
the target poor district. Community cohesion and dynamics will be strengthened and this may
encourage communities to undertake other activities on their own initiative and enhance the
effectiveness of other projects in targeted districts.
Other Benefits. The project will strengthen national capacity to gather and analyze poverty data
for the purpose of designing better poverty-targeted programs.
TargetPopulation. The project will target the poor neighborhoods of Djibouti-city. The city
comprises between 265,000 and 400,000 inhabitants (1996 World Bank and 1997 official
estimates, respectively), 39.1 percent of whom are poor. Accordingly, the project will directly
assist 105,000-156,000 poor persons. The project fulfills both requirements for inclusion in the
Program of Targeted Interventions. First, it includes mechanisms specifically targeting the poor.
Second, the percentage of poor among the project beneficiaries is far higher than that of the
population of Djibouti as a whole.
4. Institutional organization and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: Four years
Executing agency: The project will be executed by a non-governmental agency, the National
Executing Agency for Public Works (ADETIP), govermed by a General Assembly consisting of
representatives of the State and civil society. ADETIP's statutes and by-laws shall be approved by
its general assembly and by IDA and can be amended on a non-objection basis by IDA. ADETIP
will report on project progress semi-annually to the Borrower. As a representative of the State, the
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning, with Responsibility for Privatization (MEFPP) will
delegate by agreement (convention-cadre) the management of project funds and contracts to the
Agency.
The Agency will receive proposals for subprojects from various stakeholders in the form of a
project brief allowing rapid assessment of their merits from the standpoint of expected impact on
project objectives (including poverty, employment, and living conditions). It will use consultants
(NGOs or other sources, under contractual arrangements) to help beneficiary communities prepare
their subproject briefs. The Agency will review the quality of the information received, consider
the eligibility and impact of proposed subprojects, and assess them on the basis of the selection and
rejection criteria included in the Project Execution Manual. Particular attention will be paid to
environmental issues, using the simplified assessment method. The Agency will then prepare an
annual work program detailing the subprojects to be carried out and the resources it will need to be



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page 8
Country: Djibouti                         Project Title: Social Development and Public Works
able to carry out its task. The General Assembly of ADETIP will then approve the annual work
program and forward it to the Secretary General of MFPP, who will submit it for the approval on a
no-objection basis of the Interministerial Committee with responsibility for the adjustment
program. The annual work program will be a rolling program.
Different stakeholders will be eligible to submit requests for subprojects financing to ADETIP:
For urban infrastructure works (such as primary storm drains, secondary roads) to be
financed under Component 1: Line ministries will directly submit requests to ADETIP for
financing subprojects which are part of the public investment program and eligible against
ADETIP selection criteria.
For community infrastructure (such as schools, heath facilities, district markets) under
Component 1: The Community Support Unit within ADETIP will encourage communities
and local authorities of target neighborhoods to develop community development plans.
These plans will define priority investments for the neighborhood. ADETIP will ensure that
proposed priority investments are included in the public investment program and that line
ministry budgets include provisions for recurrent costs to render these infrastructure fully
operational. ADETIP will also ensure that communities will participate in the financing of
the infrastructure and/or in its maintenance.
For community subprojects under Component 2, subprojects will be requested by
communities. Subprojects related to the maintenance of infrastructure created under
component 1 will need to be included in the Community Development Plans.
The role of ADETIP, and subsequent contracting arrangements will vary depending on the
component:
For Component 1 subprojects, ADETIP will be responsible for procurement and the works
will be executed by local private enterprises. ADETIP will sign a separate agreement (called
a "delegated contract management" agreement) with the owner of the works (maltres
d 'ouvrage) for execution of the annual work program. Delegated contract management
agreements will describe the respective responsibilities of the two parties at each stage of the
subproject cycle, and the arrangements for turning the works over to the contracting authority
for maintenance. In Djibouti, these contracting authorities are as follows: the Ministries of
Health (health posts, community pharmacies, etc.), Education (primary and secondary
schools), Agriculture and Water (standpipes, abattoirs, etc.), Public Works (roads, sanitation,
etc.), and Youth and Sport (sports fields, youth homes), and the District of Djibouti (markets,
sidewalk maintenance, household waste transfer stations, street lighting, terminals, and bus
stops).
For Component 2 subprojects, ADETIP will sign contacts with intermediary associations or
NGOs who will themselves sign contracts with the beneficiary community, which must
secure legal status. Actual practices and procedures will be developed and tested as part of
the Social and Institutional Assessment (SIA) process. In cases where the beneficiaries are
grouped in an association with sufficient capacity and proven track record, the Agency may
contract directly with this association. NGOs andassociations with the requisite experience
and proven track recordmay assume procurement responsibilities for contracts costing less
than US$ 50,000. Where necessary, this threshold may be revised during project
implementation, in agreement with the Government and IDA.
ADETIP will manage all activities financed under Component 3, except Household Survey



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 9
Country: Djibouti                        Project Title: Social Development and Public Works
and Poverty Map activities, which will be the responsibility of the Directorate of National
Statistics (DINAS). In these cases, however, ADETIP will attend to procurement, and will
serve as paymaster on behalf of DINAS.
The above-mentioned arrangements will be specified in the Project Execution Manual. The
Implementation Manual will include the following sections: (i) a statement of objectives and
general presentation of the project, as well as monitoring and evaluation indicators; (ii)
implementation procedures for the (dnfrastructureª) component; (iii) implementation procedures for
the osupport to community developmentª) component; (iv) implementation procedures for the
<poverty monitoringª> component (DINAS); (v) implementation procedures for other parts of
component 3; and (vi) an implementation plan, including an annual budget covering a four-year
period for each component and the first detailed annual work program. The Implementation
manual will also include procurement procedures, standard bidding documents (for works, goods
and consultants), and reporting requirements on financial management. A draft version of the
Manual was prepared during the pilot phase and will be finalized prior to effectiveness. During
project implementation, the Manual could be modified as necessaiy subject to IDA agreement.
Project oversight. The General Secretariat of the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning
(MEFPP), and specifically the unit in charge of coordinating social projects, will be responsible for
the general oversight of the project. It will fulfill this responsibility by monitoring progress reports,
audit reports, and performance indicators. This assignment will also include providing semi-annual
interim reports to the Government and to the Bank on project progress, Agency performance, etc.
5. Accounting, Financial Reporting andAuditingArrangements:
The Government is in the process of recruiting, through competitive bidding, an international
consulting finn to establish a comprehensive integrated management system (IMS) which will also
include ADETIP's accounting, in line with the norms of the International Accounting Standards
Committee (IASC), Djibouti's Chart of Accounts, and the Loan Administration Change Initiative
(LACI) quarterly project management reporting (PMR) requirements. This system will
differentiate the Agency's operating cost from the financing of each subproject, while linking the
accounts of ADETIP with the subprojects it finances. This will be done by indicating clearly the
connections between each accounting document of ADETIP and its corresponding contract,
subproject, and source of financing. The double-entry accounting system to be adopted by
ADETIP will facilitate the reporting and monitoring of each subproject expenditure. This
integrated process will ensure transparency and enable the Agency to meet its contractual
obligations to provide analytical accounting for its own operating costs, and for the operations it
manages on behalf of intermediaries (delegated funds). Entry of the Credit into effect is subject to
introduction of this IMS and its evaluation by IDA. A further requirement is an action plan
detailing the steps to be undertaken in order to link financial, procurement and project indicators as
part of the transition to the LACI system.
The consulting firm that will be recruited to design the management information system will: (i)
prepare the Project Implementation Manual, with an appropriate chart of accounts, the project
organization chart and relevant job description; (ii) prepare the internal control system for
ADETIP's financial operations; and (iii) adopt a reporting system based on LACI disbursement
method. The firm will also train staff members of ADETIP including the accountant, who will be
recruited prior to negotiations, and the assistant accountant who is already in place.
ADETIP accounts and financial situation will be audited annually in accordance with International -
Auditing Standards (IAS) by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Annual audit reports will be
submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year. The auditors will also perform



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 10
Country: Djibouti                         Project Title: Social Development and Public Works
interim audits (9 months into the fiscal year) to review ADETIP internal control system including
management performance, and issue reports to that effect within one month from the end of their
work. Project accounts will be submitted in a form (to be spelled out in the Project Execution
Manual and set out in the "convention-cadre") which will make it possible to track the use of funds
managed by the Agency by clearly differentiating resources (by source of funds) spent to pay for
the agency's fee (in its capacity as delegated contract manager) from those spent on subprojects.
The annual audits will be financed by the proposed IDA credit. The terms of reference for the
audits will be finalized and agreed upon before negotiations to ensure that the scope and depth of
the annual audits are reasonably adequate.
IDA funds will be deposited in a Special Account already opened by MEFPP with a commercial
bank and which will be replenished when ADETIP so requests. ADETIP has opened another
account with a commercial bank in which it will deposit its contract management fees. For each
tranche it disburses, ADETIP will collect a commission representing a percentage of the amount of
the subproject, the rate of which will be specified in the framework agreement. This commission
will be transferred from the Special Account to this other account. The reconciliation of the two
accounts will be subject to audit. The second account, to be subject to periodic audit, will be used
to finance the operating costs of ADETIP.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangement. The monitoring and evaluation process will involve
several steps. ADETIP will carry out field visits to track progress and record information based on
defined indicators, focusing on (i) progress with implementation; (ii) quality of completed
subprojects; and (iii) sustainability of investments. In addition, beneficiary assessments will be
carried out annually to assess the level of community participation in project selection, the
beneficiaries' satisfaction with project interventions, and the quality and sustainability of completed
subprojects.
The integrated management system will ensure systematic and transparent monitoring of project
implementation progress. Specifically, it will (i) evaluate and prioritize eligible subprojects on the
basis of objective criteria; (ii) monitor physical and financial progress of operations and contracts
managed by ADETIP under this project and its corresponding framework agreement ("convention-
cadre'), and other agreements the Agency may ultimately sign; (iii) prepare operations reports
indicating the extent to which ADETIP has succeeded in managing human resources, agreements,
and contracts, including the monitoring of the operating costs ratio; (iv) calculate the impact of
subprojects in the light of the project's key development objectives; and (v) prepare charts and
maps related to subproject data.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Infrastructure rehabilitation and construction could be implemented by line ministries (by force
account under the management ofcentral engineering departments). This altemative was rejected
because the civil service is quite inefficient, despite the existence of some well qualified public
engineers. It is characterized by lengthy disbursement procedures. Experience in other countries
shows that with delegated contract management the cost of works can be 20% to 25% lower than
with traditional methods. A classical social fund, whereby communities would be largely
responsible for procurement, was rejected by the government after an official delegation visited the
Senegal and Mauritania AGETIPs. The Government insisted that an AGETIP structure, whereby
procurement is largely handled by the independent agency would be more appropriate for Djibouti,
given the low capacity. The Govemment also felt that an AGETIP would generate more
employment than a social fund.



Project Appraisal Document                                               Page 11
Country: Djibouti                        Project Title: Social Development and Public Works
Although the Government has elected to prepare an AGETIP-type operation, it is also cognizant of
the need for greater community involvement to advance the country's socio-economic
development. In this context, the proposed project includes one component (Support to Community
Development), which aims to develop the local capacity and harness greater participation of local
communities in project identification and implementation. The hybrid approach of utilizing the
strengths of both AGETIP-type operations and social funds provides a vehicle to respond rapidly to
the country's pressing socio-economic problems, while building the foundation for promoting
greater community involvement in implementing development programs.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 12
Country: Djibouti                             Project 7itle: Social Development and Public Works
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned):
Bank-financed
Poor macroeconomic framework          Technical Assistance (ongoing) -                        HS
Cr.2934-DJ
US$ 6.5 million
Closing date: 12/31/2000
Reinsertion of demobilized soldiers in the  Ex-Combatant Reintegration    Not rated        Not rated
context of high unemployment         Project (approved Dec. 1998)
Cr.3154-DJ
US$ 2.7 million
Inadequate urban infrastructure      Urban Development II (completed)        HU              HU
Cr. 2203-DJ
US$ 11.2 million
Closing date: 6/30/1998
Limited access to education          First Education Project -
Cr.1543-DJI
US$ 5.0 million
Closing date: Jume 30, 1991
Limited access to and poor quality of  Manpower and Education               Marginally satisfactory
primary education. Weak institutional    Development Project (completed) -
capacity of the Ministry of Education  Cr.2080-DJ
US$ 5.8 million
Closing date: 10/31/95
Inadequacy of basic infiastructure   AfDB - Social Development Fund           -
Project (Board in July 1998) - UA
7.25 million
Little access to niicro-credit.      AfDB - Social Development Fund
Project (Board in July 1998) - UA
7.25 million
CARITAS - micro-credit program
for women.
Low investment in human capital      UNICEF - Maternal and child
welfare
JICA - Construction of 8 primary
schools
AfDB - School construction
programn
Weak NGOs/associations capacity      UNDFP -capacity building for NGOs
and community mobilization
Rural poverty and nomads             FIDA- Definition and scope of
intervention to be determined
OADA: Special Program for food
security (US$ 5 million)
Women's development                  UNDP, Gender Project
(US$500,000)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 13
Country: Djibouti                         Project Title: Social Development and Public Works
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The proposed project will be the first IDA-financed multi-sector operation in Djibouti. The
portfolio in Djibouti is small, consisting of only two operations under implementation (Technical
Assistance Project and Ex-combatant Reintegration Project). Lessons learned from the
implementation of the Second Urban Development and Education Projects have been incorporated
in the overall design of the project. In addition, lessons have been drawn from the intemational
experience of ADETIP and Social Funds-type operations elsewhere. The most important lessons
are as follows:
Key institutional Characteristics. Accumulated experience has shown that effectiveness of social
funds, including ADETIPs, depends on several factors such as, in a country like Djibouti,
administrative autonomy, coordination with public administration agencies, flexible and transparent
procurement and disbursement methods, a participatory approach, and rigorous but simple
procedures. The design of this ADETIP include these characteristics.
Sustainability of subprojects. AGETIPs have not always been successful to ensure sustainability
of subprojects2. Subproject sustainability requires a participatory process that promotes open
consultation with communities on their needs and priorities, even when ministries, municipalities
and other lower administrative levels are responsible for requesting subprojects. Therefore, except
for some categories of subprojects (such as rehabilitation of larger roads) ADETIP will finance
subprojects identified by communities, after ADETIP had organized them and encouraged them to
express their preference. Criteria for subproject selection will include the setting up of user
committees within target zones for ensuring maintenance of subprojects.
Transparency in budget accounts. Transparency of accounts is an essential requirement for the
success of these independent agencies. To this end, a comprehensive management system will be
established by an international firm. Completion of IDA's evaluation of the established accounting
system is a condition of Credit effectiveness.
Counterpart funds. IDA involvement in Djibouti has systematically shown the untimely
availability and lack of counterpart funds. Recognizing the country's difficult fiscal situation,
efforts are being made to build partnership with local communities in advancing Djibouti's
development agenda. Government's overall contribution will be requested at the beginning of each
year before the annual program starts, and again six months later. It will be deposited into a
counterpart account already opened with a commercial bank. This should avoid late receipt of
counterpart funds and will make it unnecessary for ADETIP to borrow or to use surplus funds to
start up subprojects.3
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Following the 1997 Poverty Assessment, IDA explored with the Govemnment the preparation of a
social fund project to address rising poverty issues. Under the PHRD grant, an official delegation
visited Mauritania and Senegal and upon its return, the Government specifically requested that
the project be implemented by an AGETIP-kind of mechanism. Therefore, although the project
includes a small component to be implemented through community contracting, most of project
funds will be used through delegated contract management agreements. Given the reported
l See Social Funds and Reaching the poor. Experiences and Future Directions, The World Bank, 1998.
2 See for example: Performance Audit Report - Senegal AGETIP - Public Works and Employment Projects
(Cr. 2075-SE and 2369-SE), The World Bank, Operations and Evaluation Department, April 2, 1997.
3A problem identified in DraftReport on an Audit of Portfolio Supervision ofAGETIP Projects,
Intemational Auditing Department, The World Bank, February 11, 1997.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 14
Country: Djibouti                         Project Title: Social Development and Public Works
success of AGETIPs, the Government of Djibouti is fully committed to the idea of establishing
an independent and non-profit agency to implement the Project. Key staff have already been
recruited. The agency will be exempt from prevailing public sector rules and regulations relating
to procurement, disbursements and salary structures.
During the pilot phase, the government has identified three pilot projects (rehabilitation of a
health post, road and sidewalk paving, technical study for a jetty parapet). The preparation of the
technical studies are underway. Despite its limited resources, the Government financed the
renting of ADETIP office during 8 months. The Government has already open the required
projects accounts (special account, counterpart funds account and ADETIP account for operating
costs), and has included budgetary provisions in 1999 for project counterpart funds.'
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has provided technical support in introducing the concept of delegated project
management in Djibouti, and it brings to bear a large amount of experience with AGETIP-type
projects from the rest of Africa. In addition, through social funds, the Bank has acquired vast
knowledge worldwide in the design and implementation of mechanisms that quickly and efficiently
channel funds towards the country's most vulnerable groups, empowering these groups to become
key actors in the development process. The design of the proposed project incorporates best
features of both AGETIP and social funds mechanisms.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[x] Cost-Benefit Analysis
[x] Cost-effectiveness
Given the bottom-up approach adopted under the project, the breakdown of funds by type of
subproject cannot be confirmed in advance.Therefore, an economic rate of return for the whole
project has not been calculated. However, economic or financial rates of return wiU be calculated
for revenue-earning subprojects (such as roads, markets etc.) above US$ 200,000. For the
remaining subprojects (smaller revenue-earning subprojects and non-revenue subprojects), the
degree of detail of the analysis would depend on the size and the nature of the subproject.
2. Financial:
The project will have a limited fiscal impact. It will finance infrastructure facilities which already
are or will be in the Public Investment Program and for which a recurrent budget exists. The
sustainability of such ongoing funding will be assured by the beneficiary communities
themselves. Therefore, the project should not increase the financial burden of the State. The
project to the contrary should have a positive financial impact by helping mobilize community
resources for the maintenance of public infrastructure.
3. Technical:
For Component 1, the Implementation Manual will include technical criteria for each subproject
type, based on existing norms from the respective public agencies to ensure technical coherence and
l The Government has included DJF 60 million (US$ 343,000) in the 1999 budget forpoverty alleviation
activities, to be divided among this project, the AfDB Social Fund project, the ex-combatant demobilization
project, and the rehabiliation project.



ProjectAppraisal Document                                                 Page 15
Country: Djibouti                        Project Title: Social Development and Public Works
compatibility. Use of local material (especially stones) will be encouraged inasmuch as it does not
increase the cost of the subproject. The Project will include semi-annual technical audits to ensure
that overall works quality is satisfactory and compliance with procurement requirements.
For Component 2, only NGO and local associations with a track record will be allowed to
implement social programs. A draft study on associations in Djibouti has been completed during
the pilot phase to identify in a transparent way those with a proven track record. To ensure the
quality of the activities financed under this component, the type of subprojects will initially be
limited to one or two sectors (for example pre-garbage collection, IEC campaigns for water saving
consumption patterns) at the beginning of the project but will then be extended gradually to other
sectors. Qualitative studies focused on beneficiaries will be carried out annually as a means of
identifying and solving problems that might arise from implementation of this component. The
types of subprojects to be financed under the Project may be expanded as greater experience is
gained during implementation.
The institutional building activities under component 3 will contribute to strengthen capacity of
key stakeholders (local associations, construction and engineering/consulting firms) involved in the
implementation of Components 1 and 2.
4. Institutional:
Executing agencies. This Agency is in the process of being legally established, equipped, fully
staffed and tested through a pilot phase, financed by a PHRD grant and a PPF. A director, an
engineer, and a secretary have already been appointed. Recruitment of an accounting and financial
manager and a coordinator of Component 2 community activities is under way. Competitive
salaries, combined with transparent and competitive selection of staff, have allowed to attract
efficient personnel.
Project management. A comprehensive program of technical assistance will be designed to
strengthen ADETIP capacity. The program will include the contracting of an international
consultant in engineering during the first 6 to 9 months (under short-term missions) of the project
to help fine-tune procurement forms, to train ADETIP staff in reviewing technical specifications
made by local firms, and in supervising infrastructure subprojects. An international consulting firm
will establish the IMS and accounting system and train at least two staff members of ADETIP to
use it.
5. Social:
In conjunction with the preparation of the Poverty Assessment, the Bank, in collaboration with the
Government, carried out a Participatory Poverty Assessment (PPA) to identify, inter alia, the
priorities of the poor. Inhabitants of the shanty towns and the homeless of Djibouti-city were one
of the three target groups of this survey. During project preparation, consultations with local
associations, international NGO and the donor community suggested that the 1996 PPA conclusions
are still fully valid. As a top priority, the PPA recommends the development of labor-intensive
civil works to improve the sanitary conditions and to rehabilitate priority infrastructure in poor
neighborhoods. The proposed project, under component 1 will respond to this recommendation by
financing labor-intensive works, especially those which will improve the sanitation environment in
poor neighborhoods. In addition, the PPA recommends the development of social programs in the
field of nutrition, reproductive health, female genital mutilation (FGM), and literacy and training
programs. Under Component 2, the proposed project will finance community subprojects,
including IEC activities. As a means of combating khat consumption, the cause of major economic
and health problems in Djibouti, the PPA advises the development of altemative youth social



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 16
Country: Djibouti                         Project Title: Social Development and Public Works
activities. Sportsgrounds and cultural/community centers will therefore be eligible for AGETIP
financing.
6. Environmental assessment:
Environmental Category [ ] A  [ x] B [] C
Justification/rationale for category rating: Project Components 1 and 2 are the only ones likely to
have an impact on the environ-ment. Subprojects of these components will undergo systematic
assessment in accordance with the summary environmental assessment methodology "Simplified
Assessment, Guide for the Preparation of Environmental Impact Studies of ADETIP Works"
(World Bank, October 1996) developed specifically for subprojects implemented by executing
agencies and social funds. The details of this methodology will be set out in the Project Execution
Manual.
Under this methodology, a very brief assessment of the environmental impact of subprojects will be
carried out when ADETIP reviews the proposed subprojects. Subprojects with potentially negative
environmental impacts will not be considered for project financing. The key potential impacts of
pre-selected subprojects on the natural and human environments will be systematically evaluated.
The methodology summarizes mitigation measures for consideration before, during, and after
execution of works. It also spells out the monitoring and reporting requirements for each phase of
the environmental assessment.
In the case of Component 2, ADETIP will conduct only the brief subproject assessment.
Prior to project effectiveness, an environmental analysis will be carried out to assess local capacity
to review the potential impact of subprojects ADETIP might finance, to evaluate the potential
impact of such subprojects, to train personnel, and to revise the Project Execution Manual, if
necessary.
7. Participatory approach
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups. The primary beneficiaries of the proposed
operation are the inhabitants of the poor neighborhoods of Djibouti-city. Project preparation
involved several consultation workshops with local entrepreneurs, local associations and local
authorities at the arrondissement and quartier levels in three pilot neighborhoods.
During project implementation, participation workshops involving the primary beneficiaries and the
local authorities will be organized at the neighborhood level to define investment priorities of the
neighborhood. These priorities will be summarized in Community Development Plans (Plans de
developpement de quartiers). A Social and Institutional Assessment will start shortly to better
define these participatory mechanisms. In addition, beneficiary assessments will be carried out
annually to determine beneficiaries' satisfaction with interventions supported by the project.
Finally, the project will build community capacity for project identification and implementation
through interventions supported under Component 2.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 17
Country: Djibouti                         Project Title: Social Development and Public Works
Other key stakeholders. During project preparation, the Poverty Unit under the Ministry of
Finance (UCSALP) presented the project design to key lines ministries and to the donor community
to ensure consistency of approach and to avoid duplication of efforts. Several donors have
expressed willingness to finance parallel activities, once ADETIP shows some implementation
success.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
Several measures to ensure sustainability of the subprojects financed are being incorporated in
project design. These include: (a) active involvement of beneficiaries in project selection, design
and implementation, thus ensuring greater ownership; (b) community contributions, thus helping
reduce the Government's financial burden associated with investments supported by the project;
and (c) arrangements to be made to ensure sufficient funding for the operation and maintenance of
newly rehabilitated or constructed works. ADETIP will do advocacy planning with central and line
ministries to increase the share of the public investment program which is channeled through
ADETIP and therefore executed by private enterprises using labor-intensive technique, and
responding to the poor priority needs. By doing so, it will also ensure that it has a sufficient work
program to survive as an independent agency.
2. Critical Risks (See Annex 1, Column 4):
From Outputs to Objective
There is no effective complementarity       M   One of the criteria for subproject approval
between project outputs and the budgetary       will be sufficient budget allocation by line ministrie
provision for operations (such as the           concerned. ADETIP to ensure
provision of teachers or nurses) and periodic   adequate coordination with sector ministries.
maintenance by relevant sector ministries       Each Sectoral Ministry will designate a person
responsible to coordinate with ADETIP and
facilitate communication.
Routine maintenance of completed            M   Selection criteria for subprojects to include
subprojects is not a high priority for local    satisfactory arrangements and commitments for
authorities and communities, and the            operation and maintenance (including
necessary financing is not available.           maintenance contracts).
There is not a sufficient number of competent    M   On the construction site technical support to
consultants, enterprises, local associations,   contractors is one of the activities included
and trainers/training facilities to respond to  in the capacity building component.
market opportunities created by the project     ADETIP will also use existing vocational training
facilities in Djibouti and in neighboring countries
for improving their management capacity.
Target population will not use newly        M   Most of the subprojects will be included in
renovated or constructed infrastructure and     Community Development Plans which will
will not request social services.               be established in a participatory manner with
potential users. Social mobilization programs aime
at harnessing greater community involvement will
be carried out.
The creation of low-skill employment can        The existing pool of underemployed and unskilled



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Page 18
Country: Djibouti                          Project Title: Social Development and Public Works
attract illegal immigrants from neighboring  M   workers in Djibouti is substantial enough to be
countries and therefore have no major impact    tapped without attracting additional immigrants.
on the level of unemployment in the country      Discussions with
IMF to restore Djibouti competitiveness;
Legislation requires authorization from
Ministry of labor to hire foreign labor force.
Poverty data are not used to design better  M   A data user committee will be created prior to the
poverty reduction policies and to target         EDAM-BC. A strategy for disseminating data
interventions.                                   collected through the survey to potential users will
be developed and implemented. The poverty map
was completed and will be updated.
From Components to Outputs
Subprojects are not implemented in a timely  M   ADETIP will act as a professional of contract
manner and within budgets.                       management and take remedial actions such as
contract cancellation (r&sifiation) and former
termination of a contracwor's contract will be one of
the post-selection criteria for further bids evaluation
ADETIP fees do not remain at a reasonable    M   ADETIP's MIS will allow for close monitoring and
level (< 10% of the costs of subprojects).       control of operating costs.
To be also followed closely by Bank Supervision
Staff.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low risk)



Project Appraisal Document                                                Page 19
Country: Djibouti                         Project Title: Social Development and Public Works
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None identified
G: Main Loan Conditions
As conditions for credit effectiveness, the Government should:
(a) Finalize the Project Execution Manual and theFinancial Management and Accounting Manual,
ensuring they are acceptable to IDA;
(b) Implement a management infornation and accounting system, to be both evaluated and found
acceptable by IDA.
(c) Submit a draft annual work program and budget for the first year of the project;
(d) Deposit counterpart funds to cover the Government's share of the first year of project costs,
based on the agreed first year's work plan and budget;
(e) Sign a contract with a qualified audit firm for annual audits of the project;
(f) Ensure that ADETIP capacity to administer procurement contracts and execute the pilot phase is
found acceptable by IDA.
H. Readiness for Implementation
The draft Project Implementation Manual is being revised and will be agreed upon before
effectiveness. ADETIP is currently preparing the first annual work program, (composed mostly of
Component 1 subprojects) and related Procurement Plan. The engineering design documents to be
used for the first year will most likely be similar to the ones used for the pilot operation. The
procurement documents will be standard and are included in the Project Implementation Manual.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
- L--- kr-- ----   Q, --------                   -
Task Team Leader: Nadine Poupart                 Sector Manager: Arvil Van Adams
/  Dh
Country Director: Michael Sarns



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Annex 1
Djibouti - Social Development and Public Works Project                    Page 1 of 3
ANNEX 1
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT
PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Narrative Summary          Key Performance          Monitoring and      Critical Assumptions
Indicators              Evaluation
Sector-related Goal 5:                                                  (Objective/Bank
mission)
1. To contribute to    1. 87% of total poor         1. Household        No further stagnation
poverty reduction in the  population of Djibouti-City    Integrated Survey    in real economy
19 target neighbor-   benefits from project         in Djibouti-City
hoods                  interventions.                                   Availability of
counterpart funds for
poverty reduction
activities.
Project Development                                                     (Development
Objective:                                                              objective/ sector
objective)
1. To improve living    1. Population's access to, use   Access:4 DINAS  Increased quality and
standards in the target   of, and satisfaction with  or Census          quantity of social
neighborhoods of       infrastructure constructed or    estimates       infrastructure has a
Djibouti-City          rehabilitated, will increase                     positive impact on
significantly. Quantitative  Use: Direct         school enrollment
goals depend on type of infra-  measurement at   rates, pupil
structure and neighborhood,    infrastructure level   performance, health
and will be set at end of first                  center attendance and
year of the project.         Satisfaction:       health status, etc.
Annual beneficiary
assessments
Outputs
1. Cost -effective     1. 80% of rehabilitated or   1.1 Midterm         Effective
provision of priority  constructed infrastructure   evaluation by       complementarity
infrastructure in target  found to be operational and  Borrower and Bank   between project
areas                 properly maintained.                              outputs and budget
1.2 Semi-annual     allocations to relevant
technical audits    sector ministries for
operations (e.g.
funding teachers or
nurses) and periodic
maintenance.
3 There is at present no Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Djibouti. Development goal consistent with
the Country Strategy Note (November 1995) and the Poverty Assessment (September, 1997).
4Access: Population having (potential) access to the infrastructure. Use Number of persons actually
using the infrastiructure. Satisfaction: Percentage of persons using the infrastructure who are satisfied.



ProjectAppraisal Document                                                  Annex 1
Djibouti - Social Development and Public Works Project                   Page 2 of 3
Narrative Summary         Key Performance          Monitoring and     Critical Assumptions
Indicators             Evaluation
1.3 Annual PER of  Routine maintenance
subproject line    of completed
ministries         subprojects remains a
high priority for
communities.
2. Jobs created       2. 17,500 person-months of    2(a) Specific     Civil works executed
work created.               annual surveys of    by local contractors
workers employed    have more impact on
by contractors      employment than those
executed by bigger,
2(b) Semi-annual    capital-intensive
technical audits   enterprises.
3. Development of     3. For enterprises which have  3(a) Quarterly   Enough competent
small-scale consulting   been awarded contracts under  progress reports  consultants,
and contracting firms    this project: progression in    issued by ADETIP.   contracting firms, local
and local associations   their volume of activity,                    associations, and
number of permanent staff,    3(b) Annual       trainers/training
and investments in          surveys of          facilities to respond to
equipment.                  contractors         market opportunities
created by the project.
4. Capacity building in  4.1 At least 15 community  4.1 Quarterly      Target population will
communities           development plans prepared    progress reports   use newly renovated or
among the 19 target         issued by ADETIP   constructed
neighborhoods.                                  infrastructure and
4.2 Community subprojects   4.2 (a) Semi-       demand for social
show an average 10%         annual technical    services will emerge.
community contribution to   audits
total subproject cost.      4.2 (b) Annual
beneficiary
assessments
5. ADETIP activities   5. Subprojects incorporated    5(a) Quarterly  Decision-makers make
target the poor       in community development    reports;            use of the poverty
plans represent 60% of                          monitoring system to
subprojects financed by     5(b) Supervision    improve the design of
ADETIP (excluding           missions;           poverty reduction
subprojects focused on                          policies and ensure
national heritage assets).  5(c) Annual         effective targeting of
beneficiary        interventions.
assessments.
6. Date required for  6.1 Poverty statistics are   6.1 Supervision
updating of poverty   updated.                     missions
statistics are collected    6.2 Statistics are made
and analyzed.         available to interested      missions
parties.



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Annex 1
Djibouti - Social Development and Public Works Project                     Page 3 of 3
Narrative Summary          Key Performance           Monitoring and      Critical Assumptions
Indicators              Evaluation
Project                  Inputs (budgets for each                        (Components/
Components/Sub-         component, un US$ million)                       outputs)
components
1. Social and economic            10.8              ADETIP and           Subprojects are
infrastmcture                                       Government           implemented in a
quarterly and       timely manner and
2. Support for                     2.6              annual progress      within budget.
community activities                                reports
3. Capacity building               3.2              IDA disbursement    ADETIP operating costs
reports             are kept below 10%.
4. PPF advance                     0.7
S There is at present no Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Djibouti. Development goal consistent with the
Country Strategy Note (November 1995) and the Poverty Assessment (September, 1997).



Project Appraisal Document                                                Annex 2
Djibouti - Social Development and Public Works Project                Page I of IO
ANNEX 2
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
COMPONENT 1: SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE (US$ 10.8 million
equivalent)
Objectives
The objectives of this Component are to:
(i) Improve living standards in the poor neighborhoods of Djibouti-City;
(ii) Maximize the impact of urban works on employment and on the development of smal
and medium local enterprises in the construction sector; and
(iii) Preserve the city's public architectural heritage.
Description
Three categories of infrastructure subprojects will be financed:
(1)  Labor-intensive urban infrastructure works (40% of the Component amount):
* Improvements to/paving of public spaces in Djibouti-city (gardens, public places,
sidewalk curbs, drainage ditches, median strips, intersections, parking areas, bus stops
and taxi stands, pedestrian crossings, pedestrian walkways, and speed bumps);
*  Construction/rehabilitation of primary storm drains serving as rainwater outlets in
target areas; and
*  Re-paving and drainage of existing roads with no alignment problems (i) linking target
neighborhoods with Djibouti-City's main/primary road network (surfaced in bitumen),
and (ii) transiting target areas (tertiary network) and connecting with paved secondary
roads.
(2)    Construction/rehabilitation of community facilities in target neighborhoods (45% of the
Component amount):
* Construction/rehabilitation/improvement of community facilities in target neighbor-
hoods: schools, primary health care centers, playgrounds, youth centers, youth and
association meeting rooms;
ï  Construction/rehabilitation of community latrines and intermediate trash transfer
stations;
*  Improvement/upgrading of existing commercial infrastructure (standpipes, neighbor-
hood markets) through installation of drainage works;
*  Paving of pedestrian walkways and, if necessary, building of scuppers and culverts
(small bridges); these walkways will link the community and commercial facilities
constructed, rehabilitated, or improved under the project with the closest paved roads.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Annex 2
Djibouti - Social Development and Public Works Project                  Page 2 of 10
(3) Works to protect the city's public architectural heritage (15% of the Component
amount):
*  Rehabilitation (for current or future administrative use) of public buildings in Djibouti-
City (heritage of the State) built more than forty years ago and possessing architectural
qualities worthy of conservation, adaptation, or conversion;
* Construction of small-scale social infrastructure facilities with architectural features
typical of Djibouti (following an architectural contest). These facilities will need to be
of public use;
*  Paving of pedestrian walkways under city-center arcades, to preserve the public
character of such spaces;
*  Street addressing and signage.
Implementation
ADETIP will be responsible for implementing this Component. To this end, it will prepare an
annual program of work reflecting requests from the relevant technical ministries and
administrative authorities, in the case of works in categories (1) and (3), and community
beneficiaries in the case of works in category (2).
ADETIP's annual program should cover planning for procurement (in lots) based on the provisions
of the Project Agreement that govern procurement matters. The resulting contracts should be
managed by ADETIP in accordance with the procedures set out in the Project Execution Manual.
These procedures should take precedence over any conflicting provisions, or provisions relating to
contract execution, embodied in local regulations.
However, it is understood that during the first year of the project most works will fall under either
category (1) or category (2), since such subprojects are more easily and quickly identifiable, either
because they are elements of the priority infrastructure planning effort undertaken within the
framework of the Urban Master Plan and the city sanitation plan, or because they are urgently
needed.
The relevant contracting authorities and ADETIP will then draw up and sign individual "delegated
contract management" agreements specifying, interalia, the detailed work program, the cost of the
objectives to be pursued, a breakdown of the works by lots or contracts, and procedures for
ensuring cooperation between the prime contractor and the delegated contract manager during the
various key stages of the operation, particularly upon acceptance of the works.
Procurement: Contracts will be awarded following local competitive bidding (announced in the
local press or the Official Gazette); a contract will be awarded to the lowest bid meeting the post-
selection criteria set out in the Project Execution Manual. The Manual should also describe the
various stages of the procedure and should include sample contracts for studies, works, works
supervision, and prefabrication of paving stones for the project.
Implementation Schedule
The implementation period for this component is only three years. The agency will have to execute
this component faster in order to keep its operating expenses at an acceptable level. During the
Technical Mission, the agency fee has been set up at a maximum of 10 percent of the cost of the
works covered by this component for its contracting services.



Project Appraisal Document                                               Annex 2
Djibouti - Social Development and Public Works Project                Page 3 of 10
COMPONENT 2: SUPPORT TO COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT (US$ 2.6 million
equivalent)
Objectives
As a complement to Component 1, the objectives of this component are to:
(i) increase community participation in project implementation; and
(ii) provide selected social services for poor communities.
Description
This Component comprises:
(i) the definition and implementation of a social mobilization program; and
(ii) the financing of community-subprojects.
Part A: Social Mobilization
The main objectives of the social mobilization program are to:
(i) Promote ADETP activities in target neighborhoods, including the types of eligible
subprojects to be financed underthis component (see Part B below); and
(ii) Build capacity in target neighborhood to prepare Community Development Plans.
Community Development Plans (Plans de developpement de quartiers) will be defined by
communities themselves meeting in neighborhood committees, recognizable entities with legal
status (composition and functioning of these committees will be specified by the Institutional Social
Assessment). These Plans will take the form of summaries of priority investments for the
community, including the measures the communities propose to take to ensure future routine
maintenance of the facilities and infrastructure financed. Community proposals for the
maintenance and sustainable operation of works executed would be eligible for financing under
Component 2 (see (i) below).
Part B: Community-based Subprojects
This sub-component would finance subprojects not exceeding US$ 50,000 equivalent (amount
subject to change in agreement with IDA) in the categories described below. In the early stage of
the Project, the list of eligible subprojects would be limited to facilitate implementation. ADETIP,
in agreement with the Government and IDA, may progressively add subprojects on this list during
the life of the project.
(i) Subprojects involving the types of social and economic infrastructure defined under
Component 1, Section 2, such as construction/rehabilitation/improvement of community
facilities in target neighborhoods: schools, primary health care centers, sports- grounds,
youth centers, youth and association meeting rooms, community latrines and intermediate
trash transfer stations.
(ii) Subprojects that will contribute to the feasibility of investments proposed in Community
Development Plans. This could take the form, for example, of limited technical assistance to -
organize communities for infrastructure maintenance, to define maintenance packages by
type of infrastructure, etc.



Project Appraisal Document                                               Annex 2
Djibouti - Social Development and Public Works Project                Page 4 of 10
(iii) Subprojects, including IEC campaigns directed mainly at women and young people,
which are likely to have a positive development impact on target neighborhoods, especially
in respect of social services in the areas of health, water and sanitation, and environmental
protection
Individual communities, through their neighborhood committees, will decide their own project
funding priorities. Once they have done so, they will approach NGOs and local associations to
assist them with all aspects of the subproject cycle, including the preparation of funding proposals.
The idea underlying this process is that NGOs and local associations will seek ways to build up the
capacity of communities to execute projects.
Implementation
A Social and Institutional Assessment (SIA), financed by a Danish Trust Fund, will be carried out
prior to project effectiveness to further guide the design of this Component. The findings of the
SIA would be incorporated in the Implementation Manual. Prior to embarking on full-scale
implementation, a pilot would be carried out to test the effectiveness and appropriateness of the
approach. Obstacles and/or weaknesses identified which may potentially affect the quality of
project implementation and scope of community participation would be subsequently addressed.
The design of the mobilization program would be adjusted, where necessary, to reflect lessons
leamed from the pilot phase. This phase would also serve as a vehicle for better assessing the
capacity of local associations and NGOs to work with communities and how communities respond
to such assistance. It will provide the necessary information for the design of the training program
for local associations. With the exception of financing the pilot phase, estimated at US$ 60,000
equivalent, disbursements in support of full-scale implementation will be contingent on the
satisfactory completion of the pilot phase, including the revision of the operational manual to reflect
lessons leamed, where necessary.
Successful implementation of this Component will depend on a partnership between ADETIP and
the beneficiary communities. ADETIP's role will be restricted to verification of subproject
eligibility and funding of subproject proposals; it will not extend to execution of subprojects.
Within ADETIP, however, a Community Development Unit will be created and given oversight
responsibilities for the management and coordination of activities financed under this Component.
A Unit Chief has been recruited, and additional staff will be hired subsequently, as the extent of
Unit activities increases.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                   Annex 2
Djibouti - Social Development and Public Works Project                                                  Page 5 of 10
Implementation Schedule
Activity                Pre-Project          Yr. 1           Yr. 2            Yr.3              Yr. 4             Total
L.  Social and Ihstitutional            [ . I
Assessment
II   Social M obilization                           [................   ............  ............... ...............
Im Preparation of Community                                           ............    ...............   ..................
Development Plans
IV  Subproject Inplementation
Sub-component 2:
(a) Infrastructure Subprojects;                        2 (pilot)           7               12                 5                26
(b) Social services                                    4 (pilot)           17              30                14                65
Subprojects;
6               24              42                19                91
TOTAL                              ______



ProjectAppraisal Document                                                                  Annex 2
Djibouti - Social Development and Public Works Project                                Page 6 of lO
Figure 1: IDENTIFICATION AND SUBMISSION OF ANNUAL PROGRAM OF SUBPROJECTS
No-objection to annal program
~~~  .  ..     ........and mid-year review
(avoid double funding)
.............- verifies relevance of annual program
- prepares and submits report presenting
program
- prepares and submits mid-year progress
reports
(monitors ADETIP performance)
s...................... - submits qterly reports, half-yearly technical
audits, and annual financial auchts
- verifies relevance of annual program and
_____________         submits itto Intemninisterial Committee.
- selects eligible
subprojects
- prepares annual..
| prepares annual . ..................~........ ..... ;..................... |Cnrc 
programs
Propo  subprojects 
Eligible                                                                              for Community   of
applicants                 ~
Note: CDP: Community Development Plan



ProjectAppraisal Document                                                Annex 2
Djibouti - Social Development and Public Works Project                Page 7 ofJO
COMPONENT 3: INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING (US$ 3.2 million equivalent)
Objective
The objective of this Component is to build institutional capacity to identify, monitor and manage
poverty-oriented activities. It will include the following sub-components:
Part A: Poverty Monitoring and Analysis.
Part B: Project Management and Implementation
Description
PartA: PovertyMonitoringandAnalysis
Objective: This sub-component aims to support Djibouti in collecting, analyzing and using
household data for designing and evaluating policy and programs for poverty reduction, including
the activities carried out under the project (Components I and 2). Specifically, it will:
(i) Support the implementation of a household survey (Enquete djiboutienne aupres des
menages - Budget Consommation, EDAM-BC) in Djibouti urban areas settled in the cities of
Djibouti-City, Ali-Sabieh, Tadjourah, Dikhil, and Obock. The completion of a survey will
allow the Government of Djibouti to:
* monitor the economic and social indicators collected during the EDAM-96;
*  update the poverty profile;
*   analyze the determinants of poverty in Djibouti;
*  improve the household accounts in the National Accounts;
(ii) Support the design and updating of a poverty map of Djibouti-City. This map will be used
as a basis for ranking priority areas and selecting subprojects in these areas.
(iii)    Assess the poverty impact of the proposed project in target areas.
Description. Under this sub-component, the project will finance a household survey (through
consulting services and equipment), and will provide training to the National Bureau of Statistics
(DINAS) staff. With implementation of the first survey (EDAM), DINAS built up some capacity to
conduct surveys; nevertheless its staffing situation leaves much to be desired, and it has lost some
of its personnel. For the next survey, therefore, DINAS needs strong support in the form of
technical assistance and training in: survey design, sampling, data collection, data processing and
analysis. A DINAS manager has been given responsibility for preparing, conducting, and
supervising the household survey and for the development and updating of a poverty map of
Djibouti City. ADETIP will be in charge of evaluating the social impacts of the project in target
neighborhoods on the basis of beneficiary assessments and other surveys.
Implementation. This sub-component will be mostly implemented by DINAS. Survey operations
will be supervised and managed by DINAS through a unit of 3 persons that needs to be will be
established. Procurement and disbursement will be under the responsibility of ADETIP.
Survey Methodology. The survey will collect data on expenditures, incomes, employment, housing,
education, health, nutrition, etc. The final list of variables of the questionnaire will be approved by
the Committee for poverty reduction. Daily and retrospective questionnaires and expenditure diary
will be used. The sample (1400 households) will be drawn from the data of the Population Census
soon to be completed. If the population census is not conducted, an updating of the sample frame



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Annex 2
Djibouti - Social Development and Public Works Project                        Page 8 of 10
has to be carried out, with an impact on the budget and on the expected lower reliability of the
results. The survey will last 4 to 5 months in the field.
Survey Implementation Schedul
Appointment of a manager for the DINAS unit responsible for the survey;  1 month
finalization of survey methodology; procurement of equipment.
Design of draft questionnaires and survey manuals                        1 month
Definition of the sample plan: sample frame, sample size, and sample drawing;  1 month
this could include some cartographic operations, depending on the results of
the population census.
Pilot test of the various questionnaires and related modification of    2 months
questionnaires and manual; approval of questionnaires by Data User
Committee.
Printing of survey material: final questionnaires, training manuals.     2 weeks
Organization of data collection: transportation, equipment, management,  2 weeks
publicity.
Recruitment, training and selection of survey personnel including enumerators,  5 weeks
data processing personnel and supervisors.
Production of data entry and data editing programs; tests.               6 weeks
Data collection operations and questionnaire archiving (December 1999 to  5 months
April 2000).
Data processing operations including data entry, data editing and creation of  4 months
new variables.
Production of the Survey Data Analysis Package (SDAP), and dissemination.  2 weeks
Production of a poverty profile, discussions, workshop and dissemination.  6 weeks
Production of a poverty issues paper covering poverty trends, reviewing  1 month
policies and programs, and giving some recommendations for a poverty
reduction strategy.
6 The other activities for this sub-component will be implemented on a regular basis during the life of the -
project.



Project Appraisal Document                                                Annex 2
Djibouti - Social Development and Public Works Project                Page 9 of 10
Part R Project Management and Implementation
Objective. This sub-component is aiming at building local capacity for preparing and
implementing poverty reduction activities at the following levels: (a) governmental entities to
adequately incorporate poverty-oriented sub-project in their planning, programming and
budgeting activities; (b) local NGOs to mobilize target population and carry-out subprojects in
poor neighborhoods (for component 2 of the project); (c) local enterprises to implement
subprojects; and (d) ADETIP to implement the proposed project in a transparent and accountable
manner. It includes:
(i)  Planning of poverty alleviation measures:
*   Training sessions of some local NGOs at doing advocacy planning on behalf of the
communities, assisting them in contributing to Community Development Plans and
in becoming capable intermediaries between communities and decision-makers (line
ministries and ADETIP) on priority activities; this activity will complement a
UNDP Association Training Program, which aims to train 20 associations in the
country, over the next 3 years. A draft NGO study has already identified some of
the existing associations which have this potential.
*   Among the line ministries involved as owners of infrastructures assets (maitres
d 'ouvrages), an effort to build up their capacity to incorporate these projects and
subprojects in their planning, programming and budgeting activities will be
strengthened through information and training sessions of key civil servants.
Training sessions will include procurement for small and labor-intensive civil
works.
(ii)  Training program for local private local SMEs in the construction sector (construction and
engineering firms) and for intermediary NGOs to implement subprojects; this will include:
*   On the site assistance and training to local contractors (construction and engineering
local firms) involved in project civil works; and
*   Training sessions of local small enterprises in the construction sector on small
enterprise management (human resource and financial aspects mainly.
*   NGOs subprojects management capacity will be enhanced through training courses
on contract management and procurement for a limited number of local showing the
ability to implement smaller subprojects included in component 2 of the proposed
project.
(iii) Project Management, which will include the required technical assistance, training, studies
and equipment required for strengthening ADETIP at managing the project and possibly other
poverty reduction projects that would be later on financed by other donors or by Government
resources. ADETIP management capacity will be strengthened through:
*   The design and upgrading of an integrated management system (IMS) integrated to
the Agency's accounting system, able to keep track of the use of projects funds by
sub-project with a clear distinction between those allocated to contract/management
and those allocated to contracted-out activities;



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Annex 2
Djibouti - Social Development and Public Works Project                   Page 10 of 10
*    Technical audits on compliance by ADETIP with procurement as specified in the
Credit agreement, quality of works supervision by engineering firms and quality and
cost/effectiveness of civil works included in the project;
*    Financial audits on ADETIP accounts as an association (all activities included) and
ADETIP as the'implementation agency for the proposed project;
Implementation. Contracts required to implement these activities will be procured through
ADETIP. NGO training will be under the responsibility of the ADETIP unit specializing in
community development; Part (ii) will be executed through short-term technical assistance for on-
site training activities (encadrement des entreprises), and through trainiing sessions designed and
executed by local entities. Organization of these sessions will be contracted out to local training
institutions with appropriate professional experience. Private enterprises will have to contribute
financially to their training; interest of potential beneficiaries will be raised by publishing
information on potential training opporhtmities in the local newspapers.



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Annex 3
Djibouti - Social Development and Public Works Project                   Page I of 1
ANNEX 3
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
US $ million ------ % of Total
Project Component                                Local  Foreign    Total   Base Cost
1. Social and Economic Infrastructure             8.80      0.38     9.18      59%
2. Supportto Community Development                2.41      0.04     2.45      16%
3. Institutional Capacity Building
(a) Poverty Monitoring and Analysis               0.41      0.09     0.50       3%
(b) Project Management and Implementation         2.33      0.29     2.62      17%
4. Reimbursement of PPF Advance                   0.35      0.36     0.71       5%
TOTAL BASE COST:    14.30           1.16    15.46     100%
Physical Contingencies:   0.88      0.04    0.92       6%
Price Contingencies:   0.84      0.06     0.90      6%
TOTAL PROJECT COST:    16.02            1.26    17.28      112%



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Annex 4
Djibouti - Social Development and Public Works Project                  Page I of 1
ANNEX 4
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
This schedule summarizes the methodology that will be used to undertake the economic analysis of
subprojects to be financed by ADETIP.
Essentially two types of factors will determine the type of the analysis applied: the type of the
subproject and its size.
For those subprojects whose benefits are measurable in monetary terms and whose output has a
market price that is relatively easy to assess, a cost-benefit analysis will be applied. These
subprojects will consist mainly of include revenue-earning subprojects such as roads and side
drains integrated in the core transport infrastructure network of Djibouti-city, markets, etc. In
such cases, the standard "with" and "without" project comparisons will be used to measure the
incremental economic benefits arising from the subproject. A minimum economic or financial
rate of return of 15% wiUl be required.
Because of the low level of public resources and the need to increase these resources to better
cover urban investments requirements, revenue-earning subprojects will represent about 50
percent of aU subprojects financed under Component 1.
For non-revenue-eaming subprojects (including social infrastructure, and social services) an ERR
will not be calculated. These subprojects, however, will be subject to cost-effectiveness analysis.
The cost-effectiveness selection criteria would consider two key variables reflecting the project's
development objectives of labor creation and provision of needed infirastucture. These variable
are: (a) the investment cost per work-month created: and (b) community participation. These
criteria would be considered in conjunction with other relevant selection criteria. Scoring for
these two principal cost-effectiveness criteria permit more maximum points that for the use of
other criteria, thus helping to ensure that these subprojects are given more priority
While the above analysis is unquestionably useful, it entails the gathering and analysis of a
significant quantity of data. Therefore, for subprojects costing less than US$ 200.000 a more
simplified cost-benefit analysis or cost-effectiveness analysis will be used.
There is no methodology to calculate economic rates of return on architectural heritage
subprojects because the benefits of maintaining a cultural heritage are mostly sociological and
historical and cannot easily be quantified. However, the public buildings included in Djibouti
architectural heritage are located in the center of Djibouti-city, a part of the city which needs to be
urgently rehabilitated according to the 1998 Government City Development Plan.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Annex 5
Djibouti - Social Development and Public Works Project                                          Page I of I
ANNEX 5
SOCLAL DEVELOPMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Period FY 2000-2004
(in US$ '000)
Project Costs          FY       FY       FT       FY       TOTAL       FY      FT       FT       FY
2000    2001      2002    2003                 2004    2005    2006    2007
investment Costs         1535    4052      7198    2866        15651
Recurrent Costs           156      408      751      316        1631
Total                    1691     4460     7949    3182        17282           _
978     978      978      978
Operations and
Maintenance of
completed subprojects7
Financing Sources (%o of totalproject cost)
IDA                      890%     85%      85%       85%                             -        -
Government               11%      13%      13%      13%                  50%      50%/    50%      50o
Local Community              -     2% J    2%         2%    ___          10%    10ff    10%0    10%
User Fees/Beneficiaries   ___ X  __ X =          __40_0    40% _                          40%      40%'
Total                   1 00%    100%j  100%       1 00%/o             100%    100%    100%    100%
7 Assumes average operation and maitenance costs of 10% per year.



ProjectAppraisal Document                                                 Annex 6
Djibouti -Social Development and Public Works Project                 Page 1 of 11
ANNEX 6
DJIBOUTI: SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
General
1.   IDA-financed goods and works will be procured in accordance with the IDA Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD and IDA Credits (January 1995; revised in January and August
1996, September 1997, and January 1999). IDA-financed consultant services will be procured in
accordance with the IDA Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers (January 1997; revised in September 1997 and January 1999). The Government
and IDA have agreed on simplified procedures for small-scale works, and these are described in
the Project hnplementation Manual and the Project Agreement. The project executing agency
(ADETIP) will be responsible for all procurement activities. It is currently responsible for
implementing the Pilot Phase, and will be strengthened so that it will be able to manage
procurement arrangements. It will operate in accordance with a Project Implementation Manual,
which must be satisfactory on all points, and adoption of which will be a precondition for the
Credit's effectiveness. At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that the
following procurement arrangements will be applied throughout project implementation. In
addition, a General Procurement Notice (GPN) is to be forwarded to IDA for publication in the
United Nations' journal Development Business, so as to advertise major consulting assignments
and international competitive bidding for works and goods. Similarly, publication of a General
Procurement Notice will also be required for NCB, with advertisements in the national press.
Such Notices are to be updated every year until all contracts and assignments have been awarded.
Procurement methods and prior review arrangements are described below, and summarized in
Tables A and B of this Annex.
A.   Procurement Methods
2.   Civil Works. Civil works under the Social and Economic Infrastructure Component will
consist of the rehabilitation or construction of infrastructure works, such as access and transit
roads, drainage, and small-scale community infrastructure works (e.g. classrooms, dispensaries,
social meeting rooms, footpaths, and public fountains), all of which are to be based on labor-
intensive methods and community participation. Except for two or three contracts costing more
than US$500,000 each, and which will be procured through ICB, most works, including
rehabilitation of the DINAS office, will be executed on the basis of contracts costing less than
US$ 500,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$7.56 million. These contracts will be awarded
using NCB procedures acceptable to IDA and described in the Project Implementation Manual.
The bidding process will be open, and standard bidding documents, together with post-
qualification criteria, will form an integral part of the Project Implementation Manual.
3.   Small Works. Small works costing less than US$50,000 will be carried out under lump-
sum contracts awarded on the basis of a comparison of three quotations obtained from eligible
contractors that meet the qualification criteria for such works specified in the Project
Implementation Manual. The list of qualified contractors will be drawn up at regular intervals



Project Appraisal Document                                                Annex 6
Djibouti - Social Development and Public Works Project                 Page 2 of 11
(i.e. every six months), following publication of an advertisement in the national press indicating
the items that it is planned to include in the program over the upcoming twelve months. This type
of small-works procurement provides an effective, economical, and transparent method of
awarding contracts for amounts which the domestic regulations would recognize as eligible for
negotiated contracts, after a comparison of quotations from enterprises that had not been selected
according to any special provisions. This method of procurement will be applied to works
contracts for amounts of less than US$50,000 under Component 1, up to an aggregate amount of
US$1.75 million, and for works contracts for amounts of less than US$50,000 under Component
2, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.41 million.
4.   Prior review arrangements for works. Works contracts for amounts exceeding the
equivalent of US$50,000 will be subject to prior review by IDA. This threshold is based on
IDA's assessment at the time of negotiations, and will be revised, if necessary, at the midterm
review.
5.   Goods. Procurement of goods, vehicles, and equipment under small-scale contracts for
amounts not exceeding US$100,000 each, and up to an aggregate amount of US$100,000, will be
effected in accordance with NCB procedures acceptable to IDA. Small items of office
equipment, supplies, and furniture, and certain small items of equipment necessary for both
community activities and poverty-monitoring activities and costing up to US$30,000 per contract
and up to an aggregate of US$200,00 will be procured on the basis of a comparison of three
quotations from suppliers who satisfy both qualification and source criteria, and in accordance
with the Project Implementation Manual. No contract will be awarded for an amount exceeding
US$100,000. Any contract exceeding this amount will be subject to 1CB.
6.   Prior review arrangements for goods. Goods contracts for amounts exceeding the
equivalent of US$100,000 will be subject to prior review by IDA.
7.   Post review, together with financial audits and procurement reviews, will be applied to at
least one out of every three contracts not subject to prior review by IDA. In addition, ADETIP
will hire independent firns once a year, or more often if necessary, to carry out technical audits
of labor-intensive works. These technical audits will include reviews of procurement activities.
In addition, the first five contracts will be subject to prior review by IDA, regardless of amount.
ADETIP will provide IDA supervision missions with all documentation relating to a sample of
subprojects selected by the IDA team during the missions. ADETIP will also provide the
appraisal reports on all subprojects for amounts exceeding US$100,000.
8.   Commercial practices to be applied by communities. Local communities acting as
clients for works will receive financial assistance in the form of grants. These communities will
apply the procedures prescribed for small-scale works in paragraph 3 above, except as these refer
to the maintenance of an updated register of prequalified enterprises. The financial agreement
between ADETIP and the executing agencies will specify the procurement arrangements to be
applied to each of the subproj ects financed under Component 2, and these are to comply with the
guidelines contained in the Project Implementation Manual. In order to promote ownership on
the part of communities, and the sustainability of subproject activities, the Project will encourage
those communities with sufficient capacity to implement their subprojects themselves. In such
cases, either NGOs and/or local associations or implementing agencies will carry out the works,
subcontracting directly with the communities and purchasing goods and materials in accordance
with their financial agreements.



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Annex 6
Djibouti - Social Development and Public Works Project                    Page 3 of 11
9.   Consultant services and training Consultants' contracts will be awarded in accordance
with the World Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers (Washington, D.C., January 1999). The Project Implementation Manual will
provide operational guidance on the application of these procedures. ADETIP will contract
consultants to provide technical assistance and capacity-building services.
(a)    Hiring of firms. Bank guidelines will be followed for hiring consulting firms
when these are necessary for providing certain services (such as studies, technical
assistance, supervision of works, community activities, and training) that relate to the
three project components. Most of these services will be provided on the basis of
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS). Exceptions will be as follows: Sole-source
procurement may be used, subject toIDA's special approval, for contracts in amounts of
less than US$5,000 and for specialized statistical surveys for which the estimated cost per
contract does not exceed US$100,000 and the aggregate amount does not exceed
US$300,000. In the case of contracts involving amounts up to the equivalent of
US$50,000 and awarded on the basis of consultants qualifications, the shortlist may
consist entirely of domestic consultants, provided that there are at least three highly
qualified local firms.
(b)    Hiring of individual consultants. In cases not requiring the services of a firm,
individuals may be hired. The resumes of such individuals will be compared, and
successful candidates will be hired on the basis of their qualifications and experience, in
accordance with Bank guidelines.
(c)    Prior review arrangements The Terms of Reference for all consultants,
whether firms or individuals, are subject to prior review. All documents relating to
individual consulting contracts involving amounts exceeding US$30,000 and awarded to
firms selected on the basis of shortlists, all contracts awarded as a result of sole-source
selection, and all training contracts (regardless of amount) will be subject to prior review
by IDA. Technical evaluation reports for all contracts for amounts,exceeding US$30,000
will require IDA's "no-objection" before the financial bids are opened. All other
contracts will be subject to post review by the Bank's supervision missions and during
technical audits. All contracts awarded to individuals and entailing amounts exceeding
US$10,000 per contract, together with the contracts issued to ADETIP's high-level staff
(regardless of amount), are subject to prior review by IDA. Contracts with individual
consultants for amounts of US$10,000 or less per contract are subject to post review.
B.   Procurement plan, and reporting
10.  Before the project is implemented, a procurement plan will be prepared covering the first
year of the entire operation. This will be submitted to IDA for review. The progress reports
forwarded to IDA will report on procurement activities in an appropriate degree of detail.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Annex 6
Djibouti - Social Development and Public Works Project                 Page 4 of 11
TABLE A: Project Costs, by Method of Procurement
(in millions of US$ equivalent)
(Project costs below include tcaes)
MTtt~t .... .
ME 1..ON                 ,                 .
Expenditure Category    ICB       NCB      Other      NIF    (including contingencies)
I Civil Works            1.44      7.56      1.78                      10.78
(1.17)    (6.15)    (1.46)                    (8.78)
2. Goods, Equipment,                0.10     0.20                       0.30
Vehicles, & Materials              (0.08)    (0.15)                    (0.23)
3. Consultant Services
(a) Technical                              0.62     0.04             0.66
Assistance                                (0.62)                     (0.62)
(b) Studies                               0.50                     0.42 [sic]
(0.50)                  (0.42) [sic]
(c) Training                               0.21                      0.21
(0.21)                    (0.21)
4. Community                                 2         0.25             2.48
Subprojects                                 (2.23)                     (2.23)
5. Operating Costs
(a) Other Operating Costs                    0.06      0.08             0.14
(0.04)                    (0.06)
(b) ADETIP Management                        1.50                       1.50
Fee                                         (1.50)                     (1.50)
6. Repayment of PPF                          0.71                       0.71
advance                                     (0.71)                     (0.71)
TOTAL    1.44      7.66      7.81      0.37            17.28
of which IDA   (1.17)   (6.23)    (7.42)    (-)            (14.80)
Note: Due to the rounding offigures, there may be slight differences in totals.
8 Of the total amount of US$2.23 million, approximately US$1.41 will be used for carrying out small
works.



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Annex 6
Djibouti - Social Development and Public Works Project                   Page S of 11
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Revie*
1. CiviI Works    Contracts       Contracts        Contracts less than  Contracts equal to or
exceeding      exceeding         US$50,000         exceeding
US$500,000     US$50,000 but                       US$50,000, for an
less than                          aggregate amount of
US$500,000                         US$ 9.0 million
2. Goods          Contracts       Contracts        Contracts less than  Contracts equal to or
exceeding      exceeding         US$30,000         exceeding US$100,000,
US$100,000     US$30,000 but                       for an aggregate amount
less than                          of US$100,000
US$100,000
3. Consultant     N/A             N/A              Quality- and Cost-  Contracts equal to or
Services: Firms                                    Based Selection    exceeding US$30,000
(QCBS) (aggregate and US$10,000, for
amount:           finns and individuals
US$600,000        respectively. All
equivalent)       contracts (i) for ADETIP
high-level staff, any sole
source consultancies,
and training, regardless
of amount.
Selection based on  Prior review for
qualifications of    contracts exceeding
consultants or    US$30,000.
NGOs for contracts
less than
US$50,000
Sole-source       Systematic prior review
contracting for the  by IDA.
statistical survey
and contracts less
than US$5,000,
contingent on prior
agreement with
IDA.
4. Consultant     N/A             N/A              Comparison of      Contracts exceeding
Services:                                          three resumes      US$10,000.
Individuals
9 These thresholds are based on IDA's assessment of ADETIP capacity at the time of negotiations. If
necessary, they will be revised during the midterm review, in light of the Agency's capacity for managing
procurement.



Project Appraisal Document                                               Annex 6
Djibouti - Social Development and Public Works Project               Page 6 of ll
F~
5. Training      N/A            N/A              All (aggregate)
amount of
US$210,000
_________ ____                               equivalent)_
6. Operating Costs N/A          N/A              All (aggregate
amount of US$1 156
nullion equivalent)
C. Disbursements, Accounts, and Audits
1.   Disbursements will be made in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the
Disbursement Handbook. The project is expected to be completed in four years, i.e. by June 30,
2003, and the Credit is expected to be closed by December 31, 2003. Table 6-C below shows the
proposed allocation of the IDA Credit. Given that the value and nature of community
contributions will vary from one subproject to another, it is not possible to predetermine what
percentage of te total cost of subprojects will be covered by disbursements. Consequently, IDA
will disburse the equivalent of 100% of the subproject expenditures presented by ADETIP; on
average, this will amount to about 90% of the total cost of subprojects.
All applications for withdrawals of proceeds from the Credit will be accompanied by full
supporting documnentation, except in cases of expenditures on goods not exceeding US$100,000,
works not exceeding US$30,000, consultant services provided by firms under contracts for
amnounts not exceeding US$30,000 equivalent, consultant services provided by individuals under
contracts for amounts not exceeding US$10,000, operating costs, and training, for all of which
reimbursement may be obtained against presentation of certified statements of expenditure
(SOEs). ADETIP will be responsible for preparing the withdrawal applications and SOEs to be
submitted to IDA, and will indicate on the SOEs the nature and sources of the goods and services
in question, together with the paymnent date. These statements will be retained, together with all
supporting documentation, for review by Bank supervision missions and independent auditors.



ProjectAppraisal Document                                                 Annex 6
Djibouti - Social Development and Public Works Project                 Page 7 of 11
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
1. Civil Works
(a) under Part C.1 of the Project       0.03          100% of foreign exchange
expenditures and 80% of local
(b) other than under Part C. 1 of       8.16           currency expenditures
the Project
2. Goods, Equipment, Vehicles
& Materials
a) under Part C.1 of the Project        0.06          100% of foreign exchange
expenditures and 75% of local
(b) other than under Part C. 1 of       0.15           currency expenditures
the Project
3. Consultant services and
training
a) under Part C.1 of the Project        0.25
100%
(b) other than under Part C. 1 of       1.40
the Project
4. Subproject grants under Part
B.2 of the Project                      2.00         100% of amounts disbursed
5. Operating Costs
(a) under Part C.1 of the Project       0.04                   65%
(b) other than under Part C. 1 of       1.50                  100%
the Project
6. Refunding of Project                0.715          Amount due pursuant to
Preparation Advance                                  Section 2.02 (c) of the DCA
7. Unallocated                          0.5
Total                                  14.8.
Special Account To ensure that funds will be available when needed, Special Account (SA) in
US dollars has been established in Banque pour le Commerce et l'Industrie - Mer rouge under
conditions satisfactory to IDA. The authorized allocation under the IDA credit is $ 500,000. An
advance of US$ .25million will be withdrawn from the Credit account and deposited to the IDA
Special Account after effectiveness; the remainder will be withdrawn once a total of SDR
4,000,000 has been disbursed from the credit.. The amount has been estimated to cover about
four months of expenditures. ADETIP would have the right to draw directly from this account
for project expenditures without prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. The Special Account
would be replenished monthly, regardless of the amount of activity during the month, on the basis



Project Appraisal Document                                               Annex 6
Djibouti - Social Development and Public Works Project                Page 8 of 1]
of documentary evidence, provided to IDA by ADETIP, of payments made from the accounts for
goods, works and services required for the project that are eligible for financing under the Credit.
All supporting documents will be retained by ADETIP, and made available for review by
periodic Bank supervision missions and external auditors. Direct payment by IDA would only be
made for applications totaling at least 20% of the advance outstanding in the special account:
$50,000 when the advance is $ 250,000 and $100,000 when the full authorized allocation of $
500,000 is made.
Flow of Funds
The project design does not necessitate use of IDA's 90-day special account advance procedure,
however, it is envisaged that advances to LAs, NGOs and contractors will be made pursuant to
the terms of contracts and only after subproject approval.
Project Accounts
A Project Account has been opened to receive National counterpart funds to pay for expenditures
to be financed by Government and an another local account has also been opened in the name of
ADETIP for its operating fees and its own operating expenditures. The Government would make
an initial deposit of US$32,000 into the Project Account to cover the Government's initial
contribution to project expenditures. Evidence of the initial deposits is a condition of credit
effectiveness. Thereafter, the Government will deposit each semester an amount equal to the
amount of the initial deposits to replenish the project accounts to their initial level.



Project Appraisal Document                                               Annex 6
Djibouti - Social Development and Public Works Project               Page 9 of 11
Annex 6 (B) Financial Management
Introduction
ADETIP (the National Executing Agency: for Public Works) will establish a financial
management system, acceptable to IDA, which will provide the borrower and IDA with accurate
and up-to-date information regarding resources and expenditures. The financial-management
system will include components relating to accounting, financial reporting, and auditing.
Institutional Arrangements
ADETIP will be established as a separate nongovernmental agency, subject to the oversight of
MEFPP (the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning, with Responsibility for Privatization).
A financial-management firm will be hired to assist in designing and establishing ADETIP's
financial-management system. Under a framework agreement (convention-cadre), MEFPP will
delegate to ADETIP the management of project contracts, as well as financial management. The
Project Implementation Manual prepared by the financial-management fimn will define and
describe in detail the final configuration to be adopted for ADETIP's financial-management
system, the Agency's staffing profile and job descriptions, and the internal-control system to be
applied.
Accounts and Financial Reporting
ADETIP will maintain separate accounts for its own operations and for those of the subprojects it
finances. The Agency will also be responsible for producing annual financial statements for each
of the subprojects. A financial-management firm will help prepare a computerized accounting
and financial-management system based on generally accepted accounting principles agreed with
the Bank. The firm will also prepare an accounting manual to explain the system, including an
appropriate chart of accounts, the various cycles of transactions, the format, content and
periodicity of the various financial statements to be produced, budgetary procedures and
processes (preparation, monitoring, variance analysis, etc.), and intemal controls. The manual
must be acceptable to IDA. The firm will provide the accounting and financial-management staff
with initial training in the efficient operation of the computerized accounting system. It will also
prepare a program of financial-management training, together with a schedule for such activities,
which should extend throughout the project period. The version of the accounting software
selected will be in the French language. It will be Y2K compliant, and backed by the support
services of a reliable organization.
Prior to project effectiveness, a Bank-approved financial-management specialist will evaluate
ADETIP's financial-management system (as regards the staffing levels and skills of the
accounting and financial personnel, the appropriateness of the Manuals of Procedures, the
completeness of the accounting system, and the hiring of external auditors), the purpose being to
determine the system's soundness, and its capacity for providing IDA with accurate and up-to-
date information on project resources and expenditures. Satisfactory evaluation of the financial-
management system will be a precondition for Credit effectiveness



Project Appraisal Document                                                Annex 6
Djibouti - Social Development and Public Works Project                Page 10 of 11
Staffing
ADETIP will have a qualified staff consisting of experienced administrators, together with
accounting and financial personnel and support staff, all of whom will be recruited through
competitive and transparent processes, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the
Association. Arrangements will be made for training the accounting and financial staff.
Project Management Reports
The project, which was appraised in March 1999, must adopt financial management and reporting
systems that comply with the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI). Consequently, it
has been agreed that the financial-management system - in addition to providing for basic
financial statements - should be designed to generate other reports on which PMRs can be based.
Since the ADETIP financial-management system will be entirely new, and the capacity of the
accounting and financial staff will not yet have been tested, disbursements will be SOE-based for
the first two years of implementation. From the third year of the project, and throughout the
remainder of the implementation period, PMRs will be issued quarterly (disbursements being
LACI-based). For this to be achieved, IDA must carry out a comprehensive and detailed
assessment of the financial management of the project, so as to determine whether it will be
possible to produce PMRs at the end of the first year of implementation. A second assessment
will be carried out at the end of the third quarter of the second year, in order to determine whether
disbursements can be PMR-based. All documentation relating to procurement, contracts, and
invoices must be kept separately by ADETIP, and made available to supervision missions and
auditors.
Auditing
During negotiations, the Govenmment provided assurances that: (a) ADETIP and subproject
accounts will be audited in accordance with intemational standards on auditing by a recognized
and experienced international auditing firm acceptable to IDA; audit reports and related project
accounts will be forwarded to IDA within six months of the end of the financial year; (b) in
addition to their standard short-form reports with opinions, auditors will be required to: (i) carry
out comprehensive reviews of all SOEs, as well as the internal-control procedures used for their
preparation during the audit period, and provide separate opinions regarding these items; and (ii)
review the management and utilization of the Special Account, providing a separate opinion on
this item; (c) the auditors will complete the in-depth review of ADETIP's internal-control system
that they began during the interim period, with a view to identifying the major weaknesses and
shortcomings and making specific proposals for remedying them; the findings of this review will
be reported in a management letter that will be submitted with the audit reports; and (d) the
auditors will issue a report on the performance of ADETIP's management and the private-sector
small and medium-sized enterprises it has hired as subcontractors, and on the soundness of the
subcontracting procedures used for certain aspects of project implementation; this report will be
submitted within the six-month period following the end of the financial year.
The financial auditors will also carry out interim audits (nine months after the beginning of the
financial year), so as to evaluate the intemal-control system, including management performance.
They will present reports on these issues within a period of one month after completing their
work. The management team will act on the findings and recommendations of the interim reports
without delay, and prior to the final audit (normally, within three or four months after the end of



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Annex 6
Djibouti - Social Development and Public Works Project                   Page 11 of 11
ADETIP's financial year). Signature of a multiyear contract with a finn of auditors acceptable to
IDA, and certification by the financial auditors that ADETIP's accounting system is operational,
is a precondition for the Credit's effectiveness.



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Annex 7
Djibouti - Social Development and Public Works Project                    Page 1 of I
ANNEX 7
DJIBOUTI: SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                    .         d . ..,
US$272.54            US$ 169.8
B. Project Schedule                                 i    .....
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                               14.5
First Bank mission (identification)             June 18, 1997        June 18, 1997
Technical mission departure                  September 12, 1998    September 12, 1998
Appraisal/Negotiations                       September 15, 1998     March 29, 1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   July 31, 1999
Prepared by: UCSALP, the Poverty Unit of the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning, with
Responsibility for Privatization and ADETIP.
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant in the amount of $500,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                       Title
Nadine Poupart                           Task Team Leader
Patrick Canel                     Sr. Municipal Finance Specialist
Marilou Bradley                          Operations Analyst
Antoine Simonpietri                          Sr. Statistician
Olivier Dupriez                        Consultant, Statistician
Paul Geli                       Consultant, Social Fund Specialist
Alexandre Marc              Sr. Human Resource Specialist andPeer Reviewer
Steen Jorgensen                   Sector Manager and Peer Reviewer
Amaud-Marie Guinard                 Sr. Urban Specialist and Peer Reviewer
Bertrand Ah-Sue                       Sr. Procurement Specialist
Bernard Abeille                    Principal Procurement Specialist
Siaka Bakayoko                            Financial Analyst
Philippe Beuzelin                    Consultant, Financial Analyst
David Freese                           Disbursement Officer
Minneh Kane                                Sr. Counsel
Nellie Sew Kwan Kan                        Task Team Assistant



Project Appraisal Document                                               Annex 8
Djibouti -Social Development and Public Works Project                  Page I of 1
ANNEX 8
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Implementation Manual:
- component 1 (Social andEconomic Infrastructure), UCSALP, May 1998.
- component 2 (community activities), World Bank, March 1998.
- sub-component 3.1 (poverty monitoring and analysis).
Legal Documents Statutes for ADETIP (Statutes, draft by-laws, "Convention Ganerale ",
and "Convention Particulire"), UCSALP, April 1998.
Poverty map of Djibouti-city, DINAS, March 1999
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Djibouti - Crossroads of the Horn of Africa - Poverty Assessment. World Bank. Report
No. 16543-DJI. October 7, 1997.
Participatory Study of Poverty in Djibouti, the World Bank, December 1996.
Djibouti - Country Strategy Note. World Bank, 1991.
C. Other
Study of the construction sector, menu of subprojectsfor Social and Economic
Infrastructure, and training program for entrepreneurs and engineeringfirms, UCSALP,
May 1998.
Community Participation: The Djibouti Experience. A Diagnostic of the Situation -
Analysis andRecommendations. UCSALP, September 1998.
Study on NGOs, UCSALP, November 1998.
Rapport sur la situation du systeme stafistique de Djibouti, DINAS, Janvier 1997.
Schema directeur de la statistique. Banque africaine de developpement. Juillet-aofit 1997.
Projet de Loi portant sur la d6centralisation, document provisoire, Republique de Djibouti
Social Fundfor Development Project - Djibouti, Staff Appraisal Report, Africain Development
Fund, January 1998.
Comite national de suivi et de coordination des reformes. Gouvernement de Djibouti. Septembre
1997.
Rapport national sur le d6veloppement social. Ministere du Plan, de I 'Amenagement du territoire,
de l 'Environnement et de la Cooperation. Mars 1995.
Table ronde, Republique de Djibouti, 3 Novembre 1996.
Contribution a la preparation du document-cadre de politique &onomique. Gouvernement de
Djibouti. Novembre 1997.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                                                           Annex 9
Djibouti - Social Development and Public Works Project                                                                                                                                           Page I of I
ANNEX 9
DJIBOUTI: SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Djibouti
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
Active Projects                                                                                              Original Amount in US$ Millions                        expected                      Last PSR
and actual               Supervision Rating
disbursements a/                       b/
Number orClosed Projects: 8
Project ID     Loan or      Flscal         Borrower                   Purpose                        IBRD              IDA        Cancel        Undlsb.        Orig          Frm Rev'd         Dev Obj    Imp  rog
Credit No     Year
DJ-PE-44174      Cr. 2203      1997    GOVERNMENT            TECH.ASSIST                                0.00             6.50          0.00           4.67             4.12             0.00        U             U
DJ-PE-56419      Cr. 2934      1999    GOVERNMENT            EX-COMBATANTS REINTE                       0.00             2.70          0.00          2.71              0.00             0.00
Total                                .I_                    j                                           0.00             9.20          0.00          7.38              4.12             0.00
Active Projects           Closed Projects              Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                     1.59                45.68                         47.27
of which has been repaid:                        0.00                 1.69                          1.69
Total now held by EIRD and IDA:                     9.20                39.60                         48.80
Amount sold          :                              0.00                 0.00                          0.00
Of which repaid     :                             0.00                  0.00                          0.00
Total Undisbursed    :                              7.38                 0.00                          7.39
a.  Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b.  Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS =highly Satisfactory, S =satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements
in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first weekc of the month.



ANNEX 10
Page  1 of  2
Djibouti at a glance                                                             10I1t98
Sub-   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan   middle-
Djilbouti    Africa   Income     Development dlamondr
1997
Population, mid-year (fVllons)                      0.64       614     2,285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas n7ethod, USS)                             o 500   1,230
GNP (At8as nethod, USS bilions)                       ..       309     2,818
Average annual growth, 199147
Population (X)                                       3.0        2.7       1.2     GNP
Labor force I%)                                       ..       2.6        1.3          P                         Gross
per                           pmr
Most recent esffmate (latest year avaiabie, 199147)                               capita            V         enrollment
Poverty (% of populaton below natonal poverty lne)    45
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)                83        32        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      50        52        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 Ive births)             106         90        36
Child malnutrition (% ofchilden under5)               23         ..        ..              Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% ofpopulatfon)                 24        44        84
Illiteracy (% of populabFon age 15+)                 54         43        19
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  38        75       111              Ojiboufl
Male                                               44         82       116              Lower-middl-incorne group
Female                                             33         67       113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986       1996      1997
Economic rattos,
GOP (US$ billions)                           ..    0.37       0.49       0.50
Gross domestic investmentGOP                  ..      ..        9.2      9.5
Exports of goods and services/GDP            ..       ..      41.3      41.3                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   ..       ..       -7.7      -8.2
Gross national savingslGDP                    ..      ..      -0.5       -0.5
Current account balancetGOP                   ..       .       -6.1      -6t4 .m/ic                           n
Interest payments/GDP                        ..      0.8       0.6       0.6       aings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                ..    34.2      49.7      48.6
Total debt serviceiexports                   ..       ..        4.9       6.9
Present value of debtUGOP                     ..      ..      28.2
Present value of debtexports                 ..       ..      61.2
Indebtedness
197646  198747      1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                         -3.1    -5.1        0.5                  *    DJiboutf
GNP per capita                      ..       ..       ..         ..        .         -Lower-rni-income group
Exports of goods and services       ..       ..       .._.._..
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986       1996      1997      Growthratesofoutputandinvestment(%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                  ..       ..        3.6       3.6     2
Industry                                     ..       ..      20.4      20.5      o
Manufacturng                                ..       ..       5.7       5.7    -2.      7    3   a4   95  se  57
Services                                      ..      ..      76.1      75.8                                    /
Private consumption                          ..       ..      74.2       78.3    <
General govemment consumption                                 33.5       27.9
Imports of goods and services                                 58.2      57.0                    G21        GDP
1976-86  198747      1996      1997
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  ..
Industry
Manufacturing                               ..
Sevices                                      ..
Private consumption                          ..
General govemment consumption                ..
Gross domestic investment                    ..
Imports of goods and services                ..
Gross national product                       ..
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country fin bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are mssing, the diamond MiU
be incomplete.



ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2
Djibouti
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986       1996      1997      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                ..    16.4        4.2      2.0     e
Implicit GDP deflator                         ,,       ..        4.1      2.6
Government finance                                                                2
(% of GOP, Includes curnnt grants)                       .                        o
Current revenue                               ..       ..       29.5     27.5            92   93   vS   95   Be   97
Current budgel balance                        ..       ..       -1.9     -3.8             -     GOP deflator     CPI
Overail surplusldeficit                       ..       ..       -5.8     -8.1
TRADE
1976    1986       1996      1997      Export and Import levels (US$ rmillIons)
(UJSS millIns)
Total exports (fob)                           .,       *-        40        43    300
Other food                                   ..
n.a.                                                                            2*
Manufactures                                 ..
Total imports (cio                            ..       ..       200       203
Food
Fuel and energy                              ..
Capital goods
9t  92  93  94  95  96  97
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..
Import pnce index (1995-100)                   ..      ..         ..       ..               aExports      Elmpors
Terms oftrade (1995=100)                      ..       .._.._..
BALANCE ot PAYMENTS
1976     1986      1996      1997      Current account balance to GOP ratio 1%
(USS millions)
Exports of goods and services                                   223       231
Imports of goods and services                  ..      ..       287       291
Resource balance                               ,.      ..       -64       4i0
*10..            i  
Net incomeor.                                                     -3                            i
Net current transfers                                  ..        38        32
Current account balance                                         -29       -32    *20
Financing items (net)                         ..       ..        31        20
Changes in net reserves                                           -1       12    *30 .
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS mgDions)         ..                157       145
Conversion rate (DEC, JocakVS$)            177.7    177.7      177.7    177.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(US$ rmWlions)                                                                     Composition of totial debt, 1997 (USS nilillons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          17      125       241       243
ISRO                                        0        0          0         0                     G: 11
IDA                                         0       11         46        46
Total debt service                             1        9        11        16
IBRD                                        0        0          0         0
IDA                                         0        0          1         1
Composition of net resource flovw
Ofticral grants                            12       51         42        50
Official credftors                           7      21          6         2
Private creditors                           0        -2         0         0
Foreign direct investment                   0         1         5         5
Portfolio equity                            0        0          a         0
Worid Bank program
Commitnents                                 0         0         0         7     A- IBRD                     E- Biateral
Disbursements                               0        4          1         3     3-IDA    D * Oter muteral   F - Private
Principal repayments                        0        0          0         0     C - IMF                     G - SShott-terrn
Nt flovas                                   0        4          1         3                                    .          _
Interest payments                           a        0          0         0
Ne transfers                                0        4          1         3
Development Economics                                                                                              10/11/98



-    -               ~~~~~~ANNEX 1 1
fX!?    £                   Page 1 of 5
REPUBLQUE DE DJIBOUTI
UnIt4. EVGIh6- POW
La MIN1STRe VZ VECONOM1K                                       iJUltI  Al :I j2
DES FiNANcCESET E LA PLANIFICATIOaN                m1              ,L  La1 624..
CHARGF DE LA PRIVAT1SATION
/MEFPP
Djibouti, la  t. 4-St
LElTRE DE POLITIOUE GENERALE
DE LUTTE CONTRE LA PAUVRETE
I - CONTEXTE SOCIO-ECONOMIQUE
1. Depuis bient6t trois ans, un nouvel environnement 6conomique se met en place, caract&isd
par des reformes structurelles globales de l'economie et le recentrage du r6le de 1'6tat vers
les fonctions de .contr6le, de planification et de r6gulation. Ces necessaires r6formes
creeront un environnement propice a une croissance perenne mais il est A craindre qu'elles
engendreront des difficultes suppl6mentaires pour les menages quand on sait que pres de
60 % des m6nages vivent en dessous du seuiI de pauvrete.
2. Toutefois, la pauprisation croissante de la populaton n'est pas seulement imputable A la
mauvaise conjoncture et aux restructurations economiques issues du Programme
d'Ajustement Structurel. La lenteur des progres renvoie i des facteurs d'ordre structurel
autant intemes (eco - systime particuli&ernent hostile, mauvaises gestions des ressources,
demographie galopante, conflit inteme de 1991-1994) qu'extemes (afflux chroniques des
refugies, fortes migrations clandestines suite aux conflits entre les pays limitrophes,
tarissement des apports extdrieurs, ...)
n - JUSTFCATION
3. L'examen des politiques engagees indique combien la lutte contre la pauvrete a toujours
constitu6 um objectif pour les pouvoirs publics. Cependant les efforts deployes n'ont pas
permis d'atteindre tous les resultats escomptes. A l'evidence, les actions engag6es ne
reposaient pas sur une demarche coherente. Ce constat confirme l'urgence d'un traitement
d'ensemble de la question de la pauvret6 qui depasse les interventions de circonstances.
Face a l' evolution alarmante du phenomene, le Gouvemement entend se doter des moyens
approprins permettant d'envisager raisonnablement une reduction significative de la
pauvret6.
m - OBJECTIPS
5. L'objet de la prAsente Lettre de politique generale de lutte contre la pauvrerd est donc de
temoigner de l'engagement du Gouvernement a faire du combat contre la pauvrete un
objectif majeur de sa strategie de developpement durable. Dans l'attente de la fmnaIisation-
du document - cadre de lutte contre la pauvrete en cours d' 1aboration, cette lettre vise A
indiquer les principaux 016ments de la strat6gie preconisee en vue de reduire, voire
d'elimincr la pauvrete a Djibouti.



ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 5
IV - STRATEGIE DE LUTTE CONTRE LA PAUVRETE
6. Les enseignements tires des politiques sociales ambiticuses, mais sans rvelle portee,
rendaient indispensable le reexamen des efforts d6ploy6s et de la problematique du
developpement humnain sous-jacente. De ce fait, la stratdgie pnvil4gice prend en compte les
echecs comme les experiences encourageantes au niveau local et intemational. De plus, il
faut considerer les resolutions et recomnmandations adoptees par la cornmunaute
intenadonale pour servir de referentiel au developpement humain durable et notamnment la
clause danommie 20/20 dont le but est de renforcer les secteurs sociaux prioritaires grace a
une meilleure affectation des ressources en faveur des d6penses de developpement
Concretement, les Gouvemements et les Bailleurs de Fonds devraient reserver
respectivement 20 % des investissements a la couverture des besoins sociaux de base.
7. La politique de d6veloppement humain durable nouvellement initiee se veut avant tout
pragnatique, c'est i dire r6aliste, ce qui marque une profonde rupture avec la pratique
6tablie du parer au plus pressd. Se fondant sur un horizon temporel distinguant le court et
moyen terme (le long tenne 6tant conditionne par les rdsultats des dch6ances pr6cedentes),
il s'agit de mettre en place:
* dans l'immddiat un filet de securite pour proteger les couches vulnerables durant le
processus d'Ajustement
' et par la suite un programme - cadre evolutif intdgrant la multidimensionnalitd des
actions de luKe contre la pauvretd.
8. L'exercice de d6finition de la strategie d'actions appropriee au contexte local est prevue
pour associer tous les acteurs du developpement, qu'il s'agisse de la population, de la
societe civile, du secteur prive et bien evidemment les pouvoirs publics et partenaires au
d6veloppement bilatmraux / multilateraux. Pour ce faire, les travaux de rdflexions entam6s
pour convenir des voies et moyens pour lutter efficacement contre la pauvrete retiennent
trois etapes inter - reliees pour leur complkmentarit6.
PREMIERE E TAPE: ANAL YSE DE L 'EVOL UTION ET TEDANCES
DES CONDITIONSDE VIE DES MENA GES
9. Le diagnostic des conditions socio-economiques de la populaton constitue l'etape
pr6alable du processus de conception de la politique de lutte contre la pauvretd, ce qUi
permet de cerner la variete des besoins en regard de la question de genre, de I'ige, de la
zone g6ographique habitee, etc . Ainsi, la diversite des besoins (demande) a pu etre
mesur6e a tavers essentiellement l'enquete sur les menages rdalis&e par la direction de la
statistique, et les analyses effcecUjcs par les services nationaux avec I'assistance en
particulier du P.N.U.D . En outre, ces etudes ont permis a la Banque Mondiale, en
collaboration avec les techniciens locaux, d'etablir un rapport d'Wvaluation de la pauvrete
particuli6rement utile a la definiton des contenus et fornes des interventions a engager.
10. La pauvrete touche une grande naijorite de la population (pres de 60 % des menages si
l'on inclut les ruraux et nomades qui n'ont pas fait l'objet d'dtudes quantitatives), les
femmes et les jeunes etant les plus affectds. De f*on generale, les indicateurs montrent des
contrastes frappant, les relatives avanc&es dans certains domaines (instruction de base,



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 5
acces a l'eau potable, emancipation de la femme) dtant minorees par la gravitd des deficits
concernant en premier lieu l'ofe en mati6re d'emplois, le pays comptant pres de 60 % de
ch6meurs. La situation est encore plus dramatique pour les jeunes (surtout les femmes) oui
l'on compte 80 % et 58 % de ch6meurs respectivement entre 15 et 20 ans et 21 et 25 am.s
Le ch6mage et l'absence de revenus s'averent done etre, et de loin, les principaux facteurs
de pauvret6, car en terme d'activite reelle, ce sont moins de 26 % des hommnes et Apire
moins de 17 % des femmes qui -travaillent. Toutefois, les obstacles au bien etre individuel,
familial et collectifne se limitent pas aux problemes de 1'emploi et la demande en services
sociaux de base est tout aussi aigue.
l1. L'examen des contenus et formes des situations de pauvrete autorise des lors les
opdrations de ciblage et de prioritisation des actions, ce qui montre le r6le decisif de
l'i-tformation sur les conditions de vie. En consequence, le gouvemement souhaite
desormais metlte en place un systime permnent de suivi de la pauvrete aux fins de mieux
evaluer l'impact des politiques et mesures visant les couches ddfavorisees.
12. La promotion du developpement socio-cconomique devrait beaucoup plus que par le passd
valoriser le processus participatif, ce procede ayant l'avantage d'associer les bdneficiaires a
l'identification des besoins et partant l'organisation des actions. Pour garantir leur
implication, une 6tude socio-anthropologique specifique a et6 realisee, de sorte qu'on
dispose de renseignements dclairant sur le vdcu des conditions de miseres et de prdcarite
ainsi que des strategies mises en a:uvre pour les affronter et survivre. Sur la base des
differentes informations obtenues, une classification des attentes et de la maniere donc de
les satisfaire a 6te ainsi op&6e.
DEUXEME ETE: DEFEIITION DES CONTENUS ET FORMES DES
ACITONS
A - Poursuite des rEformes macro4conomiques et stmcturelles
13. La lutte contre la pauvrete s'inscrit naturellement dans le cadre de la stratAgie d'ajustement
dont elle constitue la dimension du developpement humain. Bien que le redressement des
dds6quilibres macro-6conomiques et donc d'une croissance soutenue justifie les r6formes
engagdes, encore faut-il que celles-ci soient k meme de favoriser l'insertion socio-
dconomique des populations exclues.
La stratAgie preconisee devrait etre centree sur la solution du probleme de la reduciion de la
pauvretd, l'objectif 6tant de concilier les imperatifs d'efficacite economique et les
necessites de developpement humain dwable. La poursuite des refornes permettait,
suivant les conditionnalites des institutions de Bretton Woods, l'obtention de la FASR au
debut de l'annee 1999, ce mdcanisme d'aide a la consolidation du processus d'ajustement
structurelle devant renforcer la dynamique de la croissance et la lutte contre la pauvrete.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 4 of 5
B - Ddveloppement des activitds gen6ratrices revenus et d'emploi
14. Pour resoudre le probleme du ch6mage, quand on sait que la grande majorite de la
population active (80 % ) est faiblement qualifi6e; outre la ddfinition d'une nouvelle
legislation sur le marche du travail I'approche des travaux a haute intensitd de main-
- d'uvre devrait etre privilegiee (HBMO). C'est justement le r6le assigne a l'Agence
Djiboutienne d'Ex6cution des Travaux d'interet Public qui sera operationnelle sous peu
dont l'objectif est de promouvoir la creation d'un capital econonique et social pour
amnliorer les conditions de vie des cat6gories d6favoris6es grice au renforcement du
secteur privee. D'autre part, I'auto - emploi et de faron gdndrale les activit6s generatrices
de revenus (formation technique et acces au credit en particulier) devraient egalement
b6ndficier des efforts consentis en faveur de la lutte contre la pauvrete.
C - Renforcement de l'acces et de la qualitk des services sociaux de base
16. La valorisation du capital humain est la seule reponse a long terme au defi de reduction de
pauvrete afin que les pauvres puissent pleineement profiter des opportunites de la
lib&ralisation de l'economie. Cependant la couverture des besoins sociaux fondamentaux
reste largement d6ficitaire. En matiere d'acces a l'eau potable, de nutrition, de santd,
d'6ducation et d'habitat, les statistiques montrent la gravite de la situation et, dans certains
cas, l'urgence des besoins.
Dans ces conditions, un appui consequent devrait etre consenti aux secteurs sociaux
prioritaires. Ceci necessite le reexamen notamment des budgets sociaux pour augmenter les
depenses d'investissement et l'etablissement d'une reglementation sur la participation aux
charges pour elargir l'acces des categories difavorisees aux services sociaux de base.
17. Des inegalitcs persistent: les fenunes, les jeunes, les personnes Agdes, les handicapes et
les soldats demobilis6s sont ceux dont les situations de pr&caritd sont le plus visibles. La
reduction des disparites de developpement entre regions devront 6tre r6duites.
On rappelle ici le caractere post - conflictuel de 1'exercice suite aux problemes de nature
socio-6conomique et politique qui ont provoqud le conflit inteme durant les annees 1991 -
1994.
D - Renforcement des capacit6s et participation de la population
18. Les carences organisationnelles expliquent pour une bonne part les retards accumules, les
lourdeurs administratives en gdn&ral ajoutees aux faiblesses des capacitis dans la
programmation et F'ex6cution n'ayant pas permis de maxiriser les efforts ddployes pour
combatre la pauvrete. LUs mesures preconisees concernent le renforcement des capacites
de gestion des services publiques tout en impliquant d'avantage la societe civile et les
bailleurs de fonds au processus.
19. S'agissant de la rationialisation des depenses publiques et en particulier vis a vis des
infastructures 6conomiques et sociales, le Gouvemement est sinsi attache a r6pliquer
1'expeinence r6ussie des systemes des Agences d'Ex6cution des Travaux d'Int6ret Public
(A-G-E T.I.P.) dont les proc6dures d'interventions constituent une garantie de rapidite et de



ANNEX i1
Page 5 of 5
transparence. Compte - tenu de son efficacitd, la mise en ceuvre des projets et programmes
de lutte contre la pauvrete devrait necessairement s'inspirer de la souplesse du modle,
20. D'autre pan, dans un souci de recherche de plus d'efficacite, il s'avbre donc necessaire de
batir un progmrnme national de lutte contre la pauvrete int6grd permettant d'assurer la
coherence des interventions. Ceci a deja conduit le Gouverneement a creer en 1997 avec
l'assistance du P.N.U.D une Unit6 en Charge de la Coordination et de Suivi des Actions de
Lutte contre la Pauvrete (U.C.S.A.L.P), son but etant de contribuer a l'harmonisation des
differentes interventions socio-economiques.
V - LES CONDITIONS DE MISE EN (EUVRE DE LA STATEGIE DE LUTTE
CONTRE LA PAUVRETE
21. Pour renforcer ]'impact des investissements consentis en faveur du developpement
humain, le Gouvernement entend finaliser au cours de l'annde 1998 l'6laboration d'un
document - cadre (Plan Quinquennal de lutte contre la pauvret6), sa conception reposant
sur une programmation glissante perrnettant de recentrer a tout moment les objectifs. Celui
- ci, le premier du genre, est destine a preciser la nature des enjeux mais egalement les
moyens pour solutionner le probleme de la lutte contre la pauvrete. Au total, il s'agit de
montrer comment la question du ddveloppement humain est consideree et prise en charge
pour justifier donc le bien - fonda de la n6cessitd de ressources additionnelles.
22 Dans ces conditions, le Gouvemement de la Republique de Djibouti, convaincu de la
primaute de la lutte contre la pauvret6 dans la marche vers le developpement durable, est
cependant conscient que la mise en cruvre de la strategie d'actions privilegiee demandera
des efforts substantiels, d-u temps et surtout des ressources flnancikres en deqa des capacites
locales.
23. Le Gouvemement souhaite des lors vivement associer a sa d4marche les partenaires au
developpement, et en particulier, il sollicite l'appui du Groupe de la Banque Mondiale pour
lequel les nouvelles orientations devraient constituer l'opportunite de renforcer davantage
son efficace contribution au d6veloppement economique et social de la Republique de
Djibouti.
YACINE BE
MANI D                     DES FINANCES
ET DE  PLAr CEARGE
DE LA m



ANNEX 12
gkt~4    0-9   Moins pauvre
30-39                                                                                    A
CARTOGRAPHIE DE LA PAUVRETE                    DATE: 1 MARS 1999   ADPI-E
DJIBOUTI VILLE
INDICATEUR COMPOITE DE PAUVRETE             QSI:SiGalvZ        l3éO,NNEES: tTNAS



IBRD 23069R
R Rd                                                                               42 0                                                            5000'                                        REPUBLIC
OF
EEl    E    Lo>      i           REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                  YEMEN
E.                         ~~~OF 
YEMEN              \                                                                                                                        +              Eu 
\    st    . A  \                                                                              ∞      x                     \         trzZ fI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ga    Mafndeb W
'N. ef ' -   \ERITREA
/   m   Cufftf-:    \ ~    2-30                        .......                                                                 '7                                                          1 _30,
42TO'                                      ! >0\                                     \+                     ' jo2  --                           ----,
EthOA Mo  Unit ofprepo1; - 20                                                                                      I                                                                                   s         i
the  World   3nk./-i-Z,:-ßvevg)1
Th. bound.ries, colors,                                               --i                                           /      --. :         .                         --;;.-         -  
denominotions rnd  any                                        1x \                                                                             
other info-mtion shown..                                                   --                  ---      -                        
The World  Basnk Grop,                                   /      '          J     --                     #       <           -Aw                           
ony judgment on the lgi t>?  ,g '.i.;f-,,\,Etl - , ,; 4     
stotus of any territory.                              .            .          s       )(       tr.          :-..        --./   s                  
or acceptono of such                   "                      }''t'''     Nl l
d~~~~
b-dari.s. ~ ~   ~       ~        ~      ~       ~                         "                            Piu.,
~~~! I G ae  a lOOTh>
I- ~ ~    ~    R
ETHHIOAPIA.                                                                          80-.0                                 / o         SlddVlceanTws                    +     Inentonlipr
This -op  6o0 ppr  42'a0t
id~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ l,iti Cptl
400 ~ ~ ~ ~~O - 600
<nMETE25~~~~~~~~~WI o  o 2     3ET306                                                                                                     atoc Tpll
RN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
by, th  ,a nto                                                ,/7             -,                         20N0                                                                                      3snlRvr Wds
Th onaites, colos             Io /02                                                                       0                                  . _       Itrctoc  onaitFo
dononriostiorro~~~,2s7 oudleoiosnM r so                                                                                                                      s           '      rnknWce
Th  Wrl  EalNGop.A
or onceptanue of ouch  htsloh~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~SOALA                                                                                                  Ipow EdhR.d
boordorien.                              J     A  BF                                                                                                                                            M.n T.ck (N4i4.1
>00~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~- 42;30                                                                  43;00'il..
ETHIOPIAt0  SK .dfd Vil0.g.s aCE                                                                                                                   1996
'00  ~~~~~HIOPIA   /                              TADJOURA                      /~~~~~~~~~~~~40 -K0                           E    ititCptl
20 ~     0                                                                                 es-   isMds
cv*oio  ,,,    P               Ickocork                                                                            /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~InenaioalB.nore
1 00    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~1 7    ptElon tiono in Mot-t                                                                                                      DrnigW4
42~~~~~00`                                  4T,30'                                                          4360-80  ..'4..                            iried  ad  irtrp
400 - 600         13     Ontrict Capitulo         ~          ~           DEEMBE199



