Page  1
December 28, 2000
Mr. Kadar Ismael Guelleh
Directeur Général de l’Agence Djiboutienne d’Exécution 
  des Travaux d’Interet Public (ADETIP)
ADETIP
B.P. 4298 Djibouti Ville,
Republic of Djibouti
Re:
Credit No: 3225-DJI
(Social Development and Public Works Project)
Amendment to the Project Agreement                 
Sir:
We refer to your request to amend the above captioned Project Agreement 
dated June 10, 1999, between the International Development Association (the 
Association) and Agence Djiboutienne d’Exécution des Travaux d’Intérêt Public 
(ADETIP), as confirmed in the conclusions of the Association’s Aide Mémoire 
dated February 29, 2000.
We are pleased to inform you that, to facilitate project implementation, 
the Association has acceded to the above request. Accordingly, the Project 
Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
1.
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement: Procurement
Part D: Review by the Association of the Procurement Decisions:
Paragraph 2: (Prior Review), will be modified to read as follows:
“With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more for goods and of 
$150,000 or more for works, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.”
2.
All the terms and conditions of the Project Agreement, as amended 
hereby, shall remain in full force and effect.
3.
Please confirm your official agreement to the foregoing, by duly signing 
and dating the corresponding form of confirmation below and returning this 
amendment letter to us at your earliest convenience.  A signed duplicate 
original of this amendment letter is enclosed herewith for ADETIP’s official 
records.
Very Truly Yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  2
By /s/ John Macgregor
Acting Country Director
Middle East Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
CONFIRMED AND AGREED
Agence Djiboutienne d’Exécution des Travaux d’Intérêt Public
By /s/ Kadar Ismael Guelleh
