Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3225-DJI
Project Agreement
(Social Development and Public Works Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGENCE DJIBOUTIENNE D’EXÉCUTION DES TRAVAUX D’INTÉRÊT PUBLIC
Dated June 10, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3225-DJI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 10, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and AGENCE DJIBOUTIENNE D’EXÉCUTION DES TRAVAUX D’INTÉRÊT PUBLIC 
(ADETIP).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Djibouti (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
eleven million Special Drawing Rights (SDR11,000,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that ADETIP agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a Convention to be entered into between the Borrower and ADETIP, (the 
ADETIP Convention) the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement for Parts A, B and C.2 of the Project will be made available to 
ADETIP on the terms and conditions set forth in the ADETIP Convention; and
WHEREAS ADETIP, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ADETIP declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this 
end, shall carry out Parts A, B and C.2 of the Project and assist the Borrower to 
carry out Part C.1 of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and, except as the Association, the Borrower and ADETIP shall otherwise agree, ADETIP 
shall carry out Parts A, B and C.2 of the Project and assist the Borrower to carry out 
Part C.1 of the Project in accordance with the General Implementation Program and the 
ADETIP Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3 to the Development Credit 
Agreement and Schedule 2 to this Agreement, respectively. 
(c)
ADETIP undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
Community Subproject Grants will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Section IV of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
(d)
ADETIP shall exercise its rights under each Community Subproject Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Borrower, the 
Association and ADETIP; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement and the 
ADETIP Convention; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) ADETIP shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of 
the Credit.
(b)
ADETIP shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ADETIP of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.04. ADETIP shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts A, B and C.2 
of the Project.
Section 2.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, ADETIP shall take steps to: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
submit to the Borrower, for onward transmission to the Association not later than six 
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future operation of Parts A, 
B and C.2 of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower and ADETIP on said plan.
Page  3
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ADETIP
Section 3.01. ADETIP shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative and financial practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ADETIP shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and financial 
practices.
Section 3.03. ADETIP shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ADETIP shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
ADETIP shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year: 
(A) certified copies of 
its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, ADETIP shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable ADETIP, not later than July 31, 2001, or such later date as the 
Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable 
to the Association, each of which: 
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report; 
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
Page  4
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, ADETIP shall, not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar 
quarter, prepare, in collaboration with the Borrower and in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Borrower for onward transmission to 
the Association a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
ADETIP thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify ADETIP of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
For ADETIP:
Boulevard Foch
Djibouti
Republic of Djibouti
Page  5
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ADETIP, or by 
ADETIP on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken 
or executed by Director General or such other person or persons as Director General 
shall designate in writing, and ADETIP shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Michael Sarris
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
AGENCE DJIBOUTIENNE D’EXÉCUTION DES 
  TRAVAUX D’INTÉRÊT PUBLIC
By /s/ Robleh Olhaye
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and 
September 1997 and January 1999 subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
Paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and "member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and "Participating Country.”
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts To the extent practicable, contracts for goods 
shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
Page  6
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be 
carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $7,560,000 equivalent and goods estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$100,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works under Parts A and B.2 of the Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,750,000 equivalent 
under Part A of the Project and up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,415,000 
equivalent under Part B.2 of the Project, may be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts 
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
3.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more for goods and $30,000 or more for works, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 3. Post Review With respect to each 
contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultant services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultant services 
Page  7
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultant services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The 
short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Parts A and B of the Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Single Source Selection
Services under Parts A and B of the Project which are estimated to cost less 
than $5,000 equivalent per contract and services under Part C.1 (a) of the Project 
which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may, with the Association's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultant 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Page  8
ADETIP Implementation Program 
Section I.
General 
1.
ADETIP shall (a) carry out Parts A, B and C.2 of the Project and assist the 
Borrower to carry out Part C.1 of the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual; and (b) not amend or waive the Project Implementation Manual or 
any provision thereof, without the prior consent of the Association.
2.
Without limitation or restriction upon its obligations under Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement, ADETIP shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower, the Association and ADETIP, the carrying out of Parts A, B and C.2 of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare before the start of Project implementation, and thereafter every 
twelve months after the Effective Date, a proposed annual work program, in respect of 
Parts A, B and C.2 of the Project, including a proposed budget and financing plan for 
the following twelve months to be furnished to the Association pursuant to Section 
6.01 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement, and paragraph 2 of Section I of Schedule 
3 to the Development Credit Agreement;
(c)
except as otherwise agreed upon between the Borrower, the Association and 
ADETIP, prepare: (i) 
technical audits on the Project at the following intervals, 
that is, (i) not later than twelve months after the Effective Date; and (ii) 
thereafter, every six months; and  (ii)
quarterly progress reports on the status of 
Parts A, B and C.2 of the Project to be furnished to the Association pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of Section I of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement; and 
(d)
participate in the reviews referred to in paragraphs 2 (d) and (e) of 
Section I of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement; and thereafter carry out 
Parts A, B and C.2 of the Project in accordance with the recommendations acceptable to 
the Association of such reviews, including an annual work program and budget 
acceptable to the Association. 
Section II.
Part A of the Project 
ADETIP shall select the Public Subprojects to be carried out under Part A of the 
Project based on applications received from line ministries and local authorities of 
the Borrower and local communities within the territory of the Borrower under the 
procedures set out in the Project Implementation Manual. 
Section III.
Part B.1 of the Project
ADETIP shall assist communities to prepare community development plans which 
shall form the basis of Community Subprojects to be presented by Beneficiary 
Communities to ADETIP for approval for financing under Part B.2 of the Project and for 
the activities to be carried out under Parts A and B.1 of the Project. 
Section IV.
Part B.2 of the Project 
A.
Eligibility Criteria for Community Subprojects Under Part B.2 of the Project
No Community Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
this Credit unless ADETIP has determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in 
accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Project Implementation Manual, that 
the Community Subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria specified in the Project 
Implementation Manual, including in particular, the following: The Community 
Subproject will (a) contribute to the sustainability of investments financed under 
Part A of the Project; or (b) have a positive development impact on the target 
community or  neighborhood. The Community Subproject was initiated and prepared and 
will be implemented and maintained by the Beneficiary Community. The Beneficiary 
Community is poor or belongs to a vulnerable group, both as described in the 
Implementation Manual. The Beneficiary Community is able and willing to contribute in 
Page  9
cash or kind about 10% of the cost of the Community Subproject and, where appropriate, 
to undertake the post-investment operation and maintenance of the Community Subproject 
in a manner acceptable to the Borrower, ADETIP and the Association.
The Community Subproject is compatible with the Borrower’s developmental priorities 
and policies and with the objectives of the Project. 
B.
Terms and Conditions Regarding Community Subprojects
Community Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to Community Subproject 
Grant Agreements, to be concluded between ADETIP and the legally established and 
authorized representative or representatives of the Beneficiary Community, under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, which, inter alia, shall include the 
following: 
Financing shall be on a grant basis; 
The cumulative amount of Community Subproject Grants made to each Beneficiary 
Community shall not, except with the prior approval of the Association; exceed the 
equivalent of $50,000; 
The Beneficiary Community shall contribute in cash or kind at least 10% of the 
cost of the Community Subproject; 
The Beneficiary Community shall carry out the Community Subproject in accordance 
with the Project Implementation Manual, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound environmental, technical, financial and managerial standards and 
maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Community Subproject; 
The goods, works and services to be financed from the proceeds of the Community 
Subproject Grant shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement and  such goods, works and services shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out the Community Subproject; 
ADETIP shall have the right to inspect, by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works and services 
included in the Community Subproject and any relevant records and documents; 
ADETIP shall have the right to obtain all information as ADETIP, the Borrower or 
the Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operations and 
financial conditions of the Community Subproject; and ADETIP shall have the right to 
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary Community to use the proceeds of the 
Community Subproject Grant upon failure by the Beneficiary Community to perform any of 
its obligations under the relevant Community Subproject Grant Agreement.
