Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3225-DJI
Development Credit Agreement
(Social Development and Public Works Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 10, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3225-DJI 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 10, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
Parts A, B and C.2 of the Project will be carried out by the Agence 
djiboutienne d’exécution des travaux d’intérêt public (ADETIP) with the Borrower’s 
assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to ADETIP 
part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and ADETIP;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
“Participating Country” means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution 
No. 183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and “Participating Countries” means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“ADETIP” means Agence djiboutienne d’exécution des travaux d’intérêt 
public, a non profit agency for public works, established by the Borrower pursuant to 
the ADETIP Statutes (as hereinafter defined); 
(b)
“ADETIP Convention” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and ADETIP pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the ADETIP Convention; 
(c)
“ADETIP Implementation Program” means the program set forth in Schedule 2 
to the Project Agreement; 
(d)
“ADETIP Statutes” means the statutes governing the operations of ADETIP, 
adopted in May 1999, and such term shall include all schedules to, and the by-laws 
enacted under, the ADETIP Statutes;
(e)
“Beneficiary Community” means a community determined to be eligible for a 
Community Subproject Grant (as hereinafter defined) in accordance with the eligibility 
criteria specified in Section IV of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement and in the 
Project Implementation Manual (as hereinafter defined) and to whom or for whose 
benefit a Community Subproject Grant is made or proposed to be made; 
(f)
“Community Subproject Grant Agreement” means an agreement between ADETIP 
and a Beneficiary Community setting forth the terms and conditions under which a 
Community Subproject Grant shall be made available to the Beneficiary Community for 
the purpose of financing a Community Subproject under Part B.2 of the Project. 
(g)
“Community Subproject Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by 
ADETIP to a Beneficiary Community for the purpose of financing a Community Subproject 
under Part B.2 of the Project;  
(h)
“Community Subproject” means an activity carried out or to be carried out 
by a Beneficiary Community and financed or to be financed in part out of the proceeds 
Page  3
of the Credit under Part B.2 of the Project; 
(i)
“DINAS” means Direction nationale de la statistique, a department within 
the MEFP; 
(j)
“General Implementation Program” means the program set forth in Schedule 
3 to this Agreement; 
(k)
“MEFP” means Ministère de l’Economie, des Finances et de la Planification 
chargé de la Privatisation, the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning 
in charge of Privatization; 
(l)
“Pilot Phase of the Project” means the activities financed or to be 
financed out the proceeds of the Project Preparation Advance. 
(m)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(n)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
ADETIP of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the ADETIP Project 
Agreement; 
(o)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual referred to in paragraph 
1 of Section I of the General Implementation Program;  
(p)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(q)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
December 16, 1998, and January 2, 1999 between the Borrower and the Association;  
(r)
“Public Subproject” means an activity carried out or to be carried out by 
ADETIP under Part A of the Project at the request of a department, agency or local 
authority of the Borrower or of a Beneficiary Community and financed or to be financed 
in part out of the proceeds of the Credit; and 
(s)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eleven million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 11,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for:
(i)
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be 
made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and 
to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit; and 
(ii)
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) 
by ADETIP on 
account of withdrawals made for the benefit of a Beneficiary 
Community under a 
Community Subproject Grant Agreement to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods, 
works and services required for a 
Community Subproject under Part B.2 of the 
Project, and in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is 
requested. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association 
Page  4
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association including appropriate 
protection against setoff, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 2009, and ending February 1, 2039. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 2019, shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
Page  5
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end shall: 
(i)
carry out Part C.1 of the Project through DINAS with the 
assistance of ADETIP 
and with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate 
administrative and financial 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for Part C.1 of 
the 
Project; 
(ii)
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under 
this Agreement, cause ADETIP to perform in accordance 
with the provisions of 
the Project Agreement all the obligations of 
ADETIP therein set forth, take 
and cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
ADETIP to 
perform such obligations; and 
(iii)
shall not take or cause to be taken any action which would prevent 
or 
interfere with such performance of ADETIP.
(b)
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with ADETIP (hereinafter 
referred to as the ADETIP Convention), under which it shall:
(i)
make the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to 
Categories (1) 
(b), (2) (b), (3) (b), (4) and (5) (b) of the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement, available to ADETIP 
on a non-reimbursable basis for the 
purposes of Parts A, B and C.2 of 
the Project under terms and conditions which 
shall have been approved 
by the Association, including but not limited to, the 
provisions 
set forth in Section III of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and 
(ii)
provide for the terms and conditions under which ADETIP shall 
assist the 
Borrower in carrying out Part C.1 of the Project as 
set out in Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.  
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and perform its obligations under 
the ADETIP Convention in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the ADETIP Convention or any provision thereof.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall carry out Part C.1 of the Project and cause ADETIP to carry out Parts 
A, B and C.2 of the Project in accordance with the General Implementation Program and 
the ADETIP Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement and 
Page  6
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, respectively. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of making available its counterpart 
contribution to the financing of the Project:
(a)
open and maintain an account (the Project Account) in a commercial bank 
acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
make an initial deposit into such account, in an amount equivalent to 
thirty-two thousand dollars ($32,000), to finance the Borrower’s contribution to the 
Project for the first six months;
(c)
thereafter deposit into the Project Account at least once every six 
months, such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Project Account back to the 
level of the initial deposit referred to in paragraph (b) above; and
(d)
use the Project Account funds exclusively to finance expenditures under 
the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A, B and 
C.2  of the Project shall be carried out by ADETIP pursuant to Section 2.04 of the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall take steps, and cause ADETIP to take 
steps, to: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; and
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Page  7
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure or Project Management 
Reports, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; and
(ii)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure or Project Management 
Reports submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than July 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. (b)
Upon the completion of the action plan 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare or 
cause ADETIP to 
prepare in collaboration with the Borrower and in accordance 
with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association 
not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project 
Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
ADETIP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement; 
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that ADETIP will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement; and 
(c)
the ADETIP Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to materially and adversely affect the operations or 
financial condition of ADETIP or  its ability to (i) carry out Parts A, B and C.2 of 
Page  8
the Project; (ii) assist the Borrower to carry out Part C.1 of the Project as provided 
for in this Agreement; or (iii) perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and  
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
The Borrower and ADETIP have each adopted the Project Implementation 
Manual as described in paragraph 1 of Section 1 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, 
including the detailed work program and budget contained in the Project Implementation 
Manual covering the first twelve months following the Effective Date. 
(b)
The ADETIP Convention has been entered into by the Borrower and ADETIP, 
respectively. 
(c)
The Borrower and ADETIP have each established a financial management 
system, including accounting procedures, satisfactory to the Association and adequate 
to ensure proper monitoring of Project activities. 
(d)
The Borrower has established the Project Account and deposited therein 
the initial deposit referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement. 
(e)
The Borrower has hired an independent audit firm in accordance with 
Section II of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement to carry out the audit of Project 
accounts.
(f)
The capacity of ADETIP to carry out the Pilot Phase of the Project and to 
undertake procurement under the Credit has been found to be acceptable by the 
Association.
Section 6.02. The following events are specified as additional matters, within 
the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the 
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
is legally binding upon, ADETIP in accordance with its terms; and 
(b)
that ADETIP Convention has been duly authorized or ratified by, and is 
legally binding upon, the Borrower and ADETIP in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, 
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance 
Page  9
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower: 
Ministère de l’Economie, des Finances et de la Planification 
   chargé de la Privatisation 
B.P. 13 
Djibouti City 
Republic of Djibouti
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, DC
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
By /s/ Robleh Olhaye 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Michael Sarris 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
Page  10
(a) under Part C.1
    25,000
of the Project
(b) other than under
 6,100,000
Part C.1 of the Project
(2)
Goods, equipment,
100% of foreign
vehicles and materials
expenditures and
75% of local
expenditures
(a) under Part C.1
    50,000
of the Project
(b) other than under
   110,000
Part C.1 of the Project
(3)
Consultants' services,
100%
and training:
(a) under Part C.1
   180,000
of the Project
(b) other than under
 1,030,000
Part C.1 of the Project
(4)
Community Subproject
 1,470,000
100% of 
amounts
Grants under Part B.2
disbursed by ADETIP
of the Project
to or on behalf of a 
Beneficiary 
Community
(5)
Operating Costs
(a) under Part C.1 of the
    30,000
65%
Project
(b) other than under
 1,110,000
100%
Part C.1 of the Project
(6)
Refunding of Project
   530,000
Amount due 
pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
   365,000
TOTAL
11,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “operating costs” means the incremental operating costs incurred 
on account of Project implementation, management and supervision, including office 
supplies, communication costs, travel costs and salaries of project staff, but 
excluding salaries of members of the Borrower’s civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
Page  11
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)
a Community Subproject Grant unless such Community Subproject Grant has 
been made in accordance with the criteria and procedures and under the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Section IV of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement and in the Project Implementation Manual.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (ii) works under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; (iii) consultants’ services (firms) under contracts not 
exceeding $50,000 equivalent; (iv) consultants’ services (individuals) under contracts 
not exceeding $20,000 equivalent; and (v) for all operational costs and training; all 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to contribute to poverty reduction in the 
territory of the Borrower and in particular to enhance the living standards of the 
poor in the city of Djibouti (which accounts for about 83% of the total population) by 
improving the quality of, and access to, basic economic and social infrastructure and 
services and by generating employment opportunities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Social and Economic Infrastructure
Carrying out Public Subprojects, including: 
1.
Labor intensive urban infrastructure works. 
2.
Construction and/or rehabilitation of social and economic infrastructure and 
facilities. 
3.
Works to protect Djibouti-City’s public architectural heritage.
Part B:
Support to Community Development 
1.
Provision of training and technical advisory services to potential and actual 
Beneficiary Communities to assist them in identifying, preparing and carrying out 
Community Subprojects, including preparing community development plans. 
2.
Financing of specific community development subprojects through grants to 
Beneficiary Communities.
Part C:
Institutional Capacity Building 
1.
Poverty Monitoring and Analysis 
(a)
Carrying out a household survey of economic and social indicators in the 
territory of the Borrower and designing and updating a poverty map based on such 
survey. 
(b)
Strengthening the capacity of DINAS to undertake poverty monitoring and 
analysis activities through (i) provision of technical advisory services and staff 
training; (ii) acquisition of office and other equipment; and (iii) rehabilitation of 
office buildings occupied or to be occupied by DINAS. 
2.
Project management and Implementation 
Page  12
(a)
Strengthening the capacity of non governmental organizations to provide 
training and technical advisory services under Part B.1 of the Project through the 
provision of training. 
(b)
Strengthening the capacity of local contractors and consultants to 
undertake works under Parts A and B of the Project through the provision of training 
and technical advisory services. 
(c)
Strengthening the capacity of ADETIP to carry out Parts A, B and C.2 of 
the Project and to assist the Borrower to carry out Part C.1 of the Project through 
(i) provision of training and technical advisory services; and (ii) acquisition of 
office and other equipment and vehicles.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
General Implementation Program 
Section I.
General
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Association a Project Implementation Manual, 
satisfactory to the Association, containing: (i) a statement of objectives and a 
general description of the Project; (ii) an implementation plan, including a financing 
plan covering the four-year period from 1999 to 2003 for each Part of the Project and 
a detailed work program and budget covering the first twelve months following the 
Effective Date; (iii) details of all procurement and disbursement arrangements 
including standard bidding documents (for works, goods and consultants’ services), and 
reporting requirements on financial management; (iv) monitoring and evaluation 
indicators; and (v) other administrative, financial and organizational arrangements, 
as shall have been agreed with the Association for purposes of the Project; and  
(b)
carry out Part C.1 of the Project and cause ADETIP to carry out Parts A, 
B and C.1 of the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual and not 
amend or waive the Project Implementation Manual or any provision thereof, in a manner 
which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project.
2.
Without limitation or restriction upon its obligations under Section 4.02 (b) of 
this Agreement and Sections 9.01 and 9.06 of the General Conditions related to 
cooperation and information and records and reports, respectively, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
furnish to the Association, every six months, beginning six (6) months 
after the Effective Date, a report of such scope and detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date;
(c)
submit annual reports to the Association, beginning on the date twelve 
months after the Effective Date. Such reports shall address, as a minimum, evaluation 
of the performance of DINAS and ADETIP during the preceding twelve-month period, 
implementation and supervision of Project activities, procurement, rate of 
disbursement and any specific operational issues that have presented difficulties;
Page  13
(d)
review, jointly with the Association and ADETIP, the reports referred to 
in the preceding subparagraph, and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of said reports and the Association views 
on the matter; and
(e)
no later than eighteen months after the Effective Date, carry out jointly 
with the Association and ADETIP, a mid-term review. Such review shall assess the 
overall progress in the implementation of the Project; the result of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities and progress on procurement, disbursement and other 
financial management issues. 
Section II.
DINAS 
1.
For the purposes of Part C.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall establish a 
Survey Unit within DINAS which shall manage and supervise all survey operations.   
2.
At the request, and on behalf, of DINAS, ADETIP shall select consultants and 
procure goods and works for Part C.1 of the Project and disburse the proceeds of the 
Credit in payment for goods and services for Part C.1 of the Project and shall make 
all withdrawal applications to the Association. 
Section III.
Provisions to be Included in the ADETIP Convention
The ADETIP Convention shall include, without being limited to, provisions to the 
following effect: ADETIP shall carry out Parts A, B and C.2 and assist the Borrower in 
carrying out Part C.1 of the Project as set out in Section II of this Schedule, all 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, managerial, 
and business standards, and shall maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance 
with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources, and expenditures in 
respect of activities financed under the Project. 
ADETIP shall employ at all times during the execution of the Project a General 
Manager and staff with adequate qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association to carry out Parts A, B and C.2 of the Project and assist the Borrower in 
carrying out Part C.1 of the Project. 
ADETIP shall use the procedures set out in the Project Implementation Manual to 
select Public Subprojects to be carried out under Part A of the Project. 
ADETIP shall process Community Subproject Grants under Part B. 2 of the Project 
in accordance with the criteria and procedure and under the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in Section IV of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement and in the 
Project Implementation Manual.
ADETIP shall exercise its rights under each Community Subproject Grant Agreement 
in such manner as to: (a) protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association and 
ADETIP; (b) comply with its obligations under the Project Agreement and the 
Convention; and (c) achieve the purposes of the Project.
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation”. means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Page  14
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 4,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
Page  15
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
