RESTRICTED
Report No. P-557
FiLom COPY
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
I'HE REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
PROJECT
July 17, 1967



REPORT AND RECOKIENDATION OF TIE PP.ESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PP.OPOSED) LOAN TO THEE REPUBLIC OF CHINA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in var:Lous currencies equivalent to $17 million to the
Directorate General of Telecommuni.cations of China,
PART I - HTSTORICA L
2.        The Government of the Repubolic of China and thie Directorate
General of Telecommunica-bions (DGT) have asked the Bank for a loan of
$17 million to expand and improve the domestic telephone and telegraph
services of Taiwan. The Borrower would be the DGT, a Government agency
established under the Ministry of Com;nunications to operate a]l Taiw,a
public telephone and telegraph services, national. and international.
3.        Negotiations were conducted in Washington from May 18 to
Nay 29. The Government of the Rer:ablic of China was represented by
Mr. Martin Wong, Minister Counselor of the Chinese Embassy, and
Mr. John Yuan, Commercial Attache at the Embassy. The Borrower was
represented by Mr. Hien-chee Fang, the Project Manager, and Messrs. Lien,
Pan and Hsu of the accounting and enginieering staff,
4.        The Bank has made four loans to the Republic of China, and the
proposed loan would bring the total to ."73.0 million, net of cancellations.
IDA has made four develooment credits totalling ;$15.3 million, of ighich
i$2.2 million has been cancelled.  The followring is a summary statement
of Bank loans and IDA credits made in the Republic of China as of June
30, 1967:



-2
Loan or
Credit                                                    Amount (US$ million)
Number        Year    Borrower            Purpose        Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
6          1961    China        Harbor Dredging              2.2
7          1961    China        Ground Water                 2.0       -
9          1961    China        Water Supply                 4.0       -
17          1961    China        China Development
Corporation                4.9       -
356          1963    China        Deep Sea Fishing      7.6              _
397          1964    CDC          Industrial Devel-
opment              15.0            6.3
409          1965    China.       Railways             19.0             5.1
498          1967    China.    .  Deep Sea Fishing     14.4            1414
Total net of cancellations                     56.o  13.1
of which has been repaid                        .5   -
Total now outstand.ing                         55.5  13.1
Amount sold                 5.8
of wihich has been repaid   .4               5.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA                 5a,1   13.1
Total undisbursed                              2 58    -       25.8
5.        The construction of all the projects financed by IDA has been
completed and their operation is progressing satisfactorily. No problems
have developed in the execution of Bank projects and disbursements are
progressing satisfactorily. China is not a member of IFC.
6.        This loan is being presented together wJith a proposed loan of
$115 million to the China. Development Corporation.  Within the next few
mon;hs I expect to present to the Executive Directors an additional loan
of $17.; million for a second railway project.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
7.        Borrower:                Directorate General of Telecommwanications.
Guarantor:               Republic of China.
Amount:                  The equivalent in various currencies
of $17 million.
Purpose:                 To cover most of the foreign exchange
cost of the 1967-71 program for the
expansion and improvement of TaiwanJs
domestic telephone and telegraph
services.



-3 -
Amortization:             Twenty years including a four-year
grace period, payable in 33 semi-
annual instalmentis beginning
October 15, 1971 and ending
October 15, 1987.
Interest Rate:            6% per annum.
Commitment Charge:        3/8 of 1% per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.        A report entitled "Appraisal of the Expansion Program of the
Directorate General of Telecommunications - China" (No. TO-580a) on the
proposed project is attached.
9.        As a result of the growth of the national economy and improve-
ment in living standards, the demand for telephone service in Taiwan has
been high during the last ten years, A back-log of unfilled demand
continues despite the substantial expansion of telephone facilitie3
carried out recently. This demand is evidenced by TaiwanPs low rate of
1.32 telephones per hundred population, its high calling rate of 15.8
telephone calls per day per subscriber's line (nearly four times that
of USA), and the fact that applicants press for the installation of
telephones even though a connection fee of about US$350 is charged for
new installations.
10.       The expansion program would be carried out by the Directorate
General of Telecommunications (DGT) of the Ministry of Cor,munications
of the Republic of Chi.na.  The DGT, through its subordinate agencies,
operates the national and international public telephone and telegraph
services of Taiwan. The DGT has embarked upon a program of expansion
and improvement of telecormimunication facilities covering the years
1967-71. In the early part of 1967 it completed the installation of
1,500 lines of automatic exchange telephone equipment distributed
among the cities of Taipei, Taichung and Kaohsiung and financed under
a US$4.2 million loan from U.S. AID. During 1967 an additional 13,000
lines of automatic telephone eqipment and the expansion of certain
long-distance routes are being financed by means of a Japanese credit
equivalent to US$3.9 million.  A number of other works, of which the
principal ones are a tropospheric scatter system to be inaugurated
with Hong Kong in June 1L967 and extensions to the telephone exchanges
in the smaller cities, would be self-financed, In addition, the program
includes the purchase, throughsuppliersi credit, of additional channeling
ecuipment to increase the capacities of the existing microwave radio
systems.
11.       The remaining part of the expansion program is proposed for
Bank financing and would consist of:  approximately 118,000 lines of
automatic exchange telephone switching equipment with related telephones



- 4 -
and accessory facilities; a long-distance dialing system between the
principal cities; establishment of a Telecommunications Training Center;
and assistance of consultants in the planning and execution of the
expansion program.
12.       The above specific works are estimated to cost US$50.2 million
equivalert. The proposed loan of US$17 million would cover most of the
foreign exchange cost of these works. The balance of the funds required
for the program would be covered by DGTIs own funds generated from opera-
tions supplemented by a small amount of suppliers' credits.   The facilities
to be provided in the project are expected to be put into operation in
successive stages during, 1969, 1970 and 1971.
13.       All contracts proposed for Bank financing are to be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding.
14.       The DGT is well qualified to carry out the expansion program
and to operate the new facilities effectively. Most of the senior staff
has over twenty years' experience in telecommunications, acquired not
only on the island of Taiwan but also on a broader scale on the mainland
prior to 1949. Special efforts have been made over many years to train
engineering and operating personnel in advanced techniques. In addition,
outside technical assistance has been utilized in the basic planning of
the program and has been engaged to assist in its execution. A Tele-
communications Training Center is being established to provide specialized
knowledge to new employees and to increase the technical competence of
existing ones.
15.       Financial results of DGT's operations in recent years have been
satisfactory and are expected to continue so during the foreseeable future.,v
No change in tariffs is required at the present time.   Its past success-
ful record as to operations, together with certain financial undertakings,
provide adequate assurances that DGT should be able to maintain a sound
financial position. Projected earnings show substantial coverage for the
s-_rvc.  of DGT's djbt. ^vludiniz.th- Trrposed loan.
PART III - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
16.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Directorate
General of Telecomiunications, the draft Guarantee Agreement between
the Republic of China and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee
provided for under Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
The Loan Agreement wouLd conform to the customary form for loans of this
type. The Guarantor and the Borrower have undertaken that, during the
construction period of the Project, the Borrower will not contribute
more than twenty-five percent of its net income in any fiscal year to
the Guarantor.



- 5 -
PART V - THE ECONOMY
17.       A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
the Republic of China" (AS-117a, dated November 30, 1966) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on December 15, 1966. The report notes the
Republic's rapid economic growth, averaging almost 85 per annum, over the past
13 years. It stresses the successful diversification of the economy through
the development of light industry and new lines of agricultural production.
The report also emphasizes the remarkable improvement in foreign trade
by the substantial expan'sion and diversification of exports. It concludes
that prospects for continued expansion at satisfactory rates of growth
are good. However, a higher level of public savings through greater tax
revenues is considered important to maximize China's development potential
over the long run.
18.       The favorable development described in the report continued
throughout 1966 and the early months of 19670  Gross National Product
is estimated to have grown in 1966 by almost 8% and per capita income
by nearly 5% while prices in general remained stable.  Agricultural
and industrial production continued to expand and in 1966 for the first
time the value of industrial products exceeded that of agricultural
and processed agricultural products combined. After deficits in the
early months of 1966, the foreign trade picture improved considerably
in the second half of the year. Merchandise exports totalled US$569
million in 1966 - an increase of 16.7% over 1965. Industry and exports
were both stimulated by the war in Vietnam. Due to growing raw material
and capital goods purchases abroad, imports exceeded the 1965 level by
8.2%. Although the 1966 trade balance showed a deficit, the import
surplus was only US$32 mLllion compared to US$67 million in 1965. New
non-military aid by the IJ.S. was terminated in June 1965 in view of the
improved ccndition of the economy, but the effect was offset to some
extent by the steadily increasing inflow of private foreign investment.
Developments in early 1967 have also been favorable. Production and
exports continue to expand rapidly. The effects of the Vietnam conflict
and the resumption of trade relations with Indonesia are adding to the
growth momentum. Official gold and foreign exchange reserves rose from
US$300 million at the end of 1965 to US$361 million in April 1967, the
equivalent of almost 7-1/2 months' imports at the 1966 level. Total
public and private debt service now amounts to about 3.5% of exports.
In view of this moderate amount of debt, the good performance and the
favorable prospects for the future, the Republic of China can be
regarded as creditworthy for substantial borrowing on conventional terms.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
19.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the
requirements of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 6 -
F'ART VII - RECOMENDATION
20,       I recommernd that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Directorate General of Te-.ecommunications
in an amount eQuivalent to U.S. $17,000,000 to be guaranteed
by the Republic of China.
RESOLVED:
Ti{AT the Bank shall grant a loan to Directorate General
of Telecommunications to be guaranteed by the Republic
of China, in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to seventeen million United States dollars (U,S. $17,000,000),
to mature on and prior to October 15, 1987, to bear interest
at the rate of six per cent (6/) per annum, and to be upon
such other terms and cornditions set forth in the forin of
Loan Agreement (Teleccmmunu.cations Project) between the Bank
and Directorate General of Telecommunications, and the form
of Guarantee Agreement (Telecommunications Project) between
the Republic of China and the Bank, which have been presented
to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
i. b aChl; snt
Washington, D.C.
July 17, 1967



