The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24326
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCPD-4004S; CPL-40040; SCL-4004A)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 25.0 MILLION
TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A HEALTH INSURANCE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
06/30/2002
Country Management Unit for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This dnoament has a restricted diqtrihiition and may be iiued by recinientq only in the perfarmance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  l



CURRENCY EQUIVATLE-NTS
(Exchange Rate Effective As of May 30, 2002)
Currency Unit =  Argentine Peso (AR$)
AR$3.7     US$ L00
US$ 1.00 = AR$3.7
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 through  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANSSAL:       Administraci6n Nacional de Seguros de Salud (National Health insurance Administration)
APE:          Administraci6n de Programas Especiales
CAS:          Country Assistance Strategy
CBA:          City of Buenos Aires
DGI:          Direcci6n General Impositiva (Federal Tax Collection Agency)
FROS:         Fondo de Reconversion de Obras Sociales (Restructuring Fund for National Health
Insurers)
FSR:          Fondo Solidario de Redistribuci6n (Solidarity Redistribution Fund)
IBRD:         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR:          Implementation Completion Report
INSSJP:       Instituto Nacional de Servicios para Jubilados y Pensionados
(National Social Service Institute for Retirees and Pensioners)
MOE:          Ministerio de Economia y Obras y Servicios Piblicos
(Ministry of Economy and Public Works)
MOH:          Ministry of Health
O(S:.         Obras Sociales (Health Insurance Fund)
PAMI:         Instituto Nacional de Servicios para Jubilados y Pensionados
PCU:          Prnpect Corrdlination Unit
PMO:          Programa Medico Obligatorio (Standard Health Benefits Package)
DlDVVAT       P-,n, -nAL Pre dfn,-na de1 Sector Soeal u (Provincia! T-T eath SePt^r Thev1pu niment Prnipr-1t
PRESSS:       Programa de Reconversi6n del Sistema de Seguro Social
k1waGDUULU UIg 17lUrla  VI Ul 11;aldu Illaw auw,  3IADa%1lJ
PROMIN:       Programa de Salud Matemo-Infantil y Nutrici6n (Matemal and Child Health and Nutrition
Project)
SSS:          Superintendencia de Servicios de Salud (Health Services Superintendency)
UEC:          Unidad Ejecutiva Central del Proyecto de Desarrollo del Sector Salud en las Provincias
UEP:          Unidad Ejecutora Provincial
UNDP:         United Nations Development Program
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Myrna Alexander
Sector Manager/Director:  Evangeline Javier
Task Tearn Ledr!T2k Manager:     Daniel Cotlear



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
HEALTH INSURANCE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2.         Pprfnrmnne, Rptinag                                                           1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome,                                  10
6. Sustainability                                                                       12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      14
9. Partner Comments                                                                     15
10. Additional Information                                                             17
A,nex l. KTe Perfonrmnance indicatr%/Tl na Frnmp. Mntriy                                18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   26
Annex 8. Summarv of the Evaluation Status of Participating OSS in PROS                  27
Annex 9. Summary of Studies Under the Policies Component                               28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
'he per.forfm    ance of their offir4a! duties. Its contepts mnv nnt hi ntherwiqe disclosed
without World Bank authorization.






I Pro,iect ID: P0A4567                                      IPr-j,ecl-t,,A,T AD -  e AT17\ T ID ALTI-rT H .S C' TA
Team Leader: Daniel Cotlear                                TL Unit: LCSHH
ICR T-ype: C'o-r-e ICR'                                   'Report Date: June 27, 2002
1. Project Data
Ab.ame: AP.-HELTtATH rTUTTTD ANTrC TA                  If1 Number      f':T% AACAADI.
CPL-40040;
SCL4 004A
Country/Department: ARGENTINA                                              Region: Latin America and
Caribbenn Region
Sector/subsector: HR - Reform and Financing
KEY DATES
Origi.nnlRviedAta
PCD:   04/17/1995                               Effective: 07/12/1996         07/12/1996
Appraisa.   0611! 9/195                                ,,MTR:
Approval:  04/25/1996                                Closing: 12/31/1999          06/30/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Other Part ners:
STAI7 F               Currnt                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:       David de Ferranti                          Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:      Myrna Alexander                            Go' in' T. Nakani
Sector Manager:       Evangeline Xavier                          Alain Colliou
Team Leader at iCR:   Daniel Cotlear                             Rooert Hecht
ICR Primary Author:   Luis Perez; Sati Achath; Ruth E.
Levine
2.. Prrincipal 'Per,'urmrance Ratiings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Rank Perfnrmanrpe S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)         ICR
Quality at Entry: S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3  Asescsmane   f nflg opa1nw%rnjt  hiajofivD anti Daesin, and of (u.va,lfi a+ Ent JY
3.1 Original Objective:
The US$25 million Argentina Health Insurance Technical Assistance Project accompanied two adjustment
operations (Health Insurance Reform loans 4002-AR and 4003-AR, totaling US$350 million), each of
which sought to improve the efficiency and long-term financial solvency of the country's major health
insurers (known as Obras Sociales - OS).
The loans were designed to support several objectives of the Government: to introduce competition in the
health insurance market, while avoiding risk selection; to create a fund that would on-lend to health insurers
- many of which ran chronic deficits - conditioned on their implementation of organizational and
administrative reforms that would lead to long-term solvency; to reallocate money in the existing insurance
redistribution fund to insured individuals on the basis of their income and health risk profile; and to develop
an effective regulatory framework for health insurance that would promote competition, while at the same
time ensuring transparency and accountability, and protecting consumers' rights. The reform was expected
to benefit a total of 18 million people covered by the national social insurance providers.
Historically, both the OS and the National Social Services Institute for Retirees and Pensioners (Instituto
Nacinnal de Servicios Sociales nara Jubiladns v Pensionados -INSSJP also known as PAMI) had
operated as monopolies, with captive, employer-based beneficiary populations. Many of the insurers
nperated in inefficient and non-transparent ways, c-hronically nrnning large debts; a large share had such
small risk pools that the chances of solvency were small. Through the introduction of competition among
the OS, ad tbe tm,rnv,ed rmj1a^tion of the healtt,h ina-,"nce systemn      A-,ln  of ins,ed Argent,,.es were
expected to obtain higher quality of service, resulting in better health outcomes and higher user satisfaction.
Lil adlUkition, uhIVe.JILA reforj. ;cue   (z)le,ilr, corLLJL.petiti  UVLWe  bLrAO ar.d rger,tMUr in'Laa's pivt peVLL -pa
health plans (Pre-Pagas) in the market for voluntary health insurance; (b) implementation of a Standard
TT__I.t Tm __ _C^_nI__          _               X r%_ V_ _M               _:_L:_.:_n or_:___ _ ___.__J "-  t_ . 
nHaeUI DBlenefit rPacIkag  krrugrurnu iV1tfUIGu LIU JugULtU(JFLC  riv I'J) lUl UIbUjwu Pulbul, aUu ku) lul
redirection of Redistribution Fund (FSR) resources to OS with the lowest levels of revenue per beneficiary.
ese,aV chJLanges wer expcte to substr.ia"y Ui..p. ~-ov  h equity of th e  W.f nsw-a   sy-tem. Th
reform was also expected to reduce waste and misuse of funds, eliminating the estimated US$150 million in
cominUdu opeULUirar UViWi>L (J JpererL Uo dLUIUi LrVVr1Ues) dL UIV LfIL1r. Ul applaisa:. rULuUVI, 'ule hea LU
insurance reforms were expected to improve health outcomes for a large segment of the country's formal
work force, ieading to iower absenteeism and higner producuivity.
The technical assistance (TA) loan reviewed in this report was designed to provide the Government with the
necessary technical resources to meet the important policy conditions attached to the health insurance
reform loans (as well as a later Social Sector Adjustment Loan), and to strengthen the public sector
institutions charged with designing, implementing, and monitoring the planned reforms of the social
insurance system. The specific objectives of the project were to: (a) design and put in place a set of key
reform policies such as competition, standard benefits package, and automatic distribution from the
Solidarity Redistribution Fund (Fondo Solidario de Redistribuci6n, or FSR); (b) develop the regulatory
framework and institutions for the future system; and (c) formulate and implement organization and
management changes in the PAMI.
The project's objectives were consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) during a
period of fiscal crisis in the mid-1990s. In particular, they corresponded to the Government's interests in
restoring and maintaining a fiscal balance through improvements in the efficiency of public expenditures;
- 2 -



and supporting investments in human resource-. esneciallv educationn nutritionn and health= On the fiscal
side, the sector adjustnent and TA loans were aimed at eliminating the operating deficits and improving the
effirien.y of ent:tis nrovidancy social health insirnne. In tonig en nd in ml-ny ndditinml char.e in the
"rules of the game" under which social insurance was organized, it also sought to improve access and
-lith, nf hpoltb rcare fnr Argentis in tha fnrnml oat'tnr - Lh s r Anonngm to h  . ar. -lo,p-rnant
concerns.
The Bank was well placed to develop this operation, given its involvement in Argentina's health sector
It___  -L  r .      _1   2   LlJ  L.-.l.L  InflT)I f ITT  £IV   A"%~  1__  --- 
uuuughi puj.for z ll IVmLeLU4an a hilU heaiiU IIv4iLU O krzI'AIVifN, U6LJ-PUA.) andU prUviln1ia public hospital
management (PRESSAL, 3931-AR). Importantly, the Bank's economic and sector work on health
financing (Argentina: Facing the Challenge of Health insurance Rejorm, Report No. 1i40U-AK),
developed during late-1994 and much of 1995, provided timely and in-depth analytic background when the
Government of Argentina faced a fiscal crisis and turned to the Bank for an adjustment operation.
The project took into account the main risk tactors to successful implementation of the reform and
developed measures to minimize their impact. The first risk factor was the political risk that the
Government would be unable to overcome opposition to change. To deal with this, the Government adopted
a unified position on the reform, which was initially endorsed by the President, the Ministers of Economy
and Labor and the Chief of the President's Office. The Government also had a detailed strategy for dealing
with those who were opposed to the reforms, including trade union leaders and health provider associations.
This included frequent consultations with all stakeholders, and a set of special incentives for joining the
reform process early and performing well. To further mitigate this risk, the project financed a campaign to
disseminate information on project actions and their benefits to OS members and management, before and
during implementation. These measures were partially successful, although as discussed later (under
Section 4), success was hampered by stronger than anticipated stakeholder opposition, as well as obstacles
to change PAMI.
The second risk factnr was the risk nf nnpvihle diffi^ultipv and delanvs in huilding un and maintainino the
institutional capacity of the Ministry of Health (MOH), PAMI and the relevant regulatory agencies to carry
out the reform. This r.kx was addressed by developinVgn a stronrg ore tean of Argentine mnanagers, lawyers,
and technical specialists at the project design stage. Many complex technical tasks, such as assisting OS in
prepari.ng res-1c -;- n 1- -.scyr:A out fn-n-i& ..iA amA  ,rtl,...ess ,nah,00 of -Andivi-a OS, -a
designing a new organizational structure of the PAMI, were subcontracted to private firms. The Program
C.-sIr.litee provided te,]li          -- overigh to_ ensu, T*hat shforia;,  dEeui, rt TE71), DA^ AAT
%LVIUUkLL~ JIUViUU LVA I.IUI,al UVV,101r,1L &U L41UaW. uiaL ULI, -ULUiuMLI%ti auuL.A.UL1 II  LA.%~,J A FxLViL,
and the Government regulatory body were adequately staffed and budgeted. By and large, these measures
were s-uccessiul.
Overall, the TA project, although complex due to mie quantity and deptn of the subjecis and the high
number of agents involved, had a demanding level that the Government and the implementation agency
could adequately deal with; timely resources availabie for the conformation ot professionai teams,
supported adequate progress in project implementation. However, as discussed later, the implementation of
the institutional strengthening and policy reforns within PAMI was difficult for the Borrower because of
various external constraints.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of six components, all of which were designed to support the country's efforts to meet
- 3 -



the goals of the adjustment loans and their follow-up. The relatinonhin mnnon r componentc, aS well aS uith
other concurrent Bank operations, was seen as essential to a global approach. For example, the PRESSAL
operation was sunpporting several tuiidie - such nS a sudy on nnnrtinnnnl health nr;  ardtntiona!ol
survey (or inventory) of health resources - which were expected to feed directly into the technical work of
the TA nr1r%APt
A.Policy, Desie;. zr.d  !r.p1em.e-r.ta -t TT;o  -S 1 1 milon es'u"'te  atapasl. Thsc m o,n  ,,ldd Ai
J*1S.y  O~f~.f ~,,L..ILAL4LLLLUIA IkLJ13.D IUIAIUII aLuia4L;u aL. dpaiii aL2a. 11U2 UIAJIIFU1ICllL ULIIUUVU. klI)
designing and enacting a series of important policies through presidential decrees, ministerial resolutions,
a,d institutional char,ges. Thesse Upollcies UInludeu, Lur example, Lflt reimement oi mne rPviu oased on
intemational and domestic experiences with benefit packages, and the implementation of a new mechanism
for financing low frequency, high-cost medicai procedures (aita compiejidaa); (ii) redesigning and
improving the FSR, which had operated in a non-transparent and inequitable manner; (iii) analyzing the
cost of the compensatory system using the available enrollment data and estimates of the cost of the PMO;
and (iv) analyzing the options for regulating the private, pre-paid health plans and submitting the draft
legislation to the Congress for debate and approval.
B. Upgrading of National Beneficiary Enrollment Information System (US$4.5 million estimated at
appraisal).  This component included upgrading the Register of Beneficiaries Data Base (Padr6n)
maintained by federal tax collection agency (Direcci6n General Impositiva, or DGI) that it could serve as
a basis for a competitive insurance market. Activities included: (i) reviewing essential rules and operational
requirements; (ii) updating the current DGI register; (iii) designing the register of beneficiaries; and (iv)
implementing a new enrollment database, including installation of computer equipment, training and
performance monitoring.
C. Regulation and Supervision of Social Health Insurance (US$2.4 million estimated at appraisal). This
component consisted of: (i) formulating and enacting a new regulatorv code: (ii) carrving out a diagnostic
study of National Health Insurance Administration (Administraci6n Nacional de Seguros de las Salud, or
ANSSAT) to evaluate its nerfformance and related stnrctlire- staffing procedimres and resources; and (iii)
revamping the regulatory agency to include the appropriate organizational structure, staffmg and
informantion syvtemn,.
D. Prep,aration of R*estruc-h-i- P!ar.s MU   rA-Ai!!ion  OLflat.e at appra,oa,J. The project p.-vided
technical assistance for the drafting of restructuring plans for OS that were eligible to receive loans for"
reconIversUo-." Tfisu waa iLnLLeUdU LU 1cVL.UUage UIsh OJS t pariLiaiLjipaLt ini uv ' Xhe roULUL"ur 17 LUU IfI Ulse
National Health Insurance Funds (Fondo de Reconversi6n de las Obras Sociales, or FROS), which was
partially financed by uie adjustuent operations and partially by government counterpar funds.
E. Institutional Strengthening or 1NSSJr (US$8.5 miiiion estimated at appraisai). Tihis component
financed, the following activities: (i) preparing plans for reorganizing and downsizing PAMI; (ii).installing
new iniormation systems for personnel and budgeting; (iii) improving contracting; and (iv) strengthening
the management of pharmaceuticals purchasing and payment. It also included expanding social
communications and consumer relations services, as well as outsourcing two large polyclinics in the city of
Rosario (Province of Santa Fe) and the ambulance service operated in the City of Buenos Aires (CBA).
F. Coordinating and Executing Unit (UEC) (US$ 3.5 million estimated at appraisal). The TA project
financed the operating expenses for the unit that coordinated the health insurance reform, covering both the
adjustment and TA loans.
3.4 Revised Components:
Three significant changes related to the project were made:
- 4 -



First, in July 1999, approximately $4.2 million were reallocated within the Provincial Health Sector
Reform (I RESSAL, 3931i-AR) project to support severa; policy design-related tecnnical assistance
activities under a program known as PRESSS (Programa de Reconversi6n del Seguro de Salud); these
activiiies (including tne development of nationai heaith accounts and a provincial health information
system), though not formally part of the TA loan, were coordinated with the PROS activities within the
MOH and were supervised by the PROS task manager. (Consistent with the source of financing, the
results of PRESSS activities are assessed under the PRESSAL ICR.).
Second, in December 2000, responsibility for implementing all activities related to policy development and
insurance regulation were moved to the Superintendent of Health Insurers (Superintendencia de Servicios
de Salud), leaving the MOH with only a limited number of activities to implement. This change was made
more for internal political reasons than technical ones.
Third, several activities related to PAMI ceased in the second half of the project, after it was recognized by
both the Bank and the Government that the intense resistance to change and the institution's negative
reputation would overwhelm any reform efforts.
3.5 Quality at Entry.
The project design predates the existence of the Quality Assurance Group, so the project's quality at entry
was not formally assessed. However, for the purposes of this report, quality at entry is judged to be
satisfactory. The technical basis was sound, and the aims were consistent with Government and Bank
priorities and strategies. It is particularly noteworthy that a large and comprehensive TA loan was even
conceived. The team designing the adiustment operations recognized the need for both broad and deep
technical support to help the Government meet the adjustment objectives, and the TA loan provided the
resources for that sunnort.
Tt is ivefiu1 tov note the ininnvtiup fp2tIlrpv nfthe nnpratinne nsplackap that anrnmna,nroA the health  ,,rini-%.
reform efforts of the mid- 1990s, of which the technical assistance loan is a part. First, the operations were
1IflIS I~~~~.-;--" t%at hZPAas; l-me ifnXStwo 1e O;AZ sAfkaors mre recetly bWed -w;-
J-.e. J- s.LiWk5 -.L--J.b -lAIAO -"Af                             a AUJ £-  'V UU IWJ£' LA.V tLVS. VUaO V.l C UQV-l1Ol VLI,
with high quality technical policy development inputs from the Government and from the Bank, a well
Lalanced             irsU(conomic and sector1ILLIU'%U'.GU                   L work, a sector adjus   lUan, a .ucuh.mal
assistance loan, and a social sector adjustment loan) were put in place. Second, the Argentina health
reform pacKage uvercamire a con-inor problem of' sector adjustnent loans: instead oi transferning resources
solely to the Ministry of Finance - thus failing to provide sectoral ministries with incentives for action and
reform - the Argentina health SECALs used the proceeas of the BanK loan (togetner with Government
counterpart) to create a fund managed by the health sector authorities. This fund then made loans
(adjustment loans) to reform the OS. The fund was 'Government money," however the loans to the OS
followed criteria previously agreed with the Bank and received WB supervision and no objection as part of
the supervision of Loan 4004. This feature served two main functions: (i) put the incentives squarely in the
sector and, by doing so, give greater impulse to the macro-reform, and (ii) allow the same money to be used
twice for reforms consistent with the project objectives.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.!   t.n,1ach,io,,anent o
This loan fits within a set of actions and transformations that affected the Argentine health sector over a
pe..od of aL..ost 10 years. As -uc, it is Adf_Jc               -V to. isoat tefecso  iTA loar 4 f-ol "e- 1---
jJLi u  Ak 0UllaL kU Y..UL. r1a OUV"4, L L  JkIA£LU1.GL I  '"a vl ukl ' 1-LI luuLIULLI ul~- id.Lv
number of other related factors in the health sector during the 1990s. For this ICR, we assess the
- 5 -



implementation and results of the TA loan both as part of and in isolation from the impiementation and
results of the companion adjustment loan, which have already been evaluated in an earlier ICR (Report No.
19426). In the earlier ICR, the adjustment loan was evaluated very positively, and the report concluded
that the financial condition and quality of the OS (and the sector in general) were significantly improved
through the intervention of the project (including the TA loan). More recent information sheds some
additional light on those findings. Thus, we review below how well the combined adjustment and TA loans
achieved their aims, with an emphasis on the role of the TA loan. Then, in Section 4.2, we primarily focus
on three questions: Were the planned TA activities realized? Was the quality of the TA provided adequate?
What were the eventual results of the TA?
Overall, the adjustmnent and the TA loans contributed to bring positive changes in the culture of decision
making within Argentina's health system, including the incorporation of efficiency analysis, genuine
improvements in efficiency, and a new perspective about consumer satisfaction. The TA activities were
instrumental in developing the capacity for health financing policy analysis, and the design and
promulgation of new laws, decrees, and regulations, thereby helping the Government to meet the
conditionalities for the three tranche releases of the adjustment loans. Its performance is jinuded to he
satisfactory, on balance. Major outcomes are:
(i)    Openinfz up competition amonp OS: Based on the studies financed under the project, the
Gover-.^nment passed laws '.o openar   ofo cono4fn annd re, (tV lcorpettaoonrahloon'-  erroe  t -o - r.e,-,nhos
any OS as their health insurance carrier. Effective January 1997, these new laws represented a
fimuaiuullul.i cIhair  Ill Uth uvalwui IlLUri,c4I  ill AUrg-,rLUra. S1r,c Septel,,eL 197708, the avrLag VI
number of transfers per month is about 11,500.
Although some of the pieces were put into place to create a competitive environment (and consequently the
higher patient responsiveness this woula bring about), the results nave not Deen entirely positive: tne rate of
transfer is lower than some would initially expect and it appears that adverse selection is occurring. Of the
440,000 transfers completed by February 2000, 65 percent correspond to employees with salaries below
$1,000, and 25 percent to employees earning between $1000 and $2000. It appears that the beneficiaries
changing among OSs tend to be the ones with higher incomes and consequently higher contributions.
The appearance of "Gerenciadoras de Salud" (loosely translated as "health management agencies") was
not imagined at the time of initial design of the legal framework. These entities, to whom OSs transfer their
portfolio of beneficiaries (in part or completely) to administer risk, used cream-skimming purposes in many
cases. Higher income level population segments went to private insurers (pre-pagas), taking advantage of
the weaknesses of the regulatory framework that permitted their operation. This constituted one the major
failures of the reform process, leading to an even greater fragmentation of the system and creating a
non-transparent image.
(ii)  Improvement in the Standard Benefits Package (PMO). The project facilitated improvement in
the content of the benefit package and subsequently extended the mandatory provision of the standard
package of services to pre-pagas. Although the PMO is subject to critique on a number of technical
grounds, it is now routinely used as a reference package by the national OS, private insurers, and even the
intermediaries. It represents an important starting point for future reforms and has the potential to reorient
utilization toward primarv care. In 2002. orimarv health care Drograms and chronic disease Drograms were
incorporated to the PMO.
Formally, all the OS most offer the Standard Benefit Package, according to decree number 492/95 and
resolutio- MXS 247/0! eventhe,,gh there are no reliable facts regarding to the rPrrent execution of this
-6-



norm within the program scope.
(iii)  Development of the Health Services Superintendency. The Superintendencia de Servicios de
Salud (SSS), whicn was created with project support in early 1997 and came into operation in 1998, made
progress in the following areas: (a) setting up a new organization and creating a strategic development plan;
(b) hiring and training personnel; (c) developing a consumer services unit; (d) establishing a team of
inspectors and auditors; and (e) issuing regulations related to consumer choice among the OS, health plans
offered by the OS (including the PMO), contracts with providers, outsourcing of administrative and
medical services, publicity and communications (including the contracting of promoters), and sanctions and
penalties in case of non-compliance.
(iv)   Restructuring of Obras Sociales. Technical assistance provided by the project for drafting
restructuring plans made it possible for the OS to participate in the loan restructuring fund. Orily agencies
with a minimum of 10,000 beneficiaries could apply for the FROS resources. Thus only 84 OS were
eligible at the start of the program out of almost 280 OSs registered with the SSS. The Support Letter (
Carta de Adhesi6n) was signed by 90 OSs, 30 of which had loan approved. This represents approximately
43 percent of all OS beneficiaries.
However. many of the OSs that obtained loans under the nrogram are currently in financial ieopardy (and
were at risk even before Argentina's recent financial crisis). In October 1, 2001, a SSS-developed
mnnitoring toni - which hnq 50 variahbpl corrPvcndinag to epruirpes lpea1 ar.d Pr-nnnmiclia aspenrin] ncnPPts,
was applied to 28 OSs with loans. The results showed that more than 64 percent of the obras were at high
..sk (!8 OSs); a0pprN otaely '7 p-ercet ,-ere at m.ode  ..skt (2 OSs); andr about (2  percent wer-e
k-L  'LO,'fF  Jn,..J~  111  L     (t*C(S*S~~fRA F- --   I  . .L 1J  andfl~  M-h'J-  2   p%1et   weflSt
at medium risk (8 OS). These values are worse than the system-wide averages. Across 205 OSs, only
ab-out KA percent a,-e considereA to be- at hil -:-I,
auUUL UU jk~IL a  Ui3uvLU LU UV, aL IIAVI iart~..
11.11       UIkiL U1~~I~ W~~ IILL1~ 4UV41~XIt IL Ii Ul, LUIIUI1iULMULI I bIlihLi VaJ0, WiUllII
,nu uinporarit obuser-va'i-on -is 'uiat *uiere was -Li-;e a-dvdan-CeflIU-l in 'uecnoiaio fsalOs whch
continued to be at high risk because of their size. Although managerial and organization perfornance
improved, these improvements did not translate into service improvements. Tinus, between August 2000
and March 2001, six OSs under the program filed for bankruptcy laws "concurso de acreedores" - a
strong sign of financial trouble. (See Annex 8: Summary of the Evaluation Status of Participating OSs in
PROS - SSS Syndicature Program).
(v)    Automatic and transparent reallocation of the proceeds of the FSR. Two major achievements of
the project were: i) to increase the transparency in the use of the FSR and ii) to substantially reduce the
scope for discretionary transfer of funds. The formula-based, automatic redistribution of funds to the OS
gradually increased from zero in September 1995 to 66 percent of the budget of the FSR (corresponding to
about $230 million) in 2000, and to 100 percent in 2001. While the changes in the functioning of the FSR
are an achievement of the project, it still did not go as far as initially anticipated: The redistribution criteria
include beneficiary income level, but do not yet include household size, sex/age distribution, or other
risk-related characteristics.
(vi)   Financing' High-Complexitv Care. The project supported the creation of the Special Program
Agencv (Administraci6n de Programas Especiales, or APE) to manage the subsidies for long-term and
high-complexity care. The program assisted in building institutional capacity of the APE; and the design of
eligibility critprla and the establislnhment of information monitoring and control svytems. Despite these
efforts, the eligibility criteria were distorted as a result of intense professional interests and/or lobbying by
orgar.ized nat,er7t groups.
- 7-



(vii)  Reforming PAMI. The project contributed in a limited way to building and implementing PAMI's
financial and accounting systems and in carrying out analytical and design work for a new system for
contracting out services through health maintenance-type organizations. However, PAMI did not carry out
the institutional development activities initially contemplated. Finally, many of the recommendations of the
studies on its institutional restructuring were deemed irrelevant by the authorities.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. .   Policy Design and implementation. Satisfactory. Under this component, the vast majority of
studies originally foreseen were completed, including: "Institutional Strengthening in Analysis of Policies
and Reguiation of the Health Sector Study," "Solidarity Redistribution Fund Study; Strengthening of the
Special Programs Agency Study," and the "Study on Strengthening of the Superintendency for Health
Insurance." (See Annex 9, "List of PROS Studies.") In general, the quality of the work was deemed high
or very high by supervision missions, and several of the studies directly led to legal and/or regulatory
changes. Strong communication efforts in several instances helped to overcome opposition by highlighting
key aspects of the studies' implications - for example, the benefits of introducing competition. Overall,
however, the project fell short of original expectations in disseminating and obtaining positive results from
the preparation of studies.
The early studies, including "Changing Among the OSs Options," "Simulation for the FSR," "Satisfaction
Surveys," "Risk Analysis of the OSs," and the PMO studies, were not well disseminated, due to a
prevailing belief that the results would be incorrectly interpreted. Preparation of the studies related to the
development of a management information system for the provinces, including consensus-building
workshops and assessment of the nrovincial situation; was difficult- in large part because of difficultiaes
obtaining active participation at provincial levels.
The introduction of competition among OSs met with strong opposition; however, although this was
-.+-rmntA 1-n o-,fhnrt;e onA eu,r -rtoA i1n, 44a ,rnr ornona4nafeonrnrnlrn,^,t;nr  tr.ton  t ka.,o4 ..a.o
that was initiated by the project. Opposition to the regulation of private health insurers made the approval
of a draf law basedU oil Uone VI oUI projects s tLUUies impJosib. 1oUWVVeI, 1ill Uone UUL4al sucAces, LaW
24.754/97 did extend the PMO as a requirement for private health insurers.
B.     Upgrading of the National Beneficiary Enrollment Information System.  Satisfactory. The
majority of the technical assistance activities foreseen under this component were conducted and judged to
be of adequate quality - eventhough full objectives were not met, and the final impact was more limited
than anticipated. The project financed a study on the enrollment database to design and implement a
database of beneficiaries. Based on the recommendations of this study, the project financed the upgrading
of the enrollment information system and the establishment of a new enrollment database. This database,
which has been used by autonomous public hospitals to identify patients enrolled in the OS and facilitate
reimbursement, is also used as a census of beneficiaries of the national OS.
The administration of this database has important implications: it provides a tool for monitoring and
controlling contributions and the distribution of subsidies. Because of this, the database has been the
subject of active discussions among various stakeholders. As a result, there was a lack of commitment to
comolete the design. update the database and assure Droper administrative arrangements. A new decree
(1400/01- December), which is required to fulfill the conditions of another Bank operation (SAL-I,
7479-AR)- further advances the developnent and update of the needed database- Thus- while the TA loan
financed a large number of inputs related to this product, the final objectives are yet to be consolidated.
= a=



C.     Regulation and Supervision of Health Insurance Component.  Satisfactory.  The expected
technical assistance activities were carried out, and yielded important results - particularly with respect to
strengthening regulation.  The Regulatory Framework Study facilitated the design of a regulatory
framework, including the draft law on the regulation of private insurers and on competition between
pre-pagas and OSs de Personal de Direcci6n (OS for white-collar employees). The study also covered the
modification of the PMO and, the analysis of complementary health plans, as well as regulations for
competition between OS de Personal de Direccion and Professional Associations. In addition, the
technical and financial feasibility of establishing a health insurance plan for the self-employed was
evaluated.
Strong nonpositinn and lnhhving by nroe-nnang andi n.,) de Pory.nnl da fio,-'riAn were obstacles that -oul
not be overcome. The main stakeholders, which successfully captured higher income enrollees through
Gerenciadores, opposed the establishment of tran.sparent .ues of competition that would have perm-t.ed
lower income enrollees to access their services.
The study on strengthening of the SSS was conducted with the objective of designing and implementing the
regulatory framevwork. This3 included an a~i ibilt; of the organizational set-up and strategic plan, numan
resources, management and information systems, and communication strategy of the SSS; and the design of
consumer protection regulations. As a resuit of this study, tne SSS adopted its strategic pian and issued
prudential and consumer regulations in 1998. However, to date, the SSS has not given priority to this area
or executed specific systematic actions to develop a meaningful policy to protect beneficiaries.
D.     Preparation of Restructuring Plans: Satisfactory. (At evaluation time, an estimated value of US$
10 million). The project provided technical assistance to OS for elaborating restructuring plans which were
a prerequisite for obtaining loans from FROS. The objective of this activity was to stimulate the OS in
participating in FROS, which was financed through the adjustment operations and government counterpart
funds.
As mentioned before, 84 OSs qualified and 30 OSs finally obtained loans. The reform plans were
technically evaluated and approved, and were considered to be of good quality. The impact of the
restructuring plans was rated as positive at the micro-management level:  there was significant
modemization at the organizational level, and it seems that managerial processes (including databases and
information systems) and health care services did improve. However, there has not been a real evaluation
or follow-un analysis of these asnects. The monitoring emnhasis has been nlaced in economic and
financing performance aspects linked to the loan disbursements from the FROS to the OS. However, these
economic and financial indicatnrs have strongly deterinoratpd dne1 to the neritent nri-ic of the OS system,
the slow down of economic activity since 2001, the more recent changes introduced in the exchange rate,
&ndLhe ete:oatedpllchsi.gcapciy or mEoredgoos eeedin m.edica! services. Cl-rer.l,
according to the SSS's monitoring system for OSs, there are no evident distinctions between the OSs that
receie +.ch,ia -As--n-e -ar. +1,osc +t,-t Aid not.
T                      ---C.  .2..  P "A S T                      C- ~A~ t~~ II  ~ -
E,.   IftLLLULIUla:I SaOUIUL1UC1r of1 rtiiVil. UrIZ,lMa1LCLUFy. D.ULeca rPAvMI rles  fu:L pULULLIpAdLIUI ul
the reform efforts, much of the TA under this component failed to materialize; the technical work that was
financed for the benefit or PAI4 in general had only a modest impact on the institution. For example, m
May 1997, a study was prepared for the formulation of a strategic plan for systems and organizational
development of PANi at the centrai and local levels. Overall, the recommendations were not impiemented
because PANI was developing an altemative arrangement (i.e., contracting out the management of its
medical services to large entities) that would have radically changed its organization and systems. A
separate study was completed for contracting out the programmed and non-programmed ambulance
-9-



services. This study's conclusions were not taken into consideration.
Other studies financed by the project included analyses of the medical care model, new management
systems, diagnosis and restructuring of social programs, and refining the monitoring and accounting
systems. Some of the recommendations from these studies were included in the design of the contracts with
the three provider networks.
The pharmaceutical study analyzed and defined a strategy for pharmaceuticals provision to PAMI
ambulatory and oncologv patients. It contained recommendations on contract negotiations for
phannaceuticals. Although not all of the study's conclusions were considered, PAMI reduced its spending
on nhnrmePiiticls hv 55 millinn ner- month hv nPaontitina 2 nontrn't wifh th,t nhnrrn,,, Utipa1 ;n.h"Stri,
UTn.fortunately, severa! of thnce ortev,ernpnts, were not r..torned. For nrnnh.pj the ,.n,an+n- of svice
delivery networks at the national level failed because of legal aspects and lack of transparency. In 2000,
.-oec wLaJVVs rp c   b F zrJS'.o1 te;. srViLc delVe r1y scihemI, UasU ULn IVocal LLU-LWVrk Udign1.
.3 NMet Preent VauE!co.nomni ra.to nfretOfUrn:
Not applicable for the TA loan.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A=
4.5 Institutional develoDment imDact:
The project's institutional development impact has been substantial. It was instrumental in creating the
Vuperintendencia and in developing its instituftional canacitvy The nroiect also fahcilitated the introiintion
of competition among OS, allowing enrollees to select any OS as their health insurer.
The program was instrumental in the reform process for the Obras receiving support under a loan. Most of
the =..prov1em-et werem seen zt the micro 1-evel.; Major Lr.prve..t         - benoserveA in the
Uf. V ift - 'fl*a.L-- V- -. .. fl  ..  LLV  -fUf~  - - *  VaJJ  Lyt .-llt-tO 110Vt  U'..   UU3. IV t.   L11  uS'.
modernization of administration and service delivery: participating OSs have better managerial processes,
Udaabae, U4L4 apiUrocsinU cAIpa.Ly, ar,U r11,ueldcal cae pLroesses.
T ne PROS TA operation aiso was an inportant agunt ior cultura; change witiin the sector. iecimcai
assistance under the project contributed to the introduction of "freedom of choice," and initiated or
strengthened new activities, including actuarial risk analysis assessment, discussions about the PMO, and
reinsurance analysis for high-cost/low-frequency diseases.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Considering the adiustment and TA loans as a package, two maior factors outside the govermments and the
implementing agency's control negatively affected the project's implementation. First, organized opposition
to the reform slowed several initiatives. Trade unionsn traditional private health insu ranne companies and
other interest groups threatened by the changes tried to slow or stop the move toward an open, unified,
,.nAr't"thA ,nA4 m rP r'rnfPe.Pinn.11u cinmpAcpt rpm1o,ilstnru euctom  2peic!tincr infrnAir,tinn nf pnptit,-n
OS lobbied for regulations and supervisory practices that would create disincentives for people to tansfer
be.^-ecn OSs. Trhus -tde pro.A- e - by- the1 TA did not achieve the r 19,11 J,.pact Onthe other h-and this
1etweV %..S   ~JJ . . LIUS,  - -SM.,  jJL -  - *U .t.   -   .  -L  fS -- ftf U..- l. -  U  fl.f  -L.L -LFfjJk.  wn   ", S uLt .U''  tIal , dIiO
opposition was mitigated to a large degree by the fact that the Argentine public and the Ministries of
cortorUiy and LaboUr, wVere in IaVVI VI fUll fIVIIIm.
- 10 -



Second, the financial crisis that swept East Asia in 1996-97 had its spill-over effect on Argentina's
financial market, which in turn adversely affected the national economy and the project implementation.
Due to economic slowdown and the resulting higher unemployment, payroll contributions decreased and
many firms stopped making payments to the OS, affecting their economic situation and reform processes.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
(i)    In the earlier govemment administration, many communication and coordination problems existed
between SSS and the Policies and Regulations Unit of the MOH. The SSS was reluctant to accept advice
from the latter. Under the new administration, in 2000, as the Policy and Regulations Unit has been
absorbed into the SSS, coordination problems have been eliminated.
(ii)   Lack of neutrality by the SSS was a major factor affecting project implementation. The institution
was often subject to outside pressure from trade unions and other sources, and at times responded to these
pressures by not taking necessary regulatory actions.
(iii)  The establishment of the national database of insured persons was delayed during implementation
due to several factors, many of which were subiect to the control of the imnlementing agency: (a) the
databases that were to be consolidated were heterogeneous, which produced technical problems; (b)
mn-,'hniniemQ fnr iindR.tna were inqufficient which hamnpred the dqtnhahs'q iitilitv- (cr the taxuthnritv
resisted sharing its database of contributors with other social security institutions; and (d) there was lack of
cooperat;on from the National Social Secrity Ae4min,ars t;on (Adminivtracin .M7.aional ea Smvi,4Yi7a
Social, or ANSSAL), which was supposed to establish and maintain the database, but had neither the
UIL.~Iir U v e  nor az . - . be :n, the  Uto dos.
(iv)   FrequentL cwhaIges ul UH-UWL u in ruvul uudI.n *uil i.uuMbro Ul UIV prUJLc I.-LadLVU seVVL1 p.-UUMlerr.
Plans developed and approved by one director were not necessarily followed by the successor. Thus, most
of the studies drafted with project support were never impiemented. Similarly, agreernenis already
negotiated by one director were reviewed and sometimes modified by the second. This created uncertainty
among providers and delayed final negotiations of contracts.
(v)    At the time of appraisal, repayment of loans by the OSs was ensured through automatic deductions
by AFIP, the agency responsible for tax collection. Subsequently, the Government changed the bankruptcy
law, such that the loans made by FROS to the OSs lost their preferred status. Four of the OSs have made
use of this new law. Likewise, the Govermment also eased the enforcement of regulations issued by SSS
regarding OS functioning.
(vi)   The Government was passive in dealing with various subjects (e.g. beneficiaries' rights), and was
insufficiently active in public communication efforts about these matters, as well as in dissemination of
technical studies and evaluations of system performance. An active attitude on this issues could have
mitigated the impact of Dressures bv interest groups, and could have helped to create a better environment
for implementing the reform.
(vii)  As a result, social and sector leaders believe that the power struggles within the Government
block,ed m.prtpr nrnaress iin manv of the initial reform ohiertives.
S3 Fa,rtnr cgenerally suhjiet to imDlementing agency control:
Several important factors within the control of the implementing agencies (MOH and SSS) had negative
e.ffects on the project.



(i)    Lack of qualified specialists in various fields, such as health finance, medical service audit,
administrative law, and health regulation, resulted in weak management in the Policy and Regulations Unit,
and uneven output in the initial stage of the project. The Unit suffered from a chronic shortage of qualified
specialists in the design and implementation of a regulatory body for social and private health insurance.
There was no explicit will to strengthen the technical weaknesses identified before; the implementing
agency did not respond with altematives such as contracting external specialist, training local staff, or
selecting qualified staff.
(ii)   In the last stage of the project, the monitoring of the performance of OSs under the program was
executed by PROS, which reduced objectivity.
(iii)  No handbook or bookkeeping was developed, which would have assured - through the execution of
audits - the rP1lihabity nfthe niian.tittiup in iciatnr Pestnh1izhPd fnr the nPifnrmnanrw AfOf QO linder nrngrnm
(i v)   11.4.. VY were, t,J.-dtnaL1UA proler*.sUk Lfl.'U V *f Uthe. sub=corfflJtl1.ponents A,whc UM.'f worked ;r.4L isolUatJ.ion
from one another.
(v)    The Executing Unit did not foresee any mechanism to prevent the OSs from being subject to
creditors meetings, althoughn iaw N°24522 orn balukruptcy initially only excluded banks ana insurance
companies.
(vi)   The Executing Unit did not develop indicators of service delivery associated with the reconversi6n,
a!LuOugh Serv[lcce quantIIy imp-0ve ient, was ari oUjeavUe VOl ULU poUncLy VilaligUb pI ULUIJLU.
(vii)  Tnere was no established regimen on contracting oi service uelivery, which would have estaDlisned
basic elements, such as an open public competition for service providers, and an evaluation of their
economic and financial risk profile. This flaw allowed for the concentration of services among
intermediaries, which had low quality and solvency.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
'The total cost of the project was about US$24.2 miiion, compared with the MOP estimate of US$30
million. The Bank financed US$23.6 million, and the Government contributed about US$0.6 million
equivalent in local costs.
6. Sustainability
6.1! Rationa.
Likely. The current social and economic situation in Argentina makes any assessment of sustainability a
g4lbll    -... Howeve;, is reaso-na le toayha the     ^ .103 LA na  of the.*tn an fl **  p slikel if ma*rn  m,A  i
economic conditions improve. The health reform was introduced and consolidated through several
rrvsiucnuiai decrees, ug,ulativilb issued by LU SLS, ar.d appUVrove  uy u.e P-AUviI's B d o Di.-etos
These legal and regulatory instruments suggest that the health insurance reforms will be sustained. In
addition, the new rignts and expectations of hie beneficiaries and Ute OS are irreversible - or at least
difficult to reverse.
The Government administration of 2000-2001, although under tremendous pressure due to the current
fiscal and political -crisis, is committed to supporting the sector both financially and on important policy
reforms. The current administration appears to be committed to maintaining the conceptual approach,
although the country now suffers from uncertainties in the health sector, as in all other sectors. That said,
- i2-



the reforms continue to be highly politicized, and thus sustainability cannot be assured.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Re--t-ccturiv'r-rmm ;ttF.Fe Petnhi;gie' iiner the project w!lt to-    A-4A o.r v hOS 4
closing. The Policy and Regulations Unit that has been absorbed into SSS will continue to manage the
e-roll.,n daA.bs-. 'mhe SSSQ .. .ll r^  , r.tn fh  efrr,er%Qorrgo    Ss u-.der +U-, -kA_g-v
L 1fU'flfnffl  ..aIUCO .  --- JLLJ   L.A. ,AIU,.af,Ul  1JellLhff L4. *ATLULUA u15   VI  O  LULU',J u1v, UaILfUi5r,u%WI
criteria provided by the TA. The FSR will continue to disburse its funds automatically, but without
dLLU1n.   ULb%dVLrioial sUUsidUies LU jOS. Nio UtaLsitiLOUnal w-iuugwenieuts are envisioned fo[ rtUVilI-[101UZU
activities.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the identification of the project was satisfactory. The Bank was proactive in
responding to the Government's request for financial and technical support for the overhaul of its health
insurance system, and at the time of project identification had in hand a fresh analysis of the situation and
reform opportunities. The project was innovative and its objectives were consistent with the Government's
development strategy and the Bank's assistance strategy. Project preparation was we'l organized. The
Bank, which had a harmonious team with a good skill mix, brought state-of-the-art expertise into proiect
design. During project appraisal, the Bank team took into account the technical complexity of the project
and assessed the nroiect's risks and benefits. The Bank had a consistently good working relationshin with
the Borrower during preparation and appraisal.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's nerformance during the implementation of the proiect was satisfactorv. Over the five years of
project implementation, there were 11 supervision missions, with an average of two missions per year. The
Bank's client relationship was productive. Sunervision teams included Bank's health economists; financial
economists, as well as specialists in health insurance, health regulations and social security.
The Bank staff took a firm and dynamic role in the supervision of the project implementation, and brought
1in outsiad  eAxpJeL  "a , A-.eeded. They were effective U es,liUf ng pa.  w;A. t -V       o a wd  r^nge. . of
stakeholders, which facilitated the sustainability of major policy reforms. The aide-memoires were
irgwuHly pparJed and- U. nsmi`-LLeUL3, leLLin.g Ude UIv erJUYIUrUrL L. pIUbeImsi WIUI pVjVL ex.ecuio cu
suggested remedies in a timely manner, in conformity with Bank procedures.
It must be said, however, that a number of the difficulties in implementation - such as the ones mentioned
in Section 5.3 - do not appear to have been detected and/or solved through interventions by the supervision
teams or Bank management..
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overal, the Bank performance was satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Th  Browrs pefomac        in the prprto    o _A _+  _A _ 4b%A_AA% .f th  prjc wa  highl sadfcoy  DArin th Ae _+
llt; JDUIlvWClb 2ViAVcLULl1aLI%V alI UJLG Fk,jLLauatsua vLP acV MILVJV%L Waao 1u%Jus} o^uosuur^ a bax
preparation stage, the Borrower displayed commitment to the objectives of the project. The Ministries of
Health and Economy nomnM-ated qualified staff and consultants to work on prepartion of the vario-us policy
and program components. The Government team, and in particular the group from the Ministry of
Economy, actively participated in the development of the policy conditionality for the loan. Throughout the
-13 -



project preparation, the government officials and staff of the implementing agency worked closely with the
Bank's project team on a continual basis, with full cooperation and enthusiasm.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Govermment's performance was satisfactory. During implementation, the Government consistently
maintained its commitment to improving the health insurance system. Despite strong pressures from
various quarters, the Govemment ensured the maintenance of the agreed core program and commitments
established in the Letter of Development Policy. The Government had established a productive project
implementation unit, and the day-to-day implementation of the project was reasonably smooth, with the
exceptions already mentioned.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of the MOH was marginally satisfactory. It sought support outside the health sector and
maintained inter-sectoral collaboration through the project implementation period. The change in
government administration in late 1999 did not greatly affect project implementation, as the outgoing
project team in the MOH ensured continuity by extending full support to the in-coming team. The executing
unit was well organized and effective in dealing with procurement, disbursement, progress reports, and in
maintaining proper records of the project. The quality of the work of the OS Restructuring Unit was
satisfactory in approving new plans and monitoring OS in the process of restructuring, except in the ways
mentioned in Section 5.3.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
1.     The technical assistance loan was an essential companion to the adjustment operations. The
technicai work fnnanedu under muis project proviueu uie core uniderpinings for ai ofi tie results ulat can oe
attributed to the adjustment operation, including the legal, regulatory and institutional changes. In addition,
given that the adjustment operation required thorough analyses of tne financial and institutional conditions
of the health insurers receiving loans for conversion, the resources under the TA loan were indispensable.
2.     Strong sector work helps timely and good quality project preparation. The sector work on health
financing, which eventually provided the analytic foundation for the combined adjustment and technical
assistance operations, was conducted before a health insurance operation was in the Bank's pipeline. It
happened that the results of the sector work were available just when the country was affected by a fiscal
crisis, and thus an opportunity opened for adjustment lending based on the prior analyses. The value of
having up-to-date sector knowledge, even in the absence of a direct lending objective, was clear in this case.
3.    Intense supervision is crucial for smooth project implementation, especially in the face of political
turbulence. Because the task team was provided with sufficient budget for close supervision, the Bank was
able to keep track of the impact of the political developments on the project and adapt the project design to
changing circumstances, while at the same time ensuring that the core conditions were being met.
4.     It i nPr'Pvznrv to m2kcP a tronn effnrt to imnrove the. nnderstqndinv of the cfient's lininhe. siti..ton
and to be more keenly aware of political will (as it is sometimes exnressed indirectly). In this particular
case, OSs had lit t-nmn. inmmt-nt for conversion, annd after 9000 neither did the SSS. T,his was expressed
in the design and operation in several ways: for instance, in the existence of non-reimbursable funds to
OSs nui" uv h IFSR, which d-tly mnoe..ed wth. the RI RS,; z  iln  laxity Lof. the IR o trl  t.O,
which entered the FROS when the subsidies mechanism was interrupted.
4A



5.     Reforml processes need high Ieves of SUppOl. fi-om 'Je civl  oUCLX..  In UlLs caseC, Uue rflvil
required changes at the state level, as well as at the federal level; had long implementation periods
(outilasting a single goverirneni adminisraition); and implied deep uilturai changes. To be fully viable and
less vulnerable to political volatility, the reform process would have benefited greatly from an on-going and
meaningful consultation not only with the government and the impiementation agency, but aiso (and
especially) with civil society and stakeholders. This would have helped to ensure that the reform was
socially accepted, and that it would be viable even in the absence of the individuals responsibie for its
design.
6.     Social comnmunication is an essential element of policy reform. Full access to TA reports from the
begining, and active dissemination of this information in a systematic way among health sector
stakeholders, could have been instrumental to the reform process. This could have minimized the obstacles
created by interest groups threatened by the reform.
7.     Key objectives of the project - such as improvement in service delivery quality - can only be
realized through a careful assessment and monitoring process.  Lack of attention to the issue of service
delivery contracting (e.g., the creation of an open competition for service providers, and a systematic
evaluation of their economic and financial risk profiles) allowed the concentration of service delivery by
intermediaries that had low quality and solvency. This led to a situation in which the OSs did not merge or
consnlidate; instead; health managers entered the scene. assimilating the service deliverv risk to a small
number of beneficiaries. This became one of the major failures of the reform process, leading to greater
fi-nampn,tntinn and less frinripnrnryv
9 Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implemnenting agency:
Though we have no major comments for a project that closed June 30, 2001, that is various months before
this administration took office (January, 2002), we have read it carefully and have taken note of its useful
conclusions.
We would like to focus briefly on Point 6. Sustainability and, in particular, paragraph 6.1, which indicates
that the current administration of the National Govermment of Argentina "appears committed to
maintaining the conceptual direction" of the proposed reforms implemented in the project.
We confirm our full accordance with and commitment to the reforms mentioned, as shown by the following
actions, outlined below for your attention:
1.    Beneficiarv Database.
On April 4, 2002, a joint resolution between ANSES and the SSS was sanctioned (ANSES
274/2002/SSS 144/2002). This resolution mandates the construction of the beneficiary database
for the National Health Tncrannce System (SNSS), and mentions that "the merhnniqmq thatlead to
a gradual and progressive implementation of requests foreseen in the Decree 1400/01, must be
developed prese-ng th- e spiit an- d obective of this norr" We shouild eMrphasize that the process
of elaborating the updated beneficiary database is currently fully underway.
2.     Automatic subsidy per beneficiary and not per contributor.
- 15 -



Having the beneficiary database ready, we will proceed to subsidize lower income affiliates per
beneficiary and not per contributor (or employee), thereby addressing the risk related to the
number of beneficiaries per insured family. To this effect, the Health Emergency Decree (DNU)
486/2002 has changed the financing system of the Solidarity Redistribution Fund (FSR),
increasing its resources and, as a result, improving the overall equity of the SNSS. The new form
of financing mandates contributions to the FRS as follows: in the case of "obras sociales
sindicales", 10% for monthly incomes up to $ 1,000 and 15% for greater remunerations; in the case
of "obras sociales de personal de direcci6n", 15% for monthly incomes up to $1,000, and 20%
for higher remunerations.
We would like to recall that the 2002 Budget Law 25.565 increased the contributions of employers
to the SNSS from 5% to 6%. This also increases the resources of the FSR.
Both guidelines are in effect starting March 1; 2002: hence. the FSR is already experiencing an
increase in resources.
Within the SSS and the PROS, we are running simulations of the FSR's flows, considering
A;fferent altematives of subsidies, arnd givi.g special at.t.ention to the con '   fror. - orkers
who earn less than the defined minimum income base (3 MOPRES).
3.     Eliminating financial subsidies.
Through the Resolution APE 77/02 we have abolished APE Resolutions 577/98 and 1040/98, and
eliminated fmancial subsidies (to "obras sociales") due to operational deficit; such subsidies were
characterized in the past by being highly discretionary. With this measure, we are increasing the
available resources for financing high cost / low incidence events covered through APE.
Comment: the points 1, 2 and 3 above are outlined in the Decree 1400/01, which has not been
revoked. The crisis outlined in said Decree is being reformulated to meet the special health
emergency situation that is currently occurring in the sector.
4. Regulation of private insurers.
A regulatory instrument is being explored to avoid the need for approving a new law, given the bad
experience with the draft law approved by the Senate several years ago, and which has lost
parliamentary status. This could be done by a presidential DNU or further regulations derived
frnm Law 24 754 (which extends the obligations of the PMO to private insurers). The regulatory
system to be obtained through this means will not be as detailed as a law could be, but it will give
enough cnspa fnr the SSS tn nrente a list of entitieq and effectively supervise the nrovision of the
PMO, as well as other fundamental aspects of contracts between private insurers and their
_=+;zte-, +h ..-e'-A r-   nn thA -+.toI,;trtu of hPnPfits which ic a ei.tp-rminin fiqntnr in a
health insuiance contract.
5.     Low frequency and high cost.
In the scope of the APE, and based on the technical developments reached during the current year
in the PROS, a new system for coverage of said ioans is being irnpiemenuzd. Inc objective is uLe
design of a nation-wide insurance system for covering high cost/low frequency events, called the"
- 16 -



Seguro Nacional para Patologias Especiales".
6.     Reforning the PMO.
The Decree 486/02 reformed the previous PMO into a mandatory health benefits package for the
crisis ("Programa Medico Obligatorio de Emergencia" . This reformulation was formalized in
the Resolution 201/02 of the Ministry of Health. The fundamental obiective was to adjust the
benefits menu to the available resources in the system, aimed at obtaininig the necessary long term
balance between available resources and demand. The expected result is an increase of the services
really provided, by means of a strict control of the benefits program, which in the past has been
surpassed by too many benefits included in the basic package.
7=     Strengthening the SSS=
The r..ar.ager..ent tear..s of the SSS ar,d the P.ROS arecor.iffed to develop- to .V L.  zf^r;
framework that will guarantee the SSS's capacity to properly intervene in the SNSS.
8.     Monitoring the PROS
A new monitoring system is being implemented for the "obras sociales" that participated under
PROS, with rigorous control in recuperating the ioans and effectively accomplishing the
monitoring indicators.
In this condensed synthesis, we have outlined the actions undertaken during our administration, which
without a doubt follow the main directions set forth by the project of reference. We will gladly clarify or
explain any point that is necessary.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Nh/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A.
10. Additional info rmation
ICR Team
Ruth Levine (ICR Task Team Leader)
Lu.s Perez7 (Connultmnt)
Sati Achath (Consultant)
Juan P. Ure (Cri Task Tear.. T Leader
Natalia Moncada (Program Assistant)
Coments Received from:
Aiie r Fisz-bein (SLeco Leader)
Evangeline Javier (Sector Manager)
Daniel Cotiear (Sr. Economist, LICrSH)
Robert Hecht (Sector Manager, HDNHE)
- 17-



Anniev   - Kev Perfarm2nep TndieaitnrQILog Fr%amp Mxitriy
Annex 11 Key Performance Indicators: Outcome/Imnact
L~~~~~~~~ I wm nrt                                                                      ' .j 8nRA__,T__ r  l -':Ar __ w__t__ 9P 
; *U. jna ,.n       n   1Y, , , *    Project      1R A'  r,                tt.+1    , `, !
1. S*_-Co effect.ive com .......petiti^on  %.- -es,-wthu A.+   1 V- be;r.r.g.- T Yes.=DceN°09_3
among Obras Sociales                                           I Sep/Oct 97///Decree N° 504- may 98
2. Appr,ova of 1-, to rpm,loatp  Nt mentinneA at SAR            N,M
pre-paid private insurance
I 'A Tmrlpmpntatinn nf nevw  .  vpY withnilt iltp nf hpcinnina Yes.- S SS- Minprintendenrin Rictpmn
regulatory body for health                                    ide Salud)
insurance                                                     IDecree N° 1615/96 (Dic 96) -creation-;
Decree No 405/98 (April) -structure at
lentry- Decree NO 1576/98 -(Feb 99)
4. Number of high quality Obras  |SAR does not mention numbers, but 30 OS (19 OS since 1997; 8 since 1998,
Sociales restructuring plans   Idoes mention date beginning of:  1 since 1999 and 2 since 2000).
approved                       |May 96-
5. New department for high     |Not mentioned at SAR.          IYes.- APE (Administraci6n
complexity health care financing                               Prestaciones Especiales), Decree No
functioning in MOH                                             |651/97 (June); Decree NO 53/98 (Jan.)
Annex 1.2 Kev Performance Indicators: Outputs
I      '-'(Is;tnilt Tnilir.^tnr.e                                  - ' PrniPr.t1inuR-A W  M/T  ' . 1
. Start of  cive competition     es                             Yes.-1998
Approval of law to regulate  No                              No
I pne-aid nrpivate insu1rancep
Implementation of new          Yes                              Yes, SSS (Superintendencia Sistema
rI,Pm,altflrv hnbiv fnr health                                  de Salud).- 1996
|linsurance
14 New denpartment for high     INO                              Yes APE (Administraci6n
complexity health care financing                                Prestaciones Especiales).-1998
functioning in- i MOH          l_l_l
- 18 -



Annex 2. Proiect Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Components (in US$ million equivalent!
jct Componet |Appraisal Estimate [Ac               atest Estimate  ;Prcentage:piaisal |
I. Pnr Dpia IniI n                        I AcIQ9 71A 71 est
WF~~~~ --..
bIm plem entation       __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _[_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  j __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _
Il evelnnment of       l       4 5        l       3.861.634 78      T          85 8
Enrollment Information
Svstem -                                 I                         I_I
Regulation of Social          2.4                2.950.337,30                 122,9
Health Insurance
Preparation of                10.0               10.197.525,94     |         101,97
Restructuring Plans    _                 I                                      ,
Institutional                 8.3                1.893.797,29                 22,8
|Strengthening of Inssjp 
Project Coordination          3.6                4.108.287,36                 105,2
Units
Total                         29.8              24.204.299,39                 79,3
ANNEX 2B.
Project Costs by procurement A-rangements (in US$ million equivalent!
| Exendt'ue'' P,rocurrementMethod  P tcurerrMn thM d al/ Late9tEsti t "
' 'C,a~~~~~~~tegone'';'                                                             'prsa,tate  I 4>;SFJ+-FMllD
____________ _________                  _ ICB  NCB    Other       NBF            Total
F1. Works           I_             _       _      _     ___ __                       _
12. Goods           l             5.600.000                   1  400.521,60|      996.430,11|
(800.000)           _          _
3. Services                     23.600.000                      596.667,14    23.502.428,01
(23.600.000)1          __
4. Misc.                          600.000                         31.630,471      624.954,501
(Administration)                 (600.000)                                           . 1
Total              1           29.800.0001         |          1 1.028.819,211  25.23.812,



ANNEX 2C.
Pr-iect Financing by Components (in US$ million equivalent)
PolicvDesiznand      1840      160    11000     1183  1  9   11192  140.8 l5.0    "113.8        l
|Implementation
Development of      13775      725     4500    13441  1420   |3861  191.1  T57.9  |85.8 
|Enrollment Information       1
System
Regulation of Social  2013    1387    12400    12950  j       2950  1146.5 I      1122.9        1
Health insurance              I       I        I ].                               I
Preparation of       --                                            I
Restructuring Plans  1839U    1i6bU i  iuuuu   I 0Ul9/ I      i [Ui91 j121.5  i_    0 i.97
Institutional        6962      K...   K        I ....  I     I ....  L.    I
Strengthening of Inssjp  6962 __J__ i33 8 UU 83i0i  Ii89      i8 9      1. I       LI.Z
lProject Coordination  |      I        1         1                                1             D
Pnits                13020    1 580    1 3600  13977  1131   14108    131.7 122.5  1105.2      ll
11otal               125000   14800    129800  [23641 1 560  124201 194.5   111.6  181.2
- 20 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A.
- 21 -



Annex 4A Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
]  (e.g. 2 Economists,_1_FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation                 I                            I
4    1 Health Economist, 2 Health
April/95                         Specialists, Financial Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
June/95                     5    1 Health Economist, 2
Health Specialists, I
rinanciar Economist, i
Social Security Specialist
Supervision
june/96                      3   2 Heaitn Economist, i             HS            HS
Financial Economist
!JLUV_Ln                     '   I realt' rUco_om_SLt, I Hlt4u1.                 S
Specialists, I Social Security
Specialist, I Impl een:aion
l                 l              | ~~~~~~~    ~       ~      ~~Offficer 
December/96                  I    1- 2    --- -cno .i   5..I+;,                 HS I
Specialist, I Financial
Fconnnmist 1I Sora!  irnt   I
Specialist
May/97                       4   1 Health Economist. I Lawver; 2   S      I     HS      I
Health Specialists
November/97                  6   2 Health Economists, I Health  I   S      I     HS
Specialist, I Financial
Economist, I Social Security
Specialist, I Implementation
l                 l              | ~~~~~~~~~~~Officer
March/98                     5   2 Health Economists, I Financial |  S           HS
Economist, I Social Security
Specialist, I Implementation
Officer
|   Julyl98      |           5 |1 Health Economist, 2 Health       HS            HS
J   Specialists, I Regulatory
Specialist, I Implementation
Officer
October/98                   4   1 Health Economist, I Health       S             S
Specialist, I Social Security
Specialist, 1 implementation
Officer                                   I
iulyi99                      4 4  i Heak'n Economist, i Financiai I
Economist, I Lawyer, 1
IImlplemLentaion, Officer   l
March/00                     4   2 Health Economists, I Health      s             S
December/00      I             ISpeciaist, I Fincial Econo  1              I             I
|   December/00  |           2   1 Health Economist, I Health       S
- 22 -



Specialist
June/01                          I Health Economist                              s
irCD
June/01                          According to the last PSR         S             S
of June 2001. an ICR
Mission was planned for
October
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle  [                Actual/Latest Estimate
l ________________________ _ i     No. Staff weeks             US$  ('000)
Identificrtinn/Prenpration  4            4.2                        15-6
Appraisal/Negotiation                   15.2                       129.5
Supervision                           107?.33                      267 2
ICR                                    11.00                        35.2
Toota                                 137.73                       447.5
- 23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Li Macro policies                        O H  O SU O M    O N  * NA
II Sector Policies                       O H  *SUOM       O N  O NA
L Physical                               O H  OSUOM       * N  O NA
L Financial                              OH *SUOM ON ONA
O Institutional Development              0 H  * SU 0 M    0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                          O H  OSUOM       O N  * NA
Social
Oi Poverty Reduction              OH    0 O SU O M  ON 0V NhA
L Gender                          OH OSUOM O N *NA
Oi Other (Please specify)         O H   O SU OM-   O N   * NA
OL Private sector development            0 H  O SU *M     0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management               0 H  * SU 0 M    0 N  O NA
O Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM       O N  * NA
- 24 -



Annex 6. .a.f..i,"I.sa" ""&A ofJI OVLI Ban ar.L LU .drautc
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U-Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                          Rating
3 Lending                                     O HS * S   O U   O HU
DEJ Supervision                               OHS OS     O U   O HU
Z Overall                                     OHS OS     O U   O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                     Rating
E Preparation                                 *HS OS     O U   O HU
2 Government implementation performance       c) HS a s  C) u    HU
s Implementation agencyperformance            0 HS * S   0 U   0 HU
Ds Overall                                   OnHRSa      n S) nHU
-25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
i  T   e     I          - :  ,             i.hiect;  ,-    1L',          :& r.Thl Sn   '
Text           AR- Health Inulirnnce Refofrm nrogrrn - WB Missinn AIDE MEMORTPE  n06!0!!95
E-mail Note    Ag - Health Insurance Reform Operation - Pre-Appraisal Mission,  05/05/95
Raqk-tn-Offire Renort
E-mail Note   Mg - Social Sector Support Program - Back-to-Office Report        04/10/95
E-mai! Note    Arg - Hepalth TnunrnneP Rpfnrm. LVeanc - Misainn ,nie 3-. Tul, 5 - APR  I Ai0 /oA 
4003/4
E-mail Note    Ouiir Trin to Argentina - ARGl - I.nnn 4004 AR                   1m/or°
|E-mail        |rg -Health Insurance Reform - Loan Supervision BTO             | 051;2/97|
Office         AR HIR nnd TA Projects (Loans 4002 A AR antd 4n\04 AR) Supervision  06A16!97
Memorandum     Report
Text          World RBnk Mission 12- 19/1 1/97
Office         AR HIR and TA Projects (Loans 4002/3 AR and 4004 AR) Supervision  1 01/20/98 1
iMemorandum   iRenort                                                          I          I
Office         AR HIR and TA Projects (Loans 4002/3 AR and 4004 AR) Supervision  04/20/98 1
Memorandum    lReport
Office         AR HIR and TA Projects (Loans 4003 AR and 4004 AR) Supervision   07/24/98
Memorandum     Report                                                          I
E-mail         Argentina - HIR Loan - Third Tranche Supervision Mission, July 13-17,  07/24/981
1998
jLetter        LN4004 -AR General correspondence                                 29/9/99
lOffice       IAR- HIR TA Proiect ( AR-PE 45687) Supervisi6n Misi6n BTO Report   8/1 1//99 
Memorandum    I                          .
e-mail         Aide Memoire 27/03/00 to 01/4/00                                 4/3/2000
e-mail         AR - CALT BTOR: Megasal.PROS, Basal LN 4004 - General             4/6/200 1
iCorrespondence                                                 I          I
Proyecto de Reforma de Obras Sociales e Instituto Nacional de Servicios  07/30/01
ISociales                                                       I          I
Inform.        Implementation Completion Report: Health Insurance Technical Assistance  10/01/02
|Project      ---
- 26 -



Auainonai Annex 5. Summary o0 ine Evaiuanton Siatus o0 raruicipating OSs in PROU
SSS Syndicature Program (last updated in October 200i)
The Syndicature Committee carried out an evaluation on the status, to date, of OSs participating
in the PROS. The study was conducted in agreement with the general management and in view of
the need to assess the framework of the software application and the database results accumulated
through the nrogram. Also. the evaluation study was considered of relevance for the new PROS
administration. The evaluation study applied the risk assessment as established by the programn's
perspectc.voreas, .a11 . Ae!, aa nV of a! avaihlable inforr,afion,, ir.1A.ng fuhe rnltc, of tl,n ct.) 2
field audit report.
The,total number of insurance agents participating in PROS is 30 OS; however, because the
Syndicature Program did not have any field action in the OS Rnos 1-2290 of Santa Fe province
nor in 1-2150 of C6rdoba province, the study evaluated only 28 OS. Thus, the evaluation study
contemplates 93.4% of the participants. It is worth mentioning that the 28 OSs on-going
agreements with PROS: 19 of them since 1997; 8 of them since 1998; and 1 since 1999.
In    to- A. Caccttl4  asss Othe   J*w  - OSs, the p-a ider.:fie --  r.dLeardA
ratings for the criteria under each area and evaluated them individually. There are 50 variables in
total, which are periodically evaluated through external meetings, following established criteria
and based on available documentation. The Syndicature Committee then evaluates the
consistency of the reports, calculates the final assessment and assigns a risk rank in accordance
with the program's standpoint. Those results are incorporated into a database, which yields an
integral, singular, and dynamic evaluation for each agent and, at the same time, an overall rating
of all agents within the system. This method yields a score in accordance with the risk of OSs;
listing them in order of risk assessment; building profiles depending on the OS size or nature; and
By utilizing this assessment tooi, it was possible to 'nn -iiat:
* 64% were identified as high risk (18 OSs)
* 7% were identified as important risk (2 OSs)
* 29% were identified as medium risk (8 OSs).
If compared to the risk profile obtained for all OSs under the SSS Monitoring Program on that
same time (October 2001; 205 OSs involved), evidence shows that in the latter group, OS in high
or ,r,,po,nalt risk JJinvoved~ 590 0°,'o of +"hLe zager.cies zr. 78 %D of beneficiues, w1hie in t1he -^up of
OS under PROS, during the same period, the proportions reach 71% and 87%, respectively.
- 27 -



Additional Annex 9. Summary of Studies Under the Policies Component
The following list is a summary of the studies carried out under the Policies Component of the
Project.
a) Social Communication Camnaigrn for the dikeminntion on freedon of c hoice 2n1nng OS.
U) I V.dIUUa ssisi -La011.a. Lto Iipriove +UL LLe uDtrAcirJg VI UVLi%aLy trarsfrU1, :n-IIUdinLg bybLUicLL
data collection and validation, and cross-reference with historical databases. Reports
analyzing the trends of transfers between OSs, by region and provinces, wage ranges, and the
financial requirement changes of the different OSs, were made available to the SSS
authorities.
c) OSs Beneficiaries Satisfaction Survey.
d) Studies based on simulation of changes in the assigned standards per client and household.
DAA A A o  A-  ^A__n I:L.+:,   1- -    _CU_  _A0S                 --- _'_
14CpUJLL V1 UR. LOIl UV GLLIIIaUL.C UISL1LUUIUU11 01 ULU F.rI%, ULWlUULIl LU1HUU1ILUb 4ilU lllipact.
e) Redesigning of ArE record keeping.
f) Studies on expenditures of service use and single costs rates for the delivered services, in
order to define a changes draft on the original PMO.
g) Draft of a lhw on the remglation of private health insurers.
Ll) 1Beneficiz;-e  ess 0-.1 ,t .--egsr r.odel
i) Construction of use, expenditures and financing matrices of the health sector for 1997 (along
with the MOE) establishing the basis for methodical calculation.
j) Technical Assistance to Hospital Production and Morbidity Statistics, in order to develop a
Health Management Information System in the provinces.
k) Implementation of two Health Management Information System workshops, bringing together
representdatives 110-11 provilcial hLeIUUL ll1UiliUsie, iiuiii CBDAt guVuileuilit , andu pcuple in
charge of the Health Statistic Area.
1) Compilation.of current situation of the provinces' health information systems through drafting
and dissemination of guides and technical assistance to three jurisdictions.
m) Technical Assistance to the SSS, help to strengthen the analytical, regulatory and controlling
capacity; drmfft sttis reports; simulatPe alter.nat.ive policies alnd carm, on ar.alysisnon reration
weaknesses. In June 2000, the working team functions were incorporated into the organizational
structaure.
- 28 -



- 29 -






IBRD 293A8
020   \        BOLIVIA      !'      .                                   20'
|  ^ t:  2,-&>\;V   -sPARAGUAY 
j ,N dor ,fff.> , X ~~~~B R A Z I L -|
',. \ ,_ SALTA, sw _ \>,~~~F o r m o s a, -,
|   ' > tt   > C dC  Tugumon   |CHA CO-- '   '          'f  -,  'te$ 
_  TrCU  SAN iAG  Resistencia&-  PosoOo  , 
S          L  -  s  . S sSogntiEoL ° del ts!ero_ Corrientes 'tt-< 
O  ~~~t - .   mCo amoro.- 
u . j-           E S T E R OI!t\ /v; 
i I \  -. RIOJA N,  5jANIA @-   -
-   \ -j  J U A N  tu j S   oFEoW/rn j 
|  x   .    _-o~~CORDOBAW     NR;\.is 
z               1 13                       b      ALsIA h 
| u 0 \ T Sonl doz.os o : L..  A R wIOS
I Le 9 ' . P~URUG                    AYA Ajjs,, 
U              N 
''t S _i=ND O ZARE-
|  >q  93 S A N TA  LtA .IRE
50   '~~N '8'  LU-ENMEER
CL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PI 1998









Report No.:        24326
TvDe:    ICR



