Report No. 1364-CM                                                               FILE   COPY
Appraisal of Second
SOCAPALM Project Cameroon
March 16, 1977
Western Africa Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
M
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                  =     CFAF 245
CFAF                        U =  US$0.0041
CFAF 1,000,000        =     US$4081.63
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
I hectare (ha)            =     2.47 acres
1 kilometer               m     0.624 miles
1 kilogram                =     2.204 pounds
1 metric ton              =     2,204.6 pounds
I liter                   -     1.057 U.S. quart
ABBREVIATIONS
CAMDEV    -     Cameroon Development Corporation
CEC       =     Coastal Etates Company
FONADER   =     Fonds National de Developpement Rural
IIEVECAM   =    Societe Hevea - Cameroun
PAMOL     =     Societe Pamol Cameroun (Unilever Group)
SAFACAM   -     Societe Africaine Forestiere et Agricole - Cameroun
SOCAPALM  =     Societe Camerounaise de Palmeraies
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ...............................    i-vi
I.    INTRODUCTION  ..........................................                       1
II.    BACKGROUND  ............................................                        2
A.    General  ..........................................                      2
B.    The Agricultural Sector  ..........................                      2
C.    The First-Stage Project  ..........................                      5
III.    THE PROJECT          ................................... .                      6
A.    The Project Areas  ................................                     6
B.    Summary Project Description  ......................                      8
C.    Detailed Features  ................................                      8
D.    Organization and Management  ......................                     il
IV.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS  ....                   ..........   14
A.    Project Costs  ....................................                     14
B.    Financial Arrangements  ...........................                     16
C.    Procurement and Disbursement  .....................                     18
D.    Accounts and Audit Arrangements  ....                 ..............    19
V.    YIELDS AND OUTPUT, MARKETS AND PRICES  ....                   .............   20
A.    Yields and Output  ................................                     20
B.    Markets and Prices  ...............................                    20
VI.    FINANCIAL RESULTS  ................          ..      ...................      22
A.    Outgrower Benefits  ...............................                    22
B.    Financial Results for SOCAPALM  ...................                    22
C.    Financial Impact on Government and
Participating  Public Agencies  ....................                   23
VII.    ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ...................                       23
VIII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ...... .               .........        25
This document has a restrictcd distribution ad may be usod by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. lIa contents may flot oth.rwist be discloeed without World Bank authoritution.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1.   Project Entities
SOCAPALM
FONADER
COASTAL ESTATES CENTER
Table 1  SOCAPALM Balance Sheet:  June 31, 1976
Table 2 First Project's Economic Rate of Return
Table 3 Costs to Complete Dibombari
Table 4: Resources and Outlays of FONADER
2.   Technical Features
Development of the Southwest Region
Techniques
Table 1:  Planting Schedule
Table 2:  Timetable for Estates Establishment
Table 3:  Yields - Oilpalm Outgrowers
Table 4:  Yields - Estates
Table 5:  Personnel Requirements for Kienke Estate
3.   The Outgrowers Program
Organization and Management
Credit Agreements
Table 1:  Cost of Credit
Table 2:  Recommended Producer Price
Table 3:  Illustrative Cash Flow - 1 ha
Table 4:  Outgrower Credit:  Cash Flow of FONADER
Table 5:  Outgrower Credit:  Cash Flow and Rate of Return to
Government
4.   Project Costs
Table 1:  Project Costs Summary
Table 2:  Kienke Estate - Field Establishment
Table 3:  Kienke Estate - Vehicles, Plant, and Equipment
Table 4:  Kienke Estate - Construction
Table 5:  Kienke Estate - Oil Mill Investment
Table 6:  Kienke Estate - General and Administrative Overheads
Table 7:  Outgrowers - Field Establishment
Table 8:  Outgrowers - Extension Service Costs
Table 9:  Outgrowers - Supervision Costs
Table 10: M'Bongo and Eseka Estates - Completion Costs
Table 11: M'Bongo Estate - Extension Costs
Table 12: Douala Complex



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
5.   Proposed Financing Plan
6.   SOCAPALM Cash Flows
Table 1: Project and Consolidated Cash Flow
Table 2: Cash Flow Without Project
Table 3:  Projected Income Statement-
Kienke, M'Bongo Extension
and Outgrowers
Table 4: Forecast of Operating Results-
Existing Plantations
7.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
8.   Market Outlook and Prices
Table 1:  Prices for Selected Fats and Oils
Table 2:  World Production of Selected Oilseeds,
Fats and Oils
Table 3:  Total Country Actual and Projected
Palm Oil Production by Source
Table 4:  Total Country Production, Consumption
and Export Projections of Palm Oil
9.   Economic Rates of Return
Table 1:  Economic Rate of Return - Kienke Estate
Table 2:  Economic Rate of Return - Outgrower Program
Table 3:  Economic Rate of Return - M4'Bongo Extension
Table 4:  Economic Value of Palm Oil
Table 5:  Economic Value of Kernel
MAPS
IBRD 12428 - Cameroon
IBRD 12429 - Southwest Project Area
CHART
IBRD 17055 SOCAPALM's Organizational Structure






CAMEROON
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Background
i.        The Government of Cameroon has asked the Bank to help finance
a project which forms part of a continuing program of development of the
southern parts of the country based on estate/smallholder tree crops. The
project was prepared mainly by SOCAPALM, a state-owned oil palm development
agency. This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, com-
posed of Messrs. G. Losson, A. Osei and T. Winston, which visited Cameroon
in June 1976.
Project Concept
ii.       Cameroon has suffered from an overall deficiency in edible fats,
despite a good potential for crops such as oil palm. Palm oil deriving from
wild groves has long been a basic food staple for the peoples of southern
Cameroon, an important source of edible oil in other parts of the country, and
the basis for a small but growing soap and detergent industry. However, the
traditional sector had never treated oil palm production as a cultivated crop,
its production of palm oil had been haphazard, and it could therefore hardly
be counted on to bring about the desired production increases rapidly.
Therefore, in the 1960's the Government decided to develop industrial estates
which could rapidly increase production but also serve as demonstration as
well as provide nucleus infrastructure and services for sound smallholder oil
palm development.
iii.      To carry out this strategy, Government created two state-owned
corporations, CAMDEV and SOCAPALM. These two have developed some 32,000 ha on
five estates/oil mill complexes, foreseen to become nuclei for smallholder
plantations. All these estates are in the western and south-central parts of
the country, close to the main population and industrial centers. There
is also a good potential for tree crops in the sparsely-populated and relatively
undeveloped southwestern region, and Government is elaborating a long-term
development plan for rubber, coconut and oil palm. A state-owned company,
HEVECAM, is developing a rubber estate partly financed by the Bank loan
(574-CM). The proposed project would have three objectives: (i) help meet a
rising domestic demand for palm oil; (ii) inaugurate a smallholder development
program; and (ii) carry forward the recently begun development of the southwest
region.
iv.       The Bank assisted the first stage of SOCAPALM's development with
a US$7.9 million loan in 1969 and a supplemental loan of US$1.7 million in
1973. The original project was modified in 1972 when mechanical land clearing
proved more expensive than expected and when one of the sites proved partly
unsatisfactory. The revised project included i) the establishment of 6,000 ha
of oil palms at M'Bongo and 2,500 ha at Eseka, to be concluded in the 1976
planting season and ii) construction of a palm oil mill for each estate and



- ii -
relevant infrastructure investments. Slippage in project implementation
from the nine to 13 years estimated at reappraisal has been caused by
occasional lack of planting material, temporary labor shortages, and
severe loss of young plants to rodents. The management of SOCAPALM has been
strengthened, however, so that these problems are now under control. Although
cost estimates are now some 29% over reappraisal estimates, increases occurred
largely during the sudden increase in world inflation in the post-reappraisal
period. A loan and credit to CAMDEV for a total of US$18 million, the first
Bank Group operation in Cameroon, financed planting of oil palm, plus planting
or replanting of rubber, tea and pepper on a total area of 10,500 ha. The
objectives of the project have been largely attained and it can also be
considered a success.
Project Areas and Summary Project Description
v.        The new Kienke estate would be established in the southwest, north-
west of the HEVECII rubber concession, and would form part of the long-term
tree crop development program for that region (para iii). Other investments
would be made on the M'Bongo and Eseka estates which are in the south-central
parts of the country. The smallholder program would also be centered on these
estates.
vi.       Over a five-year development period, the project would comprise:
(a) clearing about 6,850 ha and planting 6,000 ha with high-yielding
selected oil palm trees on Kienke estate and maintaining these
plantings during the five-year project period; and providing
infrastructure to create an estate complex, including the first
phase of a processing factory;
(b) establishing 2,000 ha of smallholder oil palm plantations under
an outgrower program on land cleared by the farmers; and pro-
viding credit, management and extension services;
(c) clearing 1,000 ha and planting 1,330 ha (including 330 ha of
land already cleared) of oil palm on M'Bongo estate; providing
both M'Bongo and Eseka estates with harvesting equipment and
staff housing; and expanding the processing mill at M'Bongo;
(d) providing for management and administration of Kienke, and admin-
istrative cost related to the immature areas at Eseka and M'Bongo
estates; and
(e) providing a headquarters service complex in Douala, including
office space and facilities such as a vehicle park, garage,
and warehousing, that would be jointly owned by several estate-
owning companies.
The project would only provide for maintenance of all the estate plantings
during the five-year project period. Maintenance thereafter and necessary
processing and collection equipment and certain infrastructural investments
would be provided for under SOCAPALM's future investment program.



- iii -
Project Execution
vii.      All project components, with the exception of the Douala complex,
would be managed by SOCAPALM, which is owned by the Government - 58.5%,
the public-owned Societe Nationale d'Investissements (SNI) -- 10.5%, and
the cocoa and coffee stabilization boards -- 17% and 14% respectively.
Although a publicly-owned company, SOCAPALM operates on commercial lines
with a Director-General responsible to a Board of Directors consisting of
representatïves of Government, local business, and the farming community.
In order to strengten S_CAP_S,  Sjnamnagement capabilities for this project,
a qualified chief accoqnta nt -and the Kienke Estate manager would be appointed.
A list of qualified and possible candidates for the post of Executive Control-
ler would also be assembled with a view to filling that post not later than
February 28, 1978.  The two other estates have experienced managers who have
proved themselves capable of handling day-to-day affairs including on-the-
job training for the estate cadre. These managers report to the Director- y
General through a Field Manager (Inspecteur des Plantations) based at head-
quarters.  Kienke estate would have five sector chiefs for field development.
viii.     Smallholder development is the responsibility of The Fonds National
de Developpement Rural (FONADER), the government agency responsible for pro-
viding short and medium-term credit to the rural sector. Individual farmers
and farmers' groups (including cooperatives) are eligible for such credit.
As it has no regional offices, FONADER operates through other government
agencies which have field staff. For the outgrower component of the pro-
posed project, credit funds and such allowances provided by Government would
be passed through FONADER, which would use SOCAPALM as its agent in managing
the proposed component.
ix.       The outgrower program would be the responsibility of a special-
ized outgrower development service (Service des Plantations Villageoises --
SPV) to be established within SOCAPALM. In the field, SPV personnel would
opérate independently of estate management, in sectors which would be
attached to a mill and be under an experienced sector chief. Each out-
grower would have an individual contract with SOCAPALM setting out the
participants' obligations and the terms of the credit. Outgrower produce
would be collected and bought by SOCAPALM.
x.        The main tree crop companies in Cameroon intend to establish an
interagency central organization to provide common services. The expected
benefits would be increased specialization and efficiency and lower over-
heads. A 2.5 ha site in the Douala industrial zone has been granted to
SOCAPALM by Government for a central service complex, which would entail
construction of an office building, a vehicle park and garage facilities,
and warehouse space. SOCAPALM plans to share these facilities with the
other oil palm and rubber plantation companies. The legal form is expected
to be a Coastal Estates Center company. The establishment of a satisfactory
charter for this corporation and the conclusion of a subsidiary loan agree-
ment, satisfactory to the Bank, between Government and this Coastal Estates
Center company would be a condition of disbursement for the Douala complex.



- iv -
Cost Estimates and Financing Arran'ements
xi.       Total project cost would be USS38.5 million lncTdlng sales and
excise taxes of about US$4.7 million: ibaport taxes on items expressly imported
for the project would be walved by Government and have therefore been excluded
from project cost estimates.  Yoreign expenditures are expected to account
for US$25.0 million or 65% of total project cost. Expected price increases
occurring aLter the November 1976 base period would be US$9.1 million or 31%
of base cost estimates plus phvsical co.ntingencies.
xii.      Two Bank Icans totalling US$25 million would be made to Government
and finance 74% of project cost net of taxes, equivalent to the Ëôréeig
exchange component. The First Loan of US$18.0 million would have a 20-year
term, including a 4-1/2 year grace period and an interest rate of 8.5%.
A US$7.0 million Third Window loan would be for about 23-1/2 year-term with
first repayment on January 15, 1983. The loans would be disbursed pari passu
in the ratio 18:7 and be merged by Government before being passed on to
the project entlties: to SOCAPALM for plantation development and the out-
grower program and to the Coastal Estates Center Company (CEC) for the Douala
complex. Funds thus received by SOCAPALM on account of extension and supervi-
sion of outgrowers would be a grant from Government; otherwise both SOCAPALM
and CEG would repay Government at the interest rate applIcable to the First
Loan. The balance of project net of tax cost (US$8.8 million) together with
financial charges and working capital requirements during the development
period (US$5.4 million) would be met by Government (US$10.5 million) and
SOCAPALM self-generated funds (US$3.7 million). To maintain a satisfactory
equity investment ratio above 30%, a part of Government contribution to
SOCAPALM (US$8.2 million) would be an increase in equity investment, and the
balance would be a loan for a 10-year term including a five-year grace period
during which interest, at 9%, would be capltalized. Government would make a
grant to FONADER equivalent to US$1.2 million to cover credit and cash grants
for the outgrower program.
xiii.     Credit in kind to outgrowers provided by FONADER (US$334/ha) would
be for a 13 year term with a grace period of 6 years during which interest
at 9% would be capitalized. Cash grants (US$198/ha) would be made only
to outgrowers who derive more than 75% of their income from agriculture.
Repayment by farmers would be at the time of collection of outgrower fresh
fruit bunches by SOCAPALM, which would also deduct its actual processing,
collection and supervision costs related to the outgrower program.
Procurement
xiv.      Except for items specified below, procurement would be through in-
ternational competitive bidding (ICB) following Bank guidelines. Goods and
services subject to ICB -- largely machinery, vehicles and equipment, ferti-
lizer and some construction work (Douala complex) -- are estimated to cost
US$20.6 million. Contracts not exceeding US$100,000 would be let under
competitive bidding procedures advertised Locally and satisfactory to the
Bank. Most land clearing, estate road building, plantation work and minor
estate construction, estimated at US$10.9 million, would be done on force



account using equipment owned by SOCAPALM.  The remaiîing project costs
(US$7.0 million) would be mostly for staff and labor costs and operating
expenses.
Disbursements
xv.       Disbursements of the two Bank loans in combined disbursements at
the ratio 18:7 would cover 67% of total expenditure for:
(a)  vehicles, equipment and machinery for the development of
the oil palm estates (US$7.4 million);
(b)  civil works and construction foi the development of the
oil palm estates (US$3.8 million);
(c)  estate field development, including land clearing,
fertilizers, planting materials and other supplies and
palm planting and maintenance (US$6.7 million);
(d)  administrative cost of Kienke estate (US$1.1 million);
(e)  civil works, vehicles, equipment and operating costs of
SOCAPALM for the development of the outgrower program
(US$0.6 million); and
(f)  vehicles, equipment and civil works for the Douala complex
(US$1.4 million).
US$4.0 million would be unallocated. Disbursements for (c) and (d) and
operating costs included in (e) would be against certificates of expendi-
tures, the documentation of which would be retained by SOCAPALM for inspection
by Bank project supervision missions. Disbursements for (a), (b) -- except
for small construction work to be done by force account --, (e) -- except for
operating costs --, and (f) would be fully documented. An estimated schedule
of disbursements is at Annex 7.
Markets and Prices
xvi.      Present per capita consumption of palm oil in Cameroon is 9.4 kg
and growing at an estimated 4.5% per year. This domestic market would absorb
about 85% of the project-produced palm oil (about 29,000 t per annum at full
development). There is a large and growing market for oil palm products in
Nigeria, Cameroon's more affluent neighbor to the west; furthermore, indus-
trial products of Cameroonian origin enjoy preferential tariff treatment in
the Central African Customs Union (UDEAC). Project-produced palm kernels
(about 6,000 t per annum at peak production) are assumed to be exported, or
crushed locally when domestic crushing capacity is expanded. In summary,
project-produced oil and kernels should find a ready market at reasonable
prices.



- vi -
Financial and Economic Benefits and Justification
xvii.     The direct benefit from project-financed investments would consist
of increased palm oil production mostly to meet local demand which would
b6therwise have to be satisfied through imports or not at all. There would
also be an increase in kernel production for honme consumption or export. The
ex-harbor value of incremental oil and kernel production at peak production
would be some US$11.0 million equivalent per annum, of which about 55% would
represent domestic value added.
xviii.    Smallholders participating in the outgrower program would stand
to benefit from much higher cash incomes than otherwise.  It takes some five
years for palms to enter into production; after that, net cash incomes would
grow per manday worked from about US$1.80 initially to US$11.20 in Year 8.
xix.      For SOCAPALM's shareholders, the investments would show a healthy
return. On the basis of current revenue and cost projections, the annual cash
return to Government and other public agency investments in SOCAPALM would be
some US$16.3 million by 1996 from project plantings alone and about US$28.5
million from existing plantings.
xx.       The economic rates of return for the main project components are
as follows: 14% for the Kienke estate which represents 62% of total project
costs excluding price contingencies; 23% for the Outgrower Program which is
6.5% of total costs; 17% for the extension of M'Bongo which accounts for 8%
of total costs; and 14% on the M'Bongo and Eseka estates the completion of
which accounts for 17% of total project costs. The weighted average rate
of return is about 15%. If costs were to be 20% higher than estimated, the
overall rate of return as well as the rates of return for individual compo-
nents would fall by 2-3 percentage points. The risk that the project would
not meet its objectives is small.
Recommendation
xxi.      With the major assurances and conditions outlined in Chapter 8, the
project is suitable for a Bank and a Third Window loan amounting to US$25
million.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Cameroon has asked the Bank to help finance an
oil palm development project that would: (i) help to meet a rising domestic
demand for palm oil; (ii) inaugurate a smallholder development program; and
(iii) carry forward a recently begun development of the southwest region.
1.02      The proposed project essentially would cover a five-year tranche of
a long-term program to develop estate/outgrower plantings of perennial tree
crops under the management of the state-owned Societe Camerounaise de Palmeraies
(SOCAPALM). Since 1968, SOCAPALM has developed three oil palm estate complexes
in Eastern Cameroon; two of these estates were partially financed by the Bank
(Loans 593/886-CM), and the third by the European Community. The proposed
project would finance: (i) the first 6,000 ha of a fourth estate; (ii) estate
plantings of 1,330 ha and necessary investments, including processing facil-
ities, to continue the development of the two estates covered by the first-
stage Bank project (Loans 593/886-CM); (iii) a headquarters service complex
that SOCAPALM would share with other companies in the estate sector; and (iv)
2,000 ha of smallholder plantings attached to SOCAPALM estates. Such small-
holder development is the responsibility of FONADER, the Government's agricul-
tural credit agency, which would entrust management of this project component
to SOCAPALM.
1.03      The project was prepared mainly by SOCAPALM. The appraisal mission,
composed of Messrs. G. Losson, A. Osei, and T. Winston, visited Cameroon in
June 1976.
1.04      The SOCAPALM first-stage development project -- namely, the East
Cameroon Oil Palm Project -- involved two loans, one of US$7.9 million in
1969 (Loan 593-CM) and, following reappraisal, one of US$1.7 million in 1973
(Loan 886-CM); the main change was to reduce plantings from 9,000 to 8,500
ha; the project was satisfactorily completed in June 1976. More details are
in para 2.12 and Annex I.
1.05      The Bank Group has also assisted the CAMDEV oil palm and rubber
plantation project (Loan 490-CM for US$7.0 million and Credit 100-CM for
US$11.0 million in 1967). This project has been satisfactorily completed.
In addition, the Bank Group has given assistance to four other agricultural
projects in Cameroon: the Semry rice project (Credit 302-CM for US$3.7 million
in 1972); a livestock project (Loan 978-CM for US$11.6 million in 1974); a
cocoa project (Loan 1039-CM for US$6.5 million in 1975); and the Niete rubber
project (Credit 574-CM for US$16.0 million in 1975).  Thg Semry project has
been satisfactorily completed, and all of the other projects are progressing
satisfactorily. Two new projects, Plaine des-M'Bo and Technical Assistance,
were approved by the Board in December 1976.



-2-
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Cameroon hag a population of about 7.3 million (mid-1975) and covers
an area of 475,000 km . Average per capita income is US$270. Since 1971,
growth of real GDP has been less than 3% per annum. This was caused by
factors largely outside Cameroon's control, such as falling prices for its
exports, drought, and rapidly rising import prices. The Government reacted by
stepping up public investment, which increased by 50% to reach annual averages
of about US$190 million in constant 1974 dollars during the Third Development
Plan (1972-76).  At the same time, greater emphasis has been placed on agricul-
tural output. Under the Fourth Plan (1977-81), it is anticipated that growth
of GDP will be 5-6% per annum in real terms, slightly lower than achieved
during the 1960s.  However, if the Government can maintain a high volume of
public investment and further expand and diversify the country's production
base, more satisfactory rates of growth can be obtained in the early 1980s.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.02      Agriculture plays a major role in the Cameroon economy, providing
a livelihood for about 85% of the population and accounting for 35-40% of GDP
and over 75% of the value of exports. The farming sector can be divided into
traditional agriculture and industrial plantations. The traditional subsector
accounts for over 85% of agricultural output. It comprises some 1 million
smallholders cultivating plots averaging about 2 ha each, using family labor.
Smallholders produce food crops for subsistence and for the local market, and
cocoa, coffee, cotton and groundnuts for export. The industrial plantation
subsector comprises several large government-owned and a few private industrial
estates (foreign-owned), producing palm oil (mainly for domestic consumption)
and rubber (for export). Output of cocoa and coffee increased considerably
during the 1960's, at annual rates of about 3.5% for cocoa, 5.5% for robusta
coffee and 9% for arabica coffee. Additionally, the country has vast forestry
resources which are only partially tapped, and there is good livestock poten-
tial in the north.
2.03      Cameroon is largely self-sufficient in foodstuffs, with production
expanding at an annual rate of 3-3.5%, ahead of population growth. This
expansion results from a rapid growth of non-traditional foodstuffs, espe-
cially vegetables, beans and potatoes. However, Cameroon has been deficient
in edible fats and there is a serious stagnation of output of traditional
staples (plantains, millet, sorghum, maize and cassava), resulting from
factors such as lack of adequate supporting services to smallholders, all-
weather transport, and marketing organization (which, however, is reasonably
well organized for export crops).



- 3 -
2.04      Farm incomes and services to farmers are unevenly distributed.  The
highest income areas are the central savannah and the western and coastal
lowlands (US$130-140 per capita); the poorest areas are the northern plains
and the western highlands (US$70-80), which are densely populated. The
weakness of extension and credit services is particularly evident in the
lowest income areas. However, prospects are good for developing smallholder
agriculture and Government now intends to increase its support for the
smallholders by making available to this subsector more investment funds as
well as improving institutions involved with the preparation, implementation
and monitoring of projects in this subsector.
2.05      In agriculture, the Bank has been able to help the Government fur-
ther diversify production by financing its oil palm and rubber plantations
in the east and west, and rice irrigation and livestock in the north. The
ongoing cocoa project is helping modernize cocoa growing by smallholders and \
raise rural productivity in atéas south and west of the capital. The rubber
project approved in June 1975 will develop the southwest coastal region.
Preparation work for rural development projects in populated but poor regions
is underway with the assistance of the Bank. The Plaine des Mbo Rural Devel-
opment Project, recently presented to the Board, will help finance studies
and three-year trial activities required before a full-scale rural development
`program can be launched. Preparation of the Zapi East Integrated Rural Develop-
ment Project is nearly completed and the project is scheduled to be presented
to the Board during FY78. Also scheduled for presentation is a tree crop
estate and smallholder development project in the west, a follow-up of the
Bank Group-financed CAMDEV I project. Field appraisal of the Rural Develop-
ment Fund Project was completed in November 1976.  Besides promoting much
needed foodstuff production, increased Bank Group lending for agriculture
will support the Government's effort to focus on rural development in order
to improve income distribution and to achieve a better balanced regional
development.
Development of Rubber and Oil Palm
2.06      Historically, the major source of palm oil for the domestic market
has been collection of fruit from wild palms.  But productivity per tree is
low (less than a fourth that of organized plantings) and the oil produced
is of poor quality; thus, the traditional subsector has proved unable to
satisfy a growing demand for vegetable ails and is now rapidly losing ground
to cultivated oil palm. Whereas in 1970 collection from wild palms contrib-
uted about 62% of the cauntry's total palm oil production, by 1975 it pro-
duced 38%, and its share is projected to be about 5% in 1985.
2.07      The main estate crops are oil palm and rubber:  about 78,000 t of
palm oil (including that from wild palms) and 20,000 t of rubber were produced
in 1975. The existing estate plantations are: the state-owned CAMDEV
(14,000 ha, rubber; 16,000 h, oil palm) and SOCAPALM (15,500 ha, oil palm);
and the private SAFACAM (6,000 ha, mainly rubber) and PAMOL (9,000 ha, mainly
oil palm). A third state-owned company, HEVECAM, was recently established.
At present the estate crops are being developed mainly byf-these large



-4-
state-owned companies. A joint Coastal Estates Center is being set up, in-
cluding both private and public companies (para 3.32).
2.08      The proposed project would be the second step, following the Niete
rubber estate project underway (Credit 574-CM), of a large program for the
sparsely populated southwest region. Preparation of a master plan for de-
velopment of the area is being financed under the rubber project. SOCAPALM
will initially develop oil palm and coconut, and HEVECAM the rubber sector.
Institutions
2.09      SOCAPALM was established in 1968 to implement the East Cameroon
Oil Palm Project (Loans 593/886-CM), which financed the creation of two
estates, M'Bongo (6,000 ha) and Eseka (2,500 ha). This first-stage project,
now completed, is discussed in para 2.14.   A third estate at Dibombari (6,500
ha) was established under a parallel project financed by the European Economic
Community; investments still required at Dibombari and the proposed financial
arrangements (separate to the project appraised in this report) are detailed
in Annex 1. As SOCAPALM has only recently begun commercial operations, it
is not yet a fully mature enterprise but its present management is fully
qualified to carry forward the corporation's development.
2.10      SOCAPALM is passing through a difficult financial phase as oil palm
development requires a long-term gestation period. From the beginning of its
activities in this sector, SOCAPALM investments have been secured by equity
contributions from Government, grants, and long-term borrowing from external
sources (FED, BEI, IBRD, CCCE). Because of factors largely outside its
control, rapid price inflation, adverse exchange rate variations, and higher
interest rates, the costs of its program have exceeded estimates (para 2.14);
and as a result SOCAPALM ran into financial difficulties in 1976 which resulted
in a shortfall between available long-term funds and investments temporarily
financed with short-term bank facilities (Annex 1, Table 1) of CFAF 217
million (US$0.9 million) in September 1975 and of CFAF 870 million (US$3.6
million) in February 1976.
2.11      However, SOCAPALM now has secured adequate financing to replenish
its working capital and to insure the financing of its investment program
(US$11.1 million) and debt service (US$7.8 million) until 1981, when self-
generated funds would be sufficient to meet future financing requirements.
From 1977 to 1980, SOCAPALM is to receive US$3.8 million in grant and loan
funds from FED to complete the Dibombari estate;  US$5.2 million from BEI to
finance the Dibombari oil mill; and US$1.2 million from CCCE to cover invest-
ments at Eseka and M'Bongo not included in the proposed project. In the same
time period, operating surpluses would amount to US$11.1 million.  A cash flow
analysis is at Annex 6.



-5 -
2.12      FONADER (Fonds National de Developpement Rural) was created in 1973
primarily to provide credit to the rural sector. It is financed mainly from
funds provided by the Price Stabilization Fund and some allocations from the
central budget. FONADER acts as the bulk purchaser for most fertilizer im-
ported by Cameroon; it also buys pest control products, with pest control
measures executed by the Ministry of Agriculture. Operating under the gen-
eral supervision of the Ministry, FONADER has been given responsibility for
smallholder development.  However, since FONADER has no regional offices, it
operates through existing institutions, as would be done under the proposed
project.
2.13    \_esearch, technical advice and oil palm seed were until recently,
provided by IRHO (Institut de Recherches pour les Huiles et Oleagineux) a
French research institute which is well staffed and operates on an inter-
national scale. However, the Cameroon station, La Dibamba, has been taken
over by the new National Research Organization, ONAREST: the arrangements
appear reasonable'bùt, as a firm judgment cannot yet be made, research will be
kept under constant review. Teçhnical advice in practice is provided by an
IRHO Agent under contract with SOCAPALM, and this contract would be continued&
under the project.  A new oil palm seed garden was recently established, under
IRHO supervision, on CAMDEV's Mondoni oil palm estate, and seed for the
proposed project would come from this source.
C. The First-Stage Project
2.14      The East Cameroon Oil Palm Project, which covered the first stage of
SOCAPALM's development, is analyzed in Annex 1, the main points being taken
from a Completion Report dated August 16, 1976. As appraised in 1969, the
first-stage project consisted of: (a) the establishment of 4,500 ha of oil
palms each at M'Bongo and Eseka estates, and (b) the construction of a palm
oil mill at each of the estates, as well as roads, buildings and other infra-
structure. After mechanical land clearance proved more expensive than expected
and the site at Eseka proved partly unsatisfactory, a reappraisal took place
in May/June 1972. As a result, additional planting areas were identified at
M'Bongo and a reduced area at Eseka was scheduled for hand clearing.  The
revised project included (i) the establishment of 6,000 ha of oil palms at
M'Bongo and 2,500 ha at Eseka, to be concluded in the 1976 planting season;
and (ii) proportionate adjustments in the infrastructure.  At the time the
second-stage project was appraised, some 330 ha of cleared land remained to be
planted and some complementary investments such as housing for estate workers
had not been completed, nor had some other essential investments such as pro-
cessing facilities considered premature in the first-stage package. Total
project implementation is expected to take 13 years instead of nine estimated
at reappraisal. The slippage has been caused by occasional lack of planting
material, teiporary labor shortages, and severe loss of unprotected young
palms to rodents--- 1,200 ha had to be replanted. All of these problems,
aided by a strengthening of estate management, now are under control. The
latest cost estimates are about 68% and 29%, respectively, over appraisal and



-6-
reappraisal estimates. Considering that reappraisal took place before an
unexpected upsurge of world inflation, the project's cost performance since
reappraisal is reasonable. The economic rate of return on the reappraised
project is expected to be adequate (about 14%). As a general conclusion, it
seems clear that SOCAPALM management has shown its ability to cope reasonably
well with the inevitable problems which arise in any new enterprise, and this
augurs well for the future. The first-stage project was based on established
principles governing such undertakings, and the second-stage project would
follow those same principles.
III. THE PROJECT
A. The Project Areas
The Kienke Estate Concession Area
3.01      The new Kienke estate, in the southwest region (para 2.08), would
be established within an area extending northwest from the boundary of the
Niete Rubber Estate concession, in the Lobe River basin. The concession of
22,300 ha is comprised of two zones separated by the Kribi-Ebolowa road; a
corridor along this road about 2 km wide is excluded to allow for future
settlement. The northern zone covers 6,900 ha, the southern zone 15,400 ha.
The concession boundaries are shown on Map 12429. The concession would be
provided to SOCAPALM by a presidential decree under existing legislation
governing such matters, that would make ownership by SOCAPALM provisional
upon the concession property being successfully developed. An assurance
was received that Government would promptly make the land available to
SOCAPALM.
3.02      The concession is very thinly populated, and the predominant
vegetation is light forest on logged-over land. Climatic and soil condi-
tions are suitable for oil palm. There are some seasonally flooded and
marshy areas that would not be planted. It is estimated that 50-60% of
the concession area is plantable to oil palm. Details are at Annex 2.
3.03      Communications and Utilities.  The estate s two planting zones
would be connected to the national road network, and thus to each other, by
a short access road to be built under the project. The estate headquarters
would be very close to the existing Kribi airfield, which would be used for
purposes of the project. Transport links to the Douala-Yaounde transport
corridor, and also the network within the southwest region, are to be re-
viewed in 1977 in the light of a major study of the corridor nearing comple-
tion. As the palm oil output would not by itself justify such infrastruc-
tural investments, the external transport needs of the proposed project
would be subordinate to the overall development program foreseen for the
region (including evacuation routes for forestry schemes in the southeast).
Since the Bank is actively involved in Cameroon's transport sector, and



- 7 -
since a Government assurance was obtained under the Niete rubber project
(Credit 474-CM) that it would take all measures necessary to improve the roads
and bridges to assure year-round through traffic between Douala and Kribi,
transport is unlikely to be a problem. The national railway - which owns an
existing limited-load rail/road crossing over the Sanaga River - will be
requested to grant crossing permission for essential loads of over 10 tons;
a similar arrangement exists for the First Project. Most palm oil produced on
the estate would be transported by large cistern trucks to Douala, for local
customers. An outside supply of electricity would not be essential for the
project. The estate headquarters and factory would be located in close
proximity to a permanent and adequate water supply.
3.04      Labor and Social Services.  HEVECAM has been more successful
than expected in recruiting its initial workforce in the area, and SOCAPALM
should be able to do the same. However, most of the estate labor force
would have to be recruited in the more populated regions of Cameroon. Some
of the established estates elsewhere in Cameroon have done so, and the same
supply areas could be tapped (Annex 2). Wages would be attractive, and
there would be provision for social infrastructure to serve the needs of
the resident laborers and their families: villages, schools, hospital facil-
ities, and housing for staff would have to be provided; and a range of social
activities such as sports and cinema would have to be organized. It is fore-
seen that SOCAPALM would share the hospital facilities constructed under the
adjacent rubber estate project under a common services agreement with HEVECAM
(para 3.3i).
3.05      All salaries and wages paid by the estate would be subject to rele-
vant Government legislation. The minimum legal wage (presently CFAF 325/day -
US$1.32) would be the predominant wage during the planting period. In later
years, there would be substantial employment of skilled workers.
The Outgrower Project Areas
3.06      The outgrower plantings would be in the vicinity of the existing
estate complexes at M'Bongo/Edea and Eseka, and thus would have growing
conditions that have been thoroughly investigated and proved suitable for
oil palm. As individual land tenure rights are traditional and not codi-
fied, assurances have been obtained that each outgrower would have a per-
sonal usufruct on his plantings when they are completed. The outgrower
development areas are within the command zone of the Douala - Yaounde
"transport corridor" (para 3.03). Aside from small-scale food crop farming,
the main economic activities in these areas are the SOCAPALM estate/oil mill
complexes, commercial forestry exploitation, collection of fruit from wild
palm, aed some cocoa production. Rural population densities are in the
5-10/km range, but are much higher in the vicinity of passable roads along
which outgrowers would be recruited (para 3.16).  Surveys in these areas have
identified some 500 farmers who are interested in becoming outgrowers, and
this pool of potential candidates bodes well for success of the project.



-8-
B. Summary Project Description
3.07      The project would finance planting of a total of 9,330 ha with
oil palm. It would have two major physical objectives: (a) to initiate a
program of smallholder development in the tree crop sector, in conjunction
with established estates; and (b) to establish the first phase of a new oil
palm estate, to be called Kienke, which would eventually expand to 12,000 ha
with additional surrounding outgrowers. The project would be carried out by
the Socie*té Camerounaise de Palmeraies (SOCAPALM), excepting part (e) to be
implemented by a Coastal Estates Center company (para 3.32). Specifically,
the project would comprise a five-year investment period involving:
(a) clearing about 6,850 ha and planting 6,000 ha with high-yielding
selected oil palm trees on Kienke estate and maintaining these
plantings during the five-year period; and providing infrastruc-
ture to create an estate complex, including the first phase of a
processing factory;
(b)  establishing 2,000 ha of smallholder oil palm plantations under
an outgrower program on land cleared by the farmers; and providing
credit, management and extension services;
(c) clearing 1,000 ha and planting 1,330 ha (including 330 ha of land
already cleared) of oil palm on M'Bongo estate; providing both
M'Bongo and Eseka estates with harvesting equipment and staff
housing; and expanding the processing mill at M'Bongo;
(d) providing for management and administration of Kienke, and admin-
istrative costs related to the immature areas at Eseka and M'Bongo
estates ; and
(e) providing a headquarters service complex in Douala, including
office space and facilities such as a vehicle park, garage, and
warehousing, that would be jointly owned by several estate-owning
companies.
The project would only provide for maintenance of all the estate plantings
during the five-year project period. Maintenance thereafter and necessary
processing and collection equipment and certain infrastructural investments
would be provided for under SOCAPALM's future investment program; an assur-
ance to this effect was received (para 4.05). All oil palm estates involved
in the project would be owned by SOCAPALM. The outgrowers program would be
managed by SOCAPALM under a contract with FONADER (para 2.12).
C. Detailed Features
Kienke Estate
3.08      Planting Program.  The planting season would begin in March-April.
The 6,000 ha of project plantings would be divided into five sectors. Plantings



-9-
would begin in the southern zone (para 3.01), close to where the estate center
would be located, and in the fourth year the plantings would shift to the
northern zone. Plantings the first year would cover 750 ha; the yearly rate
would then accelerate to 1,750 ha. After three years, there would be three
sectors, averaging 1,400 ha each, in the southern zone.
3.09      For land preparation, the project would follow the precedent of
the Niete rubber estate project in the same region, where the option of
mechanical clearance on force account was adopted because of lower costs
and technical advantages. Therefore, 20 heavy duty tractors and supporting
equipment would be provided under the project. The technical features of
land preparation, planting, protection against rodents, and maintenance
requirements are outlined at Annex 2.
3.10      Utilities, Housing and Amenities, and Infrastructure.  Under the
project, construction of the central village would begin in PY 1 and pro-
vide accommodation for managerial staff and labor; offices and stores;
an infirmary; initially one school; water supply and generating equipment.
The factory, located at this site, would have its own generating capacity
because steam in large quantities is required for processing purposes;
factory byproducts, fibre and shell, would provide the fuel. Four satel-
lite villages, also constructed under the project, would have basic utilities,
a market and shops, and a social meeting hall. Amenities for staff would
include one club house built under the project.
3.11      The estate center would have good initial access to most parts
of the concession via existing logging trails. About 360 km of plantation
roads would be built under the project, including the main access road
(para 3.03); these roads would be built to minimum standards, and upgraded
in later years.
3.12      Processing Equipment.  The proposed project would finance the first
20 ton/hour capacity of a scheduled 40 ton/hour palm oil processing factory.
The first line would come into operation in about 1982/83, the second year of
production (the first year's small production could probably be used by the
Estate's commissariat -- para 3.13). The second line would need to be con-
structed in 1984/85 -- i.e. ready for use in 1985/86 -- and the third line
constructed in a satellite shed in 1986/87. Harvesting and collection equip-
ment would have to be provided in keeping with this schedule.
3.13      Labor Recruitment and Food Supply.  The oil palm estate labor re-
quirement would reach a plateau of about 1,100 field workers in PY 4. Labor
supply would require an organized recruitment effort. There would also have
to be an organized effort to provide the estate workers and their families
with a steady supply of food by a commissariat operation. Both of these
functions probably would be organized jointly with HEVECAM, as there would
be no advantage to competitive, uncoordinated efforts.



- 10 -
Outgrower Development
3.14      Under an assurance given with the first-phase SOCAPALM project,
Government finanPed,studies that recommended smallholder development be
based on outgrower arrangements. These studies outlined an initial program
for oil palm covering a total of 10,000 ha, over about 15 years, in three
sectors: the Eseka Area, 2,000 ha; the Dibombari Area, 4,000 ha; and the
M'Bongo-Edea Area, 4,000 ha. An additional smallholder component for the
Kribi area, in conjunction with Kienke estate, should be possible within
this time span as the local rural population increases. The recommended
rate of development would be 200 ha/year for each sector, based on experi-
ence in other countries. To spread overhead costs, the three sectors ready
for development would be initiated at the same time. Outgrower develop-
ment in the Dibombari area, however, would be under a separate project that
FED has been asked to finance. The project proposed for Bank financing would
cover 1,000 ha of smallholdings in the Eseka area and 1,000 ha in the M'Bongo
area.  An estimated 1,000 smallholders would be involved by the end of five
years.
3.15      Outgrower plantings would be confined to a radius of 25 km from
the relevant oil mill complex and limited to existing passable roads; farms
would be within 500 m from a chosen road. All participants would be quali-
fied farmers, who would agree to follow, throughout the development period,
the technical advice provided by SOCAPALM (para 3.27).
3.16      Land would be cleared by the participating farmers, either in-
dividually or by a cooperating group (para 3.31). Planting material and
maintenance would be as described in Annex 2. Seedlings, cover crop seed,
and fertilizer, would be supplied on credit by SOCAPALM; cash advances based
on labor requirement would also be made available either as a grant or on
credit depending on farm family income (para 4.06); protection against rodents
would be provided by the farmer. SOCAPALM would supervise all operations.
Since this would be an inaugural outgrower program, the project would provide
for the housing and equipment of SOCAPALM's outgrower extension service.
Douala Complex
3.17      A suitable site is available in the Douala industrial district for
location of a functional service complex. The project would provide for con-
struction of an office building, a vehicle park and garage facilities, and
warehouse space. SOCAPALM would share these facilities with the other oil
palm and rubber plantation companies (CAMDEV, SAFACAM, HEVECAM and PAMOL --
para 2.07), under a separate corporate arrangement, and substantial savings
could be achieved through the spreading of overhead costs. Construction would
be under the present project for reasons of convenience.
Completion of M'Bongo and Eseka Estates
3.18      As discussed in para 2.14, the proposed project would provide for
the replanting of 330 ha damaged by rodents at M'Bongo estate which had been
cleared under the first-stage project. For M'Bongo and Eseka (para 2.09), the



- il -
proposed project would provide for harvesting and collection equipment, and
some staff housing not provided for under the first-stage project.  The
collecting equipment would comprise eight tractors with special crane attach-
ments, six heavy trucks, and ancillary equipment. The project would also
finance the final line to complete the 40 ton/hr oil mill at M'Bongo.
Extension of M'Bongo Estate
3.19      The expansion of M'Bongo estate from the original 6,000 to 7,000 ha
is justified in view of the improved capability of the M'Bongo estate manage-
ment, available land, and the expanded capacity of the M'Bongo processing
factory. Under the proposed project, the planting schedule would be 500 ha
each in PY 2 and 3. The marginal cost of this expansion would be low (e.g. no
additional staff housing would be required). Methods and procedures, including
maintenance requirements, would be essentially those described in Annex 2.
Five tractors and ancillary equipment would be provided under the proposed
project.
D. Organization and Management
Societe Camerounaise de Palmeraies (SOCAPALM)
3.20      SOCAPALM is a development corporation owned 58.5% directly by the
Governnent, and the balance by three public agencies: the Societe Nationale
d'Investissement (10.5%), and the cocoa and coffee price stabilization funds
(17% and 14%, respectively). SOCAPALM's 11 directors were selected to pro-
vide a blend of Government, local business, and farmer representatives.  The
present Chairman is the Minister of Agriculture. The General Manager is
appointed by the Board of Directors on the recommendation of the Minister
of Economy and Planning and is responsible, under the control of the Board
Chairman, for day-to-day management. His performance has been satisfactory.
Second in command is the Field Manager.
3.21      To date, SOCAPALM has relied on a minimum cadre of high level
staff, mostly men with multiple talents. The company plans to evolve along
the lines of the conventional organization structure shown on Chart 17055.
3.22      Except for the participation of a Government Commissioner in its
affairs, SOCAPALM functions as a normal commercial entity, subject to the
Cameroon Investment Code. As already agreed, the Commissioner's legal right
to suspend action on corporate decisions while referring the matter to the
responsible Ministry would be restricted to cases that might increase the
obligations of Government under the Loan Agreements; details are in Annex
1.
3.23      Estate Management and Training.  All existing SOCAPALM estate
managers are experienced oil palm specialists who have proved their capacity
to control day-to-day management. On Kienke Estate, the field organization
would comprise five sector chiefs, each in charge of about 1,200 ha of oil



- 12 -
palm. There is satisfactory evidence throughout the estates sector that a
pool of experienced Cameroonian cadre is being established through on-the-job
training. A qualified Cameroonian is now being sought for the post of Deputy
Director. It would be a condition of effectiveness that the Kienke estate
manager and the Chief Accountant had been appointed, and that a list of
qualified and possible candidates for the post of Executive Controller had
been established; an assurance was received that this post would be filled
by February 28, 1978. To consolidate this effort, the Government is currently
organizing, with the assistance of consultants, a training program for agri-
cultural staff that would augment the on-the-job training programs of the
individual companies.
3.24      Key Posts.  Management personnel essential to the project's success
would be the Director General, Deputy Director General, Field Manager, Execu-
tive Controller, Chief Accountant, Kienke and M'Bongo estate managers, and
the manager of the outgrower program (see below). An assurance was received
at negotiations that these eight key posts would be filled at all times
(including the Deputy General Director's post after it is activated - para
3.22) by persons with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank.
Management of the Outgrower Program
3.25      SOCAPALM would be the managing agency, on behalf of FONADER, for
outgrower development in the areas commanded by its oil mills (para 3.06).
An outline agreement covering both the FONADER/SOCAPALM and the subsidiary
SOCAPALM/Outgrower relationship was discussed and agreed at negotiations.
A guiding principle would be to make the project a training ground for FONADER
in undertaking its responsibility for smallholder development. It would be a
condition of disbursement against this component that a satisfactory credit
administration agreement had been signed by FONADER and SOCAPALM.
3.26      For the outgrowers program, SOCAPALI would establish a specialized
service, Service des Plantations Villageoises (SPV). At the headquarters
level, SPV would have technical and administrative divisions. In the field,
SPV would work independently of the estates, and be organized initially
in three sectors, each attached to an existing mill.  SPV chiefs would be
trained in oil palm work by SOCAPALM personnel, and this practical training
would include participants from FONADER. There would be one controller for
about 80 outgrowers and about 300 ha of palm, a coverage designed to ensure
the effective use of funds provided for outgrowers. As far as possible, the
SPV would seek to intensify the plantings in each sector to improve control
efficiency and lower harvest transport costs. These arrangements are similar
to those which have proved successful in Ivory Coast.
Outgrower Selection, Size of Holdings and Credit Arrangements
3.27      Based on a survey made during preparation (para 3.06), SOCAPALM
would have a good choice of candidates in the initial phase of outgrower
development covered by the project. In keeping with experience elsewhere in



- 13 -
Uest Africa, it is assumed for the proposed project that initial plantings
would average about 1.5 ha of oil palm. In later years, it is expected that
satisfied outgrowers would increase their plantings to about 4 - 4.5 ha on
average without exceeding family labor availability when palms are in bear-
ing. There would be a minimum of 1 ha and maximum of 10 ha per participant.
It is expected that 90% of the farmers selected to participate in the program
would derive 75% of their income from agricultural activities. The balance
of 10% would be people with land rights whose principal activity is non-
agricultural but who have nevertheless retained a close association with the
village.
3.28      Prospective participants would complete, with the assistance of
SOCAPALII agents, a form giving prescribed data on their farming operations,
family situation, and references. For suitable candidates, the selection
procedure would involve an enquiry as to the farmer's reputation, and an
examination of the planting site. Participation would be dependent upon
the potential outgrower becoming associated with a group of farmers (para
3.30). An assurance was received that the contract to be entered into by
participating farmers with SOCAPALM would follow a model satisfactory to
the Bank.
3.29      Prior to January 1 of each year, SOCAPALM would prepare a report
for FONADER on its outgrower development program for the upcoming campaign.
This report would be reviewed by FONADER and lead to a mutually agreed pro-
gram; an assurance was received that the Bank would be given an opportunity
to comment on this report until all trees are in bearing. On the basis of
this program, FONADER would provide SOCAPALM with the funds and/or goods (e.g.
fertilizer) required for the establishment of outgrower palms.   SOCAPALM
would deliver inputs, maintain credit accounts, and provide processing and
marketing services. Outgrowers under contract would receive long-term financ-
ing in cash and in kind to cover establishment costs, and once production
begins, the outgrowers' produce would be sold to SOCAPALM. Terms of the
credit arrangements are outlined in para 4.06.
3.30      Outgrower Groups.  While each outgrower would have an individual
contract and account with SOCAPALM, membership in an outgrower group with
a minimum of five members would be required. Voluntary groupings would
be arranged by each SOCAPALM agent among the available candidates. Members
would have co-responsibility for the group's plantings. The main initial
function would be to provide a means for group efforts, for instance in
land clearing. Details are at Annex 3.
Coastal Estates Center
3.31      The main tree crop companies in Cameroon (para 2.07), with the
active support of the Bank, intend to establish a Coastal Estates Center
(CEC) to provide common services and functions of common interest. The
expected benefits would be increased specialization and efficiency, and
lower overheads. The organization is described in Annex 1. Arrangements
would be tailored to each common service fcr any combination of conpanies.
For the central service complex, the legal form is expected to be a co-owned



- 14 -
real estate corporation (Societe Immobiliere). The establishment of satis-
factory charter and the conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfac-
tory to the Bank, between the Government and the new corporation would be a
condition of disbursement against the Douala common services complex. Other
common services might be:  port clearance; estate medical services; recruit-
ment of estate labor; food supply; a pool of experts, such as for project
preparation and technological advice; air transport; statistical services;
land clearing; and radio communications.
IV.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
4.01      Project costs are based on November 1976 prices, and over the
five years investment period, are estimated at CFAF 9.5 billion (US$38.5
million), of which the foreign exchange component would be CFAF 6.1 billion
(US$25.0 million) or 65%.
4.02      It is the intention of Governinent to exempt from duties all items
imported expressly for the project; such duties are therefore excluded from
project cost estimates. Cost estimates include indirect taxes of about US$4.7
million; therefore, project costs would be US$33.8 million net of taxes. The
following contingencies have been computed:
a)  physical contingencies of 10% on base cost estimates;
and
b)  price contingencies, based on the expected rate of
general inflation in Cameroon, have been calculated on
base cost estimates plus physical contingencies in each
year, compounding estimated price increase factors in
prior years and one-half of the price increase factor in
the year concerned. Effective compound rates are 6.8%
in 1977, 18.1% in 1978, 27.6% in 1979, 37.8% in 1980 and
48.8% in 1981.
Total contingencies calculated on the foregoing basis amount to 31% of the
total project costs or 44% of base-line cost estimates. Detailed cost esti-
mates are in Annex 4. A summary is presented in the table on page 15.



- 15 -
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
% of
Total
Project
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Cost
CFAF Million           US$ Million
1. Oil Palm Estate Development
Field Establishment          975   1041   2016    4.0    4.2    8.2
Constructions                266    493    759    1.1    2.0    3.1
Vehicle, Equipment           159    901   1060    0.6    3.7    4.3
Oil mills                    251   1303   1554    1.0    5.3    6.3
Management/Administration  227    128    355    0.9    0.6    1.5
Subtotal              1878   3866   5744    7.6   15.8   23.4         60.9
2. Outgrower Program
Extension/Supervision        155      55    210    0.6    0.2    0.8
Field Establishment          102    101    203    0.4    0.4    0.8
Subtotal                257    156    413    1.0    0.6    1.6         4.1
3. Douala Complex
Construction                 142    214    356    0.6    0.9    1.5
Vehicle, Equipment             6      54     60            0.2    0.2
Subtotal                148    268    416    0.6    1.1    1.7         4.4
Total base cost             2283   4290   6573    9.2   17.5   26.7         69.4
Contingencies
Physical                     228    429    657    1.0    1.7    2.7
Price                        825   1409   2234    3.3    5.8    9.1
1053   1838   2891    4.3    7.5   11.8        30.6
Total Project Cost               3336   6128   9464   13.5   25.0   38.5    100



- 16 -
B. Financial Arrangements
4.03      The project would be financed by the proposed Bank loans, SOCAPALM
self-generated funds, and Government. The proposed financing plan is detailed
at Annex 5 and Annex 6, Table 1, and summarized below, after having allocated
part of the contingencies to each project component.
Proposed Financing Plan
(US$ million)
SOCAPALM
IBRD    Government  SOCAPALM        Total
a) Project Cost
Plantation development        19.0        9.3                     28.3
Outgrower program              0.6         1.2                     1.8
Douala complex                 1.4         0.7                     2.1
Contingencies                  4.0        2.3                      6.3
Subtotal                  25.0        13.5                     38.5
b)  Working capital requirement                 0.7                      0.7
c)  Financing Charges                           1.0       3.7           4.7
Total Financing Requirement  25.0          15.2       3.7          43.9
4.04      Two Bank loans totalling US$25 million would be made to Government
and would finance the foreign exchange expenditure -- 74% of project cost
net of identifiable taxes. A US$18 million First Loan would be for a 20-
year term including 4-1/2 year grace period and bear interest rate at 8.5%.
A US$7 million Third Window loan would be for about 23-1/2 year term with
first repayment on January 15, 1983 and the last on January 15, 2001. The
loans would be disbursed pari passu in the ratio 18:7 and passed on to the
project entities: to SOCAPALM for plantation development and the outgrower
program and to the Coastal Estates Center Company for the Douala complex.
Funds received by SOCAPALM on account of extension and supervision of out-
growers would be a grant; otherwise these recipients would repay Government at
the single interest rate of 8.5% (on terms similar to the Bank Loans). The
balance of project costs (US$13.5 million) together with financial charges and
working capital requirements during the development period (US$5.4 million)
would be met by Government (US$15.2 million) and by SOCAPALM self-generated
funds (US$3.7 million).



- 1 7 -
4.05      SOCAPALM's self-generated funds would be devoted to meeting finance
charges in the course of the development period. Government's contribution
would be passed on to project entities as follows:
(a) an increase in equity investments in SOCAPALM of
CFAF 2 billion (US$8.2 million) in order to allow
SOCAPALM to maintain a satisfactory equity to total
capitalization ratio of 30%;
(b) a loan of CFAF 1.2 billion (US$4.7 million) to
SOCAPALM which would have a 10 year term including
a five year grace period during which interest, at
9%, would be capitalized. Funds provided in (a)
and (b) above would complement Bank loans and
SOCAPALM's self-generated funds in meeting invest-
ment requirements, servicing debt and increasing
working capital in respect of estate operations
financed under the project;
(c) a grant of CFAF 97 million (US$0.4 million) to
SOCAPALM to cover part of extension and supervi-
sion cost for the outgrower's program during the
development period;
(d) a grant of CFAF 292 million (US$1.2 million) to
FONADER which would be passed on to smallholders
in the form of credit and cash grants. Smallholder
credit would be on the terms and conditions outlined
in para 4.06. These conditions are reflected in the
cash flow analysis in Annex 3 and Annex 6; and
(e) finally a contribution to the capitalization of
the Coastal Estates Center in the form of equity
amounting to CFAF 184 million (US$0.7 million)
which together with part of the proceeds of the
Bank loans would cover the construction and equip-
ment for the Douala complex.
Assurances have been obtained from Government that it would provide, or cause
to be provided, finance for the above requirements and that it would guarantee
any funds in excess of the amounts specified in this report required for the
completion of SOCAPALM's investment program. SOCAPALM has agreed, under a
Government guarantee, to maintain its liquid assets at a level equivalent to
its cash expenditures during the three preceding months or CFAF 450 million,
whichever is more, or such other level as shall be established from time to
time by agreement with the Bank.
4.06      The Bank loans would be deployed as follows:  (a) US$19.0 million
would go for SOCAPALM investments in its own estates; (b) US$0.6 million would
go to SOCAPALM's newly-established outgrower development unit, SPV, to finance



- 18 -
extension and supervision costs for the outgrower program; (c) US$1.4 million
would be for the Douala common services complex; and (d) US$4.0 million would
be unallocated.
Outgrower Program Costs and Cost Recovery
4.07      To ensure the success of the first phase outgrowers program, Govern-
ment has decided to provide outgrowers with both credit and grants. Credit
over the five year development period would be about CFAF 82,000 (US$335)
per ha in constant 1976 prices and would cover planting material, fertilizers,
a set of hand tools for harvesting. Interest would be at 9% per annum to
be capitalized over a six year period. Principal and capitalized interest
would be recovered at the time fresh fruit bunches (ffb) are collected by
SOCAPALM for each outgrower over 7 years. A cash advance of CFAF 48,600
(US$198) per ha in constant 1976 prices would cover the equivalent of 80% of
the labor cost required for plantation development. This cash advance would
be on a grant basis to smallholders earning more than 75% of their income from
agricultural activities but on a credit basis on the same terms as above for
others (see para 3.27). The extension and supervision costs would be about
CFAF 295 million (US$1.2 million) over the 5 year development period and
financed by a Government grant to SOCAPALM and part of the proceeds of the
IBRD loans. Subsequently, extension and supervision costs would be re-
covered via the annual bareme together with processing and transport costs.
These arrangements are satisfactory since they insure adequate revenues
to outgrowers (see para 5.05) and to Government which would effectively
recover development cash grants from the sales taxes on outgrowers' oil palm
products. Details of the outgrower program, including cost and cost recovery
arrangements are at Annex 3. During negotiations, assurances were received
that credit arrangements to be provided in the credit administration agreement
between FONADER and SOCAPALM would be acceptable to the Bank.
C. Procurement and Disbursement
4.08      Except for items specified below, procurement would be through
international competitive bidding (ICB) following Bank guidelines. Goods
and services subject to ICB -- largely machinery, vehicles and equipment,
fertilizer and some construction work (Douala complex) -- are estimated to
cost US$20.6 million. Contracts not exceeding US$100,000 would be let under
competitive bidding procedures advertised locally and satisfactory to the
Bank. Most land clearing, estate road building, plantation work and minor
estate construction, estimated at US$10.9 million, would be done on force
account using equipment owned by SOCAPALM. The remaining project costs
(US$7.0 million) would be mostly for staff and labor costs and operating
expenses.
4.09      Disbursements of the two Bank loans in combined disbursements at
the ratio 18:7 would cover 67% of total expenditure for:



- 19 -
(a) vehicles, equipment and machinery for the development of
the oil palm estates (US$7.4 million);
(b) civil works and construction for the development of the
oîl palm estates (US$3.8 million);
(c)  field development, including land clearing, fertilizers,
planting materials and other supplies and palm planting
and maintenance (US$6.7 million);
(d) administrative cost of Kienke estate (US$1.1 million);
(e) civil works, vehicles and equipment and operating costs of
SOCAPALM for the development of the outgrower program
(US$0.6 million); and
(f) vehicles, equipment and civil works for the Douala complex
(US$1.4 million).
US$4.0 million would be unallocated. Disbursements for (c) and (d) and
operating costs included in (e) would be against certificates of expendi-
tures, the documentation which is not submitted for review but would be
retained by SOCAPALM for inspection by Bank project supervision missions.
Disbursements for (a), (b) -- except for small construction work to be done
by force account -- (e) -- except for operating costs -- and (f) would be
fully documented. An estimated schedule of disbursements is at Annex 7.
D. Accounts and Audit Arran&ements
4.10      Since the company has been largely in a development phase, account-
ing has been mainly concerned with capital expendîtures. However, as plant-
ings are now beginning to produce, it is essential that SOCAPALM be capable of
providing accurate data in a timely manner to interested parties, including
IBRD. A start has been made in this direction, through: (a) the appointment
of a Chief Accountant (para 3.23), and (b) the installation of a financial
reporting system, based on the practices of established estate mangement
companies. With these two changes, SOCAPALM's accounting and auditing pro-
cedures would satisfy the requirements of the project proposed here.
4.11      The outgrower credit program for oil palm production, however,
is new to SOCAPALM and to the country. The success of this program will
depend critically on keeping proper accounts, because the management company
would have to operate on a small margin between the price paid for outgrower
ffb and the realized prices for oil and kernels. The recommended method of
calculating the producer price is outlined in Annex 3, Table 2. The separate
smallholder accounts would be designed by SOCAPALM and be the object of a
separate opinion of SOCAPALM's external auditors. The auditing of all of



- 20 -
SOCAPALM's accounts would be by independent auditors as at present; and the
reports of such audits would include a separate opinion on the smallholder
program and would be submitted to the Bank annually within six months after
the close of SOCAPALM's financial year. An assurance to this effect was
.eceived.
Perpetuation of Estates
4.12      An oil palm estate is normally expected to replace its plantings
just as much as its machinery and equipment. SOCAPALM has agreed to adopt
a policy that recognizes the future budgetary need to replant its estates on
a regular basis as from 1988. As agreed during negotiations, such replanting
would cover an average of 4% per year of the area in bearing, the generally
accepted target among long established estates.
V. YIELDS AND OUTPUT, MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Yields and Output
5.01      Expected yields are in line with the experience of the first-stage
project and relevant experience elsewhere: for ail palm outgrowers, an
average ffb yield of 13 tons/ha when their oil palm are at peak production,
nine years after planting; and for estates, 15 tons/ha. The oil extraction
rate and kernel content are forecast respectively at 21.5% and 4.5% of ffb
from fully mature palms on estate and smallholder plantations alike. Total
production from all plantings financed under this project would amount to
some 29,000 t of oil and 6,000 t of kernel by 1990/91.
B. Markets and Prices
5.02      As a result of the rapid expansion of oil palm acreages in Malaysia,
Indonesia and the Ivory Coast during the sixties, which will account for the
bulk of palm oil supplies that will come on the market between now and the
early eighties, the Bank's commodity analysts project that palm oil will
increase its share in the international trade of fats and oils from 3.7% in
1975 to 22.9% in 1985.
5.03      The demand for soft vegetable oils (soybean and cottonseed oil)
is projected to increase faster than the demand for hard oils (palm oil,
coconut oil) and animal fats. At the same time production of hard oils will
expand rapidly. Oil palms produce more oil per unit of land than any other oil
crop, at low production costs, and thus have a competitive advantage over
other oils and fats. However, although hard oils compete with soft oils in
many end uses, the potential market for soft oils is considerably larger
than that for hard oils. Continued expansion of hard oil supplies, mainly



- 21 -
palm oil, will therefore depress their prices relative to those for soft oils.
Thus, in 1976 constant dollars, the price of soya bean oil is projected to
increase from US$376/ton in 1976 to US$482/ton in 1985 whereas the price of
palm oil is expected to increase only very slightly from US$370/ton in 1976
to US$390/ton in 1985.  The real price of palm kernels is forecast to increase
from US$170/ton in 1976 to US$281/ton in 1985 (see Annex 8).
5.04      Historically, palm oil production in Cameroon has been predominately
for the domestic market with minor quantities being exported in surplus
periods. During the 1960's an average of 8,000 tons per annum was exported
representing 18% of estimated production. In the period 1970 to 1975 exports
averaged 7,000 tons per annum or 11% of production and ranged from a high of
18,000 tons in 1974 to lows of about 1,000 tons in 1972 and 1971. A similar
situation is expected to hold during the 1980's. Gross consumption which
has increased during the last decade by about 4.5% per annum is expected to
continue to increase at about the same rate. Total production, including the
ongoing and Government proposed future developments of oil palm estates is
projected to grow at about 6% per annum attaining 105,000 tons in 1980 and
138,000 tons by 1985. These figures compare with consumption forecasts of
85,000 tons in 1980 and 106,000 in 1985 representing margins for export of
20,000 tons and 31,000 tons respectively or exports as percentages of produc-
tion of 19% and 23%. Allowing for incomplete realization of Government ex-
pansion plans, an average future export margin of about 15% for palm oil is
considered a realistic estimate and this has been used in the financial and
economic calculations for this project. No difficulties are anticipated in
finding a market for any production which is surplus to domestic requirements.
Demand in adjacent west African countries is growing rapidly and Nigeria is
expected to require imports in excess of 140,000 tons by 1985. Further de-
tails on Cameroonian production, consumption and trade of palm oil are at
Annex 8, paras 41 to 45. Palm kernel oil is used in the domestic soap manu-
facturing industry, and processing facilities for kernel oil will probably
be expanded. However, in the financial and economic analysis it is assumed
that all palm kernel output is exported.
5.05      In the financial analysis, SOCAPALM's revenue (net of taxes) per
ton of oil is assumed to be CFAF 96,000 (between the export value and the
present official price for domestic sales); for kernels the corresponding
revenue per ton is CFAF 46,000, based on export prices (Annex 9). Assurances
were obtained that Government would set the producer price for ffb at a level
which would provide for the recovery of processing, collection and extension
service cost incurred by SOCAPALM when the palms come in bearing; and, further,
would consult the Bank prior to changing this price. Government has indicated
that the outgrower would receive the actual difference between the net value
of ffb and actual costs incurred by SOCAPALM and credit charge.  At full
development the price paid to outgrowers could be about CFAF US$16 per kilo of
ffb (before credit repayment).  However, farmers' cash flow are based on a
conservative price of CFAF 12 per kilo of ffb with the remainder to be distri-
buted subsequently as a bonus.



- 22 -
VI.  FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Outgrower Benefits
6.01      An illustrative farm budget, in constant 1976 prices, is at Annex 3,
Table 3, which incorporates the following assumptions: (a) yields as at para.
5.01 above; (b) producer prices of CFAF 12/kg of ffb based on the "bareme" or
cost schedule calculated at Annex 3, Table 3, and (c) credit terms as outlined
in para. 4.06 above. In the first year of production (fifth year after plant-
ing), net cash income would be about CFAF 19,600 (US$80) per ha or CFAF 450
(US$1.80) per manday. This is in line with wages earned by unskilled workers
on industrial estates and higher than returns from the alternative cash crops
of coffee and cocoa at comparable stages of development. At peak production,
some eight years later when the developnent credit would have been repaid, net
cash income would climb to about CFAF 2,750 (US$11.20) per manday. This rate
compares favorably with other crops such as coffee and cocoa (about US$2.50/
manday).
B. Financial Results for SOCAPALM
6.02      The investments to be financed by the proposed IBRD loan would
complement other investments that SOCAPALM plans to make over the next five
years, particularly on its Dibombari estate. At the end of this five-year
period, viz by 1981, only some 63% of SOCAPALM's total oil palm hectarage
would be in production and, because of lower yields in earlier years, ffb
production would be only 50% of what would be forthcoming from these same
areas when total production reaches its peak in about 1986. Consequently,
the company's cash generation capability through 1981 would be below its
financing needs and external financing would therefore be required.
6.03      The proposed project would ultimately consolidate the financial
situation of SOCAPALM. The PCR of the first project indicates that the
financial rate of return on that investment would be about 9.5%. With the
investment proposed under the project, the overall financial rate of return
would increase to about 13.4%. The rate of return on the marginal invest-
ments made to expand SOCAPALM would be about 18%.
6.04      A cash flow analysis for the project (Annex 6) shows operating
surpluses from project-financed activities beginning in 1982 and reaching
a peak in 1990, when all project plantings would be at full production. By
1984, SOCAPALM's operating surplus from project plantings would be adequate
to meet investment costs related to the project. Project-related debt ser-
vice obligations and capital expenditures would be about CFAF 1,300 million
(US$5.3 million) by 1986 when incremental operating surplus would be CFAF
1,315 million (US$5.4 million).  In 1990, at peak production, such operating
surplus would amount to about CFAF 2,100 million (US$8.6 million) in constant
1976 prices.



- 23 -
C. Financial Impact on Government and Participating
Public Agencies
6.05      The ownership of SOCAPALM is split between the Government and three
of its financial agencies. Including the financing proposed in this report,
,equity investments by these entities in SOCAPALM would total CFAF 3,200 mil-
lion (US$13.0 million) (excluding the book value of estate land) by the end
of 1981. The returns on this investment would be, first, the operating profits
of SOCAPALM.  In addition, the federal treasury would benefit from export and
domestic sales taxes on SOCAPALM-produced oil and kernels as well as income
and turnover taxes to which SOCAPALM would become liable after its standard
tax-exemption privileges run out. Although the basic revenue and cost projects
are necessarily tentative, it is expected that by 1996 the sum of such returns
to public agencies annually would be about CFAF 4 billion (US$16.3 million)
from project plantings alone, and about CFAF 7 billion (US$28.5 million) from
existing plantings.
6.06      Government expenditures for the outgrower program would consist of
funds passed through FONADER to smallholders as cash grants and/or credit
as well as grants to SOCAPALM to cover extension and supervision costs during
the development period. In addition to credit repayments, Government would
recover these funds through export and sales taxes on oil and kernel derived
from smallholder produce. The financial rate of return to Government would
be about 9% but would be over 18% if Government keeps the margin between
the producer price and the value of oil and kernel from smallholder produce
(para 5.05).
6.07      FONADER which would act as the channel for the credit operation
would receive capital grants from Government to constitute an oil palm small-
holders development fund.  As outgrower oil palms enter production and their
credit repayments start, these funds would be available for further expansion
of smallholder oil palm development.  After 1985, these funds could finance
credit to smallholders for an annual program of about 500 ha on the basis of
present cost and credit arrangements (Annex 3, Table 5).
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      At peak production the project would produce about 29,000 tons
of palm oil and 6,000 tons of kernel per annum. It is estimated that about
85% of the palm oil would be consumed domestically and that, with the ex-
ception of minor quantities of kernel oil used locally for soap manufacture,
kernels would be exported. (Annex 8 para 45 provides trade projections for
Cameroon). At peak production the total ex-harbor value of palm oil import
savings and of kernel and palm oil exports would amount to about CFAF 2.8
billion (US$11.5 million) per annum in 1976 terms, of which an estimated
55% would be domestic value added.
7.02      With the assumptions given below, separate rates of return were
calculated for the Kienke estate, the M'Bongo estate extension and the
Outgrower program, and a combined rate of return for all three components.
These three components represent 76% of the project base costs. The esti-
mated rates of return of the various components are as follows:



- 24 -
Percent of
Total Pro-
Rate of Return        ject Cost /a
Component                                 %                 X
Kienke Estate                            14                   67
Outgrower Program                        23                    7
Eseka and First Stage M'Bongo
Estate development /b                  14                    18
Extension of M'Bongo                     17                    8
Total Project /c                         15                  100
/a   Excluding Douala Complex.
/b   Rate of return is the overall rate of return for the entire
investment on M'Bongo and Eseka estates(See para 7.04).
/c   Weighted overall rate of return for the combined Kienke estate,
outgrower program and M'Bongo extension project components.
7.03      Major assumptions used in the rate of return calculations are pre-
sented below. Further details on output prices and analytical assumptions,
and the economic cash flows are presented in Annex 9.
(a) Benefits: Yields, production and milling percentages
for oil and kernel are as in Chapter V. Kernel and oil
values are based on the treatment of 85% of palm oil
production as import substitutes and the remaining oil
and all kernel as exports; prices are based on the
average of 1980 and 1985 expected world market prices in
1976 constant dollars. No separate benefits are attributed
to social infrastructural investments on oil palm estates.
(b) Costs: All development and operating costs, including
physical contingencies but excluding identifiable taxes,
have been taken into account. Prices are based on those
ruling as of November 1976.
(c) Project Life: Taken at 30 years; the estimated economic
life of an oil palm plantation.
(d)  Foreign Exchange:  The exchange rate used is CFAF 245
US$1.0, which reflects the market rate as of November,
1976.
7.04      Rates of return for the Douala complex and the M'Bongo/Eseka com-
pletion have not been calculated.  The Douala complex which represents 6.5% of
project costs (excluding price contingencies) will be shared by a number of
companies. The overall rate of return on the M'Bongo and Eseka estates was
calculated in the SOCAPALM I project completion report (August, 1976) to be
14%.  The incremental rate of return on the completion of these estates can be
expected to be higher but would be difficult to estimate accurately in view of



- 25 -
the problem of allocating an appropriate share of benefits to the additional
investments. An incremental rate of return for the M'Bongo/Eseka completion
has therefore not been calculated. The M'Bongo/Eseka completion would re-
present about 17% of total project costs (excluding price contingencies).
.;
Sensitivity and Risks
7.05      Sensitivity tests are presented in Annex 9.  As concerns the as-
sumptions inducing a reduction in the rate of return: a 20% increase in costs
or decrease in benefits would induce a fall in each rate of return of about
3 percentage points, and if all the palm oil is valued at export equivalent
prices the rates of return would fall by between 1 and 3 percentage points.
Yields and costs are based on previous SOCAPALM experience and are considered
realistic particularly when related to the strengthening of SOCAPALM management
proposed under this project. Market access is not considered a problem. The
risk that the project would not meet its objectives is small.
Other Benefits
7.06      Other benefits, not easily quantified, would accrue from project
investments, especially the social infrastructure investments on plantation
workers' villages. Direct employment of 1,100 workers would be provided,
mostly coming from the poorer regions of the country (paras 2.04 and 3.04)
where basic social amenities such as schooling, and medical and social
facilities as provided by the project are sometimes entirely lacking. In
addition, SOCAPALM management would gain valuable experience in developing
a high priority subsector of the economy, and training Cameroonian cadre
for this subsector. The Douala complex would also allow for better communi-
cation and coordination between the various corporations in the tree crop
sector. Finally, the involvement of FONADER in the project would provide
a useful lead in for the future involvement of FONADER in the provision of
credit to tree crop farmers.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      The following points were agreed upon during negotiations:
(a)  Government would promptly make the land required for the
Kienke estate available to SOCAPALM (para 3.01);
(b)  each outgrower would have a personal usufruct on his plantings
when they are completed (para 3.06);
(c)  the post of Executive Controller would be filled by February 28,
1978 (para 3.23);
(d)  the six key project posts would be filled at all times
(with the exceptions noted) by persons with qualifica-
tions and experience acceptable to the Bank (para 3.24);



- 26 -
(e) the contract to be entered into by participating farmers
and SOCAPALM would follow a model satisfactory to the
Bank (para 3.28);
(f)  the Bank would be given an opportunity to comment on the
annual program report that SOCAPALM would prepare for
FONADER (para 3.29);
(g)  Government would provide or cause to be provided financ-
ing in the amounts and on the terms outlined in para 4.05
and that it would guarantee any funds in excess of the
amounts specified in this report required for the comple-
tion of SOCAPALM's investment program (para 4.05);
(h) SOCAPALM would maintain its liquid assets at a level equiv-
alent to its cash expenditures during the three preceding
months or CFAF 450 million, whichever is more, or such other
level as shall be established in agreement with the Bank
(para 4.05);
(i) the Credit Administration Agreement between Government,
FONADER and SOCAPALM would be acceptable to the Bank
(para 4.07);
(j) auditing of SOCAPALM's estate accounts and of its small-
holder program accounts would be by independent auditors
as at present; and the reports of such audits would include
a separate opinion on the smallholder program and would be
submitted to the Bank annually within six months after the
close of SOCAPALM's financial year (para 4.11);
(k) SOCAPALM would adopt a policy for replanting a mutually
agreeable percentage of the total hectarage each year
beginning in 1988 (para 4.12); and
(1)  Government would set the producer price for fresh fruit
bunches (ffb) at a level which would provide for the
recovery of processing, collection and extension service
costs incurred by SOCAPALM, and would consult the Bank
prior to changing this price (para 5.05).
8.02      A condition of effectiveness would be that an additional quali-
fied estates manager and the Chief Accountant, acceptable to the Bank, had
been appointed, and that a list of qualified and possible candidates for
the Executive Controller post had been assembled (para 3.23).
8.03      A condition of disbursement against the smallholder component
would be that a satisfactory Credit Administration Agreement had been
signed by FONADER and SOCAPALM (para 3.25).



- 2 7 -
8.04      A condition of disbursement against the Douala common services
complex would be the establishment of a satisfactory charter tor the
Coastal Estates Center and the conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank, between Governnent and this new corporation (para
3.31).
8.05      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project is
suitable for Bank loans totalling US$25.0 million -- a First Loan of US$18
million and a Third Window Loan of US$7 million.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
PROJECT ENTITIES
A. Societe Camerounaise de Palmeraies
General
1.        The Corporation was established in 1969 under the name of SOPAME --
Societe des Palmeraies de M'Bongo et d'Eseka -- to execute the Bank-financed
project called East Cameroon Oil Palm Project. This was in effect the first-
stage development project for the successor corporation, SOCAPALM -- Societe
Camerounaise de Palmeraies. The objects of the company include the creation
and operation of oil palm enterprises, the processing and selling of oil palm
and kernels, and assistance to smallholders engaged in growing oil palms in
the vicinity, including provision of processing facilities. The first
nucleus oil palm estates were developed at M'Bongo and Eseka, the areas after
which the initial Corporation was named. The addition of a third area,
Dibombari, led to the change in name.
2.        Initially, the Government owned 48% of the equity; the remaining
shares were subscribed by Societe Nationale d'Investissement - SNI (12%) and
the cocoa and coffee price stabilization funds (20% each). Following aug-
mentations of capital, the ownership has become 58.5% Government, 10.5% SNI,
17% cocoa fund, and 14% coffee fund.  This percentage breakdown ignores the
nominal value of the estate land which is ascribed to Government's share-
holding.
3.        SOCAPALM is a Development Corporation, and therefore is subject to
the following provisions of the D.C. Act:
-  At least 20% of the share capital must be held by the
state, public bodies and/or other development corpora-
tions.
- Authorization may be given by decree for the inclusion of a
development corporation under the Investment Code of the
Cameroon or the granting of industrial and/or commercial
monopolies.
- The corporation is bound by the commercial code of the
Cameroon.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
- State control is exercised through the Minister of Agri-
culture through the appointment of a Government Commissioner
for the corporation.
4.        The articles of association provide for administration by a Board
of Directors consisting of 9 to 12 members. The Board currently consists of
11 directors, including 4 senior government officials, the Director General
of SNI, the Chairmen of the Chambers of Commerce and Agriculture, who also
have other local business interests, and two representatives from the manage-
ment committees of the cocoa and coffee price stabilization funds. The Board
appoints a Chairman, and if required a Vice-Chairman from among its members.
The General Manager is appointed by the Board of Directors on the recommenda-
tion of the Minister of Agriculture. The General Manager's powers are deter-
mined by the Board of Directors.
5.        The Government Commissioner participates in directors' and other
meetings in an advisory capacity. All documents for, and minutes of such
meetings, are submitted to the Commissioner, who also has power to inves-
tigate company records and premises. If, as in the case of SOCAPALM, the
Government holds more than 50% of the share capital, the Government Commis-
sioner would have the power to suspend action on decisions made at general
and other meetings to enable him to refer to the Minister of Agriculture
for approval or reconsideration of the decision. To ensure that the Commis-
sioner's powers of suspension would not hamper the effective operation
of SOCAPALM, or affect the day-to-day management of the company, assurances
were obtained from the Government under Loans 593/886-CM that the right of
suspension would be limited to decisions on general policy matters which might
increase the charges and obligations of the Government under the Loan Agree-
ment (e.g., decisions relating to new investment, indebtedness, etc.).
6.        As required by law, 5% of new profits are allocated to a reserve
fund until the total reserve fund is equal to one-tenth of the total share
capital. The company statutes provide for a non-cumulative dividend on
paid-up capital of 6%, after allocation (if any) to the reserve fund, but
payment would be subject to cash requirements and availability. Further
distribution of profits would be subject to recommendation by the directors
and approval by the shareholders.
The First-stage Project and its Implementation
7.        The SOCAPALM first-stage development project -- namely the East
Cameroon Oil Palm Project -- involved two loans, one of US$7.9 million in 1969
(Loan 593-CM) and following reappraisal one of US$1.7 million in 1973 (Loan
886-CM). The project was jointly financed by the Government, the Bank, the
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE, France), and the Fonds d'Aide
et de Cooperation (FAC, France).
8.        The project originally consisted of the establishment of 4,500 ha
of oil palms at M'Bongo and 4,500 ha at Eseka; the construction of a palm oil



ANNEX 1
Page 3
mill at each of M'Bongo and Eseka; and roads, buildings and other infrastruc-
ture. As field work progressed at Eseka, it became evident that, because of
swamps, ravines and numerous small streams, land clearing would be too costly
and that the original objective of planting 4,500 ha at Eseka would not be
attainable. The mechanical land clearing method recommended by the consul-
tants was also too expensive. Reappraisal took place in May/June 1972. As a
result, an additional suitable area was identified at M'Bongo to offset the
area not suitable for planting at Eseka and some 1,500 ha were retained for
hand clearing. The revised project included inter alia (i) the establishment
of 6,000 ha of oil palm at M'Bongo and 2,500 ha at Eseka and (ii) an adjust-
ment in the capacity of the oil mills to be built at each estate to reflect
the respective change in planted areas. Other features were maintained.
9.        The project objectives consisted mainly in increasing the estate
production of oil palm products in Cameroon and in laying the foundations for"
smallholder schemes. These objectives are in tune with the Government's
development strategy and are well on the way to being met.
10.       By the end of June 1976, some 8,280 ha of oil palms had been
planted and another 380 ha was scheduled for planting during 1976/77, for a
total of 8,660 ha. The last plantings will thus start producing only in
1980/81 and total project implementation will take 13 years instead of 9.
The major factors having contributed to this slippage since reappraisal
are occasional lack of planting material, temporary shortages of labor,
and severe loss of unprotected young palms due to rodents -- 1,200 ha had to
be rèplanted. Inadequate planning, weak estate management and insufficient
supervision of individual estates have been largely responsible for these
problems in the past, except for labor shortages which were mostly beyond the
control of management. All of these problems are now under control.
11.       Supervision of Estates.  The General Manager, Plantation Inspector,
and the general administrative and accounting services are located at Douala.
In the early years of the project, there was an imminent question as to
whether the General Manager should reside on one of the estates. This
question has been reduced in importance by the improvement of estate manage-
ment -- i.e., all of the existing estate managers are well qua idfied in-
dividuals. The more fundamental question regarding supervision of estates is
the need for reliable communication between the estates and between these and
the administrative centers of Douala and Yaounde.  The proposed second-stage
l project would provide for a reasonable amount of light aircraft usage; further,
an air service is one of the activities envisaged for the common services
organi_atiorn-d-is_ussed&later in this annex.  The joint radio facilities
envisaged-by that organization would also be of considerable benefit. Since
there is adequate evidence that the past problems of estate supervision are
under control, the Bank has no objection to the General Manager residing at
Douala.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
12.       Perpetuation of Estates.  An estate is normally expected to replace
its plantings just as much as its machinery and equipment. To ensure that
this would be done, che Loan Agreement required the Borrower "... to establish
and maintain a replanting fund at such a level as shall be necessary to carry
out the replanting ... of the estates included in the Project...". However,
it seems that the high level of inflation which prevailed at the time of
reappraisal made the fund impractical, and the fund was not set up.  As
the fundamental reasons for replanting an estate have not disappeared, an
adequate mechanism should be installed. An approach favored by long estab-
lished estate companies is to aim at replacing an average of about 4% of
the total hectarage every year. A timetable for phasing into such a program
cannot be specified, as factors such as relative performance of estate manage-
ments, planting block productivity, and old versus new varieties cannot be
predicted. SOCAPALM has agreed that, at the latest in 1988, budgetary allo-
cations would be made for a replanting program.
13.       Cost at Completion.  Since its formation in 1969, SOCAPALM has
prepared cost-at-completion reviews three times, namely before reappraisal
in 1972, in July 1974, and in June 1976 during the Completion Review Mission
of the Bank. During the proposed project implementation these would be
performed at least once a year.
14.       The June 1976 estimate of the project cost at completion amounts
to CFAF 5,760 million; it is made up of CFAF 4,196 million of expenditures
actually incurred up to June 30, 1976 and CFAF 1,564 million, or 27% of
total, of expenditures to be incurred after June 30, 1976. The latter will
be needed to plant the last 330 ha of oil palms during 1976/1977 to bring
existing plantings to maturity up to 1979/80, and provide the necessary oil
processing capacity. The estimate of future expenditures includes contin-
gencies as per Bank Guidelines.
15.       The latest cost estimates at completion are about 68% and 29%
respectively over appraisal and reappraisal estimates. Considering that
reappraisal took place before the world petroleum crisis and the ensuing
accelerated period of inflation, the project's cost performance since reap-
praisal is reasonable. It should be noted that the cost elements as presented
in the appraisal and reappraisal documents do not correspond to the accounts
and budgets of the Borrower; consequently, comparisons should only be viewed
as a broad indication of cost variances.
16.       The actual/forecast cost difference of CFAF 1,282 million since
reappraisal is due roughly 24% to net foreign exchange losses actually in-
curred through June 1976, 40% to increased labor rates, 5% to destruction
of young palms by rodents, and the remainder to general price increases.
17.       Yields and Production.  Current aE3umptions as to yields and
the projected production of ffb, oil and kerlels during the life of the
project are slightly less favorable than forecast at reappraisal. At full
production, yields are estimated to be 15 tons/ha. Production at M'Bongo
reached 20,000 tons in 1975/76 and at Eseka reached 6,000 tons.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
18.       Rates of Return.  The completion review mission estimated the
financial rate of return at 9.5%, compared with 10% at reappraisal. The
economic rate of return was estimated at about 14%; this compares with a
rate of 12% calculated on a similar basis at reappraisal.
19.       General Conclusion.  The difficult tasks of setting up a new company/
and developing its first plantations are behind.  SOCAPALM management has
shown its ability to cope reasonably well with the inevitable problems which i
arise in any enterprise, and this augurs well for the future. Project
implementation occurred in a period of high inflation but, on a conservative
basis, the financial and economic viability of the project seems to be assured.
The Completion of Dibombari Estate
20.       The Dibombari estate complex consists of a 6,295 ha oil palm plan-
tation, partly financed by the Fonds Europeen de Developpement (FED), and
an oil mill, partly financed by the European Investment Bank (EIB). This
estate is owned by SOCAPALM and managed on an integral basis with its other
estates, M'Bongo, Eseka, and Kienke (in the future), which are partially
financed by the Bank.
21.       Implementation of the Dibombari program began in 1972, under a
first FED-financed project, and the first phase ended with the 1975/76 fiscal
year. For the estate to be completed, plantings must be maintained to
maturity, processing and collection equipment provided, and the trees put
into production. Over the next five-year period, 1976-81, total funding of
CFAF 2.8 billion (US$11.6 million) will be required. Financing has been
arranged as follows:
(a) From FED, a U.C. 2.5 million (CFAF 650 million) "Pret a
conditions speciales", at 1% interest rate and 10 years
grace and reimbursable over 25 years.
(b) From EIB, specifically for processing facilities, a "Pret
sur capitaux a risque" of U.C. 2.3 million (CFAF 600
million), at 2% interest during the investment period and
6.5% thereafter, with four years grace, and reimbursable
over 10 years.
(c) From Government, CFAF 800 million, as equity.
(d)  The balance, CFAF 802 million, would come from self-gen-
erated funds. Completion of the estate will require four
further years, and additional funding of CFAF 700 million.
A year by year breakdown by category, is given in Table 4.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
B. FONADER
22.       The Fonds National de Developpement Rural (FONADER) was created in
1973 to provide short and medium term credit to the rural sector and to
implement and operate on its own account projects of general interest in the
agricultrual sector (such as processing facilities). It is financed mainly
from funds provided by the price stabilization funds and some allocations from
the central budget (Table 5). FONADER finances the purchase of fertilizers
by farmers (short term credit), but only for programs involving subsidized
fertilizer. It also acts as the bulk purchaser for all fertilizer imported
by Cameroon, irrespective of whether it extends credit to the ultimate user
or not. FONADER buys pest control products with funds provided by the price
stabilization funds; the pest control measures are executed by the Ministry of
Agriculture. FONADER is operated under the general supervision of that
Ministry.
23.       FONADER gives credit to individuals, to pre-cooperative grfups like
the Groupements d'Agriculteurs Modernes (GAM) and to cooperatives. dredits
made to the cooperatives may be passed on to individual members; i1ythis
case, however, cooperatives remain liable for repayment. Until June 1976,
credits amounting to about CFAF 1.4 billion (US$5.6 million) had been ap-
proved, of which about two-thirds had been disbursed. In the future, FONADER
expects to be able to extend credits of about CFAF 1 billion annually but the
necessary finance has not yet been secured.
24.       For 1976/77, FONADER plans a large water supply credit program; 114
wells are to be developed, in several parts of the country, both for human
consumption and for pastoral uses, and 26 pipe-borne water systems are to be
constructed. Execution will be entrusted to the Genie Rural.
25.       FONADER's basic weakness is that it has no regional offices and
thus relies entirely, for both the appraisal and the supervision of credits,
on local staff of the Ministry of Agriculture or the Delegation Provinciale,
which are ill equipped for this task. Furthermore, decisions are made at the
central office on Yaounde only, which leads to long delays in the processing
of requests. FONADER is about to attach at least an accountant to each of
the Provincial Delegations for current administrative purposes but this does
not alleviate the problems concerning credit appraisal and supervision in the
field.
26.       FONADER is aware of these structural problems.  Since these cannot
be overcome in the short run, FONADER is anxious to operate through existing
development institutions to ensure the efficient use of its funds.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
C. COASTAL ESTATES CENTER
General
27.       A cooperative organization for the tree crop development corpora-
tions has already been proposed, under the aegis of CAMDEV and including
PAMOL and SOCAPALM as founding members, with these initial objectives:
(a) the exchange of _information on the cultivation, pro-
cessing, sale and distribution of oil palm products;
(b) representation of the industry in consultations with
the government or its agencies on matters of national
importance relative to the industry; and
(c) a sharing of information on market opportunities.
To qualify for membership in this organization, it was proposed that a mini-
mum of 1,000 ha of oil palms and an oil mill producing palm oil be required.
The statutes of this group have been drawn up, but not yet officially approved.
To better meet the needs of Cameroon's estate sector, it has been agreed that
all companies with industrial perennial plantations (e.g. rubber and coconuts)
would be eligible for membership. This would bring in SAFACAM and HEVECAM.
Types of Common Services Activity
28.       Joint Offices and Facilities.  SOCAPALM needs to build an office
since it is still only renting temporary accommodations. Because CAMDEV's
activity at Tiko in Western Cameroon has diminished, and ships call there
only very infrequently, this company would benefit from a unit in Douala
for customs clearance and transit purposes. HEVECAM is also renting tem-
porary office space, and needs to find accommodation for its Douala unit.
And SAFACAM will need to establish permanent office space in Douala in
the near future. Under these circumstances, it would be logical to con-
struct a building specifically designed to meet the needs of all the com-
panies after completion of their expansion plans.
29.       A central radio service for all the plantations could be set up
in this Douala complex, as a single radio network would be more economical
than three or four poorly equipped individual networks. Another important
component of the Douala complex activities would be a joint purchasing
service with a single customs clearance and transit warehouse.
30.       Product Sales.  The concerted promotion of product sales on the
domestic market would improve distributional efficiency and reduce marketing
overheads. For exports, volume operations should lead to sizable shipping
discounts; the organization of a quality control system also would be possible
with quality labeling.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
31.       Medical Services at Plantations.  There are two clear cases where
joint hospital services should be established. The hospital at Dizangue
(SAFACAM) was too big initially, and is now closed in favor of using medi-
cal facilities at Edea. It would be advisable to reopen the hospital to
serve Dizangue, which is now reaching a planted area of 8,000 ha, and also
M'Bongo (SOCAPALM), which has 6,000 ha located nearby. With staffing paid
jointly by the two estates, better services would be available at an accep-
table unit cost. Likewise, a joint medical service with a resident physician
is the logical solution for the Kribi region, with SOCAPALM and HEVECAM
sharing the costs.
32.       Recruitment.  Most of the plantation companies, as they develop,
will need to recruit labor from densely populated regions. The best way to
avoid recruitment problems would be to have a joint recruitment organiza-
tion. In this way, people could be grouped together by place of origin, if
desired. A sociologist with a good knowledge of the problems involved in
transporting people and other attendant problems should be included in such
an organization.
33.       Food Crop Production.  The production of food crops to meet the
needs of the estate labor forces and the development of protein sources
should be organized jointly in the Kribi region, where experiments are being
carried out under Loan 574-CM. A similar effort could be planned in the Edea
region, to meet all the food crop requirements at Dizangue (SAFACAM) and
M'Bongo (SOCAPALM), which often are met only erratically.
34.       Technical Cooperation.  With the development of large estate com-
panies in Cameroon, highly competent technical specialists will be required
for efficient operation of the estates sector. Experienced technicians are
in short supply and are expensive. It would be difficult and costly for
each group to employ the exclusive services of a complete team of agricul-
tural, industrial and research specialists.  Furthermore, for the state-
owned companies, there would be substantial benefits from coordinating pro-
cessing and planting policies. For example, CAMDEV's Mondoni oil mill and
SOCAPALM's mill at Dibombari are only a few kilometers apart and are sepa-
rated only by the Mungo river. As they are roughly the same size and have
the same type of equipment, they should pursue the same management and main-
tenance policies. Technical specifications for much of the equipment re-
quired by the various companies should in fact be determined by jointly em-
ployed technicians, who also would know the specific needs of each of the
companies. This would make it possible to maximize the standardization of
equipment and spare parts inventories.
35.       Land Preparation.  Land clearing for estate development is highly
specialized work requiring heavy and costly equipment, together with mainte-
nance equipment and a large stock of parts, etc. In the Kribi region, for
example, two companies -- HEVECAM and SOCAPALM -- will be planting for 20 con-
secutive years at an annual rate of approximately 2,500 ha each. A single
mechanized unit, employing qualified (and therefore costly) engineers who



ANNEX 1
Page 9
would be responsible for preparing the 5,000 ha each year, would normally
be more effective and less costly than two parallel organizations, each work-
ing on 2,500 ha, with their own engineers, maintenance stocks, and workshops.
36.       Manufacture of Polybags.  The overall planting program will require
the use of some 8 million polyethylene bags each year. These bags, which are
manufactured locally, are currently subject to a tax on the raw materials and
a tax on the services provided. The manufacture of these bags by the users
themselves as a group, using imported pellets and simple machinery, could
lead to a savings of some CFAF 100 million (US$408,000) annually for this
relatively minor supply item.
37.       Statistical and Data Processing Unit.  The only effective way to
gather statistical information relating to the plantation sector is through
centralization. Data processing could also be included, once the volume of
information justifies such a move. It will be some time before this point is
reached, but the need for such a system in the long term needs to be recog-
nized. The data processing unit would also provide information required for
discussions with the authorities regarding problems affecting the plantation
sector.
38.       Air Transport.  A light plane service is needed as soon as possible.
With the necessity to commute to the Kribi region, involving a long and te-
dious road journey, particularly in the rainy season, such a service is ab-
solutely essential. None of the existing plantations is more than 30 minutes
flying time from Douala by light plane. Under current conditions, some plan-
tations are not visited often enough. Once a central radio service is opera-
ting, the air service could also provide emergency ambulance service, espe-
cially for the more isolated plantations.
Practical Organization
39.       The guiding principle should be that taking part in joint activities
should be voluntary, thus leaving each company with full responsibility for
the management of its own affairs. Coordination of the various joint activi-
ties will have to be very flexible. Special agreements governing each parti-
cular operations can be drawn up between the companies involved. Thus the
principal aim is to facilitate the horizontal development of a series of
individual cooperative activities with limited objectives. A centralized
organization with a vertical structure, which would inevitable involve a
large and therefore costly bureaucracy -- potentially stultifying in its
impact -- is a danger to be avoided at all costs.
40.       Since at least a minimum administrative infrastructure is needed,
there should be regular meetings of the company directors within the frame-
work of a joint ownership of the Douala complex to be constructed under the
proposed project. Decisions should be taken through a simple majority vote.
A Chairman would be elected annually, but the regular scheduling of meetings
would reduce the pre-eminence that this position might otherwise carry. A
secretary general would be responsible for managing the central joint service



ANNEX 1
Page 10
operations. The cost of joint services would be paid for through regular allo-
cations of the expenses incurred.
41.       Some specialized technicians suitable for common services duty are
already employed by companies in the estate sector, for instance under visit-
ing contracts covering a certain number of months each year. The administra-
tive rights of old and new joint service staff (seniority, insurance, pension
funds, etc.) will have to be protected in each case. Regulations and cost
sharing will have to be worked out covering such items as flying time, spe-
cialist days, hectares worked, tonnages of products transported or handled
(in factories or in transit), joint goods purchased, etc. Pragmatism must
prevail.
42.       Statutes and Objectives.  The Statutes could be basically those
of a joint ownership real estate company. In addition to the normal defi-
nitions given to such a company, objectives could be stated in broad terms,
such as:
(a) the exchange of information on the cultivation, pro-
cessing, marketing, and distribution of oil palm, coco-
nut palm and rubber products;
(b) the promotion of cooperative activities relating to the
cultivation of oil palm, coconut palm, rubber and indus-
trial crops in general, including the purchase and
apportionment of unprocessed or processed goods, the
purchase of real estate, the registering of trade marks,
etc.
Since operations would be nonprofit, care should be taken in drawing up the
statutes to avoid any tax liability with respect to the services provided
under the joint activities program or the apportionment of goods.



Annex 1
Table 1
CAMEROON
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
SOCAPALM UNAUDITED BALANCE SHEET (JUNE 30, 1976)
(CFAF"ooo)
ASSETS
1.     Fixed Assets (net of depreciation)
Plantations                            5,514,988
Buildings                                414,630
Industrial Installations                 931,765
Vehicles                                 213,326
Other Assets                                3,484
Subtotal                                             7,078,193
2.     Current Assets
Prepaid Items                            118,357
Inventories                              204,092
Accounts Receivable                      233,261
Cash Items                               103,033
658,743
LESS
Short term liabilities                                 1,027,26o
Subtotal                                             (368,517)
Net Assets                                               6,709,676
LIABILITIES
Equity Capital                         1,824,oo4
LESS Accumulated losses               (478,728)
Grants                                 1,078,578
Subtotal                                            2,432,843
Long term loans                                         4h,285,833
Total Liabilities                                        6,709,676



Annex 1
Table 2
CAMEiOON
SECOND SOCAPAIM PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return - First Socapalm Project
Firet Alternative -                                                                   Second  Alternative 2/
Fiscal Year                         Revenues            Fixed Assets      Operating Costs      Net(Costs)Benefits                       Fixed Assets       Operating Costs      Net(Costs)Benefits
1968- 1969                               -                 243.9                 -                     (243.9)                             237.7                  -                    (237.7)
1970                                     -                 339.1                 -                     (339.1)                             330.4                  -                    (330.4)
1971                                     -                 479.2                 -                     (479.2)                             466.8                  -                    (466.8)
1972                                     -                 636.5                 -                     (636.5)                             620.1                  -                    (620.1)
1973                                     20.3              865.5                 30.1                  (875.3)                             843.2                  27.6                 (850.5)
1974                                     96.0              900.6                105.5                  (910.1)                             877.3                  96.9                 (878.2)
1975                                    223.8              673.3                181.4                  (630.9)                             655.9                 166.6                 (598.7)
1976                                    386.1              257.2                296.9                  (168.0)                             250.6                 272.8                 (137.3)
1977                                    764.1              264.9                480.2                    19.0                               258.0                441.1                   65.0
1978                                   1113.1              210.1                579.3                   323.7                               204.7                532.2                  376.2
1979                                   1458.8              182.5                703.1                   573.2                              177.7                 645.9                  635.2
1980                                   1785.6              111.4                841.6                   832.6                              108.6                 773.1                  903.9
1981                                   2042.8              423.7                951.7                   667.4                              412.8                 874.2                  755.8
1982                                   2275.7               13.7               1033.2                  1228.8                                13.4                949.1                 1313.6
1983                                   2426.5                -                 1105.3                  1321.2                                 -                 1015.3                 1411.2
1984                                   2578.8                -                 1162.0                  1416.8                                 -                 1067.4                 1511.4
1985                                   2255.9                -                 1183.0                  1472.9                                 -                 1086.7                 1569.2
1986                                   2632.4                -                 1172.5                  1459.9                                 -                 1077.0                 1555.4
1987                                   2593.4                -                 1155.2                  1438.2                                 -                 1061.1                 1532.9.
1988                                   2566.5                -                 1143.2                  1423.3                                 -                 1050.1                 1516.4
1989                                   2541.9                -                 1132.2                  1409.7                                 -                 1040.0                 1501.9
1990                                   2525.9                -                 1125.1                  1400.8                                 -                 1033.5                 1492.4
1991                                   2494.5                -                 1111.1                  1383.4                                 -                 1020.6                 1473.9
1992                                   2462.4                -                 1096.8                  1365.6                                 -                 1007.5                 1454.9
1993                                   2442.3                -                 1087.9                  1354.4                                 -                  999.3                 1443.0
1994                                   2430.0                -                  1082.4                 1347.6                                 -                   994.3                1435.7
1995                                   2419.2                -                 1077.6                  1341.6                                 -                  989.8                 1429.4
1996                                   2395.7                -                 1067.1                  1328.6                                 -                   980.2                1415.5
1997                                   2369.8                -                  1055.5                 1314.3                                 -                   969.6                1400.2
1998                                   2208.3                -                   983.6                 1224.7                                 -                   903.5                1304.8
1999                                   1793.6                -                   799.0                  994.6                                 -                   733.9                1059.7
2000                                   1281.6                -                   570.8                  710.8                                 -                   524.3                 757.3
2001                                    924.1                -                  411.6                   512.5                                 -                   378.1                  546.0
2002                                    598.2                -                   266.4                  331.8                                 -                   244.7                  353.5
2003                                    549.0                -                   204.3                  254,5                                 -                   187.8                  271.2
2004                                    252.0                -                   112.2                  139.8                                 -                   103.1                  148.9
2005                                     87.5                -                    39.0                   48.5                                 -                    35.8                   51.7
Economie  Rate of Return:                                                                                 13.8%                                                                        14.31
1/ Firt alternative: Fixed assets and openrting costs reduced by amount of taxes and 25% of value of labor; foreign exchange component adjusted by factor of 1.35.
S Second alternative: Fixed assets and operating costs reduced by amo»unt of taxes and 50% of value of labor; foreisu exchange co ponent adjuated by factor of 1.35.



CAMEROON
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
Costs to Complete Dibombari Estates 1976/77-1984/85
('000 Current CFAF)
1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85       TOTAL
Maintenance        422,719   364,551   263,527   143,934    65,596    79,618    51,414       -                1,411,359
Equipment          623,721   302,343   141,064    19,546    38,768    71,366   382,586    24,408    15,340  1,619,142
Buildings          145,572   108,576    83,545    72,384    36,879    15X666    16,264    18,264    13,148 _51,953
Total        1,212,012   775,470   488,136   235,864   141,243   166,650   450,919    42,672    28,488  3,541,454



Annex 1
Table 4
CAMEROON
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
Resources and Outlays of FONADER
1974/75           1975/76  2
(CFAF Million)
RESOURCES                                       4,020.7            4,502.0
Subsidy from stabilization funds  -             3,016.7            3,106.4
Subsidy from Government Budget                    200.0              200.0
Carry-over funds                                  550.0              550.0
Reimbursement of loans                            -                  230.0
Sale of insecticides (10 cocoa farmers)           150.0              200.0
World Bank funds (cocoa project)                  -                  122.0
Miscellaneous resources (i.e. forest fund)        104.0               93.6
OUTLAYS                                         4,020.7            4,502.0
Subsidized operations of which:                 2,204.3           2,466.5
-  cocoa (capsid control, brown rot               (920.0)           (930.0)
disease, etc.)
-  arabica coffee (disease control,              (272.0)            (272.5)
regeneration)
-  robusta coffee (disease control,              (315.0)            (330.0)
regeneration)
-  fertilizer subsidies                          (450.0)            (450.0)
-  rural water supplies (wells)                  (150.0)            (100.0)
Lending operations of which:                    1,022.3            1,154.3
-  short term loans                               (211.7)           (239.1)
-  medium term loans                              (765.9)           (864.6)
-  Long term loans                                ( 44.7)           ( 50.6)
Miscellaneous Aid Operations                      258.1              247.0
FONADER equipment and operating budget            536.0              634.2
1/ Actual.
2/ Budgeted.
3/  Including:  Cocoa and Coffee Stabilization Funds and Produce Marketing
Organization.
Source:  FONADER.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
TECHNICAL FEATURES
A. Development of the Southwest Region
General
1.        The southwest region extends about 100 km along the southern coast,
beginning some 30 km north of Kribi, to the border with continental Equatorial
Guinea, and inland about 45 km (see Map 1). The total area of this region is
around 500,000 ha. The climate and soils are generally suitable for a range
of tree crops including rubber, oil palm, and coconut. The land is flat or
gently undulating. The region is almost completely unpopulated.
2.        Interest in development of the region was kindled by its choice for
location of a large Government-owned rubber estate, preparation of which
envisaged 15,000 ha. The first 5,800 ha of this program is being financed as
a five year project under Loan 574-CM, which would also finance the prepara-
tion of a master plan for the region. Initially, the 15,000 ha rubber
estate, being labor intensive, would provide employment to 7,000 employees and
their families -- 25-30,000 people in total -- most of them from the poorest
regions of Cameroon. Satellite foodcrop production, trade and transport
activities would also develop. The successful establishment of other estates
and smallholder plantations would ultimately form a whole new agroindustrial
complex in the hinterland of the port of Kribi. Development of the area is
beginning with estates, as the laborers needed, together with their families,
will form the core of a permanent population for this empty but fertile area.
A series of second generation projects will encourage outgrowers, once the
base for their successful establishment has been laid. This phasing of
development is justified because (a) nuclear estates ensure a supply of fruit
for processing facilities and are necessary to support the development of
infrastructure and the acquisition of agronomic know-how, and (b) outgrower
developmen can be accomplished at a much lower cost if postponed until nuclear
estates are well established. From now to the turn of the century, it is
estimated that successive "rollover" projects could develop some 135,000 ha.
At completion of such a program, the region would support some 300,000 or more
people and there would have to be substantial development of food, meat and
fishery production. The transport requirements for imports and exports would
be very large.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Master Plan
3.        To take advantage of and preserve the opportunity offered by the
Kribi areas, a master plan for development of the area is being prepared under
Loan 574-CM. This plan is being based on a land-use survey and in addition
should:
(a) take account of the need to achieve a balanced develop-
ment of industrial estates and outgrowers;
(b) consider the creation of a specialized organization for
land clearance, which would be required on a large scale;
and
(c) encompass a study of the long-term infrastructure and
transportation needs of the development program.
Terms of reference for the necessary studies have been reviewed and found
acceptable by Bank supervision missions. The land use survey is proceeding
satisfactorily, along with planning for the balanced development of industrial
estates and outgrowers. The creation of a specialized organization for land
clearance is being considered within the context of an association of estates
companies which is being formed, and through which SOCAPALM and HEVECAM could
then form a common service for this purpose. The study of long-term transpor-
tation needs is now expected to be organized in 1978.
4.        Welfare of Pygmies.  There are an estimated 3,000 forest-dwelling
pygmies in Ocean Department whose way of life might be impinged upon by
a large-scale development program. The welfare of the pygmies would be
considered in the preparation of the master plan. However, the current
expectation is that the pygmies will successfully adjust to the economic
development -- with some degree of increased security -- and that no special
measures will be needed.
Climatic Conditions
5.        The chosen site for the oil palm estate is in the same region as
the Niete rubber estate financed under Loan 574-CM and the same general
climatic conditions prevail. The soil is good, typically ferrallitic, derived
from metamorphic rocks, and comprising at various levels and in variable
quantities iron oxide concretions. The hydrographic network is not very
dense.
6.        The site is gently undulated, at altitudes of generally between 10
and 30 meters, with the exception of a few rocky hills which are excluded
from the planting areas. The dominant vegetation is dense, moist forest.
The climate is typically equatorial, and characteristically hot and humid.
There are four seasons, with two relatively dry and two wet seasons annually.
The dry periods have less than 100 mm of rainfall monthly, but are not dras-
tic since each dry season lasts only for one to two months maximum. Average



ANNEX 2
Page 3
rainfall is very well distributed into four more or less distinct seasons
according to rainfall:
- relatively dry: three months (December-February) - 75-125mm/month
-  relatively wet:  four months (March-June)            - 200-400mm/month
-  relatively dry:  one month (July)                    - lOOmm
-  wet            : four months (August-November)    - 300-500mm/month
Humidity remains high (above 70%) during the dry periods, thus alleviating
the lack of rain. April is the favored month for planting.
7.        Average temperature of the area oscillates year-round between 250C
and 28 C, in an extremely regular temperature pattern.
8.        The climate differs from the climate prevailing in other areas of
the Cameroon where rubber and oil palm estates are planned. The other areas
are governed by a transitional regime between equatorial and tropical climate,
with only one dry and one wet season annually. The Kribi area climate, with
its two wet seasons, offers a much greater flexibility for the organization
of planting times and is rather similar to the Malaysian climate where rubber
and palm growth has been so successful. However, the Malaysian and Indonesian
(Sumatra) areas enjoy a relatively higher number of sunshine hours annually
than does the West African coast, where overcast skies generally prevail even
during relatively dry seasons.
Population and Labor Force
9.        The popul2tion density in the area, excluding the town of Kribi, is
only 3.5 persons/km . This very thin population is distributed almost exclu-
sively along the existing roads, mainly the Kribi-Ebolowa route. The interior
is practically uninhabited.
10.       Except for some small-scale logging by private companies, economic
activity in the area is meagre. Some gravel deposits in the interior are
being exploited, and there is artisanal fishing along the coast. The town
of Kribi itself, on the coast, has a tourist industry. Fishing would have to
be promoted by the Estate managements to supply the estates population with
fresh fish at low cost. This could be approached along the lines of an ex-
tension and marketing service.
11.       The existing population belong to various ethnic groups from other
parts of the country. The small numbers of crop farmers in the district, and
in surrounding areas of the department, are not likely to provide enough
labor for the estate needs. Many would probably choose not to become wage



ANNEX 2
Page 4
laborers, especially since the existing crop farmers would benefit quickly
and substantially through the expansion of food cropping for sale to the
estates.
12.       It will thus be necessary to recruit the bulk of the estate labor
force in overpopulated parts of the Cameroon, essentially the northern area
and the higher areas in the west. Other existing estates in Cameroon have
been developed with such imported labor, and their experience shows that
problems of adaptation can be readily handled provided that necessary efforts
are made for a pleasant and warm reception. At nearby Dizangue Estate, a
8,000 ha rubber and palm estate belong to SAFACAM--where conditions of life
and work are similar to those anticipated for the southwest estates--no
recruiting efforts have been necessary for many years; an adequate choice of
recruits is provided by people who come to the estate seeking employment.
13.       Recruitment would be organized on a joint basis with HEVECAM, since
there would be no advantage to competition in this function. Some people from
nearby areas would likely become periodic workers, and thus would form a
valuable labor pool. With time, the core of a permanent workforce would be
formed by satisfied laborers, especially those established permanently with
their families and coming from the farther North.  It can be expected that,
after a number of years, some salaried employees would wish to establish
themselves as farmers, taking advantage of the land availability in the
neighborhood; this would be to the overall advantage of the region, and should
not be discouraged. The pattern of recruitment and settlement described above
is now a classic long-term phenomenon which has been observed following the
creation of estates in empty regions.   The result is a highly satisfactory
form of balanced regional development.
14.       Recruitment would be based on the following basic principles:
- Recruitment should be done only in rural zones. It is
known that laborers who have become familiar with urban
life have difficulty in readapting to country work and life.
- Preferably, recruitment campaigns should be made during
the first quarter of the calendar year, when agricultural
work is at a low ebb.
- Recruitment in a given area would be made after authoriza-
tion of the Ministry of Labor and in cooperation with the
Labor Inspector.
- Agreement of all local authorities should be obtained
(Sous Prefet, village chiefs, municipal counsellor and,
eventually, religious authorities).
- An information campaign should be undertaken in each vil-
lage where recruitment takes place, to explain plantation



ANNEX 2
Page 5
work and the type of existence to be expected on the es-
tate. The information given must be accurate and realistic
to avoid later difficulties due to misunderstandings as to
what to expect.
- When arriving on the estate, the laborer should find his
lodging prepared, with a bed in place, and be given a
small cash advance against his first pay.
- Several laborers from the same village should be recruited
together and put together in the same village to avoid
feelings of isolation.
- A first contract would be assigned on arrival, normally
for two years. Fare for the return trip would be provided
by the estate; for married laborers, the cost of travel
would include the immediate family (wife and children).
Further contracts would be of indeterminate length, with
travel at the laborer's expense.
-  The recruitment effort should be carefully organized from
the beginning, as satisfied laborers would be expected to
become effective recruiting agents through writing and
word-of-mouth contacts with their home villages.
15.       Medical Care.  The provision of medical care, especially for emer-
gencies, is a valuable morale builder for an estate labor force. Dispensary
services should be offered 24 hours a day, with a doctor on call.
16.       Food Crop Growing by Estate Workers.  On Kienke and Niete Estates,
as on industrial estates in general, the possibilities for growing subsistence
crops are constrained. Firstly, villages are located in the middle of pro-
duction blocks serviced by the village labor force, and thus the available
land for farming is often rather distant from the village.  Secondly, such
cropping is often done by women in West Africa. Also on estates, married
women often prefer to work on the estate, and thus bring in a second salary,
and a proportion of female estate workers are single. At the SAFACAM Dizangue
rubber estate, women represent 18% of the labor force, however, Dizangue has
been an established estate for a long time. In the early years of development
in the Kribi region, a very small proportion of workers are likely to be
women. Thus there is not likely to be much subsistence foodstuff cropping.
17.       Housing and Social Facilities.  As noted above, laborers expect to
find on arrival a prepared lodging with minimum facilities such as a source of
water, toilet, kitchen, etc. But experience indicates that estate workers are
not interested in the luxury of construction material. Sensitive matters
include an adequate size of the lodging quarters and the existence of markets,
shops, school and other social facilities and activities such as cinema,
football teams, etc. The project would provide adequate facilities to meet
the expected demand in these regards.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Food Crop Development
18.       On the whole, food production in Cameroon is more-or-less balanced.
But the Kribi area (Ocean Department) is far from the main food production
area. Further, a curtain of towns (Yaounde, Eseka, Edea, Douala) lies
between Kribi and the agricultural zones to the North. When the two estate
labor forces grow beyond 10,000--corresponding to some 40,000-50,000 people--
it would be difficult and costly to bring in the majority of supplies from
distant points. Under the present structure of farming, the expected increase
in food production is practically nil (0.2%).
19.       The food crop outlet of the existing smallholders in the area could
be improved by a better collecting system, an improved feeder-road network,
and minimum extension services. But smallholder output will remain small,
and probably will not cover more than a small fraction of the necessary
tonnage of food for the two estates. Much of the staple supply would come
from the Lolodorf area.
20.       There is scope for allocating some land within the estate for
subsistence food production but on a rather limited scale. Further, there
are constraints that would hold down production as discussed in para 16.
21.       A study of food production has already been carried out under the
responsibility of SEDA (Societe d'Etudes pour le Developpement de l'Afrique),
with finance of CFAF 4 million provided by FAC. This study is being continued
by HEVECAM, under Loan 574-CM. The objective is to determine whether to
create a food production unit that would supply the village markets with
basic staple foods, in sufficient quantity, to complement the local available
output plus the laborers' own production. The estate managements would have
a double target: In addition to satisfying basic food needs, food production
would aim at avoiding large imbalances between supply and demand that would
result in excessive price increases and possibly a classic wage-increase/cost-
of-living spiral. A qualified technician was recently hired to supervise the
food trials study.
B. Techniques
22.       The techniques used for establishing estate plantations would not
be innovative, but rather the classical and steadily successful ones that are
followed in most oil palm growing countries. Except for clearing methods,
the general procedures hold as well for the outgrower program.
Preparation of Planting Material
23.       Seeds and Germination.  Seeds are initially selected from hand
pollinated bunches, with selected father-tree pollen, on selected mother
trees in specialized seed gardens. In Western Africa, the main seed gardens
were until recently those of IRHO's La Mee Station in Ivory Coast, where the



ANNEX 2
Page 7
latest selections are nursed. Under IRHO guidance, a seed garden has been
established in Cameroon at CAMDEV's Mondoni estate. For the proposed project,
seed would be supplied from Mondoni, although pollen would continue to come
from La Mee for some time. Specialized, heated germinators are used for
controlled seed germination. As the speed of germination is a first criterion
of selection in terms of future productivity, a choice is made at this stage.
The chosen germinated seed are then delivered to SOCAPALM's nursery sites.
24.       Prenursery.  The germinated seed are placed one each in small
plastic bags, of about 8 cm diameter and 15 cm height, and packed in close
rows under shade. The bags are regularly watered to keep a constant presence
of moisture. The seedlings are allowed to grow in this way for about two
months - this is called the prenursery stage. At the end of this period, the
seedlings generally show two developed leaves, and the small roots begin to
need more room.
25.       Nursery.  The plantlets are then transferred to larger plastic
bags, of about 25 cm diameter and 30 cm height. During this transfer a
second selection takes place, as only strong plantlets with a thick stem are
chosen for transfer. The weaker ones are discarded. The larger polybags
are placed on the nursery ground at a spacing of about 50 cm to give each
plantlet enough room for its growing foliage to expand. Shade is maintained
for at least three to four months, a practice that gives the developing plant
a better chance to escape damage from "the blast", a dîsease which can dry
a young plant up in a few days. By the end of the three to four month
period, the young plant has reached a stage of development where it is less
susceptible to the disease. Shade is provided by a palm leafed roof, and
the leaves are gradually removed to expose the plant progressively to full
sunlight.
26.       Transfer to Field.  After six months in the nursery, the young
plants are strong enough to be transferred to the field. At this time, a
final selection is made, and only impeccable specimens are planted. Others
are discarded. To provide 143 plants per ha, about 200 germinated seeds are
required for the prenursery stage, and to supply these a first selection of
300 seed is put into germination. Thus, from seed to field, a selection of
over 50% is made.
Land Clearing
27.       On the chosen areas for planting, the forest is felled, pieced, and
pushed into parallel windrows about 16 m apart. This is to allow plantings
on a triangular pattern, each plant at a 9 m spacing. Thus, there are two
lines of trees between windrows. In these clearing operations, care is taken
to leave the soil intact. The use of scrapping equipment is avoided, as it
would push the topsoil into the windrows, leaving bare and not very fertile
subsoil in the planting lines. In practice, the delicate clearing operations
are better and more cheaply done by hand labor. Unfortunately, in Africa it
is difficult to attract a labor force for this work; experienced contractors
are practically nonexistent; and experience has proved that sizeable planting



ANNEX 2
Page 8
programs require the use of heavy tractors to some extent. Clearance on
force account is usually the case in Africa, for reasons of economy as well
as control over the clearance practices employed. Weather permitting, the
felled wood in the windrows is burned before planting; when the rainfall
regime prevents proper burning, the wood is allowed to rot under the cover
crop, and most of it disappears within four to five years.
Planting
28.       Plants are about nine months old when they are planted.  They are
brought in the polybag with their roots intact, and put in holes previously
dug on a 9m x 9m triangular spacing. Protection against rodents is immedi-
ately secured through the placement of wire netting sleeves around the base
of the plants (alternatively, outgrowers would use bamboo stakes for the
same purpose). Pueraria, a legume, is sown in the rows as a cover crop, to
protect the soil from erosion, to bring in organic matter, and through root
nodules to fix nitrogen.
Fertilization
29.       Oil palm generally requires fertilization, beginning with a small
dose at the prenursery stage; there is a notable need for nitrogen in the
early period of growth, shifting to more potash for fructification and oil
production. The specific requirements for various elements are determined by
regular foliar analysis, and applications of fertilizers are generally made
twice a year.
Weeding
30.       Once planting is completed, weeding is required to keep the ground
clear around the plant's base -- a circle as large as the canopy of a full
grown tree. This corresponds roughly to the expansion range of the roots,
thus providing full benefit from the fertilizer applications and avoiding
root competition from the cover crop and adventurous or noxious plants.
Expansion of the cover crop can be helped by weeding or slashing debris in
the sown areas. At first, the circle weeding is done by hand; from Year
Two after planting, chemical spraying is also used to lighten the labor
constraint.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
CAMEROON
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
Planting Schedule
The Planting Schedule under the project is as follows:
Hectares
Total
76/77     77/78      78/79      79/80      80/81      Project
Estates
Kienke Estate                   750      1,750      1,750      1,750       6,000
M'Bongo Estate                  500        500                             1,000
Total Estates                 1,250      2,250      1,750      1,750       7,000
Outgrowers /1
Eseka area           200        200        200        200        200       1,000
M'Bongo-Edea         200        200        200        200        200       1,000
400       400        400        400        400       2,000
GRAND TOTAL             400     1,650      2,650      2,150      2,150       9,000
/1   The outgrower schedule is an estimate and possibilities are that yearly
hectarage may be transferred from a year to another; the end target over
five years should be attained.



ANNEX 2
Table 2
CAMEROON
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
Timetable for Estates Establishment
(Kienke 6,000 ha, M'Bongo 1,000 ha)
Program          76/77  77/78  78/79  79/80  80/81  81/82  82/83  83/84  Total
1. Vegetal Material
Preparation       875   1,250  1,750  1,750    875                           7,000
2. Land Preparation
Mechanical  600   1,250  1,550  1,550  1,050                           6,000
By Hand      175     300    200    200    125                          1,000
3.  Plantings               1,250  2,250  1,750  1,750                           7,000
4. Maintenance
Y1 Mechanical Deforestation                                               6,000
YI Hand Deforestation           300    300    200    200                   1,000
Y2 Mechanical Deforestation                                                6,000
Y2 Hand Deforestation                  300    300    200    200            1,000
Y3 Mechanical Deforestation                    850  2,050  1,550  1,550  6,000
Y3 Hand Deforestation                          300    300    200    200  1,000



ANNEX 2
Table 3
CAMEROON
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
Yields - Oil Palm Outgrowers
I.        Yields - ffb/ha
Year                       Yield Per Fiscal Year /1
5                                   2.25
6                                   5
7                                  7.25
8                                 10
9                                 12
10 to 16                           13
17 to 21                            12
22 to 26                            11.5
27 to 29                            il       Average over 25 years = 11.12 T.
II.       Oil Extraction Rates and Kernel Production
Year                           Oil, % ffb                    Kernels, % ffb
4                                  14%                            4%
5                                  15                             4.1
6                                 17                              4.2
7                                 18.5                            4.35
8                                 21                              4.5
9 onwards                         21                              4.5
/1   Technically there is no difference of yield potential between the trees
of the industrial estates and outgrowers holdings, but there is family
consumption which must be accounted for.



ANNEX 2
Table 4
CAMEROON
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
Yields - Estates
I.        Estate Yields - ffb/ha
Year After Planting                  Of Exploitation                 ffb/Tons/ha
4                                   1                            2.5
5                                   2                            6.0
6                                  3                             9.0
7                                  4                            11.5
8                                  5                            12.0
9 to 15                            6 to 12                         15.0
16 to 20                           13 to 17                         14.0
21 to 25                            18 to 22                        13.5
26 to 28                           23 to 25                         13.0
II.       Oil Extraction Rate and Kernel Production Rate -
7 of ffb weight
Oil, %                       Kernel, %
4                               16.0                           3.5
5                               18.0                           4.0
6                               20.0                           4.1
7                               21.0                           4.3
8 onward                        21.5                           4.5



ANNEX2
CAMEROON                                     Table 5
Personnel Reauirements for Kienke Estate 1/
76/77  77/78  78/79  79/80  80/81  81/82  82/83  83/84  84/85  85/86  86/87  87/88  88/89  89/90  90/91
Staff Category 2 N and E    1          2       31/2   4       4      41/2    5        41/2   4        4       4       4       4       4       4
Assistants                    1/2      1       2       4      5       5       6       6       6       6       6       6       6       6       6
Foremen                        1       2       5       9     10      il      17      17      17      18      18      18      18      18      18
Specialists                    5      16      25      34     37      291/2  44       47      49      57      58      60      60      60      60
Chauffeurs                     8      18      24      30     29      26      31      32      37      41      45      49      49      49      49
Specialized Labor for          8      28      40     40      26      58    202    355    506    513    490    477    462    469    469
Field Operation
Specialized Labor (Overh)   3          7      101/2  14      14      141/2  16       161/2  16       16      16      16      16      16      16
Non-special. Labor (Oper)  89    380    730    942    936    629    529    472    470    493    546    586    608    614    614
Nonspecial. Labor              21/2   4        81/2  Il       14     161/2  20       221/2  24       26      27      27      27      27      27
(Overlhead)
Headgang                       5      21      38      49     49      33      40      47      57      59      60      61      61      62      62
Overscers                      2       7      13      16    _16      12      12      14      16      17      17      18      18      18      18
Total                   125    486    900   1153   1140    839    922   1035   1202   1250   1287   1322   1329   1343   1343
Increase                125    361    414    253                                         49      48      37      35       7      14       0
1/  These personnel requirements for the present 6,000 ha project.  When as assumed, Kienke estate grows to 12,000 ha,
personnel requirements would increase accordingly.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
OUTGROWERS PROGRAM
A. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Choice of Participants
1.        Potential participants would be selected from among farmers who
have expressed an interest, have usufruct rights on suitable land not beyond
a 25 km radius from the relevant oil mill complex, and within 500 m of a
passable road. The reputation of the farmer in his/her community would be
taken into consideration. Selected farmers would be required to enter into a
contract which would oblige them to follow SOCAPALM's advice on technical
matters relating to oil palm establishment. In return they would have the
right to receive credit in amounts and on terms outlined below (para 7).
2.        Membership in an outgrower group would be required for participa-
tion in the outgrower program. Each group would have a minimum of five
members. Voluntary groupings would be arranged by SOCAPALM agents among
the available candidates. Members would have co-responsibility for the
group's plantings and credit obligations; in the case of a credit default,
SOCAPALM would turn the grower's dossier over to FONADER, which would invoke
the guarantee. The group would have no formal structure, though an evolution
toward cooperatives is anticipated. Its main initial functions would be to:
(a) provide a means for cooperative effort, for instance in land clearance,
and (b) deal with problems. Through the group, pressure would be brought to
bear on an outgrower who was neglecting his plantings. In cases of gross
negligence or death of a member, the group would be expected to take over
management of the affected plantings, with an appropriate division of the
proceeds until an heir is put into possession of the holding. Serious pro-
blens (for instance, questions of tenure) would be dealt with by the group and
village Chief within the tribal decision-making process, or by local admini-
strative authorities. This system has proved to be a key to the success of oil
palm outgrower programs in other West African countries, and appears to be
equally suited to Cameroon.  In essence, the group would be a safeguard
against risks that are beyond the control of SOCAPALM or FONADER.
Management
3.        Although FONADER has nationwide responsibility for smallholder
credit, it operates through specialized agencies in recognition of the fact
that it has not yet developed the capabilities and the personnel to enable it
to deal directly with all siallholders.  For the proposed outgrower program,
FONADER would contract with SOCAPALM for the direct management of all opera-
tions.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.        For this purpose, SOCAPALM would organize a separate division,
"Division des Plantation Villageoises" whose head would be directly respon-
sible to SOCAPALM's Managing Director. The division would be responsible,
inter alia, for (i) farmer selection and organization into groups; (ii) the
preparation of annual work programs for smallholder development; (iii) the
maintenance of all records and accounts relating to smallholder credit;
(iv) the delivery to smallholders of all material on credit and cash grants
needed for smallholder plantation establishment.
B. CREDIT ARRANGEMENTS
5.        Government's contribution to smallholder development would be
accomplished by a grant to FONADER to be passed on through SOCAPALM to small-
holders. Well in advance of the fiscal year, SOCAPALM would present its annual
work program and related budget including the bareme (para 9) to FONADER for
approval. After approval, SOCAPALM wouldbe provided with funds and inputs for
smallholder development.
6.        Selected farmers would be required to sign a contract ("cahiers des
charges") with SOCAPALII, the terms of which would oblige them to follow all
technical advice and in exchange for which they would receive credit as
detailed below.
Cost of Credit
7.        Smallholders (selected according to the criteria and under the
conditions contained in para 1) would be given credit to cover the cost of
all purchased inputs required in the five years needed to bring oil palms
into production and either a cash grant or credit covering 80% of the labor
required for land preparation; only those farmers deriving more than 75% of
their income from agricultural activities would receive grants. The develop-
ment costs for a hectare and the credit requirements are shown in Table
1. The cost per hectare excluding family labor is CFAF 82,000 in constant
1976 prices.
Extension and Supervision Costs
8.        In addition to these costs of development, SOCAPALII would have
to incur costs for the administration and supervision of the outgrower program.
p  These costs amount to CFAF ;5  million over the five year development period.
Detailed costs for the whole program are at Annex 4.
Recovery of Credit and of Extension and Supervision Costs
9.        SOCAPALM would recover credit and extensiDn/supervision costs
as follows:



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Credit given in each year would bear interest at 9% per
year capitalized over a total six-year grace period (five
years for development to maturity plus another year to
allow yields to reach a level adequate to support debt
service). Repayment would then be in seven annual install-
ments to be recovered at the time produce is collected
from outgrowers (Table 4).
Extension and Supervision costs, initially financed by
Government grants, would be recovered during the production
period through a "bareme" or tariff established each year
and on the basis of which producer prices for ffb would be
set (Table 2).
10.       SOCAPALM would keep separate accounts for all operations relating
to the outgrower program which would be the basis for reaching agreement
with FONADER on the budget for the succeeding year and on the bareme. These
accounts would also (after outgrowers plantations enter into production)
reflect the balance of outgrower credit accounts and of the surplus on out-
grower sales available for bonus payments. As the program gathers momentum
FONADER would in each succeeding year need only to "top up" the resources
accumulated through outgrower credit repayments; after 1985 annual repayment
would be adequate to finance an additional 500 ha on the basis of present cost
estimates and credit arrangement.
Financial Impact of Cost Recovery Arrangements: Government FONADER and Farmers
11.       As shown in Table 4, FONADER, which would be the channel of funds
for smallholder credit,would accumulate funds which would be devoted to
further smallholder oil palm development. Government expenditures for the
outgrower program would consist of funds passed through FONADER to small-
holders as cash grants and/or credit. Through the collection of export and
sales taxes on oil and kernel deriving from outgrower fresh fruit bunches,
Government would more than recover these expenditures. The financial rate of
return to Government of this investment would be about 9% (Table 5).
12.       As illustrative cash flow for 1 ha outgrower oil palm plantation
is presented in Table 3. It incorporates the yields shown in Annex 2, Table 3
and the cost recovery and credit repayment assumptions outlined above. Net
cash income would be about CFAF 450 per manday in the first year of production
which is in line with prevailing rural wages and in excess of returns from
the alternative crops of cocoa and coffee at comparable stages of development.
At peak production, some eight years later, net cash income would be some CFAF
2,750. These returns provide more than adequate incentives for smallholders
to participate in the program.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
CAMEROON
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
OUTGROWERS PROGRAM
Cost and Financin
(CFAF)
Year                  N       N + 1      N + 2     N + 3      N + 4       Total
A. CREDIT
1.  Cost of Supplies: 1/ha
Seedlings                   36,570
Transport of seedlings a/  4,200
Metal-vire (crop             1,500
protection)
Cover crop seed              1,500
Fertilizer b!                2,543      4,973     4,410      5,630      4,860
Small tools                    550        115       100        100
Harvesting tools                                                        5,750
Replacement seedlings c/                2,718
Sub-Total             46,863      7,806      4,510      5,730    lo,61o
10% of Physical        4,686        781        451        573      1,061
Contingencies
Total Supplies        51,549      8,587      4,961      6,303    11,671
2. Financed by:
Farmer                         550        115       100        100       -
Credit                      50,999     8,472      4,861      6,203    11,671
Cumulated value of          78,468    11,953      6,295      7,369    12,721    116,806
credit at beginning
of year N + 6
(at 9% p.a.)
Equivalent Annuity (over 7 years at 9%)             23,208
Average ffb production in       =    10.5
N + 6 to N + 12 (tons)
Repayment per ton               =    CFAF 2218/t
B.  CASH GRANTS d/                  29,900      6,500      5,200      5,200       -       46,800
N.B.    N is year of planting
a/      5 hours per return trip (delivering 150 seedlings for 1 ha x 840 Fr/hour
including depreciation of equipment).
b/      Including 2 F 50 per kg for transportation; unit rates are respectively
56 F 50 for urea; 40 F 50 each for CK and Kieserite.
c/      10 plants at 271 F 80 each, including transport.
d/      For imputed cost of family lab;  taken as the total man days
required valued at 260 CFAF/mariay (i.e. 80% of estate labor wage).



Annex 3
Table 2
CAMEROON
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
OUTGROWER PROGRAM
Recommended Producer Price for ffb (CFAF)
A.  Oil                                                              Per ton
Gross Revenue -a                                                107,290
Selling Costs including Taxes-                                   11,072
Net Revenue a/                                                   96,218
Oil content of ffb (%)                                                21
Revenue in ffb equivalent                                        20,205
B.  Kernel
CIF Value b/                                                     63,822
Export/Selling Costs (including taxes)i/                         17,936
Net Revenue b/                                                   45,886
Kernel content of ffb (%)                                              4.5
Revenue in ffb equivalent                                          2,o64
C.  Fresh-fruit Bunch (Total Revenue)                                 22,269
SOCAPALN COSTS                                                    6,007
Milling Costs c/                                  2,350
Collection Costs c/                              2,000
Extension and Supervision d/                     1,482
Finance Charges (at 3%)   e/                       175
Available for distribution                                       16,262
Recommended producer price per ton ffb                            12,000
Bonus                                                             4 r
a/ See Annex 9 Table 4
bj Annex 9 Table 5
c/ Including allowance for depreciation
d/ Average annual cost N + 5 et seq. (16,596F/M.a) at average yield of
11.2 T/ha = CFAF 1,482/T
e/  On milling, collection and extension costs assumed to be 12%
p.a. for 3 months = 3%



ANNEX 3
Table 3
CAMER1ON
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
Outgrowers Program - Illustrative Cash Flow - I ha
N + 5 a/        N + 6         N +7         N + 8         N + 9        N + 10        N + 11        N + 12       N + 13        N + 17         N + 22        N + 27
to           to             to            to
N + 16       N + 21         N + 26        N + 29
Revenues
(Average)     (Average)
Production (Tons ffb)                                2.25             5.0           7.25          10           12             13           13            13             13           12          11.5            il
Value (at CFAF 12,000 Ft) 1/                       27,000          60,000         87,000     120,000      144,000        156,000      156,000       156,000        156,000     144,000        138,000       132,000
Expenditures
Tools                                                 517             547            617         597          637            637          637           637            637         637            637           637
Fertiliser                                          6,884           9,314         11.746      17,416       17,416        17,416        17,416        17,416         17,416      17,416         17,416        17,416
Total                                          7,401           9,861         12.363      18,013       18,053        18,053        18,053        18,053         18,053      18,053         18,053        18,053
Net Income Before Loan Repayment                   19,599          50,139         74,637     101,987      125,947        137,947      137,947       137,497        137,497     125,947        119,947       113,947
Loan Repayment d/                                    -             18,455         21,244      24,652       26,494         26,405       24,533        22,662           -
Net Incomne                                                        31,684         53,413      77,335       99,453        111,542      113,414       114,835        137,497     125,947        119,947       113,947
Man-days Required                                     43.5             45           48.5           50          50             50            50           50             50           50             50            50
Net Income per Nanday  (F)                             450             704         1,101        1,546       1,989          2,230        2,268         2,296          2,750        2,519         2,399         2,279
1/ At reconended price which excludes potential bonus (Annex 3 Table 2)
a/ For first five years, net cash receipts would equal caat credits les purchased hand tools.
b/ Only for years N + 10; N + Il and N + 12.
c/ For years N + 13, N + 14 and N + 15.
d/ See Annex 3 Table 4, Footnote C.



ANNEX 3
CAMERDON                                                             Table 4
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
Outgroiwer Program
Outgrower Credit: Cash Flow to FONADER
(CFAF '000)
Year                        1977       1978      1979       1980      1981       1982      1983       1984      1985       1986       1987      1988      1989       1910
Cumulative Planted Area (ha)                    400       900      1,400     2,000
SOURCES 0F FUNDS
Governnent Advances (1)                    32,360    46,439    51,961    65,617       24,383    17,574    12,677      7,002
Credit Repayments   (2)                                                                                     7,382    17,725   29,710    44,618    48,881    51,053   50,429    39,440
Total Sources                        32,360    46,439    51,961    65,617        24,383    17,574    20,059    24,727   29,710    44,618    48,881    51,053   50,429    39,440
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Development Credit to OutIrowers (1)       20,400    28,889    31,681    39,747       15,283    11,854      9,557      7,002
Cash Grants to Farmers (16                 11,960    17,550    20,820    25,870        9,100     5,720      3,120
Sub-total                            32,360    46,439    51,961    65,617        24,383    17,574    12,677      7,002      -          -         -          -         -         -
Net Cash Flow                                -         -          -         -           -          -        7,382    17,725   29,710    44,618    48,881    51,053   50,429    39,440



C&MIEON                                                                                                 AN  3
SECOND 80CAPA121 PR08ECT                                                                                       Table 5
0    4R DEVELoPHENT
Outaro-ar Cradit; Caah FIns sud Rate of Return to Gover-aent
N + 13     N + 17      l + 22      N + 27
Y-ar                                 N         N +        N +2        N + 3      N + 4       N + 5      N + 6       N + 7      N + 8       N + 9      N + 10      N+11        11 + 12       te         te          te          tn
. + 16     N + 21      1 + 26     N + 29
Y7S Productlon (Ton) .                                               -.                                - .      2.25        5.00       7.25        10.0        12.0       13.0        13.0       13.0        13.0        12.0        il 5s      il 
Ps. 011 O 7.                                                                                                   15          15.9       17.8         19.7       21.1        21.5        21.5       21.5        21.5        21 5        21 5       il 5
T.tdl P l. Oil (t)                                                                                              0.337      0.795       1.290        1.970       2.532      2.795       2.795       2.795      2.795       2.580       2.472      2 365
Kernel (7.)                                                                                                     4          4.1         4.3          4.5         4.65       4.7         4.7         4.7        4.7         4.7         4.7        4 7
Total Se-ai                                                                                                     0.09       0.205      0.311         0.450      0.558       0.611       0.611       0.611      0.611       0.364       O 340      O 517
Production Peried
Sals. Ta Peo 01 oila/                                                                                         3,063      7,226     11,726        17,907      23,015     25,406      25,406      25,406     23,452      23,452      22,470     21,498
Expert Tas - Yema lb/                                                                                            470     1,073      1,628         2,356       2,921      3,199       3,199       3,199       2,953      2,953       2,826      2,706
Repay.ent nf Principal - Dveloppnt Credit ni                                                                             7,943     11,447        15,885      19,156     20,791      20,791       20,791        -          -           -
Intereat Repayan.t       . Sevelop..ent Cradit ci                                                                       10,512      9,797         8,767      7,338       5,614       3,742        1,871        -          -           -         -
Deduorione for  euparvlefon and Extension Coat d/                                                             3,334      7,410     10,744        14,820      17,784     19,266      19,266       19,266    19,266      17,784      17,043     16,302
Total Inflov                                              -                      -           -          -       6,887    34,164      45,342        59,735     70,214      74,276      72,404       70,533    45,761      44,189-    42,339      60,506
OUTFlSZWS
Devele.pmnt Periad
Supervision  nd Extension                             23,920    22,289      17,650     19,597    18,225
Cash Advencee c/                                      29,900     6,500       5,200      5,200        -
Cradit S/                                             50,999      3,472      4,861      6,203    11,671
Production Periad
Supemvisinn sud Extension Cnst Si                       -           -          -            -         -      16,596    16,596      16,596        16,596       16,596     16,596      16,596       16,596    16,596      16,596    16,596      16,596
Total Outflone                                        104,819    37,261      27,711      29,658    29,926    16,596    16,596       16,596       16,596       16,596      16,596     16,596       16,596    16,596      16,596    16,596       16,596
NEt Infloni                                          (104,819)  (37,261)   (27,711)   (29,658)  (29,926)   (9,709)   17,568        28,746        43,139       53,618     57,680      55,808       53,937    29,165      27,599    25,743       23,910
a/ Wdightd average tax of CFAF 9098/t on export/local sales ta proportions of 15 85
b/ CFA» 5236/t an kernel  xporte                                                                                                                                                  Finncial Rate nf Raturn: 9.353
c/ Anas 3 Table S; Rpapeyent calculsted as fll1-e:
esar     Proaprti.n te    PrIncipal        Interest (9% on principal         Total
be repai (d)                        outstanding at begînnieg
of psriod
N + 6       6   8             7,943         10,512                           18,455
N + 7       9   8            11,447          9,797                           21,244
N + 8      13   6            15,885          8,767                           24,652
N + 9      16   4            19,156          7,338                           26,494
N + 10     17   8            20,791          5,614                           26,405
N + Il     17   8            20,791          3,742                           24,533
N + 12     17   8            20,791          1,871                           22,662
dl Coat estlarets are baesd on A-nex  4 plus phys.ial conting .c.oes anA *s.   e ali. ni f 3,000 h.
nf oil pal.s to support upervision  . et in developeent perid.  Ia production parind projeat
extension stff vill caver 3,000 ha instead of 2,000 ha and me.ts are rmsvrred as per Annex 3 Table 2.
e! Seasanal oredit is repayabla in 6 menthe et  n interest rate equivalent te 9% per year. Although
exoluded hers, it vo rld morase net inflave and 40k. for an aven higher fin-nciel rats  f raetur.



A1.1 4
Table 1
SECOND SOCAPAU4 PEOJECT
PIOJECT COSTS SUNiA
(CFAF 0001
1976/77      1977/78    1978/79     1979/80      1980/81      Total       Taxs   Foreign Exchanga
A. KIEI   ESTATE
1. Field Establishment                   47,901        222,784   366,676     414,3J5  1 343,531   1,395,267       291,152    674,950
2. Construction                          51,575         70,500   148,272     133,622       53,872     457,841      82,411    297,597
3. Vehicles Plant and l8qnipment        255,135        277,285   207,110      33,430       17,485     790,445         -       671,878
4. oil Mill Investments                    -              -       30,000     355,800      715,000   1, lm,800      68,850    895,095
5. General and Administrative             18,601        47,044    79,932     103,264      105,982     354,823      70,966    127,738
Total Before Contingencies           373,212        617,613   831,990    1040,491   1,235,870   4,0",176       513,379  2,667,258
B. OUTGN3WER DEVELOPMNT
1. Field Establishmaent                  20,224         39,315    47,263      57,851       38,532     203,185       1,812    100,962
2. Extension Costs                        43,492        21,492    21,492      25,032       21,492     133,000       25.850     30,330
3. Supervision Costs                                    28,552    15,902      15,902       17,552      77,908       15,910     25,050
Total Before ContinSencies             63,716        89,359    84,657      98,785       77,576     414,093       42,572    156,342
C. COHPLETZION: M8BONGO-ESgKA
1. Field Establishment                  159,450        116,624    62,261      20,830         -        359,165      89,793    233,455
2. Construction                          46,000         38,500    46,000      49,500         -        2 °0,000     32,400    117,000
3. Vehicles and Equipment                25,520         26,470    60,830      25,520                  138,340         -       117,588
4. Mill Investments                         -             -         -            -        453,000     453,000         -       407,700
Total Before Contingencies           230,970        181,594   169,091      95,850      453,000   1,130,505     122,193    875,743
D. EXTENSIDN: M'BONGO
11. Field Establisament                   31,932         98,868    81,038      27,126       23,049     262,013       51,071    133,220
2. Construction                          68,150         53,000      -           -            -        121,150      21,807      78,747
3. Vehiclea & Equipçt                    53,810         48,450    13,100        -          16,220     131,580         -       111,308
Total Before Contingencies            153,892--     200,318    94,138      27,126       39,269     514,743       72,878    S23,275
TOTAL BASE COST                       821,790     1,088,884 1,179,876   1,262,252   1,805,715   6,158,517       752,022 4Q22,4118
Physical Contingencies                 82.179_   _Ioa,QU   117,988        126,226     180,572       615,852      75,202    402,262
Price Contingencies   a/           _ L62.67à_   __16,l96  358,155         524,765    969,308    2,130,694       247,340  1,323,039
TOTAL CONTINGENCIES                    143,849      325,684  476,143      650,991  1,149,880    2,746,546       322,542  1,725,301
TOTAL PROJECT 0OSTb                    965,639    1,414,568 1,656,0191,913,243 2,255,595   8,90SD6 i1.74.564  5.747 97
a/ Coepound rates as follows: 1976/77: 6.8%;  1977/78: 18.1%;  1978/79: 27.6%;  1979/80: 37.8%; 1980/81: 48.8%
b/ Excluding Douala Complex.



Annex 4
Tabla 2
CA1ANIIo
Preject Coat - Kienke Eatate Yield Eutablishunt
(CFAI 000)
Year                                      Unit Coat-  1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81    Total          Tax %    Total Taxas   Poraitg       Total
CEAI/ha                                                                                              Exehage    Foreai
Area Planted (ha)                                           -        750      1,750     1,750      1,750
I.   Labor Costa
Nursery  2/                           11,518        4,319    14,397    20,156    20,156    10,078
Lad Preparation 2/                    17,014       4,210    18,375    29,775    29,775    19,950
Estate Roada - Construction 3/           402          100       434        703       703       471
Planting                              12,404           -      9,303    21,707    21,707    21,707
Maintenance 4/ N+1                    14,575           -         -      10,931    25,506    25,506
N+2                   11,651          -          -         -      8,738    20,390
N+3                    9.214          -          -         -         -      6.910                   _
Total - Labor                                  8,629    42,509    83,273   106,585   105,012       346,008      15         51,900          -      -
Il.  Supplies and Materials
Fert ilizer
- Nursery  /                           1,272         477      1,312     1,670      1,670       835
-  Planting                              539           -        405       944        944       944
- Maintenance N+-                      9,638           -         -      7,229    16,867    16,867
N+2                    10,718               -               -      8,038    18,757
N+3                     8.350          -                              -       6.263                  _
- Total - Fertilizer                                 477      1.717     9.843    27.519    43.666       83.222      -              -          80         66.578
Insecticides. Herbicides
- Nursery 2/                             256           96       320       448        448       224
- Maintenance N+1                      1,095           -         -        821      1,916     1,916
N+2                     1,095                               -        821      1,916
N+3                       135                     -oi _ _             _         lO_                                                      _
Sub-Total - Insecticides                          96        320     1,269      3,185     4,157      9,027       -              -          80          7,222
Wire Netting                           5,005           -      3,754     8,759      8,759     8,759
Caver Plant Seeds 5/                   1,750           -      1,125     2,813      3,063     2,625
Sprinkler System  (Nursery) 2/         1,224         459      1,530     2,142      2,142     1,071
Polythene Bage (Nursery)2 /            7,557        2,834     9,446    13,224    13,224      6,612
Palm Seedlings (Nursery) 2/            7,840        2,940     9,800    13,720    13,720      6,860
Sub Total - other Supplies                     6,23S    25,655    40.658    40.908    25.927    139.381         25        34.845          50         69.690
Total Supplies and Mat                         6,806    27,692    51,770    71,612    73,750    231,630                   34,845                    143,490
III. Other E.tabliahment Costs
Nursery 2/                             4,598        1,725     5,748     8,046      8,046     4,023
Lad Preparation 3/                    78,945       19,539    85,261   138,154   138,154    92,563
Estate Roada   Construction 3         45,260      11,202    59,744    79,205    79,205    53,067
Planting                               2,440           -      1,830     4,270      4,270     4,270
Maintenance 4/ N+1                     2,611           -         -       1,958     4,570     4,570
N+2                     2,577          -         _          -      1,933      4,510
N+3                     2.355          -                    -         -       1766
Sub-Total Other  Llevelopieet Costs               32.466   152.583   231.633   236.178   164.769        817.629     25        204.407          65        531.460
TOTAL FIELD ESTA3LISbNENT                          47,901   222,784   366,676   414,375   343,531   1,395,267                 291,152                    674,950
1/ Per ha planted.
2/ S07, of cact in year N-1 and SO7 in year NO
2/  33% of coat in year N-1 and 67% in year NO
4/  Includes maintenance of roads.
5/ 16.6% of coat is for replacement in year N+1. Rast in year NO.
NB. NO is year of planting etc.



Annen 4
Table 3
SECOND SOCAPAL% PDJECT
Proaet Cnet - Vaicl.. Plant  nd Etqip_nt (ienke Ect-teS
<APS 0001
1976/77               1977/78               1978/79          1979/80            1980/81
NIT CD8T   NO         CO0T       ND     COST       NO        COST      NO     C0T         NO         008T       TOTAL       FOREIGN IXCHANGE
1Personnel Vebiclea
teecutive Airplane                            22000       -                    1     22000       -                   -                  -                    22000
4-Dr Sedan                                     1550       2        3100        -                 2        3100       2     3100                              9300
4-heh,l Drive                                  2210       -                    1      2210       -                   -                  I         2210       4420
Pick-Up                                        1150       1        1150        -                 -                   1     1150         -                     2300
Compact Sded n970                                         1         970        -                 1         970      3      2910         1          970       5820
Moc.Cycle                                       175       2         350        3       525       3         525       4      700         4          700        2800
Aqbulance                                      1900       -                    -                 -                   1     1900         -                     1900
Slb Total - Pereonel Vehicles                                      5570              24735                4595             9760                   3880      48540
2.  tend Preparatic Equipnt
300 HP Tr-ctor                               40700        3      122100       4     162800       3      122100                                             407000
Ball dosr                                     4350        2        8700       2       8700       1        4350                                              21750
Angle doer (large)                             3550       1        3550       2       7100       2        7100                                               17750
Ratal Il de                                    3500       2        7000       3      10500       2        7000                                              24500
K.0.  .iSe                                     3100        1       3100       -                  -                                                            3100
Trne POcher                                    2950       2        5900       2       5900       2        5900                                               17700
Ripper (3 Pronged)                             5550       1        5550                                                                                       5550
Wincb                                          4350        1       4350                                                                                       4350
Tool Sherpnr                                    550       1         550                                                                                       550
120  . P. Tracter                             12720       1       12720                                                                                     12720
Di.c Ploogh                                    1430        1       1430                                                                                       1430
Coepector                                      3180        i       3180                                                                                       3180
Mechenicel Shohel                              6930        1       6930                                                                                       6930
Ro1er                                         15100       1       15100                                                                                     15100
Angle donar (<elll)                            1600        1       1600                                                                                       1600
Ripper (An11l)                                1795        1        1795                                                                                      1795
Slb Total - Lend Prer.  Enuiuent                                 203555             195000              146450                                             545005
3.  T-ucko ad Trectors
O Toc Truck                                    5300       2       10600       7      13900       2       10600       1     5300        -                    42400
45 HP Tracter                                  2100        i       2100       4       8400       6       12600       2     4200        I          2100       29400
80 HP Trectpr                                  3150       1        3150       -                  -                   -                 -                     3150
Mobile Repair Von                             11750        -                  1       11750      -                   -                 -                     11750
3-Ton Trailer                                   745        1        745       4       2980       6        4470       2     1490        1           745      10430
Tanker Trailer                                  950        1        950       1        950       -                   -                 -                      1900
r_p Tr-ck                                      5850        1       5850       -                  1        5850       -                 -                     11700
Mobile Sprayer                                  450        -                  1        450       1         450       2      900        1           450        2250
Treah hacler                                   7900        -                  -                  i        7900       -                 -                      7900
Sub Total: Tru-ko esd Tractera                                    23395              40430               41870            11890                   3295      120880
4. Mincellaneous Plant  qd Equipnt
Heobanical Sa                                        105        9         945     30        3150     43        4515      42     4410       20          2940       15960
Irrigation Pipen/P?apa                              3300        1       3300       1       3300       -                   -                 -                      6600
Suevey Eqeipunot                                    1100        1       1100       -                   -                  -                 -                      1100
Ganerator                                           1650        1       1650       1        1650       1       1650       1     1650        1          1650        8250
CAr Pop                                              660        2        1320      2        1320       2       1320       2      1320       2          1320        6600
Water Pnrification Plant                            8250        1        8250      -                   -                  -                  -                     8250
Cold Storage Plant                                  4510        -                  -                   I       4010       -                 -                      4510
Office Equip t                                      4550        I         550      1         550       2       1100       2      1100       2          1100        4400
Workbhop Tanin                                      2200        1       2200       1        2200       -                  1     2200        1          2200        8800
Ôéhbtrocticn Tanin                                  3300        1       3300       1        3300      -                   -                 -                      6600
Hoapital Eqoipoent                                  1100        -                  1        1100       1       1100       i      1100        i         1loo        4400
Movia Projectcr/Scre                                 O550      -                  1         550       -                  -                  -                      550
Sob Total - Misc. Plant _Ad Enqipet                               22615              17120               14195            11780                  10310       76020
TOTAL: VEHICIES, PLANT ANOD EQUflPMET                                  255135              277285             207110            33430                  17485      790445        671878 -
a/ At 85%



ANNEX 4
TableA4
CAMEROON
SECOND SOCAPLAM PROJECT
Project Cost - Construction (Kienke Estate)
(CFAF 000)
Unit Cost
YEAR                          (CFAF 000)         1976/77            1977/78            1978/79           1979/80             1980/81         Totol           Tax           Foreign Exchane  e
T     Total      T          Total
No.   Cost         No.   Cost        No.   Cost         No.   Cost         No.   Cost
1. HOUSINC for:
Laborers (Provisional) a/                         750         15    11,250           -                          _       _       _                            11,250
Laborers (Permanent)   a!                       1,500         12    18,000       20    30,000       50    75,000       30    45,000        -       -       168,000
Foremen                                         1,750          -       -          3      5,250       2      3,500       4     7,000        1      1,750    17,500
Supervisors              c/                    5,750          1/2    2,875        -       -          1     5,750        2    11,500        1      5,750    25,875
Management Staff                              11,500          1/2    5,750        1    11,500        1    11,500        1    11,500        -       -        40,250
Management Staff (at Douala)                  15,000           -       -          1    15,000        -       -          -       -          -       -        15,000
Total Housing                                                        37.875            61.750             95.750             75.000               7,500   277.875
2. COMMUNITY FACILITIES
School                                         4,200           -       -          -       -          1     4,200        1     4,200        1      4,200    12,600
Shop                                           1,650           -       -          -       -          2      3,300       2     3,300        2      3,300      9,900
Toilet Blocks                                  5,000           -       -          -       -          2    10,000        2    10,000        2    10,000    30,000
Market                                         2,400           -       -          -       -          1      2,400       -       -          -       -         2,400
House of Worship                                3,000          -       -          -       -          -       -          1      3,000       -       -         3,000
Tennis Club                                    8,500           -       -          -       -          -       -          1     8,500        -       -         8,500
Economat                                       3,000           -       -          -       -          1      3,000       -       -          -       -         3,000
Water Supply (Village)                         11,300          -       -          -       -          1    11,300        1    11,300        1    11,300    33,900
Electricity Supply(Village)                   10,700           1    10,700        -       -          1    10,700        1    10,700       1      10,700    42,800
Total Cormunity Facilities                                           10,700                               44,900             51,000              39,500   146,100
3.  OFFICES AND WORKSHOPS
Estate Headoffice                              5,000           -       -          -       -          -       -          -       -          1      5,000      5,000
Divisional Offices       b!                    5,750           -       -          1      5,750       1      5,750       1      5,750       -       -        17,250
Workshop/Garage (Veh.)                          1,872                             -       -          1      1,872       1      1,872       1      1,872      5,616
Workshop (Construction)                         3,000          1      3,000       1      3,000       -       -          -       -          -       -         6,000
Total Offices/Workshops                                              3.000               8,750              7.622              7.622              6.872    33.866
Total Construction                                                   51,575             70,500            148,272            133,622             53,872   457,841         18    82,411       60       297,597
a/ In blocks of 4 units each.
b/  Including store and infirmary.
c/  Temporary structures in PY 1.



ANNEx 4
Table 5
CAMEROON
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
Project Cost: Oil Mill Investment Cost -(Kienke Estate)
(CFAF 000)
Foreign
Tax               Exehange
1978/79   1979/80   1980/81       Total             Total        °/    Total
Civil Works   30,000    352,500                  382,500    18      68,850      S5   248,625
Machinery                   3,300   71D,uuu    715,30                            90 go   646,470
Total          30,000    355,800   715,0UW   l,100,dUO              68,850           895,095



A8ffEX 4
CAMEPROON                                           Table 6
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
Project Cost - Ceneral and Administrative Overheada (Kienke Estate)
(CFAF 000)
Fore ign
Tax             Exchange
Unit Cost    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    Total               %    Total       %    Total
No. of workers recruited                      (CFAF/year)       122          359        409          246         -
Total No. of Workers                                            122         481          890      1,136        1,136
1. SALARIES
Estate Manager                            7,800,000       3,900       7,800       7,800       7,800       7,800      35,100
Mechanical Superintendent                  7,800,000      3,900       7,600      15,600      15,600      15,600      58,500
Construction Manager                      7,800,000         -           -         3,900       7,800       7,800      19,500
Field Manager                b             1,980,000        990       1,980       3,960       7,920       9,900      24,750
Supervisory Grade Staff -/ -/                792,000        792       1,584       3,960       7,128       7,920      21,384
Artisans   b/                                444,110      2,221       7,106      11,103      15,100      16,432      51,962
Skilled Labor   b/                           173,100        519       1,212       1,818       2,423       2,423       8,395
Unskilled Eabor  b/                          133,000        332         532       1,131       1,463       1,862       5,320
Chauffeurs                                   280,520      2,244       5,049       6,733       8,416       8,135      30,577
Total Salaries                                      14,898      33,063       56,005      73,650      77,872    255,488
2. OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE COSTS
Recruitment  r/                               19,752      2,410       7,091       8,079       4,859          -       22,439
O & M Villages   d/                           11,931        -         1,456       5,739      10,619      13,554      31,368
O & M Management Dvellings                   500,000        -           250         250       1,500       1,750        3,750
n & M Other luellings                        170,000        -            85         425         595         765       1,870
Medical Expenses  d/                           6,862        837       3,301       6,107       7,795       7,795      25,835
O & M Social/Cultural Act.  d/                 1,227        150         590       1,092       1,394       1,394       4,620
Food Distribution  d/                          2,511        306       1,208       2,235       2,852       2,852       9,453
Total Operations and Maintenance                     3,703      13,981       23,927      29,614      28,110      99,335
Costa
Total General and Administrative                    18,601      47,044       79,932    103,264    105,982    354,823         20    70,966    36    127,738
Overhead Costs
s/ Includes: Bookkeeper; Chief Storekeeper; Supervisory Nurse; Chief Mechanic.
b/ Non-plantation vorkers.
e/ Unit .est is per new rertuit.
d/ Unit tost is per unit of direct labor.



ANNEX 4
Table 7
CAMER00N
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
Prolect cost - Outgrowers  Field  Stablishwent
Tax             Foreign Exchange
Year                                                            1976/77        1977/78         1978/79        1979/80        198__81         TOTAL          %      fotal                   Total
Area Planted                                                         -           400             500            500            600
Unit Cost
(CFAF/ha)
1. Labor Cost a/
Land Preparation and Planting                29,900                        11,960         14,950         14,950         17,940          59,800
Maintenance  N + 1                            6,500                                        2,600          3,250          3,250           9,100
N + 2                           5,200                                                        2,080          2,600          4,680
N + 3                           5,200                                                                       2,080          2,080
Total Labor                                                   -            11,960         17,550         20,280         25,870          75,660
2.  Materials and Supplies  b/
Seedlings NO                                 40,770         16,308         20,385         20,385         24,462           -            81,540                               85       69,310
N + 1                              2,718          1,087          1,359           1,359          1,631           -             5,436                              85         4,620
Cover Crop Seed                               1,500            600            750            750            900           -              3,000         10       300
Small Tools  c/                              Ver.              220            321            372            477           2,469          3,859         25       965         65         2,508
Fertilizers  NO                               2,543          1,017          1,271          1,271          1,526            -             5,085                              80         4,068
N + 1                           4,973                         1,989          2,487           2,487          2,984          9,947                              80         7,957
N + 2                           4,410                                        1,764           2,205          2,205          6,174                              80         4,940
N + 3                           5,630                                                        2,252          2,815          5,067                              80         4,054
N + 4                           4,860                                                                       1,944          1,944                              80         1,555
Protective Wire                               1,500            600            750            750             900           -             3,000         10       300         65         1,950
Randling Charge (2%)  d/                                       392            530            575             731            245          2,473         10       247         -
Total Materials and Supplies                                20,224         27,355         29,713          37,571         12,662        127,525                1,812
Total-. Outgrower Field Establishment                       20,224         39,315         47,263         57,851          38,532        203,185                1,812                  100,962
a/    Credit in amount of 80% of required labor input valued at 325 F/day
b7    Will be procured in year prior to y'ear of need for field development except hand tools,
c/    NO - 550F; N + I - 115 F; N + 2 - 100 F; N + 3 - 100 F; also N + 4 - 5,750 F to be procured in N + 3
4L    On  ill supplies except small tools not given on credit



ANNEX 4
Table8
CAMEROON
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
Projectô CBt--Uukgraowera Mxrenulon ;e.Lu.u Costs
CFAF (000)
YEAR                        Unit Cost                                                                                                 Foreign          Total
(CFAF (000)/                                                                                            Expenditures    Foreign
Sector       1976/77  1977/78   1978/79    1979/80   1980/81   Total    Taxes (%)   Total Taxes             %             Expenditure
No. of Sectors                                   2         2          2           2          2
A.  SECTOR TEAMS                   No. /Sector
1. Salaries
(a) Sector Chief              1           5,100      10,200    10,200    10,200       10,200    10,200    51,000        25          12,750             25            12,750
(b) Accounts Clerk            1             540       1,080     1,080      1,080       1,080      1,080     5,400       15             810             -
(c) Driver                    1             216        432       432        432         432         432     2,160       15             324             -
(d) Field Supervisors         5           2,130      4,260      4,260      4,260       4,260      4,260    21,300       15           3,195             -
Total Salaries.                                      15,        15972    15.972       15,972    15.972    79.860                     17.080                          12.750
2. Vehicles and
Equipment
(a) Pick-Up                   1           1,020       2,040                            2,040                4,080        -                             80             3,264
(b) Motor Cycles              5             750       1,500                            1,500                3,000       10              300            40             1,200
(c) Miscellaneous           Set             670       1,340                                                 1,340       10              134            40                26
Equipment
Total Vehicles and                                    4,880                             3,540               8,420                       434                            4,490
equipment
3. Operations and
Maintenance
(a) House Rentals
Sector Chief £1/                   11,000      -22,000                                                22,000       18           3,960           60              13,200
Field Supervisors       5             420         840        840       840         840       840      4,200        10             420            -
Office Staff            2             144         288        288       288         288        288        440'      10             144            -
Offices                 1             240         480       480        480         480        480     2,400       10              240
(b) Transport Allowances
Sector Chief            1             300         600       600        600         600        600     3,000       10            300              -
Field Supervisors       5             180         360        360       360         360        360      1,800       10            180             -
Office Staff            2              36          72         72        72          72         72        360       10             36             -
(c) Office Supplies         Set             600       1,200     1,200      1,200       1,200      1,200     6,000        25          1,500             50            3,000
(d) Other operating costs    -
Staff Overhead          -             300         600        600       600         600        600      3,000       20            600             20              600
Telephone, etc.         -             300         600        600       600         600        600      3,000       -             -               20              600
-Biuldings Maintenance  -             120         240       240        240         240        240     1,200       15             180             15              180
Insurance                             120         240        240       240         240        240      1,200       10            120             -               -
Total Operating Costs                               27,520      5,5fo      5,520      5,520      5,520    49,600                    8,800                           17,580
Total Extension Services                      -    43,492    21,492    21,492        25,032    21,492   133,000                    2j,88U                           30,330
2 House built in PY 1.



ANNEX 4
CAHEROON                                          Table 9
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
Prolect Cets   - Ntgrovers  bupervision Cost
Year                           1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80    1980/81    Total             Tax          Foreign Exchange
%    Total      %           Total
1.  SALARIES
Plantation Inspector (Outgrowers)             -        7,800      7,800      7,800       7,800   31,200    30    9,360        40        12,480
Administrative Assistant                               1,500      1,500      1,500       1,500    6,000    20    1,200        -            -
Secretary                                                540        540        540         540    2,160    15        325     -
Typist                                                   426        426        426         426    1,704    15        255      -            _
Driver                                                   216        216        216         216      864    15        130      -
Total Salaries                                -       10482       10.482   10,482       10.482   41.928           11,270                12.400
2.   OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE
Housing Rentals
Plantation Inspector  a/                              11,000                                    11,000           1,100    60          6,600
Administrative- Assistant                              480        480        480         480   1,920    10        192     -          -
Secretary                                               192        192        192        192      768    10         80     -          -
Typist                                                    80       80         .80         80      320    10         32     -          -
Driver                                                   80         80         80         80      320    10         32     -          -
Office                                                  600        600        600        600    2,400    10        240     -          -
Transport Allovances
Plantation Inspector 1/                               3,050      1,400      1,400     3,050    5,850    15         880     60          3,510
Administrative Assistant                                 120       120        120         120     480    10         48      -         -
Secretary                                                48         48         48         48      192    10         20     -          -
Typist                                                   20         20         20         20       80    10          8     -          -
Driver                                                   20         20         20         20       80    10          8     -          -
Other Operating Expenses
Office Supplies                                       1,200    1,200        1,200     1,200    4,800    25    1,200        50          2,400
Utilities                                               400       400         M00       400    1,600    20         320     -          -
Medical Fees                                            300       300         300        300    1,200    20        240     -          -
Building Maintenance                                     240      240         240        240      960    15        144      15            140
Insurance etc.                                          240       240         240        240      960    10         96     -          -
Total Operations and Maintenance                        18,070   5,420         5,420     7,070   35,980            4,640                 12,650
Total  Supervision Cost                                 28,552  15,902        15902   17,552   77,908            15,910                25,050
a/ Constructed in PY 2
_/  Includes purchase of new and replacement vehicles in PY2 and PY5 respectively as well as return air fare to Europe each year.



Ann« 4
CAMEROON
SECOND SOGAPALM PROJECT
Projaca Coin - Coualntioîof ai'Oooao - Esaka Plantation.
Yoraign
Ta-               E.nhanga
Ulit Coit      1976/77      1977/78      1978/79     1979/80      1980/81      Total       7.     Total       %      Total
A. M'BONGO
Arasa planted                                                    327
1. Field E.ttbliah noot Conta (CFAF/ho)       (CFAF/ho)
Planting      a/                           47833          15641           -            -           -           -         15641
M  inCtnance   h/ R+l                      35671          17479         11664          -           -           -         29143
N+2                       33793         23790         16559        11050         -           -          51399
h+3                       26700         13537         18797        13083        8731                    5 34148
GontraI Overhead Cont                       37000  S/     75036         56277       30229        12099         -        173641
Total PlantinR & Molîtenonca                             145483        103297        54362       20830         -        323972       25      80993      65    210580
2. Vohiclen  anAd Eiponnt                    (CFAF 000)
80 HP Tnîntor                                3150          3150          3150        9450         3150         -         18900
Tractor Trotler   i/                         2530          2530          2530        12650        2530         -         20240
Collantion §qoipoant                         7890          7890          7890       15780         7890         -         39450
Totion (lIa 5                                7700          7700                       7700        7700         -         23100
4-T Troc4 and Trailr                         2200                        2200                                  -          2200
Total Vnhirlas aad Enuipment                              21270         15770       41580        21270         -        103890       -         -        85     88306
3.  Boildi.ng                               (CFAF 000)
Managanoot Staff Housing                    11000         1100            -          11000       1100                    33000
Suparnisory Stoff hoUairg                    5750         11500         11300        11500       11500         -         46000
For-n.o Grado Nousing                        2000          8000          8000         8000        8000         -          32000
Total Boildi3n0500                                                      19500        30500       30500         -        111000       18      19980      65      72150
TOTAL M'80NGO                                                 197253       138567       130442       72600                   5 338862
B.  ESE1A
Ar-a ploated
1   Field Eatabllolot  Coato                 (CFAF/ha)
Maintenanro N+1   o!                        35671          4423           -            -           -           -          4423
N+2                            33793          22366         4190          -            -          -           6556
R 3                            26700                        1969         3311          -          -           5180
GaneranOtverhead Coit                      37000 ni        7178          7178        4588          -           -         18944
Total Planting ara Mai-tdara.t                            13967         13327         7899         -           -         35193       25      8800       65     22875
2.  Vahicl-a and Equipmnto                   (CIAF )000
B0 PP Tracton                               3150           3150          6300        3150         3150         -         15570
Collantion Tralînra                        1100            1100          2200        1100         1100         -          5500
Dump Truck (4T)                             2200            -            2200          -           -           -           2200
Tanker (SI a )                             11000            -                        11000         -           -         11000
Total Vahitrlan .ad Egnipnot                               4250         10700        15250        4250         -          34450                         85      29282
3.  B.ildi.an                                (CFAF 000)
Managemeant Staff Houaing                  11000            -           15000          -         15000         -         30000
Supervisory Staff P.onsing                  5750          11500           -          11500         -           -          23000
Vor.na   Gnada ho.r-tg                      2000           4000          400Q        4000         4000         -         16000
Total B.ildion.                                           155000        19000        15500       19000         -         69000       18     12420       65      44850
TOTAL ESERA                                                    33717        43027        38649       23250                   138643
C.  INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENTS                         (Vaon)
Cqmplation af aill ara aqdipoant                                 -            -            -            -       453000       453000      -         -         90    407700
TOTAL COMPLETION COST                                         230970       181594       169091       95850      453000      11300O5       _                  -     875743
ai  1976/77 pla-tinga ana r0plnttd; fto  1977/78 pl-atiags only  onk roalniag to ha d-n ta at tant of CFAF 47833/ha
4/  ICnatn Pl-antirga an-  1974-507 ha; 1975-704 ha; 1976-490 ha.
ai Par  total orna af imantune plantirga. Actral or.te in 1975?76 fan M'Boago nana CFAF 74516 ha  i-turr   p.lm. oaoap1id 48.7% of ara-
Ai With ffb handling aqnipmant
a/  Immatune Plantiaga ara 1975-70 ha: 1976-124 ha.



Annex 4
Table 11
SRUOND SOCA*PAU PROJSCT
PWIS3CT OeSTS - hONCO EXNSION
(OPA?' 000>
TAX             For.iga Enchance
Unit Coot 1/                                                                               T      TOTAL            T        TOTAL
(CPAF/ha)    1976/77    1977/78      1978/79    1979/80       1980/81     TOTAL
Area plantsd (ha)                                               500          500
A. FIELD ISTABLISMENT COSTS
I.   Labor Cnet.
Nursnty 2/                    11,518        2,879       5,759        2,879       -              -        11,517         -            -            -        -
Land Preparation 3/        3/ 17,014        2,807       8,507        5,700       -              -        17,014         -
Estate Rosds - Construction      402            66        201          135       -                          402         -            -            -        -
Plînting                      12,404         -          6,202        6,202       -              -        12,404         -            -            -        -
Maintenance 4/ N+1            14,575          -           -          7,287      7,288           -        14,575         -
N+2            11,651         -            -           -         5,825          5,826     11,651         -           -             -        -
N+3             9,214         -           -            -          -            4.607      4.607          -           -             -        -
Tels Labor                                 5,752      20,669       22,203     13,113         10,433     72,170        15          10,825         -        -
II. Sepplien and Materials
Fertilizer
Nursery 2/                     1,272          318         636          318       -              -         1,272         -            -
planting                         539         -            270          270       -              -           540
Maintenance N11                9,638          -           -          4,819      4,819           -         9,638
N+2               10,718         -            -           -         5,359         5,359      10,718         -            -            -        -
N+3                8,350                     -            -          -            4.175      4.175          -           -            -        -
Subtetal                                 318        906         5,407     10,178         9,534      26,343         -           -             80     21,074
Inecticiden & Herbiciden
Nursery  I/                      256            64        128           64       -              -           256                                    -       -
Maintenance N+l                1,095          -           -            548         548          _         1,096
N+2                1,095         -            -                       548            548      1,096         -            -             -       -
N+3                  135         -            -           -          -                67         67         -            -             -       -
subtotal                                  64         128           612     1,096            615      2,515         -            -            80      2,012
Wire Netting                   5,005          -         2,502         2,503      -              -         5,005                                    -        -
C-ont Crep Seedn 5/            1,750          -           730           875        145                    1,750
Sprinkler Synte- 2/(Nursery)   1,224          306         612           306      -              _         1,224
Polythene 8ags 2/(Nursery)     7,557         1,889      3,779         1,889      -              -         7,557
Pair SOedlingn 2/(Nursery)     7,840         1,960      3,920         1,960      -                        7,840
subtetal                               4,155      11,543         7,533       145           -        23,376        25           5,844         50     11,688
Total Supplies and Materi-ls                4,537      12,577        13,552    11,419         10,149     52,234          -           -             -        -
III. Other Estsblishent Cost,
Nursery 2/                     4,598         1,149      2,300         1,149      -              -         4,598
Land Preparatien 3/        3/ 78,945       13,026      39,472        26,447      -              -        78,945
Eltote Ro-ds - Cenntructien   45,260         7,468     22,630        15,162      -              -        45,260
Planting                       2,440         -          1,220         1,220      -              -         2,440
Maintenaece 4/ Nil             2,611          -          -            1,305      1,306          -         2,611
N+2             2,577         _           _             -        1,288          1,289      2,577         -            _             _       _
Ni43            2,355         -          -              -         -            1,178       1,178         -            -             -       -
Tetal Other Entablishant Conts              21,643     65,622        45,283     2,594          2.467    137,609        25          34,402         65       89,446
TOTAL FIELD ESTABLISEDNT COSTS             31,932      98,868        81,038    27,126         23,049    262,013         -          51,071          -     133,220
B. VEHICLES AND EOUIPMENT
Bulldozers                    40,700   1   40,700  1 40,700                       -             -        81,400
Mechanical Saws                  105  50    5,250        -      50    5,250       -             -        10,500
Truck (8 T)                    5,300   1   5,300         -       1    5,300       -             -        10,600          -           -             -         -
4-WD Vehicle                   2,210   1    2,210        -             -          -             -         2,210
Metorcycles                      175   2       350       -             -          -             -           350
Tractor-Trailer                3,875          -     2   7,750          -          -             -         7,750
Harvesting Treck               8,110          -          -             -          -       2   16,220     16,220
Tr..ta r 40-itP                2,100          -          -       1    2,100       -             -         2,100
Spr-ying Equipnent               450          _          _       1      450       -             -           450
TOTAL VEGICLES AND EOUIPIIENT               53,810     48,450        13,100       -           16,220    130,950          -           -            85      111,300
C. BUILDINCS AND CIVIL WOELS
Ho.n.ng - Supervisory Staff    5,750   1    5,750        -              -                       -         5,750                                     -        -
Foreuse Grade        2,000   2   4,000  1   2,000            -          -             -         6,000
Laborers 6/          1,500  20   30,000 20  30,000           -         -              -        60,000
Sanitary BI.ck (Laborers)      1,000  10   10,000 10  10,000           -          -             -        20,000
Office Building, 87            5,750   1   5,750         _             -          _             -         5,750
Shop                           1,650   1   1,650         -             -          -             -         1,650          -           -              _        -
Water Supply 7/                11,300        5,650      5,650           -         -             -         11,300
Eleetrieity Supply 7/         10,700         5,350      5,350          -          -             -        10,700
TOTAL BUILDINGS ANL1 CIVIL WObXS            68,150     53,000          -          -             -       121,150         18         21,807          65     78,747
GRAND TOTAL H80NGO EXTUNSIOII              153,892    208,318        94,138    27,126         39,269    514,743          -         72,878           -    323,275
1/ Pet ha plantd.
2/  50% of cent i. year N-1, 50% in year NO.
3/  33% of cent in yesr N-1, 67% in year NO.
4/  Includes rend. ,nninteoaoce
5/ 16.6% fer replacennt in ynnr N+1; test in ysar NO.
6/  I. blecks of 4 coite eah.
7/  Ceupleted in tw  years.
8/  Including Store and Infirnary.



Annex 4
Table 12
CAMERDOON
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
PROJECT COST: DOJAIA COMPLEX
(CFAF 0001
1977        1978          1979                        TOTAL        TAX       FOREIGN EXCHANGE
I.   CIVIL WORKS AND CONSTRUCTION
Office Building                                          10000       110000        125000                       245000
Warehouse                                                  -          30000         20000                        50000
Garage                                                    3000         3250                                       6250
Lodgings for Resident Workers (11)                        6000        10000          6000                        22000
Sanitary Facilities                                        -           2000          1000                         3000
Utilities Connections                                      -          17000         13000                        30000
Sub Total                                          19000       172250        165000.                      356250         64125       213750
II. EQUIPIMENT
Switchboard and Other Office Equipment                    5000        10000         10000                        25000
Conveyor Belt - Warehouse                                  -           7000          7000                        14000
Rolling Crane - Warehouse                                  -           2000          5000                         7000
Fuel Pu-p and Storage - Garage                             -           2000          4000                         6000
Sub Total                                           5000        21000          26000                       52000         -            46800
III. VIO9ICLES
Pick-Ups (2)                                              1120         1120           -                           2240
Fork Lift (4)                                             2450         2450            -                          4900
Motor cycles (4)                                           350          350            -                           700
Sub-Total                                           3920         3920            -                          7840         -             6665
rotal Before Contingencies                               27920       197170        191000                       416090        64125       267215
Physical Contingencies                                   Z792         19716         1910Y                       41608          6412        16722
l'rice Contingencies                                     2088        39256          52987                       99331         15316        63770
GRAND TOTAL: DOUALA COMPLE.X                            32800       256142         26B087                      557029         85853       347707



AM=I 5
CAMEROON
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Million)
PROJECT ITEM                          IBRD         GOVERDMENT     SOCAPALM      TOTAL COST
%    Total      %   Total       %  Total
I. Oil Palm Estate Development
Field Establishment         67     6.7      33    3.2                        9.9
Civil Works                 67     3.8      33    1.8                        5.6
Vehicles, Equipment,        67     7.4       33    3.6                      11.0
Mill Machinery
Management, Adminis-        67     1.1       33    0.7                       1.8
trative Costs
Sub-Total                   19.0            9.3                       28.3
II.   Outgrower Program
Extension and Supervision  67      o.6       33    0.2                       0.8
Field Establishment          -      -      100    1.0                        1.0
Sub-Total                    O.6            1.2                        1.8
III.   Douala Complex
Civil Works                 67     1.2      33    o.6                        1.8
Vehicles, Equipment         67     0.2       33    0.1                       0.3
Sub-Total                    1.4             0.7                       2.1
IV.   Contingencies                        4.0             2.3                       6.3
V.  Working Capital                                       0.7                       0.7
VI.   Finance Charges                       -              1.0                3.7    4.7
TOTAL               57    25.0       35   15.2           8    3.7   43.9



CAMENDON
ANNEX 6
SECOND S0C&PALM PP0JECT                                                                     Table 1
sccapals Estates: Consolidated Cash Flows (Current Ter)
(CFAF Million)
1977       1978         1979         1980         1981        1982         1983         1984         1985         1986
SOURCES OF FUINDS
Increase in Equity 1/                         400          400          400          400          400
Self-Genersted Fonds
(i) Project 2/                                                                                                (3)         65           293          686        1302
(ii) On-going activitias 3/                    4           15          218          257          412        1191         2094          3199         3441        3665
IRED Loan Disbarseseats 4/                    450          800         1000         1200         1500         620
Governruent Loan 5/                            500         250          150          100          750
Total Sources                          1354         1456         1768         1957        3062         1808         2159          3492         4127        4967
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Estate Developn,.nt - Projeet 7/               890        1298         1536         1763         2828         451          364            211         120          77
Debt Service
IBRD Subloan - Service Charge 6/               38           32           25           16            4
IBRD Slbloan - Intereat 6/                     38          106          191          293         412          448          425           402          380         357
3rd Windov - Capital Repayment                                                                                               67            67          67          67
IBRD Losa - Capital Repay.snt                                                                     100         200          200           200          200         200
Government Lac - Interset *nd Capital 5/                                                                       612          612           612         612         612
Sabtrtal                                966         1434         1752        2072         3244         1711         1667          1492         1379        1313
ret Cash Flo-                                  388          31           16         (115)        (182)          97          491          2000        2748        3654
Cu-anulstive Cash Flo.                                     419          435          320          138          235          726          2726        5474        9128
1/ To be provided by preseat shareholders as per agreed schedule
2/ Armex 6 Table 3
3/ Accex 6 Table 4
4/  Equivalent to 67% of Estate Developr.ent expenditures itcludifg physical and price contingencies
5/  Repayabls in 5 equal annual ifstailns.r  *fter 5 years of grace during which interert (9%) La capitaliasd
6/   Service Oharge and Interest are on bath Bank Loan snd 3rd Windo, allowing Goverrest to accrue a usall margin on the
3rd Windov Loan.
7/  SOCAPALM's other project espenditures in the develapment period (for estension services and eupervision nf Ootgrcwer's
Progr) vould be provided by Govsrcctenr rhrough pasfing on part  cf Bmnk financin8g and through direct grants
After palm enter production, such costs wuld be recovered through deductions fros the value of outgrosr'l ffb



AmnM 6
Table 2
SEC0IM 80soPAD< PFiCJECr
SOCAPALX: C80  11 WITHOIIT PROJECI
(C727A Million)
Fiscal bYar                               1977           1978          1979          1980          1981           1982          1993          1984           1985          1986
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Opera_tig ltninm (Ettintig Estate.) ./                         171           394           820            1267          1790          2454           3222          4057          4303           4514
FED Grant C i-abreentn b/                                       76            99            69              44
CEI Loanc Dibaono .ta   1/                                     666            10             -                            -              - _-                                       -_
FED Grant D-a-oosemnntn c/                                       7           294           256              93
8IE  Loan Sinbornettntn  cl                                    268           203            129
CaIsse Centrale boas  Dtsbocsntnntn cl                         S5            157            49              41
loorease ia Short Tea Debt                                     750           150            - 
llorking Capital Begfnfnig of Feriod                          (368)           -              -              -             -              -             -             -              -
Total loorcen                                           1625           1307          1323           1445           1790          2454          3222          4057           4303          4514
ALP~IlCAT I(N OF FI/NID
Eqoipmont R-net1 - Other Eitnaet                               128           142            153            165           178            191           202           214            226           237
Iniestment Conts (Dibo.boci)                                  1212           776           488             236           141           167           451             43            28
Total Applications                                  1340           918            641            401           319            358           653           257            254           237
Net Cash Flo- Before Dobt Ionien                     285           389            682           1044          1471           2096          2569          3800           4049          4277
_E7~TISERICE
IB7D I aid Il                                                  147           162           199             222           222           221            222           220           222            221
C"lase Ceocrala I a-i Il                                        27            64            102            102           110             98            97            9              92            9
bI.  I ani II                                                   29            44             59             59           149            151           156           286           294            301
Local Baah                                                      78           104           104             404           578           435             -
otal Debt S-nvic-                                              281           374           464             787          1059           905            475           601           608            612
TNt C-b  Flot,                                                   4            15           218             257           412          1191           2084          3199          3441           3665
o! A-nea 6 Tabla 4
R/ odnhootlny   portlon  of a          Sl.c.ag fanag.cnng acnnoaîn
s'  Reoentl 1T  egoolote  flcancclng.  See Annea I



Annen 6
Table 3
CAMEEOON
SEGOND SOCAPALM PR0JECT
Prclented Incrne Stateent - Kienke. M'Bongo Extenaton and Qongrovera (CFAF .000)
1981/82                 1982/83                   1983/84                 1984/85                 1985/86
PRODUCT ION
0il (t) - Kenke                                                    300                    1,450                     3,575                   6,852                  10,625
- M'Bong  Ext.                                            206                      691                     1,255                   1,917                   2,634
Outgrowera                                              126                      458                     1,028                   1,920                    3,000
Total oil                                                    632                    2,599                     5,858                   10,662                  16,259
Kternel (n) - Kieke                                                    80                      380                       910                   1,670                   2,500
- MBonge Ext.                                              55                      180                       311                     448                      590
- outgrewere                                               36                      128                       270                      4B2                     710
Total Kernel                                                 171                       688                     1,491                   2,600                   3,800
REVENUES ('000 CFAF)
oil   b/                                                     60,110                   250,070                   563,645               1025,876                 1564,408
Ke>ctl                                                        7,846                   31,569                     68,416                119,303                  174,367
Total                                                        68,656                  281,639                    632,061               1145,179                 1738,775
In Correct CFAF                                      89,802                  384,156                   911,431                1725,784                2724,660
OPERATING COSTS
d/
Purchese cf ffb e/                                           14,640                   50,856                    106,164                 186,662                 267,187
Maintenance     e/                                           27,003                    73,357                   109,863                 152,323                 161,007
Hoerveting      n/                                           12,469                   42,884                     76,515                 111,747                 131,140
Milling         7/                                            3,781                    15,234                    32,402                  54,648                  76,893
Selling Cogtn                                                 2,583                   10,917                    24,807                   44,370                  66,538
Total                                                  60,476                  193,248                   349,751                 549,750                  702,765
Lt Conrent CGAY                                        93,375                  319,245                   618,709                1039,577                 1422,396
Net Oper-ting ee  Ioco,e (outrent Te-ue)                     (3,573)                  64,911                    292,722                 686,207                1302,264
Counoletlve Operaticg-fl Incoren
e/ At 96218E/T <Table 4
h/ At 45886F/T (Table 4
c]  At nepented rate of priue inerea.e of 57, for 1981-1986
Cnpoouded  tccnrding to Bank goidelinee.
d/ Fro-u ootgrouere  t reco. enuded peine
e/ M'Bggo and Kienke only; enclodes a11 depreintiton chergne plu- bonos totalling CFAY 16.25/kg
f/ Tran.p-ct of oil ad kecnel tn D-oale
g/ Ratea of price in..rea.e a.  folloe:  1981-1984 - 77O; 1985 and 86 - 6%
Ce,peunded ac.cndign te Bîuk guidelines anA i-nlodig 5% phyilcal coutîngeucie.



anDtx 6
Table 4
CAIoeRoo
SOCEAML14 Foirec^st o0q^t.le- - CON
1976/77      78          .18...        80           81          .82          83      114                 as
Beodunttont (il
Pulus Oil tibongo                                                 5527         7848        10118        12484        14587         16240        17681        18782        19170        19049
Esolsa                                                  3451         4999         6319         7205          7682         7948         8211         8454         8564         8440
Edes                                                    34             409          738         1142         1524         1819         1995         2074         2107          2119
Dibo=bari                                                                          1761         4266         7814        t1848        15714        18589        19983         20301
Total Pale  1i1                                                    9160        13256        18936        25097         31607        37855        43601        47898        49824        49909
Pale Kernels Mbongo                                                1304         1808         2289          2808         3269         3614         3984         4117         4191         4164
E1- sea                                               826         1145         1406         1589          1694         1749         1802         1850         1873         1845
Edea                                                   48          103          178          267           344          404          438          452          460          463
Dtb-ba                                                                          461         1083 -        1904         2762         3538         4104         4375         4437
Total Kernai      or                                                2178         3056         4334          5747         7211         8529         9682        10523        10899         10909
Revenues
a)
0i1     b/                                                         881.3       1275.5       1821.9       2414.8        3041.2       3642.3       4195.2       4608.7       4793.9        4802.1
Kernel   -                                                          91.2        128.0        181.5         240.7        302.0        357.2        405.5        440.8        456.5         456.9
Total Revenues (is sonnant Cr605                                     972.3        1403.5       2003.4       2654.5       3343.2       3999.5       4600.7        5049.5       5250,4       5259.0
Tontl R-venven   lin scraent CFAF)                                   996.8        1510.2       2263.8       3150.9       4165.6       5235.3       6325.9        7286.4       7954.3       8367.1
Speeatitu Lests -
Maineenan e, Uarvent and Coltection -                                198.6         275.8        353.3        460.3        584.3        665.2        700.7        727.5         744.1        750.9
tanaine  -                                                        60.9         87.5        117.9        152.1        185.3         214.0        235.9        250.9        257.2         257.0
Transport tp Douala  f/                                               41.3          61.9         85.3        110.8        136.9        160.6        181.3         195.9        202.3        202.5
Plantatone and M110 D v. rhnd                                        171.0         202.2        241.9        287.5        316.3        317.7        323.6         326.4        325.4        325.4
Ocadqnatteto Overhesd&h                                              232.2        232.2         232,2        232.2        232.2        232.2        232.2         232.2        232.2        232.2
Slb Total                                                               704          860        1030.6        1242.9       1452         1589.7        1673.7      1732.9        1761.2    1768
Physical Coptingencies                                                  70            86         103           124          145          159           167         173           176        177
Total opOratieg Cn-ts (censtant CFA7)                                  774           946        1134          1387         1397         1749          1841        1806          1937       1947
Total Operating Casts (crent CFAF)                                      826         1116        1446          1884         2373         2781         3104         3229          3651       3853
Net operati.o Insane                                                   171          394         820           1267         1790         2454         3222        4057           4303       4514
a) Weighted nea9rge reVenue fanm experts (78777F/TP lers  taeno  smosatisg ta 3988.5F/T) sed 1oni seles
(110,700EF/T Osas tene- oseuting te 14,005 r/T) lbtogether 54218E/T
b) 51122F/T Osess veriou tacs of 5236F/T = 45886F/T
o) All -osts enolsde depr-cistion   anrges
4) B ..ed ne -orcages ns  eRnc   2             Teble 1         sad -it conte an le Ruos-
e) At 1104E/T regîes      i
t) At 3570F/T oiI nnd 2178F/T keel
g) SOCAPALM etin-tes
h) Conte net  comp.unded ns for proecJt tee 1976-.810  6% fo  1982-84 s-d 5% fer  1985-86. Re-ceoue  ete
nendret5%  n



ANNEC 7
CAIEROON
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT
Fiscal Year         Semester                     Disbursement            Cum. Disb.
(us$ million)
1977                1                             1.05
2                             1.05                  2.10
1978                1                             2.00
2                             2.00                  6.10
1979                1                             2.15
2                             2.15                 lo.4o
1980                1                             2.60
2                             2.60                 15.50
1981                1                             3.75
2                             3.75                 23.00
1982                1                             2.0                   25.00



ANNEX 8
Page 1
CAIEROON
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
PALM OIL AND THE FATS AND OIL MARKET
A. Demand
Substitutability
1.        The term "fats and oils" is used in this annex for all fats and
oils generally classified as "edible/soap fats and oils"; these include
soybean oil, sunflower seed oil, groundnut oil, cotton seed oil, rapeseed
oil, olive oil, coconut oil, palm kernel oil, palm oil, fish oil, butter, lard
and tallow. In recent years, their combined production accounted for about
97% of the total production of all major fats and oils.
2.        An important distinguishing feature of fats and oils is the degree
to which their fatty acids are saturated. Oils with a high percentage of
unsaturated fatty acids -- soybean oil, for example -- are generally liquid
at room temperature in temperate climates, and are thus called "soft" oils.
Oils or fats with a large proportion of saturated fatty acids, such as palm
oil, are usually solid or semisolid. In general, unsaturated fats and oils
are used for the manufacture of liquid fat products (salad and cooking oils).
Saturated fats and oils are the main ingredients in the manufacture of hard
fat products, such as margarine, shortening and soaps. Though previously
palm oil was only used for industrial purposes, improved fractionation tech-
niques now allow it to compete with other fats and oils in the manufacture
of margarines, shortenings, cooking fats, salad oils, confectionary and ice
cream.  However, soft oils can be hardened through hydrogenation, and this
has expanded the range of fats and oils that can substitute for palm oil and
other hard (saturated) oils in these end uses. Dehydrogenation, the trans-
formation of saturated fatty acids into their unsaturated form, has not
proved economic.
3.        Though technically most fats and oils are interchangeable, 1/ costs
of refining and specific end-use requirements limit the range within which
individual fats and oils are actually interchanged. The need for certain
chemical components (e.g., fatty acids) or certain physical properties (e.g.,
1/   Substitution between individual fats and oils is impossible if the end
product requires a certain fatty acid. Interchangeability is also
limited by consumer tastes and preferences; examples are olive oil and
groundnut oil which are marketed predominantly in their pure form
because consumers prefer their flavor.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
flavor, color, smell, melting point) in a specific end-use gives the oil or
fat which has these components or properties a competitive advantage over
other fats and oils in that end-use ('specific demand'). Thus each oil or
fat faces two distinct markets: first, the market in which it has a qual-
itative advantage over other fats and oils; and second, the market in which
it competes directly with other fats and oils. The size of the first market
of a fat or oil varies with the demand for the end products which need its
special properties. The demand for this oil or fat in the first market is
less price elastic than the demand in the second market.  In the first
market, prices reflect the relative strength of demand and supply for the
individual oil rather than the market situation for all fats and oils.
4.        Unlike other hard oils, such as coconut and palm kernel oil which
have a large distinct market because of their lauric acid content, palm oil
has no physical or chemical properties which give it a qualitative advantage
over other fats and oils in current end-uses. Because there is no specific
demand for palm oil, its price depends on the overall situation for all fats
and oils. Palm oil prices are most highly correlated with those of other
low-priced fats and oils -- fish oil, tallow and lard -- and the medium-
priced oils, mainly soybean oil and sunflower oil, which are widely used in
the manufacture of margarines and shortenings. Palm oil's only effective
competitor in the "inedible" market, tallow, is traditionally cheaper than
palm oil, which gives tallow a competitive advantage in three major markets:
the soap industry, the chemical industry, and the animal feed industry.
Growth of Demand and Imports
5.        Worldwide, the consumption of fats and oils expanded steadily at an
average rate of 3.4% per year from 1960 (end) to 1975. Developed countries
account for more than half of world consumption and have been the main export
market for fats and oils produced in developing countries. Within the
developed countries the most rapid increase in consumption between 1960 and
1975 was recorded in Oceania, Japan and South Africa (7% per year), followed
by Western Europe (3%) and North America (2.6%).  Among the developing
regions, Latin America recorded the highest rate of growth in consumption
(4.3%) followed by Africa (3.1%) and Asia (2.5%).
6.        Per capita consumption of fats and oils depends largely on incomes.
In several developing countries annual per capita consumption is less than 5 kg.
In most developed countries it ranges from 25-30 kg. Statistical analysis
of the fats and ails consumption pattern shows that demand increases rapidly
with incomes at low income levels.  At high income levels -- roughly those now
reached in the United States and some European countries -- the demand respon-
siveness of fats and oils to increases in income levels off at about 30 kg per
capita.
7.        Regional consumption patterns of fats and oils generally reflect
regional production patterns and natural storage conditions. Economic
protection and lower transport costs play an important role in the preference
for locally produced fats and oils. In temperate zones, soybeans, cotton-



ANNEX 8
Page 3
seeds and sunflower seeds supply most of the oils needed in the manu-
facture of margarine, shortening, and other fat products. In tropical
and semitropical zones, coconut oil and palm oil dominate vegetable oil
consumption.
8.        Between 1960 and 1975, more than half of palm oil output has been
consumed in producing countries. About 90% of palm oil exports go to devel-
oped countries. Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom account for
almost 60% of world palm oil imports. While the shares of the three European
countries declined slightly during the past two decades (1955-75), that of
the U.S. has tripled over the last 10 years.
9.        The growing demand for palm oil in the United States largely re-
flects movements in relative prices. The use of vegetable oils in consumer
products has increased at the expense of animal fats, as the latter's rela-
tive prices rose, and the price of palm oil declined, relative to those of
other vegetable oils. About 85% of the palm oil the U.S. uses for edible
purposes is utilized in the manufacture of shortening, 1/ and only a small
proportion is used for margarine. (In the United States, shortening pro-
duction exceeds margarine production.) In recent years the trend has been
towards increased consumption of shortening at the expense of lard. In
addition, shortening made only from vegetable oils has gained at the expense
of shortening containing both animal fats and vegetable oils, a shift which
is likely to continue, mainly because of the increasing awareness of the
health risk associated with consumption of fats and oils containing a high
percentage of saturated fatty acids.
10.       India, Iraq and, more recently, Pakistan have been the major net
importers among developing countries. During the period 1960-64, India's
share of total imports of palm oil had grown to 6%; however, it dropped to
less than 2% in the following decade (1967-75) mainly because of import
controls imposed by the Indian Government. Iraq's imports continued to
increase.
Demand Forecasts
11.       Projected world demand for fats and oils in 1980 and 1985, shown
in the table below, largely reflects conservative projections of real growth
in per capita incomes in 145 countries:
1/   In the U.K. palm oil is used both in margarine and in shortening pro-
duction. In the EEC, between 60 and 80% of the palm oil is used as
an ingredient in margarine. Its use in shortening is less important.
Compared with the U.S., European countries' use of shortening is
limited.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
Item                1972     1974      1976     1980      1985   1974-80  1974-85
-------------1,000 Metric Tons------------         Percent
Demand             38,869*  49,411   45,360   51,750   57,500        1.8     1.0
Supply             39,750   45,045   46,360   53,200   58,300       2.8      2.4
Fats & Oils
Price Index **   64.0    100.0       51.2     46.5      52.2    -12.0    -5.7
*    Estimated
**   In 1974 constant U.S. dollars.
Note: The difference betwen supply and demand has been used to derive the
price forecast.
Sources:  FAO (1972-74); IBRD (1976-85).
12.       In many of the developed countries, presently the main market for
exports of palm oil, per capita consumption of fats and oils is gradually
approaching a saturation level, and no large increase in overall demand is
likely unless new products and end uses are developed. However, since its
price is expected to remain lower than those of its main competitors in
shortening, and will continue to fall relative to that of soybean oil, in
particular, demand for palm oil is likely to benefit from the growth in
shortening consumption.
13.       As the potential for expanded consumption declines in developed
countries, an increasing share of the world production of fats and oils
will have to be marketed in developing countries. Demand for vegetable oils
in these countries is expected to rise steadily over the next ten years.
Palm oil has a major advantage over most other fats and oils -- it is
comparatively inexpensive 1/ -- and to some extent it will replace coconut oil
for edible purposes and in the manufacture of soaps. The greatest scope for
substituting palm oil for coconut oil in developing countries is in cooking
oil. To obtain a product likely to be acceptable to consumers (who tra-
ditionally prefer coconut oil for cooking), palm oil has to be fractionated,
and the crude liquid fraction palm (olein) has to be refined (de-odorized,
1/   Food aid from developed countries, such as that from the United States
under P.L. 480, could make this price advantage ineffective. Subsi-
dized soybean oil exports severely limit the market potential of palm
oil (either domestically produced or imported) in receiving developing
countries.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
de-colorized, and the fatty acids removed) and then either blended with
coconut oil or flavored with coconut oil taste. In the refining process many
of the nutritional advantages of palm oil, such as its high content of vitamin
A, are lost.
B. Supply
14.       During the remainder of the seventies, world production of fats
and oils is projected to grow at about the same rate as during the sixties,
and to increase by 18.1% over the five-year period. Given the consumption
forecasts shown in para. 11, production will exceed consumption by about 1.5
million tons in 1980, and real prices for fats and oils (in 1974 constant
dolars) will have to decline below their average level of the sixties. This
decline in real prices is likely to reduce investments in oil bearing tree
crops, and thus result in slower expansion of production of fats and oils
during the later part of the early eighties. Because consumption of fats
and oils is projected to increase considerably faster than their production
during this latter period, real prices will rise again.
15.       The supply of most fats and oils depends largely on price movements
in other markets. Not only are fats and oils extracted from a large number
of oilbearing materials, but many of them contain other, often more valuable,
products in addition to fats and oils. Many oilseeds are grown for the high-
protein meal they contain; lard and tallow are by-products in meat production;
fish oil and other marine oils (with the exception of whale oil) are a by-
product of fishmeal production.
Animal Fats
16.       The share of animal fats including fish oil, tallow, lard and
butter in the world fats and oils market will decline from 42% in 1960 to 30%
in 1980, and 29% in 1985. Most of this decline will be caused by a sharp
drop in lard production. A steady increase in the price ratio between pork
and lard has encouraged production of leaner hogs. A similar shift in demand
towards leaner beef will slow the growth of tallow production. Nevertheless,
tallow will remain a major source of fat; its share in the production of all
fats and oils is projected at 10% in 1985, about the same as the projected
share of palm oil and roughly half the share of soybean oil. The production
of butter is projected to increase much more slowly than during the sixties.
In most countries butter production has remained almost stagnant, though it
has grown significantly in countries with a support price system for butter.
The production of fish oil has grown at an average rate of 6% per year during
the period from 1960 to 1975. With the projected decline in fish catch in
the coming years, this growth rate will drop to less than 2% between 1980 and
1985 and the share of fish oil in the overall supply of fats and oils will
drop from 3.0% during 1967-69 to about 2.4% in 1980 and 1985.



ANNEX 8
Page 6
Vegetable Oils
17.       Since the early sixties, world production of vegetable oils has
increased faster than that of animal fats and marine oils; the share of
vegetable oils in the overall production of fats and oils grew by seven
percentage points between 1960 and 1975. We project that this trend will
continue and by 1985 more than 70% of the total supply of fats and oils will
come from vegetable oils. The expansion of vegetable oil production largely
reflects the rapidly growing demand for high-protein meals and the steep
increase in palm oil supplies. The increase in the market share of vegetable
oils opens opportunities for virtually any of the latter in view of the high
degree of substitution between them. For each individual oil the rate of
growth of supplies compared with that of competing oils does have an in-
fluence on its relative price but this influence weakens as the market for
all fats and oil approaches equilibrium.
18.       Soybeans dominate the world fats and oils economy.  World soybean
oil output has risen from 3.5 million tons in 1960-62 to 8.6 million tons
in 1975, a rise of 14.5%. About 40% of world production is exported. The
largest quantity increase was recorded in the United States where production
nearly tripled, rising from 2.5 million tons in 1956-60 to 7 million tons in
1975. United States soybean production is expected to reach about 48 million
tons in 1980. An increase in soybean prices during the period 1980-85 could
bring soybean production in the United States to 50 million tons. Brazilian
soybean production is expected to continue to rise sharply to about 15 mil-
lion tons by 1980 and 22 million tons by 1985. China's soybean output has
remained at about 10-12 million tons throughout the last two decades; and
since future production is likely to be tailored to domestic needs, it is not
expected to affect the world fats and oils economy. Total world production
of soybeans, including that of China, is forecast to reach 70 million tons by
1980 and about 80 million tons by 1985. This corresponds to a world soybean
oil production of nearly 12 million tons by 1980 and 13.5 million tons by
1985, or a continuing share of more than 20% in the total supply of fats and
oils. About 40% of the soybean oil produced is likely to enter world trade.
19.       World output of groundnuts increased at a diminishing rate in the
last decade, particularly after 1967. World exports of groundnut oil have
been stagnant since 1955, except for a shortlived increase during 1966-68.
Production is not expected to rise again at rates comparable to those in the
fifties unless vigorous expansion plans are undertaken.
20.       World coconut production remained stagnant from the mid-1960's to
1970, and the improvement of the last two years was mainly due to favorable
weather conditions. The development and use of high-yielding hybrid varie-
ties could increase production, but the effect would not be felt until after
1980.
21.       The production of cottonseed oil has grown slowly in the past
decade -- at less than 1% a year. A rise in supply occurred in 1972 and is
expected to continue into the late seventies, due to thb  A±+rsion ^f cotton-



ANNEX 8
Page 7
seed from direct feeding to oil extraction in some countries. However, the
long-term growth, linked to the growth of cotton production, is not expected
to exceed 1.7% per year.
22.       Sunflower seed is mainly produced in centrally planned economies,
and output has stagnated in recent years. No great change is expected in the
period up to 1985, and the area presently under sunflower in the U.S.S.R. will
probably not be greatly expanded. The possibility of a large-scale intro-
duction of sunflower planting in the United States seems remote.
23.       Rapeseed originates mainly in Canada, Western Europe, the U.S.S.R.
and Eastern Europe. Output has expanded recently, but it is not expected to
capture a large share of the growing market for ails.
Palm Oil
24.       Production Characteristics.  Oil palms produce more oil per unit of
land than any other oilseed crop. The fruit are clustered in bunches (fresh
fruit bunches) from which can be extracted palm oil and palm, kernel oil (the
latter is extracted from the seed or kernel of each fruit). The economic life
of a stand of palm plantings is about 30 years. The first crop is produced
during the third year after planting and peak yields (about 13 to 15 tons
of ffb per hectare) are attained between the eighth and tenth year; yields
decline gradually from then on at about 2% per year.
25.       The production costs of palm oil are far below those of most other
vegetable oils 1/. Although oil palms need between 1,800 and 2,200 mm rain-
fall regularly distributed over the year, about 2,000 hours of sunshine, and
sufficient fertilizer (nitrogen and potash) to produce the high yields men-
tioned above, they require less labor than other tree crops such as rubber.
Most of the labor is needed for harvesting, which demands careful handling of
the fresh fruit bunches. Bruising the fruit results in a high content of free
fatty acids, lowering the quality and price of the palm oil. Thus to produce
high quality palm oil (at low cost), harvesting and processing have to well
synchronized. This requires good management and a well-maintained trans-
portation network.
26.       The supply of palm oil is highly inelastic 2/ because harvest-
ing will continue even if palm oil prices should fall below variable
1/   For example, the production costs of a metric ton of palm oil (ex.
installation in Malaysia) currently range from US$ 150 to US$ 190.
Because most fats and oils are recovered jointly with other products
(e.g., oil cakes, meals), the production costs of fat and oils depend
to some extent on the method chosen for allocating the processing costs
among end products.
2/   This statement refers mainly to palm oil produced on estates.  The
supply from independent smallholders working at the fringe of oil palm
estates or collecting fruit in wild groves is more price-elastic:
thes,- ;-sducers have usually a wider range of employment onnortunities
than vntrducers on sra,LY       estates, and they are also le,;s concerned
about the d,innr <rf n'F n   -eases caused by rotting 'ruits.



ANNEX 8
Page 8
costs. 1/ There are two main reasons: (a) producers have few alternative
production possibilities, short of uprooting the palm; 2/ and (b) they would
have to collect the ripe fresh fruit bunches anyway, to prevent the occurrence
of pests and diseases in oil palms caused by overripe and rotting fruit. The
decision to extract the oil will depend largely on the direct operating costs
of the mill and the marketing costs for the end products (palm oil, palm
kernel oil, and palm kernel cake).
27.       Growth of Production and Exports.  During the sixties, palm oil
production grew at roughly the same rate (3.1% per year) as the production
of all fats and oils. Since 1970, the growth rate of palm oil production
accelerated more than 11% a year, compared with an annual growth rate of 4.2%
for all fats and oils. This steep increase in the growth of the palm oil
industry reflects the rapid expansion of oil palm plantings in Malaysia and
Indonesia. During the late fifties, about two-thirds of the world's palm oil
output was produced in Africa: two countries, Nigeria and Zaire, then sup-
plied more than half of the world's palm oil. Although still major producers,
the combined share of these countries in the output of palm oil dropped by
1974 to about 30%, slightly less than Malaysia's share. 3/ From 1965-69 to
1970-74, Malaysia's production of palm oil grew at an average annual rate of
25%. Though Malaysia is now the world's leading producer of palm oil, the
decline in West African palm oil production has recently been reversed, as
rising per capita demand for fats and oils has led to large investments in
oil palm in several West African countries.
28.       World output of palm oil is expected to grow at an average rate of
9.5% a year during the period 1975-80. Most of this expansion is the result
of plantings in the sixties, which are now reaching maturity, and of improved
yields. The real price of palm oil is projected to remain around its current
low level. Although this price is still well above the production costs of
efficient producers, it will be less than satisfactory for marginal producers
(independent smallholders and producers from wild groves). Continued low
1/   Variable costs include the cost of picking the fresh fruit bunches, the
cost of transporting them to the processing plant and the cost of palm
oil extraction.
2/   Intercropping is only possible during the first two years before the
canopy of the oil palm ^loses. Lack of sunlight makes intercropping
after then impossible.
3/   Civil disorders were a major .-ctor behind the decline in palm oil
production in these two countries. Production was disrupted in 1964-67
in Zaire and in 1967-69 in Nigeria.



ANNEX 8
Page 9
palm oil prices and a strengthening of the markets for natural rubber, which
competes for land with oil palms in southeast Asian producing countries,
could slow the pace at which Malaysia and Indonesia expand their oil palm
acreage in the latter part of the forecasting period. Overall, palm oil
production is likely to expand at a slower rate (5.1% a year) between 1980
and 1985.
29.       Malaysia will account for a major part of the future increase in
output because of its extensive recent plantings of high-yielding varieties.
These plantings covered 290,000 ha of land between 1961 and 1971, and there
are plans to bring an additional 100,000 ha under oil palm during 1976-80.
Malaysia's output may thus increase to between 2.2 million and 2.5 million
metric tons by 1980. By 1985, Malaysia's palm oil production is projected
to reach between 3.9 million and 4.0 million tons.
30.       A smaller yet significant increase in output is expected in Indo-
nesia, where new plantings amounted to 25,000 ha in 1967-71. Indonesia will
have doubled its oil palm acreage between 1972 and 1976. Current plans
indicate a further expansion by 50,000 ha during 1976-80, with an equally
important contribution to additional output from replantings and other forms
of rehabilitation of old stands.
31.       In West Africa, the Ivory Coast expanded the area under oil palm
cultivation to 30,000 ha by 1974. During 1974-80, palm oil output is pro-
jected to increase by 85%. Nigeria is not expected to raise its palm oil
production significantly between 1976 and 1980; for the remainder of the
seventies output is expected to remain at its current level of about
450,000 tons. The Nigerian Government's plans for planting and replanting
have not materialized thus far: 90% of Nigeria's output still comes from wild
groves. As a result of aging trees and increasing difficulties in finding the
necessary labor for maximum exploitation of the groves, Nigeria may become a
net importer of palm oil by 1980.
32.       World exports of palm oil followed roughly the expansion pattern of
palm oil production; they grew at an average rate of 2.8% a year between 1960
and 1970, slightly below the 3.2% growth rate estimated for palm oil produc-
tion. Towards the end of the sixties exports began to pick up, reaching an
average annual growth rate of 18.5% between 1970 and 1975. Malaysia, Indo-
nesia and the Ivory Coast accounted for most of the rapid expansion of palm
oil exports.
33.       An increasing share of the palm oil produced in West African coun-
tries is consumed domestically. Between 1955 and 1974, palm oil exports from
West African countries dropped by 60%. The drop was particularly evident
during the late fifties to less than 1% in 1974. The decline in exports
largely reflects the shortfall in Nigerian palm oil production during the
civil war years and its slow recovery, paired with steadily rising domestic
demand for edible oils.
34.       Increasing consumption of palm oil in producing c(ountries, ,nainly
in Indonesia and West African countries, is expected to slow down the expan-



ANINEX 8
Page 10
sion of palm oil exports. The Bank's commodity division projects that palm
oil exports will grow at an average rate of 11% between 1975 and 1980; the
growth rate will decline to 9% between 1980 and 1985. The share of palm oil
in world trade of fats and oils will increase from 6.0% during 1967-69 to a
size closely approaching that of soybean oil -- 17.5% in 1980 and 23% in 1985.
C. PRICES
35.       In this section the "price" of fats and oils refers to the weighted
average price of fats and oils. Although prices for fats and oils fluctuated
widely during the past two decades (1955-75), they displayed no clear trend.
Price fluctuations reflect simultaneous increases or shortfalls in production
and exports of major fats and oils. They are usually related to changes in
the normal weather pattern (typhoons that affect coconut harvesting in the
Philippines, a drought that reduces soybean yields in the United States,
etc.) The sudden increase of fats and oils prices during 1973-74 was mainly
the result of simultaneous production shortfalls in coconut oil and groundnut
oil.
36.       We project a decline in real prices of fats and oils during 1975-80.
The major assumptions underlying this projection are:
(a) An increase in supply of fats and oils caused mainly by:
(i) the rapid acreage expansion of oil-bearing tree
crops in recent years; and
(ii) the growing demand for oilseed meals;
(b) A declining market potential for fats and oils in devel-
oped countries, as per capita consumption approaches
the saturation level. Demand for fats and oils in these
countries is likely to corne mainly from the development
of new products or end-uses and population growth;
(c)  Conservative assumptions of overall real income growth
in consuming countries.
37.       For the 1980-85 period, a slight rise in real fats and oils prices
is projected, on the assumption that producers will reduce plantings in
response to declining prices during the first half of the decade and that
developing countries will absorb an increasing share of the total output of
fats and oils.
38.       Technological improvements in refining and manufacturing and the
resulting increases in interchangeability of fats and oils have had three
distinct effects on prices. First, prices have become more important in the
manufacturer's choice of oils (or fats). Second, price differentials among



ANNEX 8
Page Il
fats and oils have declined. Third, the increased possibility of substitu-
tion has encouraged the use of cheaper oils, such as soybean oil and palm oil
at the expense of high-priced oils such as butter and olive oil. This has
tended to depress the general price level of high-priced oils.
39.       The level of palm oil prices relative to those of other fats and
oils depends on the share of palm oil in total fats and oils exports. The
effect of increased supply on palm oil prices is aggravated by the fact that
the market for soft oils expands faster than the market for hard oils (coconut
oil, palm kernel oil, palm oil). Although it is physically possible to
substitute hard oils for soft oils, the costs of dehydrogenation are high,
and the rapidly growing output of hard oils can be marketed only at lower
prices than those of soft oils. Thus, the 1976 price differential of about
2% between the price of palm oil at US$370/ton and soybean oil at US$376/ton,
is expected to widen by 1985 with palm oil at US$390/ton and soybean oil at
US$482/ton, representing a differential of soybean oil over palm oil of 23%
(all CIF European ports in 1976 constant prices). The forecast declining
trend of prices for palm oil (and other hard oils) relative to the prices of
soft oils could be reversed through: (a) a reduction in refining costs
(easing the interchangeability of these oils with the soft oils in specific
end uses); and (b) the development of new end uses.
40.       Nevertheless, although the price relative position of palm oil
is expected to decline by comparison to the prices of soft oils, the real
price of palm oil is forecast to increase slightly over the next decade.
After a slight decline in real prices from US$370/ton in 1976 to US$366/ton in
1977, the price is forecast to increase to US$388/ton in 1980 and US$390/ton
in 1985. The real price of palm kernels is forecast to increase substantially
from US$170/ton in 1976 to US$240/ton in 1980 and US$281 in 1985 (all CIF
European ports in 1976 constant prices). The more favorable market prospects
for palm kernel oil relative to palm oil are due mainly to the distinct market
which palm kernel oil can capture through its lauric acid content, such a
market not being available to palm oil which must compete in a more general
market.
D. CONSUMPTION, PRODUCTION AND TRADE PROJECTIONS
FOR PALM OIL IN CAMEROON
Consumption
41.       Apart from minor quantities of other domestically produced oils
such as groundnut and cotton seed oil and minor imports of some natural fats
and oils as additives for industrial and luxury consumption usage, palm oil
forms the bulk of domestic consumption of fats and oils in Cameroon. In
1975, consumption of palm oil in Cameroon was estimated at 68,500 metric tons
or 9.4 kg per capita. During the period 1961 to 1974 gross consumption of
palm oil increased by about 4.5% per annum.l/ As concerns future consumption,
1/   Source:  OLS Linear Regression of FAO consumption data by year for
Cameroon, 1961 to 1974.



ANNEX 8
Page 12
a similar growth estimate (4.47% per annum) is obtained econometrically from
the projected growth of per capita income and population in Cameroon with
parameters reflecting consumption response to price and incomes.l/ Accord-
ingly, for the consumption forecasts a growth rate of 4.5% per annum has been
taken. This estimate is by no means high in relation to preliminary Bank
estimates of gross consumption growth rates in other African countries. Coun-
try estimates for all fats and oils during the period 1980 to 1985 range from
average per annum increases of 6.1% to 1.8% with a mean for the entire con-
tinent of 4.6%. For the five countries with the largest gross consumption -
Nigeria, South Africa, Egypt, Algeria and Morocco - estimated per annum growth
rates are 4.8%, 3.6%, 6.1%, 5.8%, and 6.1% respectively. For countries bor-
dering on Cameroon - Chad, the Central African Republic, Congo, Equatorial
Guinea and Gabon - estimated growth rates are 4.6%, 5.5%, 4.8%, 5.9%, and
1.8% respectively.2/
42.       Major factors affecting the growth rate differences are:  (a) the
growth rate of population and real incomes; and (b) the level of consumption
in the base period, as the growth in consumption of natural fats and oils tends
to tail off at a plateau of about 30 kg/capita/annum at high per capital in-
come levels.  Cameroon, with its estimated population and per capita income
growth rates of 2.4% and 3% respectively and its low present per capital con-
sumption, can be expected to have a high growth rate for some time to come.
Further, the availability of large quantities of locally produced palm oil,
as a result of the recent estate developments and the proposed project, may
stimulate consumption to a higher rate of growth than the historical one used
here. Consumption forecasts are shown in Table 4. Consumption in 1980 is
estimated at 85,000 tons, and in 1985 at 106,000 tons.
Production
43.       In Cameroon palm oil has until recently been obtained predominantly
from fruit from wild palms in the forest areas.  It is estimated that in
1970 about 40,000 tons or nearly two thirds of the total palm oil production
of 64,000 tons was obtained by this means.  Production from wild palm has
declined substantially in recent years. For 1976 it is estimated to be at
26,000 tons of palm oil or two thirds of the production from wild palms
1/   Source:  Derived using the consumption model presented in Commodity Paper
No.23. "Prospects for Palm oil," Annex II. The per capital consumption
growth rate for palm oil is estimated at 2.02%. Population growth is
taken at 2.4%, with population in 1975 at 7.3 million; GNP per capita
in 1974 is taken at US$260, and with a growth rate of 3% per annum.
This compares to a preliminary estimate of 4.7% prepared by the Economic
Analysis and Projections Department.  This was obtained using the same
model but with slightly different base data.
2/   All quoted consumption growth rate figures assume no constraints on con-
sumption due to, for instance, GovernmEat controls or levies on imports
of oils.  A11ow-int for the aggregate effect of such controls, the per
annur iiwrea-se i_ ross coisumption for àXfrica as a whole could be less
than the figure of 4'.6Û  given here.



ANNEX 8
Page 13
in 1970. This decline is due to the low pecuniary incentives of collecting
from wild palm together with the close proximity of employment opportunities
on the estates. A wild palm grove would typically yield between 3 and 4 tons
of ffb per year and a worker could collect about 300 kg of ffb per day.  This
compares to yields on the estates or on smallholder schemes of about 600 kg of
ffb per manday and 13 tons per hectare. Furthermore, the oil content of
wild palm ffb is at best only 13% as compared to 21% with cultivated oil
palm; the oil contains a high percentage of taste-spoiling free fatty acids
and other impurities resulting in urban consumers turning to the better
quality oil from cultivated palms; and wild palm collectors experience diffi-
culties in transporting their produce to market outlets. The decline in
wild oil palm production is therefore expected to continue and to be further
stimulated by the increasing availability of jobs in the nearby tree crop
estates. By 1985 palm oil from wild palms is projected to be about 7,000
metric tons, or 5% or total production in Cameroon. (See Table 3).
44.       Estate production has now taken over irreversibly from wild palm
as the major source of palm oil in Cameroon. In 1976 oil palm estates pro-
duced about 56,000 tons of palm oil and, as the existing and proposed new
developments mature, estate output is projected to increase at an average
yearly rate of about 9-10%, reaching a level of 127,000 tons by 1985 or
92% of total 1985 production. Four major companies dominate the estate
sector: the two state-owned Bank-assisted enterprises SOCAPALM and CAMDEV,
the IFC-assisted SAFACAM, and the privately financed PAMOL. Total palm
oil production data and estimates from estates, wild paLms and smallholders
are presented in Table 3. The 1976 production of 84,000 tons is expected
ta increase at an annual rate of about 6%, attaining 105,000 tons in 1980
and 138,000 tons in 1985.
Trade
45.       Production and consumption estimates are compared in Table 2.  By
1985 an estimated 31,000 tons of palm oil would be available for export, rep-
resenting 23% of total production inclusive of the Government proposed CAMDEV
II project and 15% of production exclusive of CAMDEV Il. In view of the cau-
tious assumptions used in estimating consumption growth and the likelihood
that target output levels will not be fully met on the estates, an export per-
centage of about 15% is considered realistic for the purposes of evaluating
this project. With an average export margin of this size we can expect that
in poor production years palm oil may even need to be imported. Such a situ-
ation nearly occurred in the period 1970-75 during which exports ranged from
a high of 18,000 tons in 1974 to a low of 1,000 tons per annum in 1972 and
1973. Average per annum exports in this period were 7,000 tons or 11% of
total production.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
PRICFS AND PRIICE INDE Uo  SLfCCTED FATS AD OILS V/  Ci? UmPs, 1960-98o0 àmD 1985
(Tu constant US dollera per %etrio ton)
Tear     Soybean    Sunflouer    Cotton.eed    Oroundnut    Rapeeeed       Olive        Palc      Coconut    Palm ternel       rieh         Lard       Butter     tallow      Price Index
1960      444.S9      480.5          464.67       614.7         MA33.1    1,156.8      450.9       617.0         626.9        306.5        1.23.2    1,682.8      280.8          66.3
61      699.3       757.8          7h3.2        806.5         682.3     1,367.0      565.3       618.9         61.0.ô       338.7        548.2     1,720.3      385.0          80.8
62      445.8       483.1          522.4        540.1         h3h.0     1,239.2     1 214. 2     192.9         500.8        204.2        k28.1     1,61h.3      269.0          59.8
63      434.9       460.2          473.9        522.6         .19.3     1,698.5    1,32.9        557.7         559.7        312.n        b1.2      1,755.1      275.0          62.9
6b.     397.0       493.8          480.1        610.0         488.0     1,134.8     b64.8        575.1         579.0        393.1        486.1     1,802.9      325.3          66.1
1965      515.1       560.9          530.3        618.1         501.7     1,264.8      520.8       663.9         673.h        b1.1.0       558.9     1,751.2      381.5          72.9
66      486.8       b90.6          621.2        552.1         455.1     1,233.0      440.2       6<111.1.      505.5        365.6        526.0     1,553.8      335.0          65.0
67      399.8       392.1          699.6        523.8         381.3     1.277.1     414.6        607.1         460.9        235.1        379-4     1.512.1      266.5          57.6
68      331.3       320.1          567.7        504 .4.       299.6     1,267.b      314.5       712.6         683.0        184.3        3114.5    1,319.6      21.0.1         53.2
69      409.0       382.1          522.0        595.5         358.7     1,19s.6      32h.7       647.5         548.9        269.1        387.4     1.271.7      297.8          57.7
1970      514.8       555.1          593-7        635.6         b91-.     1,172.2      436.0       665.8         719.b        415.9        b5-.5     1,229.2      338.0          68.7
il      510.0       592.1          619.0        696.4         465.8     1,1118.0    412.1        585.8         529.0        349.0       413.7      1,651.8      309.5          60.8
12      392.0        13.14        1470.5        610.6         336.9     1,330.0      315.1       339.8         351.43       264.3        364.5     1,755.5      259.9          54.1
73      569.2       587.6          612.1        668.4.        4.83.5       1,712.0  462.7        628.0         601.1        bl18.7       456.6     1,1S3.5      1.35.08        72.3
74      795.0       983.0          939.0      1,077.0         715.0     2,174.0     669.o        998.0      1,010.0         559.0        6n2.0     1,216.0    I.b8.0          100.0
1975      540.7       645-5          63b.1        748.5         4hl.3     2,127.1      378.2       3143.3        383.4        300.5        418.b.    1,.57.8     297.)          66.o
76      308.3       4n2.0          528.9        553.6         319.8     1,927.2      303.4       278.0         295.2        270.6        336.2     1,113.3      311.6          51.2
77      314.7       465.2          490.2        5bO.1         314.7     1,639.9    3)0.3         3n4.8         320.0        2514.9       289.7     1,300.3      279.9          t8
78      325.0       439.9          455.3        528.9         315.2     1,101.1      3n3.3       339.8         339.8        240.3        299.8     1,169.9      259.9          47.6
79      335.0        170.0        419.8         518.8         310.3     1,19t.8      307.n       300.n         370.2        230.1        299.8     1,059.8      21.5.1         I.7.3
1980      345-.9      b19.6          389.7        509.1         308.1     1,020.0      310.0       422.0         1.00.1       219.0        310.0        95h1.8    212.8          46.5
1985      395.2       439.9         159(.7        173.2         362.6     1,211.5      320.0       475.1         460.3         614.9       3145.0    1,109.9      257.1          52.2
Descriptions
Soylbean O1s Crude, US, CIF Rottoida.                                              Coconuat Oil   Phillppineu/Indonoeuan, bulk, CI? Rotterdm.  For 1973, Dutch, 5%, ex--ili;
Sunflouer Dili  "my origin, *x-tank Rotterda.                                                    prior to 1973, 1b.te Ceylon, l% bulk, ex-tank Rotterda.
Cottoaeed O11l  US, PBOS, CIV Rotterd._                                            Pale kernal Ols  West Arrican, CIl UIK
Oroundnut Oils  UigertlanMahbian/Any Orlgin, CIV Europe.                           Fish Olla Any origin, crude, CIF Europe.  Prior to Narch 1973, Peruvian, *enl-r lined.
Repe.eed 011O   Dutch, PB ex-nlul.                                                 Lards  EEC refining quality, CIF ur.  Prior ta Vebruary 1973, US. Prime Stae, CIF UU.
Olive Oils Spantah, *dible, 1% drums.                                              Butters  Dutch, bulk, unsslted, U1  markets.
PaLn oli   Nalayeisn, 5% CIO Ut.                                                  Tallows U9, bulk, bleachable fancy, CIF Rottarda.
Price Index weigbted by constant uorld cxports (1974-100).



WORLD PRODUCTION 0F SELECTED OILSEEDS, FATS AND CILS (FAT OR CIL EQUJIVALENT),
ACTUAL 1960, AVERAGE 1967-69, 1975, PROJECTED 19f0 AtiD 1985
(In 1000 Nletric Tons)
~ 1960    ~          1967-69         1973               19d0               19b5
Fat,/Oil         1000 M^T % Share  1000 MT  % Share  1000 biT  % Sl}re  1000 MT_% Share  1000 Mtr  % Share
Soybean Oil       3,295    12.3      5,358    15.5      8,550    19.2    11,900    22.4    13,500    23.2
Sunflowierseed Oil 1,665     6.2     3,652    10.5      4,070     9.2      5,200     9.3      5,h00     9.3
Cottonseed Oil    2,165      8.1     2,310     6.7      3,005     6.8      3,e00     6.4      3,700     6.4
Grour.dnut Oil    2,555      9.6     3,2h8     9.4      3,2h5     7.3      3,600     6.8      3,800     6.5
Rapeseed Oil      1,105      4.1     1,655      4.8    2,195      5.6      2,800     5.3      3,000     5.2
Olive Oil         1,180      4.4    1,307       3.8     1,500     3.4      1,600     3.0      1,700     2.9
Palr Oil         1,250      4.7    1,382      4.0      2,925     6.6      4,600     8.7      5,900    10.1
Coconut Oil       1,955      7.3     2,072      5.9     2,515     5.7      3,000     5.6      3,200      5.5
Paln Kernel oil    1dho      1.7       383     1.1        695     1.6        900     1.7      1,000     1.7
Pish Cil            L62      1.7     1,058     3.0      1,250     2.8      1,300     2.4      1,100     2.4
Butter            3,855    14.4      I, 017    11.6     5,135    11.5      5,300    10.0      5,500      9.4
Tallow            3,050    11.4      4,228    12.2      5,085    11.4      5,500    10.2      5,900    10.1
Lard              3,733    14.1      3,988    11.5      3,950     8.9      4,100     7.7    14,300      7.3
TOrTp:           26,710   100.0    34,658   100.0    u,h20   100.0    53,200   100.0    58,300   100.0
Sources: USDA: 1960-69
IERD: 1975-85
CommodJties and Export Projectiona Division
Economic Analysis and Projections Department
Development Policy Staff
F3C,



ANNEX 8
Table 3
CAMEROON
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
Total Country Actual and Projected Palm Oil Production by Source-/
(in thousand metric tons)
Whole
Estates                           Smallholders                  Country
Public   Private   Total         Wild Palms  Cultivated  Total             Total
1969         6.9       9.6      16.5           43.1          1.3        44.4           60.9
1970         8.7     14.3       23.0           40.1          1.4        41.5           64.5
1971        10.5     14.8       25.3           37.0          1.4        38.4           63.7
1972        11.6     16.0       27.6           36.6          1.4        38.0           65.6
1973        15.3     16.4       31.7           35.5          1.4        36.9           68.6
1974        21.2     17.0       38.2           31.5          1.4        32.9           71.1
1975        28.1     18.7       46.8           30.0          1.4        31.4           78.2
1976        36.3     19.6       55.9           26.4          1.4        27.8           83.7
1977        44.3     20.2       64.5           23.0          1.4        24.4           88.9
1978       52.9      20.6       73.5           19.5          1.4        20.9           94.4
1979        61.5     21.1       82.6           16.0          1.4        17.4          100.0
1980        69.5      21.7      91.2           12.4          1.5        13.9          105.1
1981        76.7     22.6       99.3           11.2          1.7        12.9          112.2
1982        83.6     23.8      107.4           10.0          2.0        12.0          119.4
1983        90.3      24.9     115.2            8.8          2.5        11.3          126.5
1984        95.8      25.9     121.7            7.6          3.1        10.7          132.4
1985       100.3      26.9     127.2            6.7          3.8        10.5          137.7
_/  Source:  SOCAPALM records and development projections 1976.



Annex 8
Table 4
CAMEROON
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
Total Country Production, Consumption and Export Projections of Palm Oil
(in thousand metric tons)
Available         Exports as
Production      Consumption      for Export       % of Production
1970       64.5             58.1             6.4              10
1975       78.2             68.5             9.7              12
1980      105.1             85.4            19.7              19
1985      137.7            106.4            31.3              23



ANNEX 9
Page 1
CAIEROON
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
General
1.        The subprojects that would be financed by the proposed loan are
separable and independent, except for the completion of IlfBongo-Eseka estates
(para 2). Consequently separate economic rates of return have been calculated
for each component under the following major assumptions:
(a)  Life of project:  A project life of 30 years has been
assumed w[.ich corresponds to the economic life of oil
palms planted under the project.
(b)  Yields and Oil Content:  The fresh-fruit bunch yield per
hectare assumed for plantation palms and for outgrowers,
as well as the oil content for these, are those shown at
Annex 2,Tables 3 and 4. These reflect SOCAPALM's
experience to date.
(c)  Prices and Markets:  All the kernel produced and about
15% of the palm oil output of the project is assumed to
be exported. The economic values for palm and kernel
(Tables 4 and 5) reflect the respective prices of oil
and kernel under these assumptions. Further discussion of
markets and prices is at Annex 8.
(d)  Costs:  Included are all development costs, as well as oper-
ating costs incurred in harvesting of mature palms, in
processing of ffb, and in transport of oil and kernels to
Douala. All identifiable taxes have been excluded. In
addition, costs take into account the replacement of all
equipment needed to keep project production at the levels
assumed. Labor has been costed at the midpoint of the
official range for both skilled and unskilled workers, and
includes fringe benefits for estate workers. All prices
are based on those ruling in November 1976.
(e) Foreign Exchange: The rate used in this report is
$1 = CFAF 245.
M'Bongo-Eseka Completion and Douala Complex
2.        A rate of return calculation on the incremental investments pro-
posed here would have very little maeaning since the bulk of expenditures have



ANNEX 9
Page 2
alread- beeti - .ie and as there L, no simple way of relating the investments
proposed under this component to the output of the estates. An overall rate
of return on the M'Bongo-Eseka complex has been calculated as part of the
CompLetion Report for that project prepared by Bank staff.  It incorporates
assueLptions sinilar to those used for the other calculations in this annex
includitig the complementary investments financed by the loan proposed in this
report. The result is quoted for illustrative purposes but is not included
in the weighted whole project rate of return below. The Douala complex,
which represents about 6% of project base costs, will have benefits spread
over several companies and has not been included as a cost in the rate of
return calculations.
Results
3.        Under these assum?tions estimated rates of return for tne various
components are as follows:
Kienke Estate:                                14%
Extension of M'Bongo Estate:                  17%
Outgrowers Program:                           23%
Completion of M'Bongo-Eseka Estates:          14%
Total Project                                 16%
Economic cash flows are at Tables 1, 2 and 3.
Sensitivity Analysis
4.        Rates of return for the Kienke estate, the M'Bongo estate extension
and the outgrowers program have been tested for sensitivity as tabulated
below. The foreign exchange rate of CFAF 318.5 per US$ represents a shadow
rate 30% above the exchange rate used elsewhere in this report of CFAF 245
per US$. Pricing palm oil at its export equivalent lowers the value of
palm oil by about 5% and lowers the value of the combined oil palm output of
palm oil and kernels by about 4%.
Kienke     M'Bongo       Outgrower
Estate   Extensions    Program
Base estimate                                  14.1         17.1          23.1
Benefits decrease 20%; no change               11.6         15.4          21.6
in costs.
Costs increase 20%; no change in               11.4         14.9          20.2
benefits
Manual labor costed at zero                    15.7         19.8          27.8
Foreign exchange at US$ li= CFAF 318.5         14.9         17.7          28.1
Output priced at export values                 13.1         14. i         22.3



AMIRN 9
Tabla I
SEOOND SOCAPAIX PROJECr
Eonoso.t  Rata of Ratur- CAlculaton - Kienke Ratete
Peojest    Otht D-ev.    Acet           oper-tieg       Total Ebon.                Ecoot-ie       Rconotic       r"al                            Net
D-v.      Ctsts          Rece-al         Cts              ests                   Valse of       Value of        Becofits                      Beseftts
Ytru                   18                                     CoEY       To t ta-rity    Expendi-                                                Oil            Rerne
1976/77                 i                                       312                                                        312                                                                                   (312)
78                2                                       469                                                        469                                                      _                            (469)
79                3                                       594                                                        594                                                      -                            (594)
û0                4                                       888                                                        9988-                                                                                 (888)
91                                                       1(lO66                                                     1066                                                      -                           (1066>
Il                                                                      284              4           80              368                         26               4          30                            r338)
83                                                                      216             20          161              397                        123              19         142                            3255
8                                                     118            18          257              393                         305             46         351                             (42)
83                9                                                      64             27         319               418                        581              85         666                             256
86               18                                                       39            51          367              457                        905             126        1033                             576
87               11                                                     209             39          408              656                       1218             166        1364                             778
88               17                                                       18            46         436               500                       1470             196        1666                            1166
89               )3                                                        7            49         449               505                       1610             Zll        1821                            1316
90               14                                                                     52          453              SOS                       1649             216        1865                            1360
91                n                                                                     67          453              52G                       1649             216        3865                            1345
92                (b                                                                    58          453              S11                       1649             216        1865                            1354
93               17                                                                     86         453               539                       1649             216        1863                            1326
94               18                                                                     74         451               525                       1636             215        1831                            1326
95               19                                                                     72         448               520                       1602             21        12812                            1292
96               20                                                                     57          445              502                       1572             206        1778                            1276
97               21                                                                     66          442              508                       1538             202        1740                            1232
98               22                                                                     64         442               506                       1538             202        1740                            1234
99               23                                                                     68          441              509                       1532             201        1733                            1224
2000                24                                                                    57          439              496                        1517            199        1716                            122C
01               25                                                                     70          438              508                        L306            197        1697                            11i
02               26                                                                     67          436              503                        .13             194        1677                            1174
03               27                                                                     52          43e              488                        _o3             194        .77                             1189
04               28                                                                     46          436              482                        _78             193        1671                            1189
05               29                                                                     47          434              481                       1461             192        1653                            1172
06               30                                                                     26          431              457                       1444             164        1608                            1151
bcosoreto  Rate of RStco    - 14.057



Annex 9
Table g
CAMfEROON
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculation - outgrower Progrrx,
DEVELOPtlENT COSTS               OPERATING COSTS            TOTAL ECON.                     VALUE OF      VALUE OF         TOTAL BEIEFITS                   MDT BElEFITS
Year                    py                                        Labor          Other             Labor          0ther        COSTS                           OIL           KERNEL
1976/77                  1                                         -              61                                                61                                                                                             (61)
78                  2                                       15              68                                                83                                                                                              (83)
79                  3                                       22              60                                                82                                                                                              (82)
80                  4                                       25               73                                                9                                                                                              (<98)
81                  5                                       32              42                                                 74                                                                                             (345
82                  6                                       17               14                                               31                              10                2              12                             (19)
83                  7                                       13               13                 6             38               70                             37                6              43                             (27)
84                  8                                        10              10                13             39               72                             84               13              97                              25
85                  9                                         7               4                21             48               80                            157               24             181                             101
86                 10                                                                          30             64               94                            246               35             281                             187
87                 il                                                                          31             63               94                            329               44             373                             279
88                 12                                                                          32             67               99                            396               52             448                             349
89                 13                                                                          32             72             104                             437               56             493                             389
90                 14                                                                          32             67               99                            447               57             504                             405
91                 15                                                                          32             67               99                            447               57             504                             405
92                 16                                                                          32             72              104                            447               57             504                             400
93                 17                                                                          32             67               99                            447               57             504                             405
94                 18                                                                          32             67               99                            441               57             498                             399
95                 19                                                                          32             72              104                            432               55             487                             383
's6                20                                                                          32             67              99                             423               54             477                             378
97                 21                                                                          32             67               99                            413               53             466                             367
9b                 22                                                                          32             72              104                            413               53             466                             362
99                 23                                                                          32             67               99                            410               52             462                             363
2n0o                 24                                                                          32             67               99                            405               52             457                             358
(1                 25                                                                          32              72             104                            401               51             452                             348
02                 26                                                                          32             67               99                            396               51             447                             348
03                 27                                                                          32             67               99                            396               51              447                            348
04                 28                                                                          32              72             104                             392              50             442                             338
05                 29                                                                          32             67               99                            388               50             438                             339
06                 30                                                                          32             67               99                             384              49              433                            334
Economlc Rate of Return: 23.1%



Annex 9
Table 3
CAMEROON
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETSUN -  eNGo EXTrmSION
DEVELOPMENT COSTS                  OPERATING COSTS            TOTAL COST                     ECON. VALUE OF   EOIN. VALUE           TOTAL                              NET
Year                     lY                                        Labor            other           Lho             Other          O_I                                            OP ir KPPNFT.      BENEFITS                           BENEFITS
1976/77                   1                                          5              127                                               132                                                                                                 (132)
78                   2                                         17             109                                               126                                                                                                  (126)
79                   3                                         19              95                                               114                                                                                                  (114)
80                  4                                          il              13                                                24                                                                                                  ( 24)
81                   5                                          9              12                                                 21                                                                                                 (21)
82                   6                                          4                5               9               37               55                                17                  2            19                              (36)
83                   7                                                                          19               49               68                               63                   8            71                                 3
84                   8                                                                          19               59               78                              122                  15           137                                59
85                   9                                                                          19               67               86                              179                  22           201                               115
86                  10                                                                          19               75               94                              231                  29           260                               166
87                  il                                                                          19               81             100                               265                  33           298                               198
88                  12                                                                          19               83             102                               275                  34           309                               207
89                  13                                                                          19               83              102                              275                  34           309                               207
90                  14                                                                          19               83              102                              275                  34           309                               207
91                 15                                                                           19               83              102                              275                  34           309                               207
92                  16                                                                          19               83              102                              275                  34           309                               207
93                  17                                                                          19               83              102                              275                  34           309                               207
94                 18                                                                           19               82             102                               267                  33           300                               199
95                 19                                                                           19               81              100                              256                  32           288                               188
96                 20                                                                           19               81              100                              256                  32           288                               188
97                  21                                                                          19               81              100                              256                  32           288                               188
98                  22                                                                          19               81              100                              256                  32           288                               188
99                 23                                                                           19               80               99                              252                  31           283                               184
2000                  24                                                                           19              80               99                               247                 31           278                               179
61                  25                                                                          19               80               99                               247                 31           278                               179
02                  26                                                                          19               80               99                              247                  31           278                               179
03                  27                                                                          19               80               99                               247                 31           278                               179
04                  28                                                                           19              80               99                               243                 30           273                               174
05                 29                                                                           19               80               99                              238                  29           267                               168
"b                 30                                                                           19              80               99                               238                 29            267                               168
Economic Rate of Return = 17.05%



Annex 9
Table 4
CAMEROON
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
ECONOMIC VALUE OF PALM OIL
1980      Averaee         1985
A. Import Substitution Value
1/
F.O.B. (Abidjan) (CFAF/t)          2/                                      80530                      83380
Freight and Insurance to Douala                                             3000                       3000
Unloading and Terminal Handling                                             1389                       1389
Value ex-harbor                                                            84919                      87769
Average 1980/1985                                                                 86344
B. Export Value
C.I.F. Europe      $                                                         378                        390
CFAF                                                    90270        91935         93600
Insurance                                                                   1805                       1872
Freight                                                                    10000                      10000
Loading                                                                     1069                       1069
Terminal Handling                                                            250                        250
Value ex-harbor                                                            77146                      80409
Average 1980/1985                   3/                                            78777
Weighted Average Economic Value                                                  85209
C. Financial Value   (CFAF/t)
1. Domestic
Selling Price                       110,000
Taxes                                10,000
Net Revenue                           100,000
2. Export Sales
Selling Price - c.i.f.               91,935
Selling Costs                        13,157
Taxes                                 3,988
liet Revenue                           74,790
3. Weighted Average Net Revenue-           06,218
to SOCAPALM
1/  Based on IBRD projections of C.I.F. Europe and Sodepalm Costs to C.I.F.
quoted in IBRD: IVC Fourth Oil Palm Project; June 1976
2/ Mission Estimate
3/  85% imtport substitute and 15% export



Annex 9
CAMEROON                                Table 5
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
ECONOMIC VALUE OF KERNELS
(Constant 1976 Prices Per Ton)
1980                      1985
CIF Europe t$)                                                  240                        281
CFAF                                              58800                      68845
Less
Insurance                                1200
Freight                                 10000
Loading                                  1500
12700                     12700
Economic Value of Kernel (Ex Harbor)                                                     56145
Average 1980 and 1985                                                51122
Less Taxes                                                            5236
Net Revenue to SO4PALy                                               45886






IBRD 1242B
M                                                                             A LI                                                                         OCTOBER 1976
N I G E R            C H A D
SUDAN                                                           A      CHAO
UPPE(.     j    .                   CUd
+,N  G E R 1 A  J/\t        _,R<g_< o V >
N  GERIA   ~     J CENTRAL AFRICAN
CAMER0ON11,                           1
,Or.nez     OE           ` /C00,sO                                                            j NGO  Z R A  p R\
UNITEOD REPUEBLIÇ OF CAMEROON
SOCAPALM SECOND STAGE
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
27.2 lnhob,toots per Squ..re kiometer
10-
201 -50  ~Inhobitants per,(
501~-100  ~squ.are kîloo-ter
100.1-150                                                     « \ \\0                   
More thon isj
Sooth..Eet
Dveolopment     gC.- i Eoîsting Rubber ond Oil Palm  statest
Aren Roondury    -      Pc ed Ronds
G         HEVECAM        E       Gote1 Rodso
oneioi ----Eortht Roods*%                                                     \ \\        '      \,
la  SOCAPALM             -Hvr
Conotosor  -90- Ioolyets nmilliroeters
Add,tional o-Division Bo-dahries
Projert Arecs    -Lntermtional boundories
EX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IE
os I -  N    k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   NTR    
r~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ F  R!                                                                                      1 C  Ai  N
OCFA/                   XEQUARIALAGUINEAj
12-                                     le






To Edea              To Lolodorf
CAMEROONOON
SOCAPALM SECOND STAGE    KRIBI
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                p n
--     ZONE BOUNDARIES
4   8    KIENKE PROJECT ZONES
C      RESERVE ZONE                                Lobe                        Pogo
*      KIENKE CENTER AND OIL MILL |
MAIN ROADS                                          I >  Yana°0
MOTORABLE TRACKS                                                                                     ng,ale~.-
-  -  -    FOOT PATHS                                                                                                        k        Adjap
RIVERS
MabenongaP -                        C f
_   ..                                                                                             (   }      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To Akok,
îpko Chcd  . ,                      N                    /                  r                                                         )
-  0       /    '~~(.HAD                                                                      ,S                                      |)ZnuToAkok
NtGERFA       i                                                                                                   HE.    EAM               L       Bifo,/
."   /<  S-   .<    O     4        8        )12                                                                         .
<KILOMETERS                                                 - - - Ni
ff ju                           liaJrh boundarier shown on ihis map do nor,/  )j1  4t  y   
J                       low~~~~~~mly endorsement or aC eptaner by the                                           '77.
- JCENTRM   WorldW&nk andifs affaees.                     f
,CÇMEROON           AiRICAN
i k J--- q\ REPUBLIC  -   -«
Q  t I'   o YAOUNDE  9                                                               C :_4 \          l                 -                          _ Q
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
KRIBI                                                                                                                                                         o
qF.R A OFMAP                            ;                                )`_                   -                              (__
To Carnpo           ToE bdie        10 0    '                                                       Y



