Document of
_ YUlJ U                  The World Bank
FOIi ODIIFHIICIAL USE ONLY
£                                ~~~~~~ETUE TU
Report No. P-1982-CM
EEP0RT$ MESKpt
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED BANK AND THIRD WINDOW LOANS
TO
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
March 16, 1977
Mhis docuiment lins n restric¢e3 dstrabuthon n3nd may be used by recipients only Ain the perfornmnce of
their oicai1 duties. it contents mney not otdherwise be disclosed witbout Woirld Bank nuthorization.



CAMEROON
SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CURRENCY UNIT                      CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$    1               =           CFAF       245 1/
CFAF   1,000           =           US$        4.1
CFAF   1,000,000                   US$      4,082
1/   Floating exchange rate.
ABBREVIATIONS
CAMDEV        =      Cameroon Development Corporation
CEC           =      Coastal Estates Center
FONADER       =      Fonds National de Developpement Rural
HEVECAM       =      Societe Hevea  -   Cameroun
PAMOL         =      Societe Pamol Cameroun (Unilever Group)
SAFACAM       =      Societe Africaine Forestiere et
Agricole - Cameroun
SOCAPALM      =      Societe Camerounaise de Palmeraies
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON PROPOSED BANK AND THIRD WINDOW LOANS TO
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A SECOND SOCAPALM PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on proposed Bank
and Third Window loans to the United Republic of Cameroon to help finance a
second oil palm development project. The Bank loan of US$18 million would
have a term of twenty years, including four and a half years of grace, with
interest at 8.5 percent per annum. The Third Window loan of US$7 million
would be on standard terms, with the first payment due on January 15, 1983 and
final maturity on January 15, 2001, and with interest at 4-1/2 percent per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY-/
2.        A report "Proposals for a Medium-Term Public Development Program,
A Special Study, Cameroon" (No. 1097a-CM), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 11, 1976. In October and November 1976, an economic mission
visited Cameroon and its findings are incorporated below; a report is in
preparation.
Economic Potential
3.        Cameroon hag a population of about 7.3 million (mid-1975) and covers
an area of 475,000 km . The country's natural resources are varied, but not
always easily accessible. Soils and climatic conditions permit cultivation of
a wider range of crops than is commonly found in West Africa, and the forest
areas of the southeast contain large untapped timber resources. The north
holds promising potential for livestock development.
4.        While the main opportunities for development in Cameroon lie in the
expansion of agricultural production, including forestry, the country has the
potential to increase production of import substitutes needed for a growing
domestic market, and to process alumina and agricultural and forestry pro-
ducts for export. A bauxite project is in the early stages of preparation,
and offshore oil and gas exploration is being carried out and has yielded
some promising results.
5.        Commerce, transportation and transit services are other important
economic activities. Cameroon's main economic centers are separated by vast
underpopulated areas. The country moreover serves as a main export route for
landlocked Chad. As a result, large investments in port and inland transport
infrastructure are essential to promoting agriculture, forestry and industry,
and strengthening Cameroon's role as a regional trade center.
1/   The following sections   are substantially similar to those included in
the Plaine des M'Bo Rural Development Project President's Report,
dated December 9, 1976.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



-2-
Past Performance
6.        During the first decade of independence (1960-1970), the Govern-
ment's primary objective was to unify the nation and to ease serious inter-
nal political and social tensions. Output of agriculture and industry grew
rapidly and, along with high world prices for cocoa and coffee, resulted in
a 7 percent per annum real growth rate. Gross investment averaged about 14
percent of GDP, slightly over half in the public sector, with the largest
part devoted to the transportation network, the most immediate development
constraint. A major effort was also directed at expanding education and
diversifying agriculture. Significant increases in fiscal revenues combined
with stringent expenditure controls produced sizeable budget surpluses that
made it possible to accumulate reserves and to finance a large part (up to
40 percent) of public investment out of local revenues. However, this policy
also imposed excessive restraint on much needed current expenditure in such
areas as road maintenance, public health, and education.
7.        During the period 1971-1975, growth of real GDP slowed to less than
3 percent per annum. This was caused by factors largely outside Cameroon's
control such as: (i) low export prices for cocoa and coffee during 1971 and
1972, (ii) several years of drought in the north; (iii) a drastic decline in
domestic and foreign private investment, triggered primarily by the relative
stagnation of the agricultural sector and by the completion of the most ob-
vious import substitution projects during the preceding decade; (iv) a drop
in 1975 in world demand for both cocoa and timber; and finally (v) rapidly
rising import prices.
8.        The Government reacted to these developments by stepping up public
investment, which has increased by 50 percent to reach annual averages of
about US$190 million in constant 1974 dollars during the Third Development
Plan (1972-1976). At the same time, greater emphasis has been placed on
agricultural output. Within a public investment program averaging 9 percent
of GDP, rural development has comprised about 18 percent, transport and com-
munications 42 percent, energy 6 percent, and education 9 percent. Since
nearly 75 percent of public investment has been in sectors where its contri-
bution to domestic output is both indirect and delayed, the impact of this
substantial investment effort on economic growth was limited during the Third
Plan period. In addition, physical realizations have been in many cases
less than projected due largely to substantial cost increases and the sub-
sequent need to reduce the scope of projects or defer them.
9.        The balance of payments has not been a major constraint until re-
cent years; however, imports increased rapidly in 1974 and 1975 as a result
of worldwide inflation and the heavy public development expenditure, es-
pecially in capital goods. At the same time agricultural exports declined,
particularly exports of timber, causing a sizeable current account deficit
in 1975. Together with a decline in private capital inflows this resulted
in a fall in reserves from a level equal to nearly three months of import
requirements in 1970 to one-half month at the end of 1975. Thanks mainly
to considerably improved export demand and higher prices, especially for



-3-
coffee and timber, by May 1976 gross reserves had recovered to the absolute
level of 1972 and 1973. However, because of continuing international infla-
tion, Cameroon's offical gross international reserves, at end-1976, still
covered less than one month of import requirements, a low level by usual
international standards but still acceptable in the Banque des Etats de
l'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) monetary union arrangements.
Prospects and Development Strategy
10.       Cameroon's development effort over the next five years will be
carried out under the Fourth Plan (1977-1981). A Bank economic mission
discussed its recommendations on the level and composition of public in-
vestment with the Government in November 1975 and agreed on overall priori-
ties. It is anticipated that short- and medium-term growth of GDP will be
5 to 6 percent per annum in real terms, slightly lower than achieved during
the 1960s. However, if the Government can maintain a high volume of public
investment and further expand and diversify the country's production base,
more satisfactory rates of growth can be attained in the early 1980s. With
this goal in mind, the new Five-Year Plan has set a very ambitious public
investment target of over US$2.0 billion in constant 1974 dollars or two and
one-half times that achieved during the preceding plan period. The Plan
gives increasing emphasis to the development of directly productive sectors,
particularly agriculture. The share of transport infrastructure investments
is declining somewhat but remains high in absolute figures, while investments
in electric energy will increase. Social investments, particularly for sports
and administrative buildings, see their importance considerably reduced.
These changes in sectoral priorities are very much in line with the recom-
mendations of the 1975 economic mission.
11.       However, to ensure that appropriate priorities will in fact be
achieved, the Government will need to strengthen its ability to choose,
prepare, and implement projects, particularly in the rural and transport
sectors. Some progress is being made in this direction. Special planning
units are gradually being established within the technical ministries. A
Government-owned consulting firm the Societe d'Etudes pour le Developpement
de l'Afrique, was created under the Ministry of Economy and Planning to
accelerate project preparation. Commercially-oriented public corporations
are also serving to strengthen the project implementation capacity of the
public sector. Nevertheless, further improvements are needed, particularly
in the management of public corporations and in strengthening and coordi-
nating rural development institutions. A recently approved Technical As-
sistance Credit will assist efforts recently undertaken by the Government in
these fields by providing technical assistance experts, training local staff,
and financing high priority studies and project preparation in key economic
sectors.
12.       Even assuming these improvements take place, absorptive capacity
is likely to limit the rate of investment in the high priority sectors.
With respect to the overall investment level, financial considerations



- 4 -
also suggest that public investment during the Fourth Plan is unlikely to
exceed US$1.3 billion in constant 1974 dollars, or some $400 million per
year in current dollars. Budgetary revenues already reach 17 percent of GDP
and cannot be expected to increase much faster than the economy as a whole.
Current expenditures, on the contrary, will expand more rapidly as a result
of recent increases in public investment in transport, education, and health.
Furthermore, public debt charges will grow rapidly, particularly those of
public enterprises, and will absorb an increasing share of public savings.
Consequently, in the next five years, public savings after debt service will
probably not exceed US$100 million per year, or some 25 percent of total
public investment, as compared with 38 percent over the past few years.
Cameroon will thus have to rely on external financing for the bulk of its
public investment. Lenders, including the Bank Group, should be prepared
to finance a high proportion of project costs, including when necessary, a
part of local costs. An increasing reliance on foreign borrowing during a
period of relatively slow economic growth, and unfavorable terms of trade,
will require careful foreign debt management. However, on the reasonable
assumption that at least 50 percent of foreign public capital inflow vill be
on concessionary terms, the foreign debt service ratio could be maintained
below 10 percent by 1980. Cameroon's proven ability to make effective use
of external resources, and the Government's dedication to development are
reasons for added external support.
13.       Cameroon is considered eligible for Bank lending on Third Window
terms on the basis of the following criteria:
1.   Per Capita Income
In 1975 Cameroon's GNP per capita was US$270.
2.   Performance
The Government has demonstrated its commitment to development
by increasing public investment by 50 percent during 1972-1976,
the last Plan period. Emphasis is placed on agricultural pro-
duction and rural development has comprised about 18 percent
of the public investment program.
3.   Ability to Repay
Given the country's able economic management and the fact that
the foreign debt service ratio is unlikely to rise above 10
percent by 1980, Cameroon remains creditworthy for additional
Bank lending. However, lenders, including the Bank, should pro-
vide a large part of their assistance on concessionary terms,
in order to avoid too rapid a build-up of debt service.
4.   Access to Alternative Sources of Finance
Cameroon will have to rely heavily on external sources of funds
to finance its public investment program during the next five
years. Cameroon, however, has no special access to new sources
of concessionary finance and cannot prudently afford to borrow
substantial sums on commercial terms.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAMEROON
14.       The Bank Group's commitments in Cameroon now amount to US$251.5 mil-
lion and cover twenty projects: seven in agriculture, seven in transportation,
three in education, one in public utilities, one small- and medium-scale en-
terprise project, and one technical assistance project. Transportation
represents the largest share (53 percent) of our past commitments followed
by agriculture (27 percent). Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans and IDA credits as of January 31, 1977 and includes notes on ongoing
projects. Although delays and setbacks have been occasionally encountered
in the execution of projects, the Government has consistently shown willing-
ness to collaborate with the Bank in finding solutions to such problems.
15.       For the future, the Bank Group's strategy is to support the Govern-
ment in its effort to increase agricultural production, including export-or-
iented crops, and in the process create productive employment in rural areas;
to upgrade and improve the operation and maintenance of the country's infra-
structure; to stimulate investment by local entrepreneurs and increase employ-
ment in urban areas; and to increase the efficiency of Cameroon's institutions.
16.       Given the priority Government rightly attaches to regional distribu-
tion of agricultural development, as well as to a sound balance between the
promotion of large plantations and smallholder schemes, Bank Group assistance
has been directed accordingly. Thus we have helped Government create an
effective and well-managed plantation sector by financing oil palm and rubber
plantations in the east and west. At the same time, we have helped promote
small-holder rice irrigation and livestock in the north. The ongoing cocoa
project is helping to modernize cocoa growing by smallholders and to raise
rural productivity in areas south and west of the capital. The rubber project
approved in June 1975 will develop the southwest coastal region. Preparation
work for rural development projects in populated but poor regions is underway
with the assistance of the Bank. The Plaine des M'Bo Rural Development Proj-
ect (Credit 672-CM), which has been recently approved by the Board, will help
finance studies and three-year trial activities required before a full-scale
rural development program can be launched. Preparation of the Zapi-East Inte-
grated Rural Development Project is nearly completed and the project is sched-
uled to be presented to the Board during FY78. Also scheduled for presenta-
tion to the Board in FY78 is a tree crop estate and smallholder development
project in the west, a follow-up of the Bank Group financed CAMDEV project.
Field appraisal of the Rural Development Fund Project was completed in Novem-
ber 1976.  Furthermore, the proposed Second SOCAPALM Project is a follow-up
to a successful oil palm project (SOCAPALM I) which has been completed, and
is a first step in promoting smallholder oil palm plantations in Cameroon.
Besides promoting much needed foodstuffs production, increased Bank Group
lending for agriculture will support the Government's effort to focus on
rural development in order to improve income distribution and to achieve a
better balance in regional development.
17.       Recognizing the crucial importance of transportation to economic
growth in Cameroon and in neighboring countries, the Government has devoted
the largest portion of public investment to this sector. The Bank Group,
together with bilateral institutions, has substantially aided development
of adequate transport facilities. The Second Highway Project of 1973 was



-6-
designed to help complete the country's basic trunk road system. The project
has encountered severe cost overruns partly alleviated by a recently approved
Supplementary Credit. The Second Railway Project of 1974 has focused on track
improvement and expansion of the equipment needed to maintain and augment the
railway's overall carrying capacity. Given projected sharp traffic increases
and the backlog of required investments, substantial capital outlays are
still necessary particularly for the expansion of the port of Douala, which
will be assisted by a recently approved Bank loan and IDA credit, and some re-
lated facilities such as a railway station and marshalling yard to be built
outside the port area. An engineering loan, approved in May 1976, will help
complete the engineering of this station and marshalling yard. Improvement
of the Douala-Yaounde transport corridor will also require substantial invest-
ment. A study, financed by the Bank and scheduled to be completed shortly,
FY77, will help determine an economically optimal investment strategy for
this corridor. Future road investments will mainly be for road maintenance
and feeder roads to provide links to local markets and facilitate exploita-
tion of Cameroon's forests. In other sectors, the Small- and Medium-Scale
Enterprise Project approved in 1975, focuses mainly on developing local en-
trepreneurship. A Third Education Project, approved in April 1976, places
special emphasis on rural education and training.
18.       In all our projects, we include, as needed, training, technical as-
sistance, and other provisions necessary for strengthening institutions and
improving sector policies. The recently approved Technical Assistance Proj-
ect would help to strengthen government services in several key ministries
involved in investment planning, policy analysis and project processing. In
addition, through our economic work we will continue to advise the authorities,
at their request, on development questions in general, and on particular mat-
ters such as economic management, problems of urban migration, and manpower
development. To help achieve the Government's priorities and to support our
future lending strategy will require increased emphasis on strengthening the
institutional framework, particularly concerning project planning preparation
and implementation in transportation and rural and urban development.
19.       During the second half of the sixties, overall disbursements of
foreign aid to Cameroon amounted to about US$40-45 million a year. While
at the beginning of this period 65 percent of aid funds were grants, the pro-
portion of loans slowly increased. A major part of external assistance was
provided by France and was concentrated in infrastructure and productive
sectors. The aid-giving agencies of the EEC (European Development Fund and
European Investment Bank) directed their lending mainly to agriculture, with
infrastructure in second place. Bank Group disbursements were small during
this period. From 1972 to 1974 overall disbursements of foreign aid increased
to about US$60 million with one-third as grants. The Bank Group's share of
these inflows amounted to about 25 percent. Our lending to Cameroon has been
closely coordinated with other donors; in eleven of our twenty projects, joint
or parallel co-financing arrangements have been made.
20.       Public debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 31, 1975
amounted to US$362 million and is projected to reach US$1.5 billion in 1981.
Public debt service as a proportion of export earnings amounted to 5.4 per-
cent in 1975 and is projected to reach 9.5 percent in 1981. At that time
annual foreign aid disbursements may be over US$400 million with only 9 per-
cent consisting of grants. At end 1975, IBRD debt accounted for 13.7 percent



- 7 -
of all public debt, outstanding and disbursed, and 10.6 percent of public
debt service. 'IDA c'redits accounted for 13.5 percent of'public debt out-
standing and 0.1 percentof public debt 'service.  The Bank Group is expected
to account for about 25 percent of total public debt and 14 percent of public
'debt'service in'1980.
21.-    -'In October-1974,'Cameroon became IFC's 100th member.  IFC's first
operation in Cameroon, a US$450,000 underwriting to bring domestic share-
'holdersirito a previously wholl'yf'oreign-owned shoe manufacturing company,
was"approved in May 1975.  In September 1976, IFC Board approved an equity
investment of nearly'US$900,000 in-a'foreilgn-owried rubber estate (SAFACAM).
The investment will as'sist in the rehabilitation and diversification of an
existing estate by 'producing rubber for export and 'palm oil for the domes-
tic'market. The'operatioon will also facilita'te participation by domestic
shareholders.
'ART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
22.       'Agriculture including forestry and livestock plays a major role in
the Cameroon economy, providing a livelihood for about 85 percent of the popu-
lation' and-accounting for '35-40 percent of GDP and over 75 percent of the value
of exports.' The agricul'tural 'sector can be divided in two major subsectors:
traditional agriculture and industrial plantations.  The tradi'tional'subsector
accounts for over 85 percent of agricultural 'output.  It comprises 'some one
million' smallholders cultivat~ing plots averaging about two hectares each using
family labo'r.  Smallholders produce foodcrops fo-r subsistence and for the local
market, and cocoa,'coffee, cotton and groundnuts 'for -export.  Cattle-raising
mainly by nomadic 'and semi-nomadic pastoralists 'in northern Cameroon and the
north-central Adamaoua"'plateau''accounts for about 15 percent of the production
of the traditional'subsector'.  The industrial plantations' subsector comprises
several large gover'nment-owned and a few privat-e industrial estates (foreign-
owned) producing mainly palm oil'(mainly for' domestic consumption) and rubber
(for export)_. Output'of cocoa'and' coffee increased considerably during the
1'960s, at annual' rates of abo'ut 3.'5'pe'rcent fior6cocoa', 5.5 percent for ro-
-bIusta coffee and 9' 'percent for''arabica coffee.'"'-'Add'itionally, the country has
vast forestry resources which- are only partial'ly' tapped.
23.       Cameroon is largely self-sufficient. in, foodstuffs, with production
expand-ing' at an 'annual rate of 3-3'.'5 percent, ahead of population growth.
This ex~pansion fiesults ifrom a'rapid growt"h'- of"no'n-traditional' foodstuffs,
especiaLly vegetables, beans and'potatoes.: However, Cameroon had been de-
ficie'nt 'in edible fats and" there is a serious stagnati'on 'of out'put of tradi-
tional'staples'(plantains,' millet, sorghum, maize 'and cassava), resulting
from: factor's'such'as' lack of"'aequate support'ing services to'smallholders, and
marketing-organiza'tion. Howeveir, marketiiig is" reasonably well organized for
export c'rops'. 'Farm 'inc'omes and 'services"to 'farmers are', uneveiLy' distributed.
The hi:ghest income areas are the'central savannah -and the we'stern and coa-
stal lowlands (US$130 - 1'40per &api'ta); the' poorest areas are the northern
plains-and the western highlands (US$70 -'80 per capita),'which are densely
populated.  The'weak'ness'o'f extension and credit services is particularly
in evidence in the'lowe'st incomde areas.' Howeve"r, prospects are good for de-
veloping smallholder agriculture by making more investment funds available



-8 -
to this subsector as well as improving institutions involved with the prep-
aration, implementation and monitoring of projects in this subsector.
24.       The Bank supports Government's efforts to achieve a balanced growth
between rural development projects and integrated estate and smallholder plan-
tation projects. This strategy involves developing both plantation estates
and smallholder schemes as is the case in the project presented in this
report. In the past, Bank Group lending for development of tree crop planta-
tions (CAMDEV FY67 and SOCAPALM FY69), was followed by loans or credits for
rice irrigation (FY72) and livestock (FY74). A loan and credit to CAMDEV for
a total of US$18 million, the first Bank Group operation in Cameroon, financed
planting of oil palm, plus planting or replanting of rubber, tea and pepper on
a total area of 10,500 ha; the objectives of the CAMDEV project have been
largely attained, and it can be considered a success. A Bank loan later fi-
nanced a cocoa project (FY75), and an IDA credit was made available for a
rubber plantation (FY76). The Plaine des M'Bo Rural Development Project,
recently approved by the Board, will help prepare a settlement scheme in an
area at the base of the overpopulated western highlands. A technical assist-
ance project also recently approved will improve especially the capability of
the Ministries of Planning and Agriculture to prepare and monitor projects.
25.       The Bank assisted the first stage of SOCAPALM's development with
a US$7.9 million loan in 1969 and a supplemental loan of US$1.7 million in
1973. The original project was modified after reappraisal in 1972 when land
clearing proved more expensive than expected and when one of the sites proved
partly unsatisfactory. The revised project included i) the establishment of
6,000 ha of oil palms at M'Bongo and 2,500 ha at Eseka, to be concluded in
the 1976 planting season and ii) construction of a palm oil mill for each
estate and relevant infrastructure investments. At the time the Second
SOCAPALM Project was appraised, some 330 ha. of cleared land remained to be
planted and some complementary investments such as housing for estate workers
had not been completed. These items, as well as essential expansions in oil
processing capacity considered premature under the First Project are included
in the Second Project. These items are, therefore, included in the Second
SOCAPALM Project. Project implementation has slipped to thirteen years from
the nine estimated at reappraisal because of occasional lack of planting mate-
rial, temporary labor shortages, and severe loss of young plants to rodents.
The management of SOCAPALM has been strengthened, however, so that these
problems are now under control and planting objectives have been achieved.
From the beginning of its activities in this sector, SOCAPALM investments
have been secured by equity contributions from Government, grants, and long-
term borrowing from external sources (FED, BEI, IBRD, CCCE). Because of
factors largely outside its control, rapid price inflation, adverse exchange
rate variations, and higher interest rates, the costs of its program have
exceeded estimates by about 29 percent over reappraisal estimates; and as a
result SOCAPALM ran into financial difficulties in 1976 which resulted in a
shortfall between available long-term funds and investments, which was tem-
porarily financed with short-term bank facilities. However, SOCAPALM now
has secured adequate financing (a combination of equity, commercial loans and
foreign grants) to replenish its working capital and to insure the financing
of its investment program and debt service until 1981, when self-generated
funds would be sufficient to meet future financing requirements.



-9-
26.       The long run prospects for developing in Cameroon tree crops such
as rubber and oil palm are good. Palm oil is a basic staple for the people
of southern Cameroon and is an important source of edible oil in other parts
of the country (present per capita consumption is estimated at some 9.4 kg
per annum for the whole country). In recent years, there has evolved a
growing industry based on the processing of palm oil and kernel oil for soap
and detergent markets of Cameroon and its landlocked partners in the Central
African Customs Union (UDEAC). Overall, Cameroon had been deficient in
edible fats and palm oil seemed to offer a good opportunity to help fill the
existing gap.
27.       Virtually all estate plantations developed to date, including those
of the state-owned Cameroon Development Corporation (CAMDEV) and SOCAPALM's
existing ones have been established in the western and south-central parts of
the country, close to the main population and industrial centers. For the
sparsely populated and relatively underdeveloped south-western region of the
country, the Government is elaborating a long-term development program involv-
ing suitable tree crops such as rubber, coconut and oil palms. A start was
made with the implementation of this program when the Niete rubber estate was
established in the south-west region in 1975 with the assistance of the
Association (Credit 574-CM). The new Kienke estate to be established under
the proposed Second SOCAPALM Project will be the second step of a program for
developing the southwest region.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
28.       A report entitled "Appraisal of the Second SOCAPALM Project -
Cameroon" (No. 1364-CM dated March 18, 1977) is being circulated separately.
A loan and project summary is provided in Annex III of this report. The
project was prepared mainly by the Societe Camerounaise de Palmeraies
(SOCAPALM), and appraised in June 1976. Negotiations for the loan were
held in Washington from February 7 to 17, 1977 with a Cameroonian delegation
headed by Mr. Michael Tabong Kima, Charge d'Affaires, a.i., of the Embassy
of the'United Republic of Cameroon in Washington.
Background and Purpose
29.       The Government of Cameroon has asked the Bank to help finance a
project which forms part of a continuing program of development of the
southern parts of the country based on estate/smallholder tree crops.
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which vis-
ited Cameroon in June 1976.
30.       Cameroon has suffered from an overall deficiency in edible fats,
despite a good potential for crops such as palm oil. Palm oil deriving
from wild groves has long been a basic food staple for the people of south-
ern Cameroon. However, the traditional sector had never treated oil palm



- 10 -
production as a cultivated crop, its production of palm oil had been hap-
hazard, and it could therefore hardly be counted on to bring about the
desired production increases rapidly. Therefore, in the 1960s the Govern-
ment decided to develop plantation estates, which could rapidly increase
production and which could, at the same time, demonstrate to smallholders
the benefits of growing oil palms and provide a nucleus of infrastructure
and services for sound smallholder oil palm development.
31.       To carry out this strategy, Government created two state-owned
corporations, CAMDEV and SOCAPALM. These two have developed some 32,000 ha
on five estates/oil mill complexes, which are intended to become nuclei for
smallholder plantations. These estates are in the western and south-central
parts of the country, close to the main population and industrial centers.
There is also good potential for tree crops in the southwestern region.
The proposed project would have three objectives: (i) help meet a rising
domestic demand for palm oil; (ii) inaugurate a smallholder development; and
(iii) support recent efforts to stimulate the development of the southwest
region. Since this is the first smallholder oil palm project in Cameroon and
since the recently created institutions dealing with smallholders have limited
experience, a 2,000 ha smallholder scheme is considered to be about the right
size for such a component at this stage.
Project Description
32.       The new Kienke estate would be established in the southwest, north-
west of the HEVECAM rubber concession, and would form part of the long-term
tree crop development program for that region. Other investments would be
made on the M'Bongo and Eseka estates which are in the south-central parts of
the country. The smallholder program would also be centered on these estates.
33.       Over a five-year development period, the project would comprise:
(a) clearing about 6,850 ha of land and planting about 6,000 ha
with high-yielding selected oil palm trees on Kienke estate
and providing infrastructure to create an estate complex,
including the first phase of a processing factory;
(b) establishing 2,000 ha of smallholder oil palm plantations
under an outgrower program;
(c) clearing 1,000 ha and planting 1,330 ha (including 330 ha
of land already cleared) of oil palm on M'Bongo estate (see
para. 25);
(d) providing for management and administration of the Kienke
and part of the administrative costs of the Eseka and M'Bongo
estates; and
(e) construction, equipping and furnishing of a common facilities
complex in Douala, that would be jointly owned by several
estate-owning companies.



- 11 -
The project would also finance harvesting equipment and staff housing on the
M'Bongo and Eseka estates, as also the maintenance of all the estate plant-
ings during the five-year project period. Maintenance thereafter and the
necessary collection and processing equipment and certain infrastructure
investments, would be provided and financed by SOCAPALM in its future invest-
ment program.
Project Execution
34.       All project components, with the exception of the Douala complex,
would be managed by SOCAPALM, which is owned by the Government (58.5 percent),
the publicly-owned Societe Nationale d'Investissements (10.5 percent), and the
cocoa and coffee stabilization boards (17 percent and 14 percent respectively).
Although a publicly-owned company, SOCAPALM operates on commercial lines under
a Director-General, who is responsible to a Board of Directors consisting of
representatives of Government, local business, and farmers. In order to
strengthen SOCAPALM's management capabilities for this project, a qualified
Chief Accountant and a Manager for the Kienke Estate would be appointed as
a condition of effectiveness and an Executive Controller would take up his
duties by February 28, 1978. (Section 6.01 (d) and (e) of the draft Loan
Agreement and Section 3.01 (b) of the draft Project Agreement.) All estates,
including Kienke, will then have experienced managers who have proved them-
selves capable of handling day-to-day affairs including on-the-job training
for the estate staff. These managers report to the Director-General through
a Field Manager (Inspecteur des Plantations) based at headquarters. Kienke
estate would have five sector, chiefs for field development. Annual audits of
SOCAPALM would-be carried out by independent auditors and would be submitted
to the Bank (see Section 4.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
35.       The Kienke Estate.   The planting season would begin in March-April.
The 6,000 ha of project plantings would be divided into five sectors. Plant-
ings would begin in the southern zone close to where the estate center would
be located, and in the fourth year the plantings would shift to the northern
zone. Plantings the first year would cover 750 ha; the yearly rate would then
accelerate to 1,750 ha. For land preparation, the project would follow the
precedent of the Niete rubber estate project in the same region, where the
option of mechanical clearance on force account was adopted because of lower
costs and technical advantages. Therefore, 20 heavy duty tractors and sup-
porting equipment would be provided under the project. Construction of the
central village would begin in the first year and would be followed by con-
struction of four satellite villages. Including the main access road, about
360 km of plantation roads would be built to minimum standards under the
project. The first 20 ton/hour capacity of a scheduled 40 ton/hour palm
oil processing factory would also be financed. The oil palm estate labor
requirements would reach a plateau of about 1,100 field workers in the fourth
year of the project. During negotiations, it was agreed that all land and
rights in respect of land as are required for the Kienke estate, would have
been made available to SOCAPALM (see Section 6.01(f) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment).



- 12 -
36.       Completion of M'Bongo and Eseka Estates.   The proposed project would
provide US$74,000 to replace plants which were damaged by rodents in 1974.
The replanting affects 330 ha of the M'Bongo estate which had been cleared
under the first project (see para. 25). Harvesting and collection equipment,
some staff housing for both estates, and completion of the final line of the
40 tons/hour oil mill at M'Bongo, would also be financed.
37.       Expansion of M'Bongo Estate.   The M'Bongo estate which was financed
under the previous loans for SOCAPALM, would be expanded by 500 ha annually
in a two-year period from 6,000 to 7,000 ha. The expansion is justified given
the improved capability of the M'Bongo estate management, the availability of
land, and the expanded capacity of the M'Bongo processing factory.
38.       The Outgrower Component.   Smallholder development is the responsibi-
lity of the Fonds National de Developpement Rural (FONADER), the government
agency responsible for providing short- and medium-term credit to the rural
sector. Individual farmers and farmers' groups (including cooperatives) are
eligible for such credit. As it has no regional offices, FONADER operates
through other government agencies which have field staff. For the outgrower
component of the proposed project, credit funds provided by Government would
be passed through FONADER, which would use SOCAPALM as its agent in managing
the proposed component. The outgrower program would be the responsibility of
a specialized outgrower development service, the Service de Plantations
Villageoises, to be established within SOCAPALM. In the field, personnel of
this service would operate independently of the estates, organized initially
in three sectors, each attached to an existing mill and under an experienced
sector chief. Each outgrower would have an individual contract with SOCAPALM
setting out the participants' obligations and the terms of the credit. Out-
grower produce would be collected and bought by SOCAPALM.
39.       The outgrower plantings would be in the vicinity of the existing
estates at M'Bongo/Edea and Eseka, (1,000 ha each) and thus would have growing
conditions that have been thoroughly investigated and proved suitable for oil
palm. Although individual land tenure rights are traditional and not codified,
an assurance would be obtained that each outgrower would have the right to use
the land on which his plantings are to be established (Section 3.05 (b) of
the draft Loan Agreement). Aside from small-scale food crop farming, the main
economic activities in these areas are the SOCAPALM estate/ oil mill complexes,
commercial forestry exploitation, collection of fruit from wild palm, and some
cocoa production. Surveys in these areas have identified some 500 farmers who
are interested in becoming outgrowers, and this pool of potential candidates
bodes well for the success of the project. An estimated 1,000 smallholders
would be involved by the end of five years. Outgrower plantings would be con-
fined to a radius of 25 km from the relevant oil mill complex and must be with-
in a 500 metre access to passable roads or to the railway. All participants
would be qualified farmers, who would agree to follow, throughout the develop-
ment period, the technical advice provided by SOCAPALM. Land would be cleared
manually by the participating farmers, either individually or by a cooperating
group. Seedlings, cover crop seed, fertilizer, and cash advances based on
labor input would be supplied on credit by SOCAPALM; protection against rodents
would be provided by the farmer. SOCAPALM would supervise all operations.
Since this would be an inaugural outgrower program, the project would provide



- 13 -
for the housing and equipment of SOCAPALM's outgrower extension service. Con-
ditions of disbursement for this smallholder component of the project would
be the signing of a Credit Administration Agreement between FONADER and
SOCAPALM and the appointment of a Manager for the Smallholder Development Pro-
gram by SOCAPALM (para 4(b) and (c) of Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement).
40.       The Common Services Complex.   The main tree crop companies in
Cameroon, including SOCAPALM, are in the process of establishing an inter-
agency central organization to provide common services, which will be called
the Coastal Estates Center (CEC). The expected benefits would be increased
efficiency and lower overheads. A 2.5 ha site in the Douala industrial zone
will be granted to the CEC by Government for the complex (Section 3.05 (c)
of the draft Loan Agreement), which would entail construction of an office
building, a vehicle park and garage facilities, and warehouse space. The
conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the bank, between
the Government and this real estate corporation is a condition of disbursement
for these funds (Section 3.02 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Total Costs and Financing Arrangements
41.       Total project costs would be US$38.5 million, including sales and
excise taxes of about US$4.7 million; import taxes on items expressly imported
for the project would be waived by Government and have therefore been excluded
from project cost estimates. Foreign expenditures are expected to account for
US$25.0 million or 65 percent of total project costs. Provision for expected
price increases occurring after the November 1976 base period, would be US$9.1
million or 34 percent of base cost estimates plus physical contingencies.
42.       A proposed Bank loan of US$18.0 million and a Third Window loan of
US$7.0 million would be made to Government and would finance 74 percent of
project costs net of taxes, equivalent to the foreign exchange component.
The Bank Loan of US$18.0 million would have a 20-year term, including four and
a half years of grace and an interest rate of 8.5 percent. The Third Window
Loan would be on standard terms, with the first payment due on January 15,
1983 and final maturity on January 15, 2001, and with interest at 4.5 percent.
Both loans would be passed on by the Government to the project entities: to
SOCAPALM for plantation development and the outgrower program and to the CEC
for the Douala complex. Funds received by SOCAPALM on account of extension
and supervision of outgrowers would be a grant from Government; otherwise both
SOCAPALM and CEC would repay both loans to the Government at the interest rate
applicable to the regular Bank loan.
43.       The balance of net of tax project costs (US$8.8 million) together
with financial charges and working capital requirements during the development
period (US$5.4 million), would be met by Government (US$10.5 million) and by
SOCAPALM's self-generated funds (US$3.7 million). To maintain a satisfactory
equity/investment ratio above 30 percent, a part of Government contribution
to SOCAPALM (US$8.2 million) would be an increase in equity investment, and
the balance would be a loan for a 10-year term including a five-year grace
period during which interest, at 9 percent, would be capitalized.



- 14 -
44.       The Government would make US$1.2 million available to FONADER as
a grant to enable FONADER to provide credit and cash grants to smallholders
under the project. FONADER would charge farmers a 9 percent interest rate
(including 1.25 percent statutory interest tax) for the cost of the farm
inputs which would be made available in kind. Interest, which would be
capitalized, and principal would be collected by SOCAPALM for FONADER after
six years of grace, in seven annual installments, through deductions from
payments for sales of produce. Cash payments for 80 percent of initial labor
costs would be made as a non-reimbursable grant to those farmers who derive
75 percent or more of their income from agriculture. These cash payments
are expected to account for about 35 percent of the FONADER financing. The
producer price would be set by Government at a level adequate to ensure a
reasonable revenue to the smallholders and full cost recovery by SOCAPALM;
the Bank would have to be consulted prior to any price changes (see Section
4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition to credit repayments, Gov-
ernment would recover funds advanced for the smallholder component through
export and sales taxes on oil and kernel derived from smallholder produce.
The rate of return on these funds would be about 9 percent but would be over
18 percent if Government should keep the projected margin between the producer
price and the market value of oil and kernel from smallholder produce.
Procurement
45.       Except for items specified below, procurement would be through
international competitive bidding (ICB) following Bank guidelines. Goods and
services subject to ICB -- mainly machinery, vehicles and equipment, fertil-
izer and some construction work (for the CEC) -- are estimated to cost US$20.6
million. Goods manufactured in Cameroon would be allowed a preference equal
to the lower of 15 percent of the c.i.f. price on imported goods, or the
prevailing duties generally applied to non-exempt imports. Contracts not
exceeding US$100,000 would be let under competitive bidding procedures adver-
tised locally and satisfactory to the Bank. Most land clearing, estate road
building, plantation work and minor estate construction, estimated at US$10.9
million, would be done on force account using equipment owned by SOCAPALM.
The remaining project costs (US$7.0 million) would be mostly for staff and
labor costs and operating expenses.
Disbursement
46.       The proceeds of the Bank loan and the Third Window loan would be dis-
bursed pari passu on the basis of an 18:7 ratio. A uniform disbursement rate
of 67 percent would be established for all categories of expenditure against
which disbursements are made, representing the average foreign exchange cost
of such items. A uniform rate was adopted because such a precedent was estab-
lished in the HEVECAM project (Credit-574 CM) and has greatly facilitated
disbursements. Disbursements of the Bank and Third Window loans would cover
expenditures for: (a) estate field development: US$6.7 million; (b) vehicles,
machinery and equipment (including machinery and equipment for oil mills):



- 15 -
US$7.4 million; (c) construction, including specialized civil works on oil
mills (US$3.8 million); (d) SOCAPALM's expenditures for the development of
outgrower plantations (US$0.6 million); (e) general and administrative costs
of Kienke estate (US$1.1 million); and (f) for vehicles and for the construc-
tion and equipment of the common services complex (US$1.4 million). US$4.0
million would be unallocated.   Disbursements for (a), (d) and (e) would be
against certificates of expenditure, the documentation for which is not
submitted for review but would be retained by SOCAPALM for inspection by
Bank project supervision missions.   Disbursements for (b), (c) - except for
construction work to be done by force account - and (f) would be fully docu-
mented.
Markets and Prices
47.       Present per capita consumption of palm oil is 9.4 kg and growing
at an estimated 4.5 percent per year. This domestic market would absorb
about 85 percent of the project-produced palm oil (about 29,000 tons per
annum at full development). There is a large and growing market for oil
palm products in Nigeria, Cameroon's neighbor and trade partner to the west.
Furthermore, industrial products of Cameroonian origin enjoy preferential
tariff treatment in the Central African Customs Union (UDEAC). Project-
produced palm kernels (about 6,000 tons per annum at peak production) are
assumed to be exported, or crushed locally when domestic crushing capacity
is expanded. In summary, project-produced oil and kernels should find a ready
market at reasonable prices.
Benefits and Risks
48.       The direct benefit from project-financed investments would consist
of increased palm oil production mostly to meet local demand which would
otherwise have to be satisfied through imports or not all. There would also
be an increase in kernel production for home consumption or export. The
ex-harbor value of incremental oil and kernel production at peak production
would be some US$11.0 million equivalent per annum, of which about 55 percent
would represent domestic value added.
49.       Smallholders participating in the outgrower program would stand
to benefit from much higher cash incomes than otherwise. It takes some
five years for palms to enter into production; after that, net cash incomes
would grow per man/day worked from an initial US$1.80 (which is in line with
wages of unskilled workers on these estates) to US$11.20 in Year 8.
50.       For SOCAPALM's shareholders, their investments would, in spite of
a long gestation period, show a healthy return. On the basis of current
revenue and cost projections, the annual cash return to Government and other
public agency investments, in SOCAPALM would be some US$16.3 million by 1996
from project plantings alone and about US$28.5 million from existing plant-
ings.



- 16 -
51.       The economic rates of return for the main project components are
as follows: 14% for the Kienke estate which represents 62% of total project
costs excluding price contingencies; 23% for the Outgrower component which
is 6.5% of total costs; 17% for the extension of M'Bongo which accounts for
8% of total costs; and 14% on the M'Bongo and Eseka estates, the completion
of which accounts for 17% of total project costs. The weighted average rate
of return is about 15%. If costs were to be 20% higher than estimated, the
overall rate of return as well as the rates of return for individual compo-
nents would fall by 2-3 percentage points.
52.       The risk that the project would not meet its objectives is small
and would be further reduced by measures to be implemented under the pro-
posed project for improving SOCAPALM management. If demand for palm oil
in Cameroon or for kernel on the world market turned out to be below those
forecast, demand for palm oil for food and as industrial raw material in
Nigeria, Cameroon's more affluent neighbor, is forecast to require imports
of nearly 140,000 tons by 1985. Already trade in these commodities between
the two countries is sizeable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Loan and Intermediate Term Loan Agreements between the
Bank and the United Republic of Cameroon, the draft Project Agreement between
the Bank and SOCAPALM, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and the text of
the draft resolutions approving the proposed Loans, are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
54.       Features of the Loan and Project Agreements of special interest are
referred to in paragraphs 34, 35, 39, 40 and 44 of this report.
55.        Special conditions of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft
Loan Agreement) would be that:
(a) the Financing Agreement between the Borrower and SOCAPALM
had been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action;
(b) the Chief Accountant for SOCAPALM and the Estate Manager for
the Kienke estate had been appointed by SOCAPALM;
(c) SOCAPALM had established a short list of candidates for the
position of Executive Controller; and
(d) all land and rights in respect of land as are required for the
Kienke estate had been made available to SOCAPALM.
56.        Conditions of disbursement (para. 4(b) and (c) of Schedule I of the
draft Loan Agreement) for specific project components include:



- 17 -
(a) for the smallholder component of the project: (i) the
signing of a Credit Administration Agreement between
FONADER and SOCAPALM; and (ii) the appointment of a
Manager for the Smallholder Development Program by
SOCAPALM; and
(b) for the common services complex, the legal establishment
of CEC and the signing of a subsidiary loan agreement
between the Borrower and CEC.
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and with the established criteria for Third Window
loans.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loans.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 16, 1977



1,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I                          I



TASLE 34                                          P   Iof h    0 M
CANSAIIWN           - SOCIA  F10401CATOaS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA ITHGkU KN2I 
CAMEROON                           REFERENCE COUNTRIES (19701
TOTAL.      *75..4                                    MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      156.0                     1960       1970   ESTIMATE          GHANA          IVORY COAST   MALAYSLA
t  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  - - - - - - -  - - - -- - - - -      - - - - - -    - - - ---       - - - - ---
GNP PER CAPITA (uSS                       90.0      190.0       270.0             340.0       340.0      440.0
POPULATION AND VITAL. ?TTISTICS
POPULATION tMID-YR. MILLION)             5.8         6.6        7.3               8.6         5.4        10.4
PCPULATICN DENSITY,
PER SQUARE KXB   ;1.0                             18.0       15.0              38.0         t6.o       Sl.o
PER SO. KN. "GRICULTURAL LAND           ..        t2.0         *t.0                        30.0      291.0
VITAL STATISTICS.
CRUDE BIRTN RATE PER THOUSAND         43.5       42.1        40.4              49.8        46.1       42.2
CRUOE DEATH PATE PER THOUSAkO         28.0       23.q        22.0              24.4        23.3        12.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE I/THOU)           ..         ..      142.0 /a           156.0          ..       40.0 /
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH IYRSI        35.9       41.0        41.0              41.5        41.0       S6.t
GROSS REPRCCUCTION RATE                2.3 /      2.7         2.7                3.2        3.1         2.6 /a
PnPULATICN GRnuTH RATE 17)
TOTAL                                  2.4        2.0         2.0               2.6         3.4        2.6
URBAN                                   ..         6.1        7.5                5.0        8.?         3.6
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TnTAL)           14.9 A      20.3       26.3               29.0       t8.0        27.8
AGE STRUCTURE IPERCENt)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        40.0       43.0         ..               46.9        42         44.7 4
15 TO 64 YEARS                        56.0       54.0          ..              49.5                   52.1 1
65 YEARS AND OVER                      4.0        3.0          ..                3.6        2.T         3.2 2
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.8        0.9          ..                1.0        0,          0.9 L
ECONOMIC OEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0        1.2          ..                1.4        0.9         1.6 -
FANILY PLANNIDd
ACCEPTORS       ATIVE   THOU            ..         ..          ..               10.9         ..      222.2 z
USERS (V 0 ;4 lED WOMEN)                ..         ..          ..               2.0          ..         8.0 
EMPLOYMENT
TtTAL LABCR FORtE ITHOUSANO)          2400.0     28OO.O          ..            3300.0      2600.0     2900.0
LABOR FORCE IN i  RAGRCULTURE (71       88.0       82.0          ..               54.0       82.0        43.0 0
UNEMPLOVEO    qF LABOR FORCE)             ..         ..          ..                5.0t/.     6.0         6.0 L
INCONM  DZST      Ut#I9N
S 1W PRIV17E If1COOE REC*D BY-
HIGHEST   5t JF ,14OUSEH(LOS            ..         ..          ..                ..          ..       Z 8.3
HIGHEST 20t OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..          ..                 .0         -         56.0
LOWEST  202 OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..          ..                 ..         ..         3.5
LOWEST  40t OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..          ..                ..          ..        11.2
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
S OWNED 8Y TtP IOS OF OWNERS              ..         ..          ..                 ..
I OWNED DY SMALLEST IO0 OWNERS            ..         ..          ..                 ..
HEALTH AND NUTRiTION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             337SO .0      29330.0  30520.0 /b        12950.0 o   12w t       O
POPULATION PtR NURSING PERSON        5400.0   >   270.0 Is   260.0             1010.0      Z46 C.0/   1080.0 Lies
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            440.0       55° ° *-.                    160.0       680.0 %    270.0 1
PERC CPITA SUPPLY OF -
AL   IES It OF REQUIREMENTS)          96.0       96.0       104.0              96.0      1IQ.0        93.0     d
PROTEIN (GR4NS PIR DAY)               59.0       59.0        64.0              46.0        *0.0       49.0   '4
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            ..       23.0 k        ..               10.0 L     18.0 /a     20.0  a
0567(4 RATE (ITHOU) AGES 1-4              ..         ..          ..                 ..         ..         5.5
EOUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        66.0      108.0       107.0 L            58.0        76.0       89.0 L
SECONOARY SCHOOL                       2.0        9.0I.      11.0               9.0 S      11.0LL     34.0
YEARS OF SCHMQOING PROVIOED
IFIRST AND SE(Op LEVELI               14.0 LSA_L  14.0 4     14.0 a.           15.0        13.0       13.0 L
VOCATIONAL ENROtLL NT
IS OF S8COROAAY                      23.0        22.0        22.0 /a           23.0         7.0         3.0 L
ADULT LITERAY NRANE (IS                   ..       12.0          ..               25.0       20.0        77.0   f
HOUS ING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                ..         ..          ..                 ..         ..         2.3
OCCUPIED OWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (I)                         ..         ..          ..                 .          ..       65.0 4i
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(S OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    ..         ..         ..                 ..          ..       43.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%I                      ..         ..          ..                 ..         ..        30.0
CCNSUMPTICN
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           3.0       36.0        36.0              78.0        17.0        41.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            3.0        6.0         6.0 L              4.0       10.0        23.0 L
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           190.0      201.0          ..              338.0      120.0       382.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 ..         ..          ..                0.4        0.2         4.0    A
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Pago 2 of 4 page.
Union. othorwIoo outed, dat. for 1960 refer to any year baesw. 1959 eod 1941, for 1970 betNson 1968 and 1970, and for Moot Recent tutinate between
1973 od 1975.
-* MaIay0ia h.s boon, seleoted cc tho only ooo-OPC Of a i. also olar to Camroom, which, ondowod with e diversified tropico1 production, reaches the
GDP per capita t.rget (US $400 to 600).
CAISR001         1960         Wescot C-,oron;    lb   1962;    /c   Including mi&slva., assistant oidwioa eod asofot.oC ouruo..          /d  Govornmet hoapftol.,
rmral hoapital. aod medical contara;       /s  12-18 yearo Of age,      If   13 yoars for East Comer-nun
1970    jg   Including midwivoc cod assatatnt nor... ;      /   1964-66;     /.L  12-18 years of ago,      id  13 yoar. for fact Camer...
MOST ROEnT ESTTIMATEf     /a  1972;     .Lb  1971;    /c  Iocluding assistatnt n.r..au      Id 1969-71 averg.:       /.  12-18 ycaro of ago;
GRA      1970    /a   Regiutered unamplayed;     Lb   Registered, anot all practicing io the country;       /c  1966-68;     /d   6-15 and 16-21 yearo
Of ago reapoctively.
IVORY COAST      1970     /a  Sue to immsigration, population grmeth rate to higher then tho rate Of natural increase,          /b   1965-70;     /c  Eatio of
population u-der 13 cod 65 cod over to total labor force;         /d  Gover-.et only;       /a  1964-66,     If  22-19 Yeort  Of ag.,
da       1970    /0  Woat Kalaysia;      lb  Regiater-od applicants for work;      /t  Goveronnt only,       /d  1964-66,     /0   12-18 yearu of ago,
If  1967;     /A  Inside Only.
R3, N.oeber 30, 1976
DVyINrIQgSt OF SOCIAL. 2NICATORS
io .4 Am   WMI &D                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~P.oulation Per nursing person - Population divided by number of practicing
k '-_T age  ourfaco area cooprialig land area and inlnd watera.                           male and fenalo graduate nourne, "traind" or       ca.rtifiod" ourses,. and
c_   Moat recent estiate of agricultural area uaed temporarily or per-                   uauilicey persannal with training or ..perience.
nanently for crops, poaturos, narkt 6& kitchan gardens or to lie fellow.                 Population Ler hositl bed -Population divided by number- of hoapita1
-iNP per capita satinatec at current maktpie,bode available i                             public and private general and epecialinod hospital
..l1o  to  dbyam        covrfn-thod a. World Bank Atloe (1973-75 baeie),                     and rehabilitation center.; secludee nuraing hams      end .atablialmsata
1960, 1970 and 1975 data,                                                                   for cuatodial and preventive care.
Per capita suoply of c"obsicc ft of r.suis-enota) - Conputed fron
PpopuLiatio  ond vital sataistics                                                             energy equivalent.of not food suppliec available in country per
pouain(i-yr. nillion) - Au of July firet:     if out available, average               capita per day; available supplies compriue domestic production, inports
ofta  en-or euti.atee; 1960, 1970 and 1975 data.                                          lee..onport., and changcu in stock. net supplies exclude aninal feid,
soo,do, quantities used to food pruonoeinc and            inuo  t  die tribution.
P2uiuotion donu:ity - per 00ucre Io      id-year population par oquare kilo-                  reuroeto weeetimated by PAO boued on phyaioogical n..ede for
mete  (100. h   -taee  of totl area                                                        normal activity and health con sidering environmental temperature, body
P ... 1tion deoc ity - per            Piae o  of sric. land - Ccaput.d a  above for           woighto, age and sa. dietributiono Of popul.tico, and allowing 107. for
ogricoIturu1 land only.                                                                     weesta at household level.
Pr capiteaamvly of Protein crams, ea.rtday) - Protain content Of per
Vicol acaciatira                                                                              capita net   upp ly of food per day,   o   uply of fond in defined a-
Crudebi'rth rate npor thousand-Aoal       iv  birth. per thousand of nid-Y.or                aoe      eurnnsfralcutiaotbihdb                            S    cn    c
poplaton; ta-Year arithoett     a verageu ending in 1960 and 1970, and five-              Rese4rch Serviqe   provide for a   inimu   allowaoce Of 60 graom Of total
yoar aerage eoigin 1975 for Oust recent eatimate.                                           protein per day, and 20 gran     Of animal and pulse protein, Of which
Crude deavth ra teding thousand - Annual deo tho per thousand Of old-year                     10 grams   hboud be aeimal protein ; theu. standardo ore lnuve, than
population ; ron-year arithome ic aver.geo ending in 1960 and 1970 end                      thoee Of 75 gram Of total protein and 23 gram. of oi-1a protein a
floe-year averago ending to 1975 for no"      ecnt aa ti"'to.                               an meraga for the .orld. prop.oud by FAO in 060 Third World rood
Soccnrtalitcr0      (/rhoo) - Anoual deatthe of iofante uod.r one yeer of                  ,sv.
aic per thosndlcehr-b                                                                     Per cia Pr' tein supply frnn anima       a nd pulse - Protein .upply of
Life encentancy at birth Lyre) - Average nomber Of years Of life remainig                     fond derived Ir    n onial  and pul.ee in groome per day.
at hirth; usuall1y floe-ye-r averains ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for                   Seas-h rote f/thou) axes 1_4 - Annual deathu par thousand in ae. group 1-4
develop ing countriea                                                                       yeas-., to ch ildrmn in thiu  9 oge roup,.  ggeotedaon indicator Of
Cross repeoductio" rate- A-rage nunber Of live daughtera a woman will                         malnutrition.
hoar in her norma raproductive period if she e.parianras presen.t ago-
.pocific fertility rates; uaually fiv.-year aver.agsenCding in 1960,                      Education
1970 and 1975 for developing countriea.                                                   Adjusted mnrolloent ratio - prime-r school - Enrollment Of sIl ages       as
Population growth rate (7.) - total -    Compound  nnoa.l growth rates of mid-                percantage Of primary uchool-age population, includ.u children aged
your  opultionfor 1950-60. 1960- 7i and 1970-75.                                        6-11 yeara but adjusted for different lengtho of primary education,
Ponulaios grwth rae It)  urban- Comue    ik   rwh     aeo     ttlfr countriec with usivorual education, enrollment may excead 100%
pop.lanioo; diffosrant dafinltiono, of urbanareas ny affect cmep:ro                        sin     m    uieacblwo             bov  the uffLici1 school ago.
bility of do.amogcuti.                                                                   Adute    erlmnrai-acodsychool - Computed as above,
Irsopopulation f77f total) - Ratio of urban to total population;diff                       secondary education requires at least four yearu Of approved primary
rent definitions Of urban aress may affect comparability Of data amog                      ine truction, providas genare1, vocational or teacher training
toustrise.                                                                                  instruction., for pupils of 12 to 17 yeara of oge, norreapondace
Aceslt,ructure (percent) - Children (0-14 yeasra), working-age, (15-64 yeers),                couruos are generally encluded.
on srtired (65 yesar sod Over) e. percentagee of mid-year population.                 Years aIf chqoom     eroided (fLIrt and secod     eovel,) - To tal years of
Age dopeadndesyrati   - PRtio Of population under 15 and 65 and Over to                      anholin, at2ecnaylvl              oainliarcinmyb                   atal
thos  of age   11tior-uh 64.                                                               or completely encluded.t                    i   !r     i.    ybpaily
Ecocnmic dependency re tic _Ratio of population under 11 end 65 and Over                   Vocational erollmet ft of secondary) - VOcetionsl institutiPom
to te labor force in ego grasp Of 15-64 year..                                           includ   tehia, idatrial or other program           which Operta te ide-
Family Planning - accH tr! fctsaultie. thou) - Cuamulative number Of                          pendeetlry. orastdepasr-ntm t  of oecondary institutions..
acceptors of birth-con trol devices under auspices Of national family                    Adult litrsyati) - Literate sdults (able to read and write) as
plsnmlng program since inception.                                                          percantsge Of total adult population     ged 15 pests and over.
Family Planing     us.es-  ft Of marred women) - Percentages of married
w-nm   ofchild-bearing age (15-4     yer)who use birth-control devicen                   gouai
tc slI married womn in aosgs group.                                                      PNama Pe. rooms leverage) - Average ncaber of personsa per rPoom      in
Occupied convoniional dwellings in urban, areas; dwellings exclude ass-
Peemanent astruturee and unoccupied parts..
forc.   thou       -Economically active pereoma, including                    Oc::'iaddalnewtotppdwte                    0      cuidcnatna
.-   or.andunp       d but oxcluding houoewi,ee, students. ec...                    d   lin.n       ba   adrulareas without inside or outside piped
defntin        invarious csutrie    ar  not comparable,                                    water facilities as per.cntage Of all occupied dllinge.
Labor force inagicutr.        7)-Ariutra         labor force (in farming,                  Access is electricit    f7 Of all dW0114mnal - COoveotinnal dwellinge with
foreotry, hunting end fiahing) ae prcentage of total labor force,                          eletricity in living( q-rtera es percent nf toto1 dwellings in us-bce
UnomplOyod (%. Of labssr force) - Ulnemployed are usualy defimnd as Prcons.                  end rural areas.
who es- able ond willing ta take s Job, out of a Job on a given day,                     Rural Avlimag connected is electricity (tI - Computed as abovs for
ressined Out of a job, and saeking work fssr e specified    inimioa  period                   MMa delig      only.
not exceeding one week; may not be comparable betweenm cauntrieo dun to
differentcdefnitiona.Iofunneplopud and eource of data, e.g.., employ-                     T    RC
moot Offc    atatintic , sample surveys, conpulasry uznenplyment Insurance.              Rinac        e      rthou   2pop  - All typos Of receivers, for radio broad-
Cooto to genera pubic per thousaand Of PoPulation, excludes unlicensed
rscome diatribution   - Percentage Of private incomce (both in cash and bind)                reciesin countries ad in years wo.se         regintrtioe Of radio set. wee
received by richent 5t, richest 20t, poorest 200, and poos-eat 400 Of                      iaffect; data for recent years maY ot be comparable since most
householdo.                                                         osun~~~~~~~~~~~.. tries aboliahed lcnlg
Paogr cars (per thoupep     - Pasenger cars cOmpr-isa itor cars cegting
Diatribution of land ownership - Percentagee Of loaud ownd by wealthieet                     Seas tham eighteperso     a;seeludes ambulances, hearses and military
100 and poorest 100 of [and Owners.                                                        vehicles.
Health end N.triri-  ~ ~ ~  ~       ~       ~      ~      ~     ~     letrmiy b,sh/vr Par os        - Annualy consumption sf industrial, comr   r--
9ealth snd Nutrition                                           ciSl, public ad prgvate Ole~~.ctricity in kilowtt hours per capita;
Ponuletion per phyvician - Population divided by number of practicing                        gmwrally booed on Prduction data, without allowace far losees in
pbyeicia.m qualified (ram a medical school at university level.                            gri.da but allowing for Importa and aeports of electricity.
MmeDrSAt (kg/- Per capita annoual enseceptiom is kilWgamao
eatinated f     Itrom   Pmai   pOduetio  Pluc net 8t rt. of nowsprint.



ANNX 
page 3 of 4 pages
197L7                         lyyL~Co                     1967.    1972 - 1974    -   1976-    1967    1974     1981
P .  1972     1974    1976      1981                -
RATIONAL ACCOUflT
p-Year Average at 19,67 199Pics&Echane Rates                Averae A    uaGrthRts               As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic product            799.4   1109.9    119        1266.1     1363.8   1798.68       6.8    3.8    6.8     5.7      101.2    104.0    103.6
GainE from Terms of Trade (4-)   -9.-       21.4   - 46j,0     -  38.2   - 41.2   - 62.9          ..                    .      -  1.2   - 4.0    -  3.6
~~ Dceestic Income ~~     789.9  1088.5     1149.5     1237.9    1322.6    1735.9       6.6     2.8    7 .3   5.6       100.0   100.0     100.0
Import (incl. NFPS)               234.0    325.0     344.5      364.3      387.4    516.6        6.8    3.0    6.0     5.9       29.6     30.0     29.8
ExPorts    "  (import capacity)   213.2    290.6     328.4       325.0     336.1    469.0        6.4    6.3     1.2    6.9       27.0     28.6     27.0
Resource Gap                      -1M-.8    3"       -TM7         39      -71ri   --c.          10.6  :46.2    78.5   -1.5               -T1        2.t
Consumption Expeoiditures         682.1    951.2    1013.7     1084.0     1145.2   1445.6        6.9    3,2     6.3    4.8        86.4    88.2     83.3
Investment    "  (incl. stocks)   128.7   171.7      169.2      183.2      220.1    337.7        5.9     .1    14.0    8.9        16.3    14.7     19.4
Domestic Savings                   107.8   137.4     153.0      143.9      170.7    290,2        5.0     5.5    5.6   11.2        13.6    13.3      16.7
Natiuala ' Savings                 87.9    114.0     102.7       110.0     151.2    249,8        5.3   -5.4    21.3   10.6        11.1     8.9      14.4
bMERHANMISE TRADS                           Annual Data at Current Prices                                                        As Percent of Totg.
Imports
Capital goods                    40.8     89.1     104.3       143.2     177.5    444.4       16.9     8.2   30.4   20.2        21.7    23.9      35.4
Intermediate goods 62.,fue1s)    87.3    133.6     198.3      254.3      297.6    533.7        8.9   21.8    22.5   12.4       46.4     45.5     42.5
Fuels and related materials       8.3     15.2      38.3        52.3      61.8    109.8       12.9   58.7    27.0   12.2         4.4     8.8       8.7
of which:   Petroleum           8.3     15.2      38.3       52.3       61.8    109.8       12.9    58.7   27.0   12.2         4.4     8.8       8.7
tion  nods         ~~~~51.6  64.9     95.0       112.7     128.9     169.3      12.2    21.0   16.5    5.6        27.4    21.8      13.5
oIrmports (cif)          ITHR    307:T      z3T9       3"Y7     -E3:T.    1TS7rT       10.0   20.0   23.6    13.6      lU       IT"7     TU
Exports
Primary products 6=l. foels)     143.7   199.9     446.7       398.1     461.0    885.8        6.8   50.0     1.6   14.0        90.8    93.5      86.8
Fluels and related materials       -       -         -           -         -        -
of which:   Petroleum            -            -               -          --
Manufactued goods14.6            20.9       3141       53.9       68.3    134.5        7.4   22.0   48.2    14.5        9.2      6'.5    13.2
Tot-LMach.Exors (fob)      TI 3"    1!1WH7                3'2       3T7T -Ta2uT0~          .     71      52    1.       ~    D    r~ 
Tourism and Border, Traae                                                                      6 ...9  4.1    5.2   1.0         WT     r
Merchandise Trade Indices                     Average 1967-69    100
Export Price Index               94.0   114.1      172.1      189.2      212.6    303.0        4.0   22.8   11.1     7.3
Import Price Index               94.8   127.6      186.0      218.0      239.3    343.7        6.1   20.7   13.4     7.5
Terms of Trade Index             99.1    89.4       92.5       86.8       88.9     88.2       -2.1.   1.7  - 2.0    - .2
Exports Volume Index             94.0    123.8     163.9      147.0      164.0    229.0        5.7   15.1     -      6.9
VALUE ADDED BY sEDCSOR            Annual Data at 1967-69 Prices end Exchane Rates              Average Annual Grovth RaLtes      As Percent of Total
Agriculture                     272.2    352.1     380.1      417.5      432.8    540.7        5.3    2.9    6.7     4.6       38.5     37.4     34.4
Induistry and Mining            170.9   233.2      230.8      258.8      271.8    371.2        6.4   -  I1   8.5     6.4       24.2     22 .7    23.6
Service                         264.3   401.6      40.        46.n-s.5  488.1     658.3        8.7     .1    9.7     6.2       37.4    39.9      41.9
Total                           707.4   986.9     1016.3     1136.8    1192.7    1570.2        6.9    1.5    8.3     5.6      100.0   100.0     100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                     As Percent of GDP
(Central 5Zovernment) (in CFAF billion) 
Current Receipts                 31.9     56.6      68.4       79.6      103.8    201.1       12.2    9.9   23.2   14.1        16.4    16.4      17.0
N   etM      niue                32.1     46.6      60,9       71,6      93.9     165.9        7.7   14.3   24.2    12.1       16.5    14.6      14.0
Bu  etr                 =~~~- .2   0.0       7.5       8.0        9.9      35.2     152.7   -15.5   14.9   28.9       -  .       .         .
Other Paiblic SectorSavings       4.6      1.0      13.4       10.9      1.        198       37261         -35      962.4               3.2       1.7
Public Sector Investment         13.5     27.5     43.4        44.2      49.9     124.7      15.3    25.6    7.2   20.1         6.9    10.4      10.6
CEIRNYT ECPI2lDITURE DE~DAII.SActual            Prelim.   Eat.     Proj.       11ETA.I CUf                            At 194  L197
As TtlCurrenit Exend.)            1967    1972-      19 74    19 75   1976         PUBLIC ts1            I/r                Pa        o    o
W hIT ~~~~~~14.4                      17.1      16.9     17.1     174          INVE1fT8WN   ~   Etl7                       72 rP -n  197  /76)
Other Social Services                    .7    10.7        9.7     10.0    10.3         Social Sectors                         247.6              26.6
Agriculture                             5.0     5.6        5.9      6.1     6.6         Agriculture                            167.5              18.0
Olther Economic Services               11.6     8.7       11.2     12.3    13.5         Industry and YMinng                     14.0               1.5
Administration and Defense             59.5    45.3      42.6      41.8    40.3          Power                                  56.8               6.1
Ot#er                                   8.8    12.6       13.7     12.7    12.1          TransPort aLnd commuzications         387.2              41.6
Tetal Current Expenditures (in                                                          Other                                   57.7               6.2
CFAF billion)                       32.1     46.6      60.9      71.6    93.9                                             --~edtue             0.
SEIZCTED) INDICATORS                              1960-    1967-      1972-   1977-        FINANCIN3
(CalculaLted from 3-year averaged data)           1965     12..       1976    1981           p,1      etrSv~          2/        3185.
Average ICOR                                       ..        72        4.0     3.1            Localc Seorro   avin g             355.8              67.0
D4wrt Elasticity           Rt..                              .968       .789   1.010         Foreig   Financing                 523.2              56.0
)brginal Dameatic Savings Rat                                .023       .239    .289         FrinFnnig5325.
*     Mrginal ftticnal Savings Rate                     ..         .137      .151     .239         Total Financing                    gmT               100.0
LABOR FORCE AND                                Total Labor Florce                               Value A  ed     Vor;Er (,967- 691 Price A Re. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WO~~~~~~~~~~R ~% of Total                       1967 - 71        I     ..isa          e1mtoAverage              1961- 71
_______________            -~~&6  *                            Growth Rate         *967       1971          67      19 71     GrothRate
Agriculture           22,200     31,700      18.5      19.7          9.3         4,585.6    4.186.1      118.9      107.7         - 2.6
Agicdultur                   29,210     41,360      24.3      25.7          9.1         1,064.7    1,090.4        27.6      28.1            .
J/4/              27,328      34,427     22.7       21.4         6.0          5,027.8   5,420.4       130.3     1.39.5          1.9
Government                   41,494      53,486     34.7      33.2          6.5    -    4,152.5    4,840.0       123.2     127,4
Total   -            ~                   ~          ~5            ~         7~        ~    7       !A~      ~~~.2
not applicable        - nil or negligible             Al Estimated actual disbursements             jL  ExcludinLg sovernment
not available        -- loes IVg  half the            2j/ Net of debt service
smaLlest unit sowoi            3/ modern secter only



Pa    4 Of 4 pages
CAMBO
(etoUnIwtin usl-iiCXJs "Cr Xb6.  10M ORcurr t pr*008)
Avewage Annual
A ct         EstiLted                 ProJected                        h R10
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENIE
Exports (incl. NF8)                309    340    533    693    648    766    937   1095    1228   1358       16.0
I  aorts  (incl, NF?)                      425    2o    6             _57 o71 i    1217                      1 14.6
Resource La.     (X-M) I.,                -S5     1      3h    I4    -I77   -133   -122   *-15    -207        7.7
Interest (net)                     - 5.5  - 6    -11    -16   - 17   - 21   - 34   - 42    - 49   - 59       28.3
Direct Investment Income           - 1.7  - 2    - 4.5  - 7.7 -  8   - 8    - 11   - 15   - 21    - 28       28.5
workers'Remittance                 -17.0  -21    -24    -33   - 34   - 39   - 45   - 52    - 59   - 68       14.9
Carrent Transfers (net)                           11     20     24      0              8     41     44       12.9
HQtice on Cuirrent Accontf         -              I                          4 -= -T  -X   -B§    -39        1.
Private Direct Investment           12    -25.6    4.6  -13.3 -  4     18     22     27      31     36      109.1
Official Capital Grants              7      6.8    7.2   13     24     26     28      31     34     37        9.0
Public M&LT Loans
Disbursements                     28     72.4   51.5   60     78    118    150     191    253    317       32.4
-Repayments                      -8     -8.8   -12.4  -16   -18    -18    -       - a?+ 2-3     - 60       27.2
Net Disbursements                    o      3.6   3. 1           0 m   T Iii         1 i5y 213     257       33.8
Other M&LT Loans
Disbursements                      .      .       .      .      .      .      .      .
-Repayments                        .      .       .      .
Met Disbursements                    .      .       .      .      .      .      .      .
Capital Transactions n.e.i.          2     11.8  -18.7  -44     32
Change in Net Reserves              11     42.6  -15.9    0     52
GRANT AND LOAN COMMOITMNTS
Official Grants  Grant-like         33.6   25.0   41.9   47.8   77.0                                 1971         Actual
Public M&LT Loans                                                       DEW AND DEBT SS    CE
IBRD                               -      -     25.7   34.1    1.0    Public Debt Outs.  isbursed 161.9 194.3 235.9 271.7     361.7
IDA                                1.5   12.7   24.0    -     20.2
Other Multilateral                 3.6     .7   16.3     -     7.6      Interest on Public Debt      5.4   6.2   9.6  11.0     14.9
Repayments on Public Debt    7.4    9.1  14.9  13.5    20.1
Governments                        8.2   24.6   81.1   67.8   99.4      Total Public Debt Service   12.8  15.3  24.6  24.5     35.0
Suppliers                          3.0    4.8     .8    -      6.5      Other Debt Service (aiet)    ..    ..
Financial Institutions                   15.6    -     41.5   20.6      Total Debt Service (net)     ..    ..
Bonds                              -      -      -
Public Loans n.e.i.                -      -            _       1.5    Burden on Export Earnings (5)
Total Public ME T Loans             lf.6  T.4 17.9      143.4   1
Public Debt Service          4.1   4.5    4.6   3.5     5.4
Total Debt Service           ..     ..
Actual Debt Outstanding on              TDS + Direct Invest.Inc.
EXTERNAL DEBT            Disbursed only PD     reere i   l     PeIr-en=t-  Average Terms of Public Debt
World Bank                  49.7           13.7     96.9       14.1       Int. as % Prior Year DO&D    4.1    3.8  4.9   4.7      5.5
IDA                         48.9           13.5     90.2       13.1       Amort. as 4 Prior Year DO&D 5.6     5.6  7.7   5.7      7.4
Other Multilateral          39.9           .1.0     52.0        7.6
Governments                171.0           47.3    364.3       52.9     IBRD Debt Out.  Disbursed      7.7   13.8 23.1  28.7     49.7
Suppliers                    7.0            2.0     10.1        1.5          as % Public Debt O&D      4.8    7.1  9.8  10.6     13.7
Financisl Institutions      43.7           12.0     73.1       10.6          as % Public Debt Service 3.9     6.5  5.7   8.6     10.6
Bonds                        -               -        -
Public Debts n.e.i.          1.4             .4      1.4         .2     IDA  Debt Out.  Disbursed     11.0   18.4 30.1  34.1     48.9
Total Public M&LT Debt     3b1.7          100.0     08.1      100.0          as % Public Debt O&D      6.8    9.5 12.8  12.6     13.5
as % Public Debt Service   -     0.1  0.1    0.1     0.1
Other M&LT Debts
Short-term Debt (disb. only)
not applicable                           e  staff estimates
not available                            - nil or negligible
...  not available separately               .-  less than half the
but included in total                       smallest unit shown



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of January 31. 1977)
US$ Million
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or
Credit
Number    Year   Borrower    Purpose             Bank     TW       IDA /3  Undisbursed
Four Credits and six Loans have been fully        39.7              24.2       -
disbursed
161-CM   1969   Cameroon    Education                              11.7 a5   0.4
320-CM   1972   Cameroon    Education II                            9.0      6.8
429-CM   1973   Cameroon    Roads II                               24.0       -
429 1 CM 1976   Cameroon    Roads II                               15.0     14.0
935-CM   1973   Cameroon    Roads II             24.0                       24.0
983-CM   1974   Cameroon    Livestock            11.6                        8.2
1038-CM   1974   REGIFERCAM Railways              16.0                        1.1
1039-CM   1974   Cameroon    Cocoa                 6.5                        4.7
574-CM   1975   HEVECAM     Niete Rubber Project                   16.0     14.0
575-CM   1975   Cameroon    DFC - Small Scale
Enterprises                           3.0      3.0
S4-CM   1976   REGIFERCAM Railways               2.3                        2.0
1245T-CM  1976   Cameroon    Education III                17.0               17.0
657-CM   1976   Cameroon    Second Doula Port                      10.0 /2  10.0
1321-CM   1976   Cameroon    Second Doula Port    15.0 /2                    15.0
672-CM   1977   Cameroon    Plaine des M'Bo
Rural Development                       2.0 /2   2.0
TOTAL /4                        115.1    17.0    114.9     122.2
of which has been repaid        1.4     0.0      0.0
TOTAL now outstanding           113.7    17.0    114.9
Amount sold                 0.2
of which has been repaid   -    0.0
TOTAL now held by Bank
and IDA /3                    113.7    17.0     114.9
TOTAL undisbursed                55.0    17.0     50.2     122.2
B.  Statement of IFC Investments (as of January 31, 1977)
Equity
311-CM   1975   BATA        Shoe Factory            .38
355-CM   1977   SAFACAM Rubber Plantation          .80
1.18
Undisbursed    1.06
/1   Including a Supplementary Credit of US$1.2 million made in 1975.
/2   Not yet effective.
/3   Prior to exchange adjustment.
/4   The Technical Assistance Credit (US$4.5 million) has been approved by the
Board but has not yet been signed, therefore, it is not included in these
totals.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 161, 161-1           First Education Project:  US$10.5 million Credit
of September 23, 1969; Effectiveness Date:
April 29, 1970; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
(Original Closing Date: June 30, 1974) and US$1.2
million Supplementary Credit of July 30, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: October 30, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977.
Implementation of this project was slow, especially in the initial
years, due to delays in both the construction and technical assistance programs.
In May 1975, a Supplementay Credit of US$1.2 million was approved to cover
cost increases due to currency realignments. Construction of all buildings
and delivery of virtually all furniture and equipment have been completed, and
project accounts are now being finalized. The project was well-managed,
particularly as project unit staf gained experience. A completion mission
which visited Cameroon in February 1975 found that project facilities are
generally well adapted to local requirements. Realization of educational
objectives has been less evident, due to the trend of enrollment to greatly
exceed capacity at project secondary schools and to fall short of capacity at
project primary teacher training colleges.
Cr. No. 229                  Douala Port Project:  US$1.5 million Credit of
January 14, 1971; Effectiveness Date: April 14,
1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1974; (Original
Closing Date: June 30, 1973).
The Douala Port Project commenced in July 1972 and physical work
under the Credit was satisfactorily completed in November 1974. Covenants
and undertakings agreed during Credit negotiations have been reasonably ful-
filled, but financial targets were not achieved. Remedial financial measures
are included in the Second Douala Port Project.
Cr. No. 320                  Second Education Project:   US$9.0 million Credit
of June 28, 1972; Effectiveness Date:
February 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Due to difficulties in selecting architects and agreeing on the
designs, project implementation is delayed by twenty-four months, but no
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6 pages
extension of the closing date of June 30, 1979, is expected. The project
is generally well managed. Following cost overruns due to currency realign-
ments and the accelerated price increases which have occurred since 1973, one
project school was transferred to the Third Education Project. (Loan 1245-T).
Cr. No. 429, Ln. No. 935     Second Highway Project:  US$24.0 million Credit
of September 26, 1973; Effectiveness Date:
December 20, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1978; and US$24.0 million Loan of same date;
Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Construction of the Pont du Noun-Foumban road (50 km) was completed
satisfactorily in December 1976. Construction of the Douala-Pont du NKam road
(161 km) is slow and its completion is delayed by at least one year. Construc-
tion of the Figuil-Mora road (163 km) is progressing well. The maintenance
study is being carried out and the Government has taken steps to hire technical
assistance for the Ministries of Equipment and Agriculture. The project has
considerably suffered from the 1973-1974 world-wide inflation, which nearly
doubled its total cost. Consequently, the Government agreed to postpone
construction of the Garoua-Figuil road (98 km). A Supplementary Credit of
US$15.0 million was approved in March 1976 to help alleviate the burden imposed
on the Government by the project's cost overruns.
Ln. No. 983                 Livestock Project:   US$11.6 million Loan of
May 14, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project implementation has progressed satisfactorily, although
some project components are behind schedule. The situation at two project
ranches continues to be very good and activities in the third started in
December 1976 following an approved preliminary development program. The
contract for the construction of two abattoirs (in Yaounde and Douala)
was signed in October 1976 and construction work is expected to start in
March 1977. Thirty two credits have been disbursed and about forty one
credits are expected to be disbursed during 1977. The tsetse fly eradication
campaign started in November 1976 as scheduled and continues satisfactorily
despite some technical and budgetary difficulties, it is expected to end
in March 1977 having freed about 1,600 km of pastureland. The construction
of the first 30 km anti-tsetse barrier is to start immediately after this
year's spraying campaign.
Ln. No. 1038                 Second Railway Project:  US$16.0 million Loan
to REGIFERCAM of September 18, 1974; Effective-
ness Date: December 18, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977.
Procurement of main project items is satisfactory. The track mate-
rial has been delivered and final delivery of rolling stock items is underway.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6 pages
Although problems were encountered in the construction of the foundation for
the Japoma bridge, the works are expected to be completed by April 1977. Due
to the fluctuation in exchange rates during project implementation, additional
financing was required to cover the cost of the equipment already ordered
and of the reconstruction of the Japoma bridge. Consequently, the railway
has obtained a supplier's credit of US$890,000 to supplement Bank financing
for the rolling stock, and the foreign exchange cost of the consulting ser-
vices (US$925,000) originally included in this Second Railway Project has
been transferred to the Third Railway Project financed under Loan No. S-4
which became effective on October 5, 1976. Due to the world slump in the
timber market and recent substantial increases in staff costs, REGIFERCAM
experienced difficulty in attaining the financial covenants included in the
Loan Agreement. During the negotiations of the Third Railway Project, the
Second Railway Project financial targets were retained and the Government
and REGIFERCAM undertook to take the necessary measures including tariff
increases to achieve the target set for 1978/79. A first tariff increase
averaging 12.4 percent has been implemented, effective June 1, 1976, and
subsequent tariff increases will be implemented on July 1, 1977 and 1978,
respectively.
Ln. No. 1039                 Cocoa ProJect:  US$6.5 million Loan of September 18,
1974; Effectiveness Date: February 26, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
SODECAO's management control and supervision of work at the sector
level is weak. Progress in the construction of infrastructure is now satis-
factory but arrangements for the maintenance of cocoa feeder roads are un-
certain. The overall success of the project is threatened because chemical
treatment against black pod is not carried out in the correct manner by
farmers. This is because under present marketing arrangements the returns
to labor required for correct treatment are not adequately covered by the
expected incremental yields. Furthermore, Governmemt requires exporters not
to purchase cocoa which has a defective bean content in excess of 40 percent.
This regulation, presently not adhered to, should be enforced. With the
strict enforcement of this regulation, an increase in producer price for Grade
1/2 would encourage correct protection and enable Government to pass on some
of the benefits of present and expected high world prices for export-quality
cocoa. These and other management problems which the Project is encountering
will be further discussed with Government in a mission scheduled for April.
Cr. No. 574                  Niete Rubber Estate Project:   US$16.0 million
Credit of June 3, 1975; Effectiveness Date:
December 1, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Progress in establishing Niete Rubber estate has been steady; plant-
ings are on schedule and construction work ahead of schedule. Labor hired
locally has been more than anticipated and is sufficient up to now; recruit-
ment from other areas may become necessary soon. Collection of rubber
seed is being improved, as unusually heavy rains have hampered seed produc-
tion. HEVECAM's Chairman has been appointed to an important national posi-
tion, and his resignation of the Chairman post should be anticipated. The
terms of reference for the regional master plan studies have been drawn up.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6 pages
Cr. No. 575                  Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Prolect:
US$3.0 million Credit of July 1, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1976 (Original
Effectiveness Date: December 1, 1975; First
Postponement: February 2. 1976; Second Post-
ponement: June 2, 1976); Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The Credit was declared effective on July 30, 1976. After consider-
able delay, two expatriate advisors for the Banque Camerounaise de Developpe-
ment (BCD) have been recruited and assumed their positions in BCD. Commitment
of the first subprojects is expected in early 1977. The delivery of technical
assistance to entrepreneurs by the three agencies financed by UNDP under the
Project is progressing despite problems of interagency coordination.
Ln. No. 1245-T               Third Education Project:  US$17.0 million
Third Window Loan of July 2. 1976; Effective-
ness Date: December 31, 1976 (Original
Effectiveness Date: October 4. 1976): Closing
Date: December 31. 1981.
The loan is effective.
Ln. No. S-4                  Douala Railway Station and Marshalling Yard
Engineering Project: US$2.3 million Loan of
June 25. 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 5,
1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1978.
The loan is effective.
Ln. No. 1321                 Second Douala Port ProJect:  US$15.0 million
Cr. No. 657                  Loan of September 24. 1976: Effectiveness Date:
April 25, 1977; (Original Effectiveness Date:
January 24, 1977); Closing Date: June 30. 1981
and US$10.0 million Credit of same date;
Effectiveness Date: April 25, 1977 (Original
Effectiveness Date: January 24. 1977);
Closing Date: June 30. 1981.
Effectiveness has been postponed in order to allow Government
more time to complete legal documents.
Cr. 672                      Plaine des M'Bo Rural Development Project:
US$2.0 million Credit of February 28, 1977;
Effectiveness Date: June 28. 1977;
Closing Date: June 30. 1980.
The Credit documents were signed on February 28, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6 pages
Cr. No.                     Technical Assistance Project:   US$4.5 million Credit.
Signing is delayed because Government has not completed preparation
of the relevant decrees.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4 pages
CAMEROON
SOCAPALM SECOND STAGE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOANS AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    The United Republic of Cameroon
Beneficiary:                 Societe Camerounaise de Palmeraies (SOCAPALM)
Amounts and Interest         US$18.0 million at 8.5 percent
Rates:                    US$ 7.0 million at 4.5 percent
Term:
Bank Loan                  20 years, including four and one half years of grace
Third Window               First payment due on January 15, 1983 and final
maturity on January 15, 2001.
Relending Terms:             Both SOCAPALM and CEC would repay both loans to
the Government at the interest rate applicable
to the regular Bank loan.
Project Description:         Over a five-year development period, the project
would provide for:
a) establishment of 6,000 ha of high-yielding
selected oil palms on Kienke estate; and the
first phase of an oil palm processing factory;
b) establishment of 2,000 ha of smallholder oil
palm plantations with the technical support
and under the supervision of SOCAPALM;
c) land clearing for 1,000 ha of palms, and plant-
ing and maintenance of 1,330 ha (including
330 ha on land already cleared) of palms on
the M'Bongo estate; harvesting and collec-
tion equipment and staff housing for both the
M'Bongo and Eseka estates; and expansion of an
oil processing mill at M'Bongo;
d)  management and administration of the Kienke
estate and part of the administrative costs of
the Eseka and Kienke estates; and
e) construction, equipping and furnishing of a
headquarters service complex in Douala, that
would be jointly owned by several estate-
owning companies.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4 pages
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(1977 - 1981)
Z of Total
Prolect
Local  Foreign Total   Cost
US$ Million
Oil Palm Estate Development
Field Establishment                         4.0    4.2    8.2
Constructions                               1.1    2.0    3.1
Vehicles, Equipment                         0.6    3.7    4.3
Oil mills                                   1.0    5.3    6.3
Management/Administration                   0.9    0.6    1.5
Subtotal                                 7.6   15.8   23.4     60.9
Outgrower Program
Field Establishment                         0.4    0.4    0.8
Extension/Supervision                       0.6    0.2    0.8
Subtotal                                 1.0    0.6    1.6      4.1
Douala Complex
Construction                                 0.6    0.9    1.5
Vehicles, Equipment                                 0.2    0.2
Subtotal                                  0.6    1.1    1.7     4.4
Total base cost                              9.2   17.5   26.7    69.4
Contingencies
Physical                                     1.0    1.7    2.7
Price                                        3.3    5.8    9.1
Subtotal                                  4.3    7.5   11.8    30.6
Total Project Cost                            13.5   25.0   38.5   100



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4 pages
Proposed Financing Plan
(US$'million)
IBRD   Government   SOCAPALM   Total
a) Prolect Cost
Plantation development        19.0       9.3                 28.3
Outgrower program              0.6       1.2                  1.8
Douala complex                 1.4       0.7                  2.1
Contingencies                  4.0       2.3                  6.3
Subtotal                25.0       13.5                 38.5
b)  Working capital requirement               0.7                  0.7
c)  Financing Charges                         1.0        3.7       4.7
Total Financing Requirement   25.0      15.2        3.7      43.9
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Fiscal Year         Disbursement          Cumulative Disbursements
----------------(US$ million)----------------
1977                 2.1                         2.1
1978                 3.3                         5.4
1979                 4.0                         9.4
1980                 7.1                        16.5
1981                 7.1                        23.6
1982                 1.4                        25.0



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4 pages
Procurement Arrangements
Except for items specified below, procurement would be through
international competitive bidding (ICB) following Bank guidelines. Goods
and services subject to ICB -- largely machinery, vehicles and equipment,
fertilizer and some construction work (for the CEC complex) -- are estimated
to cost US$20.6 million. Goods manufactured in Cameroon would be allowed a
preference equal to the lower of a) 15 percent of the c.i.f. price on imported
goods, or b) the prevailing duties generally applied to non-exempt imports.
Contracts not exceeding US$100,000 would be let under competitive bidding
procedures advertised locally and satisfactory to the Bank. Most land clear-
ing, estate road building, plantation work and minor estate construction,
estimated at US$10.9 million, would be done on force account using equipment
owned or to be acquired by SOCAPALM. The remaining project costs (US$7.0
million) would be mostly for staff and labor costs and operating expenses.
Rate of Return
The economic rate of return on the project is estimated at 15 per-
cent.
Appraisal Report
Appraisal of Second SOCAPALM Project, Cameroon, No. 1364-CM, dated
March 18, 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2 pages
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT
DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project: 12 months including land
survey;
(b) Project prepared by: SOCAPALM (technical and economic sections);
COGESCAM (socio-economic sections);
(c) Documents sent to Bank: May 15, 1976; project preparation kept under
review by Supervision mission for First SOCAPALM project;
(d) Departure Appraisal Mission: June 1, 1976;
(e) Negotiations completed: February 17, 1977;
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: July 5, 1977.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        The Financing Agreement between the Borrower and SOCAPALM has been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(See para. 38.)
2.        The Chief Accountant for SOCAPALM and the Estate Manager for the
Kienke estate have been appointed by SOCAPALM. (See para. 34.)
3.        SOCAPALM has established a short list of candidates for the posi-
tion of Executive Controller. (See para. 34.)
4.        Annual audits of SOCAPALM would be carried out by independent
auditors and would be submitted to the Bank. (See para. 34.)
5.        All land and rights in respect of land as are required for the
Kienke estate have been made available to SOCAPALM. (See para. 35.)
6.        For the common services complex, the legal establishment of CEC
and the signing and authorization of a subsidiary loan agreement by the CEC
and the Borrower has taken place. (See para. 40.)



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2 pages
7.        For the smallholder component of the project:   i) the signing of
a Credit Administration Agreement between FONADER and SOCAPALM has been
signed and duly authorized; and ii) the Manager for the Smallholder Devel-
opment Program has been appointed. (See para. 39.)
8.        The producer price for smallholder produce would be set by Govern-
ment at a level adequate to ensure a reasonable revenue to the smallholders
and full cost recovery by SOCAPALM; the Bank would have to be consulted prior
to any price changes. (See para. 44.)
9.        Although individual land tenure rights are traditional and not
codified, an assurance would be obtained that each outgrower would have the
right to use the land on which his plantings are to be established. (See
para. 39.)



-------    IBRD88   12428
I B OCTOBER D 197
.   N I G E R  CH                                       LAKE CHAD D 
D<         y._ r t ) SUDAN
LIPPER(., I '-'\\-
V OLTA  ~C        ,~B
N   I G   E  R I  j A ^ _l u°
UNI I TCENTRAL AFRICAN
REPUBLIC
CAMEROCNT PR    C                                                           i
EQUATOR  .-                                        -         211  . I _,
GUINE.A       Idi                                                       H  A  D
Gu,oeo  ~~~~/CONGO)  Z A I R E                              I
ATLANTICt,o 
OCEAN            _-  ;
UNITED REPU8LIC OF CAMEROON                               .\d 
SOCAPALM SECOND STAGE                    i\.. I
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/
27.2 Ishabitonts  per squMl arEi lme\ter           I  II
-eO   Addlhonol ~ lul -- Int rij n  l0noholotpri               aIM8      \000
0I,n0h060  a o bo arts p20  140 160   |   /'  ' <  ' \   -  i \  \ \',  J
square kilomneter                    -N   B
M etRsDure: th an lEG               .K \\\   ,0 o  As/| / 0,   _ - \ t   s\\   > -9 
Southwes
De \elopment  Exist  R,bber oan d Oil Poim  Estates
Area Boundary  - Paued Roads
QZ Y  -I CM     - Geovel Roads
Additiona  1 - - - .!. -r- - -- -Dioflson Roundorins>
PtJC Ara  LU  AL InternationalBoundaries-
Conesic r/     -Eorh Rod                                          "N;91   -   -   -  -/ 
CD-           iENT R tve L
us    ~ Additional\[-i Dj,iEoU B ..n.,itn
W)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T ,                                      . '
|  (t-//Cw-i  i -t   ;.b.,,AoooU,o.ooooopdoo5         Nuuuo&  t_ >>j        \
L               -JZANJC  \j C                           E
I  ii                                            0~~~~~~~~~~~~~F R I 
OC0' N     I   E  U e  G I E    j cr',  G  A  B   N        CI  O  *r      C   UNTR L 
.m I  q,lO g                            4 j  :5lr  'Its
7.  -, K       .~~~~~3 ~.                       .... ..
A~~~~~~~I
IIt.
OCEAN          EQAOILGUINEA          NGCA NBGC
I14Is



I



To Edeo   101.0   To Lolodorf
CAMEROON                                                        Bi lol
SOCAPALAA SECOND STAGE                                KRIBI
DEVELOPAAENT PROJECT                                   ' %pan5, 
ZONE BOUNDARIES
A - B    KIENKE PROJECT ZONES
C      RESERVE ZONE                           Lobe o                  Pongo
0      KIENKE CENTER AND OIL MILL                                           Bidou=
MAIN ROADS                                         Yaga
MOTORABLE TRACKS                                                                         n
- - -. FOOT PATHS                                                                                             k        Adj p
RIVERS
|take CAadC,                    N                                                                                                kok
ADCkok
NIGERIAVEA
C"       N      t      G   R   1   A    /  r 0  4  8  12
KILOMETERS
,] tu  ,5}   1.&   The boundar,e shown on this map do not
...,'~~~~~~      on~'ply  endorsement or  accepti,we  by th
/'            '-'/.JCENTRAL   World Bank nd its affistes.
(  CAMERO   N    I AFRICAN
,2  REPUBLIC
EQ                                                                                       -L   z
GUI   AREAOFMAP            ?                                                      _
* GABON CON6-                               To Campo                e         IToEbde



