CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1392 CM
Loan Agreement
(Second SOCAPALM Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 25, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 25, 1977, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
CAMEROON (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as
hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Project under
the Interest Subsidy Fund for the Third Window established by
Resolution No. 75-111 of the Executive Directors of the Bank and
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
the Bank (hereinafter called the Intermediate Term Loan Agreement),
the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate
principal amount equivalent to seven million dollars ($7,000,000)
(hereinafter called the Intermediate Term Loan);
(C) the Borrower and the Bank intend that the proceeds of
this Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan be disbursed pro rata
on the basis of a 18:7 ratio;


﻿-2-
(D) Parts A and B of the Project will be carried out by the
Sociftf Camerounaise de Palmeraies (hereinafter called SOCAPALM),
and Part C of the Project will be carried out jointly by SOCAPALM
and the Fonds National de D6veloppement Rural (hereinafter
called FONADER), all with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to SOCAPALM
the proceeds of the Loan allocated to said Parts of the Project
as hereinafter provided;
(E) Part D of the Project will be carried out by the Coastal
Estates Center (hereinafter called CEC) and, for this purpose, the
Borrower will make available to CEC the proceeds of the Loan
allocated to said Part of the Project as hereinafter provided;
(F) pursuant to a loan agreement and a supplemental loan
agreement dated April 15, 1969, and April 9, 1973, respectively,
the Bank has made available to SOCAPALI4 two loans (Nos. 593 CM
and 886 CM, respectively) for the purpose of assisting SOCAPALM
in financing a first oil palm project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and SOCAPALM;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "SOCAPALM" means Soci6td Camerounaise de Palmeraies,
a Socifte de Deveioppement of the Borrower established and
operating pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 68/LF/9 dated June 11,
19b8, Decree No. 68/DF/275 dated July 15, 1968, Decree No. 68/DF/451
dated November 23, 1968, Decree No. 72/DF/4 dated January 3, 1972,
and Decree No. 73/32 dated January 29, 1973, as such Law and
Decrees may be amended from time to time;


﻿-4-
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and SOCAPALM of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(c) "SOCAPALM Financing Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and SOCAPALM pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
SOCAPALM Financing Agreement;
(d) "FONADER" means the Fonds National de Dfveloppement
Rural of the Borrower, established and operating pursuant to
the Borrower's Ordinance No. 73/24 of May 29, 1973, and Decree
No. 73/496 of August 28, 1973, as such Ordinance and Decree may
be amended from time to time;
(e) "Credit Administration Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between FONADER and SOCAPALM pursuant to
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement and Section 2.02 (a) (i) of the
Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Credit Administration
Agreement;


﻿-5-
(f) "CEC" means the Coastal Estates Center to be established
by, inter alia, SOCAPALM, the Cameroon Development Corporation,
the Soci6t6 H6v6a - Cameroun and the Sociftf Africaine Foresti8re
et Agricole - Cameroun for the purpose of carrying out Part D of
the Project;
(g) "CEC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the Agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and CEC pursuant to Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the CEC Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(h) "francs CFA" and the letters "CFAF" mean the currency
of the Borrower; and
(i) "Intermediate Term Loan Account" means the account
opened by the Bank on its books in the name of the Borrower to
which the amount of the Intermediate Term Loan is credited.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
eighteen million dollars ($18,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.


﻿-7-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement,
the Borrower shall cause SOCAPALM to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement, the SOCAPALM Financing
Agreement and the Credit Administration Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable SOCAPALM
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the
Loan allocated to Parts A, B and C (i) of the Project to SOCAPALM
under a financing agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and SOCAPALM, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank.


﻿-9-
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
SOCAPALM Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
SOCAPALM Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of
the Loan allocated to Part D of the Project to CEC under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and CEC, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Bank.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause CEC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the CEC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable CEC to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.


﻿- 10 -
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
CEC Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank an' to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
CEC Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower
specifically undertakes:
(a) to pay in or cause to be paid in, promptly as called by
the Board of Directors (Conseil d'Administration) of SOCAPALM,
the amounts required on account of subscriptions to SOCAPALM's
share capital;
(b) to take or cause to be taken all action necessary,
including the guarantee of bank overdraft facilities of SOCAPALM
and the provision of funds by the Borrower to SOCAPALM on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to enable SOCAPALM to
perform its obligations under Section 4.04 (a) of the Project
Agreement; and


﻿- 11 -
(c) to make available to FONADER, for the purpose of the
financial assistance to be provided to smallholders under Part C
(ii) of the Project and promptly as needed for the carrying out
thereof, an amount of not less than three hundred million francs
CFA (CFAF300,000,000).
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause FONADER to enter
into a credit administration agreement with SOCAPALM on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank for the purpose of the
joint execution of Part C of the Project by FONADER and SOCAPALM
and, in particular, the provision of financial assistance to
smallholders under Part C (ii) of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause FONADER to duly perform all its
obligations under the Credit Administration Agieement, to exercise
its rights thereunder in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan and, except as the Bank may otherwise agree, not to assign,
amend, suspend, terminate, abrogate or waive the Credit
Administration Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿- 12 -
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall make available to
SOCAPALM, promptly as needed, all such land and rights in respect
of land as shall be required for carrying out Parts A and B of the
Project and the operation of the facilities included therein.
(b) The Borrower shall take all action necessary to ensure
that any smallholder participating in the smallholder development
program to be established under Part C of the Project shall have
the right to work the land planted with oil palms by such
smallholder under said program for the entire period of the
economic life of such oil palms.
(c) The Borrower shall make available, or cause to be made
available, to CEC, promptly as needed, all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for carrying out Part D of
the Project and the operation of the facilities included therein.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal
reason such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien
created on assets of any of its political or administrative
subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to
the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other


﻿- 14 -
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any equity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar
functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall make arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank to provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the efficient operation and adequate maintenance of the school
included in Part A of the Project.


﻿- 15 -
Section 4.03. Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, services and other resources, necessary to
ensure (i) that the oil palm plantings to be established under
Part C of the Project shall be brought into, and maintained, in
production; and (ii) that adequate processing facilities are
available for the produce of the oil palm plantings to be
established under Parts A, B and C of the Project.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (i) set the producer prices
for oil palm fruit bunches upon recommendation of SOCAPALM and at
a level adequate to ensure (A) a reasonable revenue to
smallholders under Part C of the Project from their oil palm
plantings, and (B) the recovery by SOCAPALM of the cost of
collection and processing of such fruit bunches and of its
other expenses related to the smallholder development
program under Part C of the Project; and (ii) consult with
the Bank prior to any changes of such producer prices.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) SOCAPALM shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of SOCAPALM under the Project Agreement.
(b) A default shall occur in the performance of any covenant,
agreement or obligation under the Credit Administration Agreement.
(c) CEC shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of CEC under the CEC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(d) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable: (i) that SOCAPALM will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement; or (ii) that
FONADER will be able to perform its obligations under the Credit
Administration Agreement; or (iii) that CEC will be able to
perform its obligations under the CEC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(e) A representation made by SOCAPALM in or pursuant to the
Project Agreement, or any statement furnished in connection
therewith, and intended to be relied upon by the Bank in making
the Loan, shall have been incorrect in any material respect.


﻿- 17 -
(f) SOCAPALM shall have become unable to pay its debts as
they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by
SOCAPALM or by others whereby any of the assets of SOCAPALM shall
or may be distributed among its creditors.
(g) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of SOCAPALM or for the suspension of its operations.
(h) Any provision of the Borrower's Law No. 68/LF/9 dated
June 11, 1968, Decree No. 68/DF/275 dated July 15, 1968, Decree
No. 68/DF/451 dated November 23, 1968, Decree No. 72/DF/4 dated
January 3, 1972, or Decree No. 73/32 dated January 29, 1973, shall
have been amended, suspended, terminated or repealed so as to
materially and adversely affect SOCAPALM's ability to carry
out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the
Project Agreement.
(i) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of FONADER or for the suspension of its operations without prior
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank having been made by the
Borrower for the transfer to another department or agency of the
Borrower of the functions of FONADER with respect to the smallholder
development program to be established under Part C of the Project.


﻿- 18 -
(j) Any provision of the Borrower's Ordinance No. 73/24
dated May 29, 1973, or Decree No. 73/496 dated August 28, 1973,
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to materially and adversely affect the ability of
FONADER to assist in carrying out Part C of the Project in
accordance with the Credit Administration Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower and SOCAPALM, CEC or FONADER, as
the case may be; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (f), (g), (h) or (i)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of
SOCAPALM has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action;
(b) the execution of the SOCAPALM Financing Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and SOCAPALM, respectively, has been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action;
(c) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Intermediate Term Loan Agreement, except for the effectiveness
of this Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(d) the Chief Accountant and the Estate Manager for the
Kienk6 Estate referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (i) of the Project
Agreement have been appointed by SOCAPALM in accordance with the
provisions of said Section;
(e) SOCAPALM shall have established a shortlist of
candidates for the position of Executive Controller referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) of the Project Agreement; and


﻿- 20 -
(f) all such land and rights in respect of land as are
required for carrying out Part A of the Project have been made
available to SOCAPALM in accordance with Section 3.05 (a) of this
Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by SOCAPALM, and is legally binding upon SOCAPALM
in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the SOCAPALM Financing Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and SOCAPALM, respectively,
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and SOCAPALM in accordance
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date November 23, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 21 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economic Affairs
and Planning
Yaoundg
United Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINEP                               8268 KN
Yaoundg
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 22 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ Benott Bindzi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
and of the Intermediate Term Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and of the Intermediate
Term Loan, the allocation of amounts of such proceeds to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan and of the
Intermediate Term Loan         % of
Allocated (Expressed in     Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Vehicles, equip-          7,400,000              67%
ment and machi-
nery for Parts
A and B of the
Project
(2) Civil works               3,800,000              67%
under Parts A
and B of the
Project
(3) Field develop-            6,700,000              67%
ment under Parts
A and B of the
Project (includ-
ing land clear-
ing, fertilizer,
planting mate-
rials and other
supplies, and
palm planting
and maintenance)


﻿Amount of the
Loan and of the
Intermediate Term Loan         % of
Allocated (Expressed in     Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(4) Administrative            1,100,000              67%
cost of Kienkd
Estate
(5) Civil works,                600,000              67%
vehicles, equip-
ment and operat-
ing costs of
SOCAPALM under
Part C (i) of
the Project
(6) Vehicles and                200,000              67%
equipment for
Part D of the
Project
(7) Civil works                1,200,000             67%
under Part D
of the Project
(8) Unallocated                4,000,000
TOTAL     25,000,000


﻿- 25 -
2.   The proceeds of the Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan
shall be disbursed pro rata on the basis of an 18:7 ratio.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance
with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan and of
the Intermediate Term Loan shall be disbursed on account of
payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any
such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement;
(b) in respect of expenditures under Category (5), until
evidence satisfactory to the Bank shall have been furnished to the
Bank: (i) that the Credit Administration Agreement has been duly
signed on behalf of FONADER and SOCAPALM, respectively; (ii) that
the execution of said Agreement on behalf of FONADER and SOCAPALM


﻿- 26 -
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action; (iii) that said Agreement is legally
binding upon FONADER and SOCAPALM in accordance with its terms;
and (iv) that the Manager of the Smallholder Development Program
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (i) of the Project Agreement has
been appointed by SOCAPALM in accordance with the provisions of
said Section; and
(c) in respect of expenditures under Categories (6) and (7),
until evidence satisfactory to the Bank shall have been furnished
to the Bank: (i) that CEC has been legally established; (ii) that
the CEC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly signed on behalf
of the Borrower and CEC, respectively; (iii) that the execution of
said Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and CEC has been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and corporate
action; and (iv) that said Agreement is legally binding upon the
Borrower and CEC in accordance with its terms.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan and
of the Intermediate Term Loan or the disbursement percentages set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan and of the Intermediate Term
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such


﻿- 27 -
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan and the Bank may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power
or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement and the Intermediate
Term Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan as, in the Bank's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan.


﻿-28 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Kienkf Estate
First phase of the establishment of an oil palm estate
located between the Kienk6 and Ni6t6 Rivers in the
Oceanic Division during the years 1977 through 1981,
comprising:
(i) Clearing of about 6,850 ha of land, planting
of about 6,000 ha with high-yield oil palms and
maintenance of such plantings.
(ii) Provision of estate infrastructure, including
offices, stores, housing, an infirmary, a school,
social facilities, utilities and about 360 km of
plantation roads.
(iii) Provision of vehicles, agricultural machinery and
equipment.
(iv) Construction of facilities for a palm oil
processing mill with a capacity of 40 tons per hour
and installation of related oil milling equipment
with an initial capacity of 20 tons per hour.
Part B:   M'Bongo and Eseka Estates
(i) Clearing of about 1,000 ha of land, planting
of about 1,330 ha with high-yield oil palms and
maintenance of such plantings through 1981 at the
M'Bongo Estate.


﻿- 29 -
(ii) Provision of staff housing and of harvesting
and processing equipment for the M'Bongo and Eseka
Estates, including construction of an additional
production line for the palm oil processing mill at
M'Bongo Estate to bring its capacity up to 40 tons
per hour.
Part C:   Smallholder Development
(i) Establishment of smallholder programs in the Sanaga
Maritime and the Nyong and Kellf Divisions, each
covering the planting of oil palms on about 1,000
ha of land cleared by smallholders, including
extension services to such smallholders.
(ii) Financial assistance to smallholders under Part C
(i) of the Project, partly in cash and partly
through provision, on credit, of the inputs
required for the establishment of their oil palm
plantings.
Part D:   Common Services Center for Estate Companies in Douala
Construction, equipping and furnishing of a common
services center in Douala to serve SOCAPALM and other
oil palm and rubber estate companies, including offices,
vehicles, garage facilities and warehouses.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning March 1, 1982
through   September 1, 1996                  580,000
On March 1, 1997                                  600,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 31 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.25%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              2.55%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              4.65%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                        6.80%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                        7.65%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                             8.50%


﻿-32-
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts B and D hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   To the extent feasible, vehicles, equipment and materials
shall be grouped for purposes of bidding so as to permit bulk
procurement.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
less may be procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the
Bank; provided, however, that the price of the contracts so
procured shall, in the aggregate, not exceed the equivalent of
$1,500,000.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods;
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with


﻿- 33 -
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to SOCAPALM or CEC, as the case may be, of
inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Cameroon may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Cameroon if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of SOCAPALM or CEC,
as the case may b , and the Bank that the
manufacturirp t.c-    su-1 goods includes a


﻿- 34-
value added in Cameroon equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Cameroon.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group
A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods
offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
cc:-parison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
d,--ies and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if
said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the


﻿- 35 -
group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a
result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest
evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works consisting of land clearing, construction of
roads, estate facilities, and field development works may be
carried out by force account by SOCAPALM.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts.
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding shall be furnished to the Bank for its comments,
and such modifications shall be made in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿- 36 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated and before a
final decision on the award is made, the Bank shall be informed of
the name of the bidder to which the award of the contract is
intended to be made, and a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request, shall be
furnished to the Bank in sufficient time for its review. The Bank
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
SOCAPALM or CEC, as the case may be, and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account and the Intermediate Term Loan Account
in respect of such contract.


﻿- 37 -
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan and not
governed by the preceding paragraph, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request, shall be furnished to the Bank promptly
after the execution of such contract and prior to the submission
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of fVnds from
the Loan Account and the Intermediate Term Loan Account in
respect of such contract. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform SOCAPALM or CEC, as the case may
be, and state the reasons for such determination.


