CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1391 T-CM
LOAN NUMBER 1392 CM
Project Agreement
(Second SOCAPALM Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOCIETE CAMEROUNAISE DE PALMERAIES
Dated August 25, 1977


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 25, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and SOCIETE CAMEROUNAISE DE PALMERAIES (hereinafter called
SOCAPALM), a Soci6tf de Dfveloppement established pursuant
to Law No. 68/LF/9 dated June 11, 1968, of the United Republic of
Cameroon.
WHEREAS (A) by an agreement (hereinafter called the First
Loan Agreement), of even date herewith between the United Republic
of Cameroon (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
(hereinafter called the First Loan) in various currencies
equivalent to eighteen million dollars ($18,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the said First Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that SOCAPALM agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a second agreement (hereinafter called the
Intermediate Term Loan Agreement) of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower under the Interest Subsidy Fund for the Third
Window established by Resolution No. 75-111 of the Executive
Directors of the Bank an amount equivalent to seven million
dollars ($7,000,000) (hereinafter called the Intermediate Term


﻿-2-
Loan), on the terms and conditions set forth in the said
Intermediate Term Loan Agreement, but only on condition that
SOCAPALM agree to undertake such obligations towards the Bank as
hereinafter set forth;
(C) pursuant to a loan agreement and a supplemental loan
agreement dated April 15, 1969, and April 9, 1973, respectively
(hereinafter called the 1969 Loan Agreement and the 1973 Loan
Agreement, respectively), the Bank has made available to SOCAPALM
two loans (Nos. 593 CM and 886 CM, respectively) for the purpose
of assisting SOCAPALM in financing a first oil palm project;
(D) by a financing agreement between the Borrower and
SOCAPALM, part of the proceeds of the Loans provided for under the
First and the Intermediate Term Loan Agreements will be made
available to SOCAPALM on the terms and conditions therein set
forth;
(E) Part C of the Project will be carried out jointly by
SOCAPALM and the Fonds Natica.il de Dfveloppement Rural
(hereinafter called FONADER) pursuant to arrangements hereinafter
set forth; and
WHEREAS SOCAPALM, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the First and the Intermediate Term Loan Agreements with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set
forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the First Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a) the term "Loans" means both the First Loan and the
Intermediate Term Loan; and
(b) the term "subsidiary" means any company of which a
majority of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary
interest is owned or effectively controlled by SOCAPALM or by any
one or more subsidiaries of SOCAPALM or by SOCAPALM and one or
more of its subsidiaries.


﻿S 4-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SOCAPALM shall carry out Parts A and B and,
jointly with FONADER, Part C of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
agricultural, commercial, financial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to carry out, jointly with
FONADER, Part C of the Project, SOCAPALM shall:
(i) enter into a credit administration agreement
with FONADER on te'rms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(ii) as agent of FONADER, provide financial assistance,
in cash and in kind, to smallholders in accordance
with the provisions of the Credit Administration
Agreement.
(b) SOCAPALM shall:
(i) prepare, not later than December 31 of each
year, a proposed work program for the smallholder
development to be carried out under Part C of
the Project during the following year;
(ii) promptly furnish such proposed work program to
FONADER and the Bank, for their review and
comments; and


﻿-5-
(iii) thereafter establish, in agreement with FONADER,
the final work program for smallholder development
under Part C of the Project to be carried out
during such year in accordance with the provisions
of the Credit Administration Agreement.
(c) SOCAPALM shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Credit Administration Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, SOCAPALM shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Credit Administration Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall etherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works for Parts
A, B and C of the Project to be financed out of the.proceeds of
the Loans, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to the First Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) SOCAPALM undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out.of the proceeds of the Loans made available to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by SOCAPALM to replace or
repair such goods.


﻿6-
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, SOCAPALM shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loans made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for Parts A, B and C of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) SOCAPALM shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for Parts A, B and C of the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b) SOCAPALM: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of Parts A, B and C of the Project (including the
cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loans made available to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in said Parts of the Project; (ii)
shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of
this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in said Parts of the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning said Parts of the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loans so made available to it and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 7 -
(c) SOCAPALM shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of SOCAPALM and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. SOCAPALM shall duly perform all its obligations
under the SOCAPALM Financing Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, SOCAPALM shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the SOCAPALM Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) SOCAPALM shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts
A, B and C of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement, under the SOCAPALM Financing Agreement and
under the Credit Administration Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loans.
(b) SOCAPALM shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
Parts A, B and C of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loans, or the performance by SOCAPALM of its
obligations under this Agreement, under the SOCAPALM Financing
Agreement or under the Credit Administration Agreement.


﻿-8-
Section 2.08. SOCAPALM shall take all such action as shall be
necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land or rights in
respect of land as shall be required for carrying out Parts A and
B of the Project and the operation of the facilities included
therein, and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available to SOCAPALM for the
purposes of said Parts of the Project.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SOCAPALM
Section 3.01. (a) SOCAPALM shall at all times carry on its
operations, manage its affairs, plan the future development of
its business, and maintain its financial position, all in
accordance with appropriate agricultural, commercial, financial
and administrative practices, and under an experienced and
qualified management assisted-.y competent staff in adequate
numbers.
(b) Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a)
of this Section, SOCAPALM shall: (i) during the period of ten years
from the date of this Agreement employ persons whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank in the positions of Director
General, Deputy Director General, Executive Controller, Field
Manager, Financial Manager, Chief Accountant, Manager of the
Smallholder Development Program and Estate Managers for the
Kienk6, M'Bongo and Eseka Estates; and (ii) appoint the
Executive Controller referred to in the preceding sub-paragraph
(i), and take all action necessary to ensure that he takes up his
duties, not later than February 28, 1978.
(c) SOCAPALM shall operate and maintain its plantations,
equipment, properties and facilities and make all necessary
renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with appropriate
agricultural and management practices.


﻿-10-
(d) Without limitation to the generality of paragraphs
(a) and (c) of this Section, SOCAPALM shall progressLvely replace.
its oil palm plantings when their yields decrease to uneconomic
levels because of over-age; for this purpose, SOCAPALM shall: (i)
replant, in 1989 and each year thereafter, about 4% of its total
oil palm plantings, or such other proportion thereof as shall be
agreed between the Bank and SOCAPALM, with either oil palms or
another crop satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) provide in its
annual budgets the funds required for said purpose.
Section 3.02. SOCAPALM shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
SecC.ion 3.03. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
SOCAPALM shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of
any of its property and assets except in the ordinary course of
business.
Section 3.04. SOCAPALM shall at all times take all steps
necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry
on its operations, including the Project, and shall, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, take all steps necessary to acquire
and to retain such land, interests in land and properties, and to


﻿- 11 -
acquire, maintain and renew such licenses, consents, franchises or
other rights, as may be necessary or useful for the execution and
operation of the Project and the conduct of its business.
Section 3.05. SOCAPALM shall employ the Institut de
Recherches pour les Huiles et Olagineux, or any other entity
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, as
technical consultants on oil palm cultivation under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SOCAPALM shall maintain records adequate to
reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices, its operations and financial condition,
including, without limitation: (i) separate accounts for each of
its estates and for the smallholder development program to be
established under Part C of the Project; and (ii) separate accounts
recording the expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account and the Intermediate Term Loan
Account under Categories (2), (3), (4) and (5) of the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the First Loan Agreement.
(b) SOCAPALM shall, until one year after the Closing Date,
retain the separate accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (ii) of
this Section and all such documents (orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures referred
to in said paragraph, and shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to inspect such accounts and documents.
Section 4.02. SOCAPALM shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statement (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate


﻿- 13 -
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing,
separate opinions by said auditors on the separate accounts
referred to in sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii), respectively, of
Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement; and
(c) furnish to the Bank all such other information concerning
the accounts (including the documents referred to in Section 4.01
(b) of this Agreement) and financial statements of SOCAPALM and
tne audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
SOCAPALM shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur
any debt if, after the incurring of such debt, the consolidated
debt of SOCAPALM and all its subsidiaries then incurred and
outstanding would be greater than two times the consolidated
capital and surplus of SOCAPALM and all its subsidiaries. For the
purposes of this Section:


﻿- 14 -
(a) The term "debt" means any debt incurred by SOCAPALM
or any subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred, including debt assumed or
guaranteed by SOCAPALM or any subsidiary.
(b) Whenever reference is made in this Section to the
incurring of debt, such reference shall include any modification
of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be
incurred: (i) under a loan contract or agreement on the date and
to the extent the loan is drawn down pursuant to such loan contract
or agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date
the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered
into but only to the extent the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of francs CFA debt payable in
foreign currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable by SOCAPALM for the purposes
of servicing such debt.
(d) The term "consolidated debt of SOCAPALM and all its
subsidiaries" means the total amount of debt of SOCAPALM and
its subsidiaries, excluding any debt owed by SOCAPALM to any
subsidiary or by any subsidiary to SOCAPALM or to any other
subsidiary.


﻿- 15 -
(e) The term "consolidated capital and surplus of SOCAPALM
and all its subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired
paid-in capital, surplus and free reserves of SOCAPALM and its
subsidiaries, after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall
represent equity interests of SOCAPALM in any subsidiary, or of
any such subsidiary in SOCAPALM or in any other subsidiary.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
SOCAPALM shall at all times maintain its liquid assets at a
level equivalent to its cash expenditures during the three
preceding months or four hundred fifty million francs CFA (CFAF
450,000,000), whichever is more, or such other level as shall
be established from time to time by agreement between the Bank and
SOCAPALM.
(b) For the purposes of this Section, the term "liquid
assets" means cash and bank balances, assets readily convertible
into cash and undrawn bank overdraft facilities, and the term
"cash expenditures" means all cash expenditures, including,
without limitation, payments of principal, interest and other
charges due on account of debt, but excluding expenditures for the
purchase or renewal of fixed assets (such as vehicles and other
equipment and expenditures for new plantation development).
Section 4.05. SOCAPALM covenants that before it shall
undertake or execute, for its own account or for the account of
any third party or parties, any major new project or development


﻿- 16 -
other than the Project, or make any major new investment not
related to the Project (other than investment of idle-funds-in
securities readily convertible into cash), it shall first have
satisfied the Bank that such action would not materially and
adversely affect the operations and financial position of
SOCAPALM. For the purposes of this Section, the terms "major new
project or development" and "major new investment" means any
project, development or investment involving an investment of more
than the equivalent of $1,000,000 or such other amount as shall be
agreed from time to time between the Bank and SOCAPALM.
Section 4.06. (a) Before SOCAPALM shall take any action to
establish or acquire any subsidiary, SOCAPALM shall first satisfy
the Bank that such action would not materially and adversely
affect the operations and financial position of SOCAPALM.
(b) If SOCAPALM establishes or acquires any subsidiary,
SOCAPALM shall cause such subsidiary to observe and perform the
obligations of SOCAPALM under this Agreement to the extent to
which such obligations shall or can be applicable thereto, as
though such obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.
Section 4.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
SOCAPALM shall not, prior to December 31, 1980, declare any
dividends to its shareholders.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the First Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of SOCAPALM thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the First Loan Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the First Loan Agreement terminates in accordance
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of
this Section, the Bank shall promptly notify SOCAPALM of this
event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the First Loan Agreement or the Intermediate
Term Loan Agreement.


﻿-18-
ARTICLE VI
Amendments to the 1969 Loan        -
Agreement and the 1973 Loan Agreement
Section 6.01. Sections 5.01 (b), 5.08 (a), and 5.08 (c) of
the 1969 Loan Agreement are amended by substituting therefor
Sections 3.01 (b), 3.01 (a) and (c), and 3.04, respectively, of
this Agreement; provided, however, that for the purposes of the
1969 Loan Agreement, all references to "SOCAPALM" in said Sections
of this Agreement shall be deemed to be references to "the
Borrower".
Section 6.02. The 1973 Loan Agreement is amended as follows:
(a) Section 4.02 is deleted.
(b) In Section 4.01, the words ", as the same may be
amended from time to time," are added after the words "Prior
Loan Agreement".
(c) Sections 5.04, 5.05 and 5.06 are deleted and Sections
4.03, 4.04 and 4.05, respectively, of this Agreement are
substituted therefor; provided, however, that for the purposes of
the 1973 Loan Agreement all references to "SOCAPALM" in said
Sections of this Agreement shall be deemed to be references to
"the Borrower".


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall bL in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank fir
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United State of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SOCAPALM:
Socift6 Camerounaise
de Palmeraies
B.P. 691
Douala
United Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:
SOCAPALM
Douala


﻿- 20 -
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SOCAPALM may be taken or executed by the
Pr6sident du Conseil d'Administration of SOCAPALM or such other
person or persons as the Prfsident du Conseil d'Administration
shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. SOCAPALM shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of SOCAPALM, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by SOCAPALM pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 21 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United State of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
SOCIETE CAMEROUNAISE DE PALMERAIES
By /s/ Benoit Bindzi
Authorized Representative


