Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AgJ a47 oS - /
Report No. 7123-YU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
June 3, 1988
Industry and Energy Operations D;.ision
Country Department IV
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Curr-ncy Unit - Dinar (Din)
Exchanr,e Rate
(Diners/US$)
1975    1980    '983    1985    1986    1987        1988-Jan
US$1.00 = Din         17.34   24.64    126       312      559     737        1,276
Abbreviations
BOAL    -- Basic Organization of Associated Labor
EDF     -  Export Development Fund
ERR     -  Economic Rate of Return
FRR     -  Financial Rate of Return
FSFER   -  the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Economic Relations
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
IS      -  International Shopping
JLF     -  Joint Liability Fund
LBL     -  Ljubljanska Banka Associated Bank
LIB     -  Limited International Bidding
LTPES   -  Long-term Program for Economic Stabilization
NBY     -  National Bank of Yugoslavia
OAL     -  Organization of Associated Labor
RAP     -  Republic(s) and Autonomous Province(s)
RF      -  Reserve Fund
SDK     -  Sluzba Drustvenog Kjnigovodsta, or Social Accountirg Service
SOE     -  Statement cf Expenditure
UBB     -  Udruzena Beogradska Banka-Beograd
WO      -  Work Organization
YBA     -  Association of Yugoslav Banks
YBIEC   -  Yugoslav Bank for International Economic Cooperation
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



vifb. .P t,., AL t i, ufLY
YUGOSLAVIA
EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
PROJECT SUMMARY          ..........................       .............................
I.   INTRODUCTION ......................................................                         1
II. THE INDUSTRIAL EXPORTS SECTOR  .....................................                         2
A.   The Structure and Performance of Industrial Exports  ....                  .......      3
B.   The Current Policy and Incentives Environment  ....                  .............     5
III. STRUCTURE AND OPERATIONS OF THE BANKING SYSTEM  ...................                         7
A.   Introduction ..................................................                        8
B.   Structure of the System .......................................                        8
C.   Laws and Regulations  ..........................................                      10
D.  Monetary Policies .............................................                        12
E.   Conclusion  ....................................................                      14
IV. THE PROJECT .......................................................                         15
A.   Project Rationale and Bank Lending Strategy ...................                       15
B.   Project Objectiv-s  ............................................                      15
C.   Project Description  ...........................................                      16
D.   Export Environment  ...........................................                       16
E.   The Participating Banks  .......................................                      20
F.   The Subprojects  ...............................................                      25
G.  Technical Assistance ..........................................                        29
H.  Accompanying Measures to Strengthen the Ba-.:ing Sector .........                      30
H.  Project Cost and Financing ...............  ...................                        30
I.  Main Loan Features  ............................................                       31
J.   Project Benefits  ..............................................                      35
K.   Project Risks  .................................................                      35
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION .....................................                         37
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal and a post-appraisal
mission which visited Yugoslavia in October/November 1987 and March/April
1988. The missions comprised Ms. I. Zurayk (Mission Leader)(EM4IE), and
Messrs./Mmes. S. Harb (EM4IE), D. Kochav (ASTIF), K. Nadkarni (EMTIE),
Y. W. Rhee (IENIN), E. Manes (EMTIF), M. uizuka (YPP), N. DeWitt (LEGEM),
D. O'Brien (CECFP), and W. Ward (Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
YUGOSLAVIA
EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Cont'd
ANNEX 1   - Documents -n the Project File
ANNEX 2   - The Industrial Exports Sector
ANNEX 3   - I;iterest Rates
ANNEX 4-1 - Terms of Reference for a Program. to Establish
and Implement a Duty Exemption System
ANNEX 4-2 - Terms of Reference for a Study on Exporters'
Access to Imported Inputs
ANNEX 4-3 - Jugobanka - Financial Aspects
ANNEX 4-4 - LBL - Financial Aspects
ANNEX 4-5 - UBB - Financiai Aspects
ANNFX 4-6 - The Subproject Pipeline
ANNEX 4-7 - Technical Assistance for the Borrowing Banks
ANNEX 4-8 - Projected Disbursement Schedule
MAP       - IBRD No. 20413



YUGOSLAVIA
EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrowers:                Jugobanka-United Bank Beograd (Jugobanka),
Ljubljanska Banka, Associated Bank (LBL), and
Udruzena Beogradska Banka, Beograd (UBB).
Guarantor:                Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Beneficiaries:            Export-oriented manufacturing industries and the
borrowing banks.
Amount:                   US$120.0 million equivalent consisting of:
(i) US$40.0 million equivalent for Jugobanka,
(ii) US$40.0 million equivalent for LBL, and (iii)
US$40.0 million equivalent for UBB.
Terms:                    The loans to the borrowers will be made in accordance
with the normal Bank terms for Yugoslavia (15 years
including 5 years of grace) under a composite
amortization schedule.
On-lending terms:         Bank funds for investment would be on-lent at a rate
equal to the Bank's variable rate plus a spread to
cover each bank's expenses (including reserve
additions and loss write-offs). The weighted average
spread for all subloans will be at least 2.5% per
annum beginning July 1, 1988 and will be reviewed
annually thereafter. Subloans would be for a maximum
term of 15 years with a maximum of 5 years of grace.
The foreign exchange risk on subloans will be borne
by the borrowing enterprises.



- ii -
Project Description:      The project is designed to foster growth of efficient
exports from Yugoslavia and to assist in
strengthening key institutions in the banking and
export sectors. It would comprise (1) loans to three
banks for on-lending to export-oriented manufacturing
industries to improve capacity utilization and to
expand or develop new competitive capacity; and
(2) technical assistance for institutional
development of Lhe three banks.
In support of this project, the Federal Secretariat
for Foreign Economic Relations (FSFER) will carry out
a program to develop a duty exemption system for
exporters and prepare measires to improve exporters'
access to imported inputs. In parallel with the
project, the Government also intends to support
programs initiated by the Yugoslav Bank for
International Economic Cooperation (YBIEC), the
National Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY), the Social
Accounting Office (SDK) and the Association of
Yugoslav Banks (YBA) to develop strategies to
strengthen the export finance system and export
marketing, to enhance bank supervision and auditing,
and to implement a uniform methodology for investment
selection.
Project Benefits:         The project would help to increase exports directly
through financing of high return export-oriented
investments with positive and quick foreign exchange
impact, and indirectly through rationalization of
incentives and enhancement of the exporting
environment. It would also help to strengthen the
borrowers and to modernize the capital stock thus
helping the Government's ongoing efforts to achieve
structural reform.  ccompanying measures would also
help strengthen other key institutions in the banking
and export sectors.
Project Risks:            The principal project risk relates to the possibility
of the Government delaying further reform measures
needed to promote higher industrial productivity and
financial discipline. However, the project would
yield direct benefits in several areas, even if such
reform measures are postponed, through the net
foreign exchange earnings and the economic returns on
the investments to be financed and the financial
actions and the technical assistance programs that
will be undertaken by the borrowing banks.



- iii -
Project Cost:
Local     Foreign   Total
-      US$ million-------
Investments in Subprojects                              150.0     150.0      300.0
Technical Assistance                                      1.2        0.8        2.0
Total                                              151.2      1502
Financing Plan:
Local            Foreign        Total
Enterprises/Borrowing
Banks        IBRD
------------(US$ million)--------------
Investments in subprojects                 150.0        30.8    119.2      300.0
Technical Assistance                         1.2         -         0.8       2.0
Total                                    151.2        308     12DI Q     302.0
Estimated                                                Fiscal Year
Disbursements Schedule:                  l9R9   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
---------------US$ million -------------
Annual                         22.4   33.9   30.6   19.2   10.0    3.9
Cumulative                     22.4   5S.3   86.9  106.1  1.L1J  IZ.
Economic Rate of Return: Minimum of 12%
I   Map:                   IBRD 20413



YUGOSLAVIA
EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The industrial sector dominates the Yugoslav economy which has been
experiencing a balance of payments financing gap, high and accelerating
inflation, and uneven Gross Social Product growth. Although new laws adopted
since 1984 have included significant positive steps, the progress made so far
in liberalizing trade and prices and in enforcing financial discipline has
been limited and not sufficient to improve efficiency and restrain domestic
demand.  In November 1987, the Government initiated an anti-inflation program
which seeks to stabilize prices while at the same time renew the efforts aimed
at systemic reform. A temporary price freeze and a partial wage freeze were
instituted. A new interest rate regime was put in place on January 1, 1988.
The Government has placed a high priority on improving export performa;.ce in
view of the substantial corvertible currency debt service burden and
industry's dependence on imported intermediate inputs. The exchange rate was
devalued by 20% in real terms in 1987, and current legislation has been
amended to provide, at least on a temporary basis, higher priority to current
exporters for available foreign exchange. A Standby Agreement has been
approved in principle by the IMF Board subject to completion of the financing
plan expected by end-June 1988. The Bank is also discussing with the
Government means of supporting its adjustment efforts with a second Structural
Adjustm.3nt Loan. The Government is also collaborating with the Bank on a
financial sector study with a view to a future program of financial sector
adjustment.
1.02     This project aims at complementing these broader efforts to put in
place an improved macro-economic framework. Strong and sustained export
performance, reinforcement of financial discipline in the banking sector, and
the rechanneling of resources toward activities which are internationally
competitive will be crucial to the success of the current stabilization effort
and to prospects of output growth through productivity increases. As an
immediate step, there is substantial scope to begin to alleviate some of the
disadvantages faced by exporters, to consolidate the financial position of the
relatively stronger financial intermediaries, and to invest in restructuring
of a capital stock that is not well suited to competition in convertible
currency markets and unable to provide the desired rapid supply response to a
reformed domestic price structure. This project is designed to achieve these
aims through (i) improvements of the export administration and finance systems
and in export marketing, (ii) the strengthening of key financial institutions,
and (iii) careful selection and financing of high return export projects in
sound enterprises.
1.03     The project consists of a line of credit component and a technical
assistance component. Funds from the line of credit would be on-lent through
three of the stronger commercial banks in Yugoslavia: Jugobanka United Bank -



- 2 -
Beograd (Jugobanka), Ljubljanska Banka, Associated Bank (LBL), and Udruzena
Beogradska Banka Beograd (UBB), for investment in export-oriented
manufacturing industries to improve product quality and international
competitiveness and to expand or develop new competitive capacity. The
technical assistance component wili provide assistance for institutional
development programs for Lhese three banks. The Federal Government will
undertake, in support of this project, reviews through the Federal Secretariat
for Foreign Economic Relations (FSFER) aimed at improving exporters' access to
duty-free imports. In conjunction with the project, the Government has also
indicated its intention to support programs which will be undertaken by the
Yugoslav Bank for international Economic Cooperation (YBIEC), the National
Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY), the Social Accounting Office (SDK), and the
Association of the Yugoslav Banks (YBA) to strengthen the export finance
system and export marketing and to enhance bank supervision and auditing and,
investment selection. The project would thus provide urgently needed foreign
currency resources for high return export-oriented investments, and would also
help to increase exports indirectly through rationalization of incentives and
enhancement of the export environment. It would help to modernize the capital
stock thus helping to achieve structural. reform. lt would also help to
strengthen the financial position of the intermedl :y banks and the capability
of these banks and other financial institutions in implementing the efforts to
reinforce financial discipline and improve resource allocation in the economy.
1.04     The project was prepared by Bank missions which visited Yugoslavia in
April, July, and November 1987, and in March 1988. A list of documents in the
project file is given in Annex 1.



-3-
U. THE INDUSTRIAL EXPORTS SECTOR
A. The Structure and Performance of Industrial Exports
2.01     The Evolving Industrial Structure.  The Yugoslav economy has been
dominated by industry, especially manufacturing, since the 1950s. In 1965,
industry (which includes extraction and energy industries) already accounted
for 342 of output, which was equal to the average share for upper income
developing countries in that year. By 1986, the share of industry in total
output was 432 and its share of investment and employment was 472 and 402,
respectively. A quantitative presentation of the evolving structure of the
Yugoslav economy is shown in Annex 2.
2.02     Within industry, the manufacturing sector already exhibited a high
degree of diversity in 1965, compared to other developing countries. During
the 1965-86 period, the manufacturing sector evolved further, like the
manufacturing sector of most developing countries, out of food and textile
industries and toward machinery and chemicals. Metal and mineral products
accounted for a large but falling share of output during the period.   There
was also some shift toward more technologically advanced industries as
indicated by a large increase in the machinery and transport equipment share
and a fall in the share of the metal fabrication industries. Annex 2 shows
the evolving structure of the Yugoslav industrial sector at the more
disaggregated subsector level. The production structure today is still juite
diverse, with a high proportion of production in basic labor-intensive
consumer goods industries and also in heavy capital-intensive industries
(Annex 2, Table 2).
2.03     The Export Industries.  This industrialization process was reflected
in Yugoslavia's export structure during the 1965-86 period as firms became
increasingly integrated into world trade. Manufactured exports accounted for
over half of total exports in 1965 and 77% of total exports in 1986. The
export orientation (export to output ratio) of total industry increased from
15% to 24% between 1970 and 1985. At the subsector level, the export
orientation of the mineral and metal industries declined once the machinery
and chemical industries increased their share of output going to export. At
the same time, the traditional consumer goods industries also became more
export oriented. At present, the subsectors which are considered export
oriented, (i.e., those with a higher export to output ratio than the
industrial average) fall within metals and mining, machinery, chemicals, wood
products, textiles, footwear and rubber. Two further points regarding the
structure of Yugoslav industry arc worth noting. First, the export product
structure in Yugoslavia is one of the most diverse in the world and has become
more so during the 1960s and 1970s. Second, despite the increase in the
overall export orientation in the Yugoslav industrial sector, the legacy of
the import substitution strategy in the seventies has led to a large
proportion of the industrial output being sold on the domestic market. Apart
from shipbuilding, there is no subsector which exports more than 502 of output.



-4-
2.04     Industrial and Export Performance since the 1970s.  The performance
of the Yugoslav industrial sector in terms of growth and efficiency can
clearly be viewed in the context of the changes in macro-economic policies.
In particular, the high degree of import dependence in the manufacturing
sector, established in the 1960s, made the growth of output vulnerable to the
periodic stabilization efforts which took the form of import compression
during the 1970s and 1980s. In the early 1970s, the Government followed a
"stop-and-go" pattern of import restrictions aimed at stabilizing the balance
of payments.  GDP growth fluctuated from 2.6Z in 1973 to 14.6X in 1974 to 0.92
in 1975, as import restrictions were tightened, relaxed and tightened again.
Following the first oil price shock in 1974, the Government promoted import
substitution aimed at reducing the import content of industrial production.
The growth of industrial output was sustained at a 7.2% real rate between
1976-79 through heavy investment, expansionary domestic demand policies, an
appreciating exchange rate, the strengthening of nontariff protection of
domestic production, and substantial external borrowing. This
factor-intensive expansion of the economy resulted in falling productivity and
fluctuating in export performance, and left the Yugoslav economy uaprepared to
weather the extertnal shocks and the reduction in external borrowing during
1979-81.
2.05     With the oil price increases, the world recession and the limited
possibilities for external finance in the early 1980s, stabilization during
1981-83 again required a drastic reduction in imports. The Yugoslav
industrial sector went through a recessionary period which was deeper and
longer than in most countries. Anaex 2 shows the Yugoslav aggregate growth
performance in comparison to the performance for ocher groups of countries in
the world. Yugoslavia's sluggish growth in GDP and stagnant export growth
during 1980-83 was consistently lower than the group of "Non-oil
Manufacturers" and substantially lower than other "Expor.ers of
Manufactures." There was a small decrease in industrial capacity utilization
between 1981-84 from 80% to 77%, and a fall in labor productivity of 2%.
2.06     At the subsector level, the recession of the early 1980s affected the
export industries unequally (Annex 2). Some export industries like
nonelectric machinery, textiles, paper and footwear sustained growth in
exports and output, while exports and output of transport equipment, wood
products, electric machinery and rubber, grew at levels below the industrial
averages. Output of chemicals continued to grow relatively rapidly but export
growth deteriorated drastically. Generally, consumer export industries
maintained higher (though falling) rates of capacity utilization and labor
productivity than the industrial sector as a whole. For capital goods
exporting industries, the fall in capacity utilization was much higher.
2.07     In 1983, as an important initial step of the Long-Term Program of
Economic Stabilization . TPES), the authorities devalued the currency by 24%.
Exports responded to the devaluation and grew at 11% and 9% in real terms in
1984 and 1985. However, the rebound was short lived. In 1986, there was an
increased scarcity of foreign exchange coupled with a change in the foreign
exchange law which made obtaining imported inputs more difficult for exporters



- 5 -
(para. 2.10). Total exports barely grew at all, while industrial exports fell
by 4%. At the same time, capacity utilization continued to fall and labor
productivity remained stagnant. The pattern of resurgent export growth il
1984 and 1985 followed by a fall in export growth in 1986, occurre' ill jiflIost
all export industries with the notable exception of the nachiinery anid
transport equipment subsectors.
2.08     Despite the uneven export performance in the 1980s, there were some
positive signs regarding export performance to convertible currency markets.
Throughout the 1981-86 period Yugoslavia increased its market share in exports
to industrialized countries, with the increased market penetration
attributable to manufactured goods. During 1987 exports to convertible areas
grew by 8.5% in real terms, and a primary source of this increase was a
substantial increase in export value to the developed countries. Renewal and
upgrading of the equipment of export-oriented firms and an adaptation of
production technology towards the more flexible and quality-oriented
production required by developed country markets will be essential to the
efforts to sustain and reinforce this trend.
B. The Current Policy and Incentives Environment
2.09     The Macro-economic Environment.  Yugoslavia is currently in its fifth
year of the LTPES which was adopted in 1983 in response to the growing
awareness that fundamental structural deficiencies and inappropriate economic
policies were the primary causes of the economic crises in the early eighties,
and which led to the adoption of a new set of laws between late 1984 and 1986
governing economic management. This legislation was aimed at: (i) enforcing
financial discipline at banks and enterprises; (ii) reforming the foreign
exchange and trade regimes; (iii) improving investment selection; and
(iv) liberalization of domestic prices. While the new laws have included
significant positive steps, the liberalization of the economy and the progress
achieved so far in reducing domestic and external imbalances have been
limited. Financial indiscipline in the enterprise and banking sectors has
been one of the major causes of inefficiency in the economy and has thwarted
the efforts at demand restraint (para. 3.01). Inflation has been
accelerating, resulting in an increase in the cost of living index of about
170% in 1987. There was a decline in 1987 in fixed investment, and in GSP.
Merchandise exports to convertible currency areas grew in 1987 (para. 2.08)
despite a severe compression of merchandise imports, but there was a eecline
in the volume of total merchandise exports. Although a surplus was achieved
in the current account, there was a deterioration in the capital account and
reserves were drawn down by almost $1.1 billion.
2.10     In the area of trade and foreign exchange, the Government has Deen
following an active exchange rate policy which has kept the real rate
relatively constant between 1983 and 1987 through a crawling nominal
devaluation in line with the differential inflation rates between Yugoslavia
and its seven major trading partners. While tariffs have been maintained
relatively low and are not widely dispersed, producers are protected by means
of quantitative restrictions on value and volume of imports and restrictions



- 6 -
through the foreign exchange allocation system.  The new Foreign Exchange and
Foreign Trade Laws in effect as of January 1, 1986, have merged the trade and
foreign exchange regime into a single system." The new regime replaces an
older (1983-85) regime in which exporters had been allowed to retain part of
their foreign exchange earnings. All foreign exchange earnings must now be
surrendered and reallocated to firms according to predetermined import
entitlements. The entitlements have been based on past import needs and
export performance in the case of intermediate and raw materials, and
equipment depreciation and export performance in the case of equipment
imports. The emphasis on historic foreign exchange needs and earnings can
discriminate against new exporters and firms with the potential to expand
their exports. Furthermore, the persistent excess demand for foreign exchange
at the official rate has caused severe shortages even to current net
exporters. To deal with the severe foreign exchange imbalance, a special
(emergency allocation) article of the foreign exchange law has been in force
to ensure availability of foreign exchange in priority to servicing debt, and
a bank certificate scheme has been put in place as an additional procedure to
distribute the remaining foreign exchange among holders of import entitlements.
2.11     The Government has also attempted to complement the depreciation of
the exchange rate through a policy of active export promotion, which includes
in addition to the priorities in quota and foreign exchange allocations,
refunds of import duties, access to export credit and guarantees, and priority
access to investment funds and to foreign credits. However, despite the
preferences provided in the present system, exporters must expend a great deal
of resources to operate within the export administration system and often
encounter long delays in obtaining approvals, allocations, and rebates. The
restrictions on importing and the problems in obtaining foreign exchange have
forced exporters to buy higher cost and lower quality domestic inputs. This,
together with insufficient attention to the risks and costs of export
financing and overseas marketing, have placed export activities at a
disadvantage in comparison to international competitors.
2.12     Recent Developments.  In November, 1987, the Government initiated an
anti-inflation program which seeks to stabilize prices while at the same time
renew the efforts to institute systemic reform. Following substantial
adjustments in the prices or some fuels and foods, a temporary price freeze
and a partial wage freeze were instituted. There was a substantial
1/   Commodities are now imported according to four commodity regimes:
(i)  "D" - licenses (0.8% of the value of industrial imports in 1986),
(ii)  "K" - quotas (49.7%),
(iii) "LB" - free (17.3%) and
(iv) "LBO" - free, conditional on whether the enterprise has the available
foreign exchange (32.2%).
Foreign exchange for import of items on the LBO list is allocated to firms
according to predetermined import entitlements (SVRNs). Quotas are intended
for protection purposes, while the conditionally free list is the instrument
used by the authorities to manage foreign exchange shortages.



devaluation of the exchange rate in real terms in November, 1987, which
resulted in a 20% real devaluation for the year. A new interest rate regime
has been put in effect since January 1, 1988, together with other measures
aimed at controlling domestic demand (paras. 3.16-3.20). The foreign exchange
law was amended so that adjustments in import entitlements would be based on
effective foreign exchange receipts rather than on recorded exports, and a
temporary provision gave net exporters first priority along with debt service
payments in the allocation of available foreign exchange.
2.13     Since the adoption of the anti-inflation program in November 1987,
the Government has made major efforts to formulate a coherent, time-bound
program of stabilization and adjustment. Following extensive discussions, a
Standby Agreement has been approved in principle by the IMF Board subjc i to
the completion of the financing plan expected by end-June 1988. The S ndby
Agreement stresses real devaluation of the exchange rate, restrictive monetary
and credit policies, higher real interest rates, lower real wage increases and
lim ti on nominal public expenditures (paras. 3.18-3.20). In addition,
important changes would be introduced in the foreign exchange allocation
system. The requirement that all foreign exchange holdings of commercial
banks (with minor exceptions) be surrendered to NBY will be abolished, and the
exchange rate will be determined in the interbank market for foreign exchange
in accordance with demand and supply conditions. The Government would also
accelerate the pace of import liberalization by shifting commodities from the
quota (K), license (D) and conditionally free (LBO) lists to the free import
list (LB) (para. 2.10). The LB list will be expanded to include goods
amounting to at least 40% of total imports (compared to 26% in 1987) and to
35% of imports from convertible currency areas (compared to 18% in 1987).
Prices would also be gradually decontrolled with the intent of achieving
complete price liberalization by 1990. Monetary and fiscal policies, as well
as income restraint measures, will be relied on to slow down inflation to some
extent, although the inflation rate is expected to remain high through the
period of adjustment.
2.14     A proposed second Structural Adjustment Loan from the Bank is also
currently discussed with the Government.  The policy measures to be supported
by the loan would aim at deepening and extending the structural reform
elements of the IMF standby, and would, in addition, seek to support measures
to increase financial discipline, improve investment choice and allocation in
some key subsectors and strengthen economic decision making.
2.15     Strong and sustained export performance and the rechannelling of
resources toward activities which are internationally competitive will be
crucial to the success of a stabilization effort which does not rely on the
severe import compression which characterized earlier adjustment programs.
They are also essential to prospects of growth of output through productivity
increases. This project would (i) help expand exports directly by providing
support for renewal and upgrading of the equipment of export-oriented firms
and (ii) help expedite rationalization of export incentives and enhancement of
the exporting environment. It would, through these means, support the
Government's on-going efforts to achieve structural reform.



-8-
HIl. STRUCTURE AND OPERATIONS OF THE BANKING SYSTEM
A. Introduction
3.01     The banking sector is crucial to Yugoslavia's efforts to constrain
dcmestic demand, to shift resources toward the sectors producing tradeables,
and to increase the efficiency of investment. Past stabilization efforts have
relied on fiscal restraint (balancing of the public sector budget), ceilings
on bank lending, and limited adjustment in nominal interest rates. However,
as indicated by the persistence of inflation, there were a number of policy
and structural factors which have blunted these efforts. The most important
of these are: (a) the financial indiscipline in the enterprise and banking
sectors which permitted deferral and capitalization of losses by the
enterprises and the banks, continued distribution of dividends by banks and
high wage payments by eaterprises despite losses and poor profitability,
toleration of defaults or delays in payments by enterprises on their
obligations, and the assumption by the commercial banks of the foreign
exchange risk on a significant part of the foreign currency borrowings for the
enterprises and consequently of the losses resulting from dinar devaluation;
(b) the assumption by the National Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY) of the foreign
exchange risk (and resulting losses) on the large foreign currency deposits of
households; (c) negative real interest rates on dinar deposits, which shifted
the composition of deposits in favor of foreign currency deposits, provided
little incentive for saving, and spurred rapid expansion of an
inter-enterprise credit market and disintermediation of the banking system;
and (d) low interest rates on credits from the commercial banks and NBY,
particularly for "selective" credits to designated priority or "preferred"
sectors, which helped encourage excessive investment. Together with other
irstitutional characteristics of the banking system, these factors jeopardized
the liquidity and solvency of commercial banks.
3.02     In recent years, several laws and policy changes were instituted to
address the above problems. The most important of these for the commercial
banks are: prohibition on dinar lending against foreign exchange borrowing,
restrictions on lending to nonviable enterprises, attempts to achieve positive
real interest rates and to improve investment selection, and requirement to
build up reserve funds. The following sections present a brief description of
the structure of the banking system; a summary of the intent of the major new
legislation which has been introduced since 1985 to reinforce financial
discipline, improve investment selection, and strengthen the commercial banks;
and a summary of major recent changes in monetary, credit, and interest rate
policies.
B. Structure of the System
3.03     The financial institutions within the Yugoslav financial system
include: (i) the central banking system which consists of the NBY and the
national banks of the six Republics and two Autonomous Provinces (RAPs);
(ii) the commercial banking system which consists of 166 basic banks and nine



- 9 -
associated banks; and (iii) other financial institutions including the Post
Office Savings bank, the Yugoslav Bank for International Economic Cooperation
(YBIEC), and internal banks. The other important organizations which closely
relate to these financial institutions, are: the Social Accounting Service
(SDK), and the Association of Yugoslav Banks (YBA).
3.04     The central banking system is responsible for planning and
implementing monetary policies. The governor of NBY is appointed by the
Federal Assembly, and the governors in RAPS by the local assemblies. The nine
governors, each with an equal vote, constitute a board which makes policy
decisions. NBY has controlled credit extension of commercial banks directly
via obligatory reserve requirements, required liquidity ratios and credit
ceilings, and indirectly via allocation of loans to preferred sectors. These
selective credits and the monetary and credit policies empower NBY to control,
to a certain extent, the behavior and performance of tne commercial banks.
3.05     After 1972, the commercial banking structure changed from one
consisting of commercial banks and investment banks to a mixed banking system
engaged in both short-term and long-term operations. Commercial banks now
consist of basic banks, and associated banks.   The basic banks are
self-managed financial organizations representing the core of the commercial
banking system and function as financial intermediaries engaged in short-term
and long-term operations with public and private clients. The founding
members of basic banks are the enterprises, internal banks of enterprises,
self-management communities, and other institutions except governments. Two
or more basic banks can form an asbociated bank through a Self-Management
Agreement (SMA). The major functions of associated banks are to pool
resources and to handle foreign exchange operations on behalf of their member
basic banks. Basic banks tend to be members of the associated bank of the
same region. Jugobanka, a borrower under this project, has the widest
national coverage of all nine commercial bank groups in Yugoslavia. It is an
associated bank in Belgrade and its 24 constituent basic banks are spread
throughout Yugoslavia. In the case of the other two borrowers under this
project, LBL is an associated bank in Ljubljana whose constituent basic banks
number 22 (only 9 of which are outside Slovenia) and UBB is an associated bank
in Belgrade whose constituent basic banks number 20, only one of which is
outside Serbia.
3.06     The basic feature of the Yugoslav banks is the structure of ownership
by the enterprises. The banks' assemblies, board of directors and their
credit committees are composed of representatives of founding enterprises.
The banks' management boards are appointed by the assemblies. Under
regulations in effect until recently, founding members had unlimited liability
for the obligations of their bank. This liability has now been limited in the
case of dinar obligations to the funds invested by members in their banks
(para. 3.11).
3.07     An internal bank is a financial service organization established
through an SMA among Basic Organizations of Associated Labor (BOAL). Although
internal banks are not considered financial institutions in the proper sense



- 10 -
and are not subject to monetary regulation, they are very important as a
cooperative source of funding to facilitate investment of their member BOALs.
These banks are closed financial institutions of BOALs and communities of
interest. They are allowed to accept deposits only from member BOALs and
their workers.
3.08     YBIEC is a semigovernmental institution which was established in 1980
for the promotion of foreign economic cooperation. YBIEC's owners are over
three hundred major capital goods and services exporters, and its funds are
obtained mainly from the commercial banks under a pool agreement and from
NBY. YBIEC now operates under a new law of June 1987, which gives it broad
authority to borrow and lend, guarantee and insure, and provide information
and assistance to other banks and exporters. YBIEC's primary operations are
the rediscounting of export credits from commercial banks which are currently
restricted to capital equipment, ships, major projects, overseas investment
and engineering services. YBIEC also provides noncommercial export credit
insurance to exporters and offers commercial insurance in cooperation with
other local insurance and reinsurance companies. YBIEC's export credit
insurance program can also cover raw materials, intermediate goods and
consumer products. YBIEC has a council which overseas operations on behalf of
the government and is responsible for export financing and joint ventures.
The president and the secretary of the council are appointed by the Federal
Executive Council.
3.09     SDK is the financial auditor of banks and enterprises and other
entities. All social legal entities are required to maintain accounts in SDK
which also serves as a clearing house for all transactions carried out by
these entities (except government). SDK reports directly to the Federal
Assembly and the assemblies of republics and autonomous provinces.
3.10     All banks must be members of YBA, whose most significant function is
to initiate and organize cooperation among member banks through
self-management agreements. A notable example of these are the agreements on
uniform interest rates on deposits. The YEA has managed the development of the
recently approved Common Methodology for investment selection which is to be
applied throughout Yugoslavia (para. 4.50).
C. Laws and Regulations
3.11     Until recently, the commercial banking system in Yugoslavia was
governed by the banking law of 19771' which set out the basic structure and
functions of the banking system as described in the paragraphs above. In
1985, a new banking law was introduced,-/ and the banks were given until the
end of 1986 to comply with Che new law. While this law left the basic
structure of the commercial banking system unchanged, it was designed to
1/ Law on the Foundations of the Credit and Banking System.
2/ The Law on the Premises of the Banking and Credit System.



#                                 ~~~~~~~~~~-   1 1   -
enhance the financial strength, the autonomy and the accountability of the
banking system through (i) limiting liabili-y of the enterprises owning banks,
(ii) raising requirements on reserves and provisions, (iii) requiring adequate
evaluation of investment projeCLS and proper supervisior. of investments, and
(iv) closer monitoring of bank liquidity. The Yugoslav banks have had very
low reserves, due to their past practice of distributing dividends to their
members without adequate allocation to the reserve funds.-I To help ensure
buildup of an adequate equity base and a liquidity cushion, the new banking
law requires that by 1990 each bank attain a Joint Liability Fund of no less
than 52 of its lending portfolio in the previous year, and a Reserve Fund of
no less than 5% of its lending portfolio in the current year, with a minimum
build up for each fund of 1% per year.
3.12     The main objectives of the 1986 Banking Law have been reinforced by
the passage of a Law on Total Income and Revenue (the new Accounting Law)
which also became effective on January 1, 1987. This law mandates inflation
accounting with the purpose, interalia, of ensuring that the banks revalue
assets and liabilities, charge positive real interest rates, and build up
reserve funds. Z'
3.13     The new Accounting Law also eliminates the possibility of deferring
current foreign exchange losses by requiring that current foreign exchange
1/ Banking institutions are required to establish the following reserves out
of their annual surpluses: The Joint Liability Fund (JLF), the Fixed
Assets Fund, and the Reserve Fund (RF). These funds constitute the
equivalent of the bank's equity capital. The JLF is used for writing off
losses. The Fixed Assets Fund covers expenditures incurred in providing
fixed assets needed for the operation of the bank. The RF is used to
maintain the liquidity of the bank.
2/ The law requires that income statements be divided into two parts: a
revaluation statement and a new form of income statement. After January
1, 1987, interest rates have included two components. The larger is the
revaluation rate, which is based on the inflation rate, as was measured in
1987 by the producer price index in the past six months. Interest on this
component is treated as revenue in the revaluation statement. Other
interest is credited to the income statement, which is prepared on a cash
basis. The revaluation statement is calculated on an accrual basis. The
profitability of banks is measured by net income from the income
statement. The revaluation of fixed assets is computed on the basis of a
coefficient set by NBY, and is credited to the revaluation statement. The
surplus of the revaluation statement is fully allocated to the reserve
funds. The law permits banks to cover losses of their income statements
from the surplus of the revaluation statement only for 1987 and 1988 but
not thereafter, and thus will help expedite build up of the banks reserves
base funds.



- 12 -
losses or gains must be charged to the revaluation statement.1'  In
addition, under other new regulations (the new foreign exchange and foreign
credit relations laws which came into effect on January 1, 1986), the banks
can only borrow in foreign exchange on behalf of the enterprises, except for
limited am,ounts of short-term foreign exchange borrowing on their own accou-t.
3.14     The new Accounting Law also prohibits banks from granting new loans
for capital expenditure to enterprises which have delayed repayment on
existing loans, and requires that a penalty interest rate of 150% of the
revaluation rate be charged to enterprises on delayed payments. This law also
requires the banks to set up a 100% provision for loans in arrears over 60
days.
D. Monetary Policies
3.15     Interest Rate Policies.  In addition to the new legislation, there
have been significant changes in interest rate policies. Interest rates in
Yugoslavia were low and fixed during the 1970s. Under the 1983 SAL, the
Yugoslav government undertook to increase gradually the interest rates to
positive real levels by 1987-1989. From 1982, the Government began to adjust
interest rates, slowly at first, and more frequently since 1984 (Annex 3). In
an effort to ensure positive real rates, a number of adjustments were made in
1987. As of January 1, 1987, the interest rates on all new dinar credits and
on dinar credits granted previously at a variable rate were required to be
higher than the revaluation rate, set quarterly by NBY on the basis of
increase in the producer price index over the past six months period (para.
3.12).2/ As of that date, NBY's discount rate was set at 1% above the
revaluation rate. Except for selective credits, each bank is permitted to set
its own dinar lending rates above the revaluation rate, and banks have been
permitted to capitalize the revaluation portion of the interest payment.3"
Both lending and deposit interest rates were substantially
1/  As previously mentioned, the Yugoslav banks used to carry the foreign
exchange risk on a significant part of their foreign exchange borrowings
and have accumulated very large foreign exchange losses due to frequent
devaluations. The deferred losses accumulated in the 1981 to 1985 period
must be written off from future income within 13 years.
2/  Yugoslav banks carry in their portfolios considerable amounts of long-term
loans made at fixed interest rates in the pre-1984 period. 0r loans in
foreign exchange, banks currently charge a commission in dinars of 0.5%
(above their cost of borrowing) on the outstanding dinar equivalent of the
loan.  This commission has been uniform for all banks as set by agreement
within the YBA.
3/  On selective credits, banks are permitted to charge 2% interest above the
NBY discount rate on the part (generally 30%) discounted by NBY.  On the
undiscounted share of selective credits banks can charge their regular
lending rates.



- 13 -
increased since January 1987. Lending rates on short-term loans increased
from a range of 58% to 83% in January to a range of 130% to 1582 (0% to 12%
over the revaluation rate) in October. The corresponding figures for
long-term loans were 507 to 75% in January and 1302 to 153% (0% to 10% over
the revaluation rate) in October. As of July 1, 1987 interest rates on
deposits of over 3 months were also required to exceed the revaluation rate.
Interest rates on dinar deposits are uniform and agreed upon within the
Yugoslav Bank Association (YBA). Interest rates for dinar deposits over 3
months increased from 46% (compared to a revaluation rate of 607) in January
1987 to 131  (17% over the revaluation rate) in October 1984 and for 6 month
deposits from 52% to 132% (12 over the revaluation rate) in the same period.
However, despite these substantial increases, in practice, the real interest
rates were still negative in 1987, since they were based on inflation rates in
the prior 6-month period, while the rate of inflation accelerated.
3.16     Adjustments in interest rate policies have been made beginning in
1988. The revaluation rate was to be adjusted monthly on the basis of the
annualized change in the retail price index (RPI) the previous month. The
interest rate on demand deposits was set at 7.5% for both household and
enterprise deposits for the first quarter of 1988. Interest rates on deposits
of one month were set equal to the revaluation rate, and on 3-month deposits
at 2 percentage points above this revaluation rate.
3.17     On foreign currency deposits of households, interest rates were set
at 2 to 4 percentage points above foreign interest rates for demand and time
deposits, respectively. These interest rates are reasonable.
3.18     In the Standby Agreement approved in principle by the IMF Board
(para. 2.13), the Government agreed to introduce policies designed to use
interest-rate fluctuations to control domestic credit size and allocation, as
well as to enhance the attractiveness of dinar financial deposits relative to
foreign-currency deposits. Minimum interest rates on 3-month deposits will be
at least 5% above Lhe revaluation rate. Correspondingly higher rates will be
applied on deposits of longer maturities. In addition, an important change
will be introduced in the revaluation method of deposits and loans. The
principal of term loans of maturities of one year or longer and of time
deposits of 3 months or longer will be indexed and revalued monthly by the
increase in the RPI recorded for the concurrent month. Interest rates will be
calculated monthly on the revalued principal.
3.19     Control of Monetary Aggregates.  The agreement with the IMF will lead
to major changes in the instrutnents of control of monetary aggregates. In the
past, credit ceilings at the level of individual commercial banks have been
the main instrument of credit policy. This introduced severe rigidities and
adversely affected the efficiency of the financial system. The new policy
will shift from credit ceilings on commercial banks to reserve money
management through control over changes in the net domestic assets (NDA) of
NBY. Authority has been given to NBY to freely set the discount rate, which
is expected to be raised to 5% above the revaluation rate. In addition,
rediscount rates are expected to vary frequently, and the role of selective



-14 -
credits will be reduced. NBY is also expected to use bills with market
related interest rates to regulate the liquidity of commercial banks on a more
flexible basis. If these instruments do not prove to be sufficiently
effective, credit ceilings might be reintroduced in a transitional period.
3.20     Since January 1988, banks have been required to deposit with NBY
obligatory reserve requirements of 11% on all dinar deposits. In the future,
the reserve requirements will be adjusted in order to regulate credits.
Presently NBY pays a nominal interest rate of 3% on reserves. This rate is
very low and reduces significantly the profitability of the banks. NBY is
considering paying interest on these reserves equal to at least the
revaluation rate.
E. Conclusion
3.21     Important measures have been taken since 1986 to change practices
which had undermined the financial stability of the banks; and in practice,
the banks have complied with most of the new laws and regalations but not with
all of them (para. 4.21). However, despite improvements, interest rates on
deposits and credits continued to be negative up to 1988, and further measures
are needed to strengthen the financial position of the banks. The expected
changes in monetary policies as well as in the foreign exchange system will
affect the structure of the banks' liabilities, by increasing the share of
dinar-denominated term deposits and reducing the share of foreign-currency
deposits. Vhereas indexation of dinar term deposits would increase the cost
of funds for the banks, the less-rigid monetary and foreign-exchange systems
should enable the banks to introduce more flexible policies.
3.22     There is al:;o a vital need to improve accounting procedures in banks
and enterprises and to enhance the scope and the quality of external audits.
This project aims at strengthening the three largest banking groups comprising
about 50% of the total assets of all commercial banks in Yugoslavia. In
addition to a program of financial measures to be taken to this end (paras.
4.23-4.31), the project would provide technical assistance to improve the
financial management of the three banking groups. Also, in conjunction with
this project, the Government plans to work with other important institutions
in the sector on strengthening the supervisory and regulatory agencies of the
banking system, and improving the quality and increase the scope of bank
audits (para. 4.50).



- 15 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Rationale and Bank Lending Strategy
4.01     The main objective of the Bank's strategy for Yugoslavia is to assist
the Government to increase efficiency, mobility and competition in the economy
and improve resource mobilization and allocation. Many of the measures that
were carried out by the Government between 1983 and 1985 to this end had been
undertaken under the first SAL, which was approved in June 1983 and was fully
disbursed by the end of August 1985. A Standby Agreement has since been
approved in principle by the IMF Board subject to the completion of the
financing plan expected by end-June 1988. A second Structural Adjustment Loan
from the Bank is also currently being discussed with the Government. The
Government is also collaborating with the Bank on a financial sector study
with a view to a future program of financial sector adjustment.
4.02     Export development, rehabilitation of industrial enterprises, and
technology development, and promotion of small scale industries are the
principal objectives of the Government's current strategy for the industrial
sector. Seven Bank lines of credit were extended in support of industrial
development in Yugoslavia between 1974 and 1983 and have helped finance medium
and small scale manufacturing projects in four less-developed regions of
Yugoslavia. The SAL helped establish an Export Development Fund (EDF) to
finance imports of essential inputs for expansion of exports. A line of
credit intermediated by LBL to promote energy conservation in Yugoslav
industry was approved by the Board in April 1987. The four industrial credit
lines which have been completed so far have met their investment financing
objectives successfully both in terms of volume and quality of investment.
The EDF under the SAL removed an important financial bottleneck to export
growth. IFC started its involvement in Yugoslavia in 1970, and since then has
made a large number of investments to assist industrial development. Its most
recent investment is the 1987 loan to Vojvodjanska Banka for small and
medium-sized export-oriented investments. This project would also focus on
export development as well as on the strengthening of major financial
intermediaries and is expected to support investment in enterprises throughout
Yugoslavia.
B. Project Objectives
4.03     The principal objectives of the proposed project are to expedite
growth of efficient exporting from Yugoslavia and to strengthen the banks to
enhance their effectiveness in resource allocation and in promoting financial
discipline in the economy. The project would achieve these goals through
(i) improvements in the export administration and export finance systems and
in export marketing; (ii) the strengthening of key financial institutions; and
(iii) the careful selection and financing of good export projects in sound
enterprises. It has been designed to complement and to help facilitate
Yugoslav efforts to stabilize the economy, to strengthen the financial sector,
and to achieve growth through improved factor productivity and export
competitiveness.



- 16 -
C. Project Description
4.04     The project consists of a line of credit component and a technical
assistance component. Funds from the line of credit would be on-lent for
investment in export-oriented manufacturing industries to improve product
quality and international competitiveness and to expand or develop new
competitive capacity. These funds will be utilized to finance capital
investments and associated incremental foreign exchange working capital, and
will be provided in equal amounts to the three participating commercial banks:
Jugobanka, LBL, and UBB. These participating banks expect to leceive requests
for financing of subprojects from enterprises throughout Yugosla-ia and will
be responsible for appraising these investment projects in accordance with
Bank agreed standards.  All subproject appraisals will include assessment of
financial and economic viability, market prospects and marketing, technology,
the sponsoring enterprise, and impact on the environment. The subprojects are
likely to be distributed over about fifteen industrial subsectors.
4.05     The technical assistance component is designed to assist in
strengthening the three participating banks. It will consist of assistance
for the three banks for *nstitutional development.
4.06     In parallel with the Project, the FSFER will carry out programs to
develop a duty exemption system for exporters (para. 4.10) and to prepare
measures to improve exporters' access to imported inputs (para. 4.12). The
Government also intends to support YBIEC, NBY, SDK and YBA in carrying out
programs to strengthen the export and banking sectors.
D. Export Environment
4.07     A program to improve the competitiveness of Yugoslav industries which
currently export, and to redirect resources toward industries which have
potential for efficient exporting, is crucial to future prospects of
sustainable growth. A stabilization effort without the severe import
compression which characterized earlier adjustment programs requires sustained
export receipts to cover the projected level of imports and the substantial
hard currency debt service requirements. Furthermore, given the importance of
fighting the high rate of inflation through restraints on domestic demand,
growth in industrial production must necessarily be directed toward foreign
demand. Therefore, prospects of increasing output growth through productivity
increases requires a rechannelling of resources toward activities which are
internationally competitive.
4.08     In addition to appropriate adjustment of the exchange rate, it is
therefore critical that in the sequencing of future reform, priority be given
to those policy and administrative measures which would (i) ensure automatic
access to intermediate inputs at world market prices for all export production
activities; (ii) assure easy access to pre- and post-shipment financing at
appropriate cost for all export production and sales activities; and
(iii) provide efficient support mechanisms for export marketing efforts.
Within this framework, in order to provide a policy environment which would



- 17 -
permit domestic inputs to export manufacturing to be competitive with imported
inputs, indirect exporters must be assured access to the export incentives
being granted to final exporters. These would be the minimum conditions
needed to put Yugoslav exporters on an equal looting with foreign competitors,
and would be fur.damental in eliminating the disadvantages which exporters face
compared to producers for the domestic market (in view of the higher quality,
additional risks and lower prices involved in export as compared to domestic
markets).
4.09     This project aims at facilitating the access of exporters to
duty-free inputs through measures to be taken immediately by the Government
and the banks (paras. 4.10 and 4.12). A study to be undertaken in parallel
with the project would help provide the analytical foundation for further
enhancement of export marketing and finance (para. 4.16).
(1) Export Administration
4.10     Duty Exemption System.  Although duties are currently relatively low,
tariffs may be used to replace quotas in the initial phase of the proposed
trade liberalization program where continued protection on a temporary basis
is warranted. This would increase the importance of the dutv drawback/exemp-
tion schemes in ensuring that exporters have access to imported inputs at
world market prices. The major administrative instrument currently used to
provide duty-free status for exporters in Yugoslavia is the fixed drawback
system which refunds estimated duties according to preset schedules. The
current method of setting these schedules on the basis of average export
production and input-output coefficients at the subsector level can
underrefund duties paid by some exporters and overrefund duties paid by
others. The rebate is given only after receipt of payment for the export which
in some cases can involve a period of several years. This has led to delays
in the rebate which, in the present inflationary environment, significantly
erodes the benefit to the exporter. Based on recommendations made by the Bank
in the course of project formulation, an agreement was obtained at loan
negotiations from the Government that it would carry out through the FSFER a
program to establish and implement a duty exemption system for exporters, in
accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the Bank. As per this program
(Annex 4-1), the phased implementation of the duty exemption system would be
completed by end September, 1990.
4.11     Access to Intermediate Inputs.  Despite the policy objective
reflected in the trade and foreign exchange laws of supporting export
production by allowing preference in the allocation of K and LBO imports, the
difficulty in accessing imported inputs is still one of the most severe
1/  An existing duty exemption system has been designed and used only for
temporary imports.



- Is -
constraints faced by exporters. The administrative mechanisms currently used
to determine the quotas and foreign exchange requirements do not clearly
distinguish between export and nonexport activities and are backward looking
in that they allocate primarily on the basis ot hiistorical use rather than
current needs. They could thus discriminate against new exporters, and
discourage currernt exporters to substantially expand their exports.  In
addition to the lost export potential, these factors may have in part
reinforced an already concentrated and inflexible industrial structure, and in
part contributed to the severe present shortage of foreign exchange available
for production needs.
4.12     The Federal Secretariat for Foreign Economic Relations will carry out
a review to evaluate the ease with which exporters can currently access
imported inputs. This review will provide an analytical basis for improving
the mechanisms which govern such access, and for facilitating further import
liberalization and operations of a market-based allocation system of foreign
exchange. At negotiations, an agreement was obtained from the Government that
this review would be carried out under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank and would be completed by March 31, 1989, and that the results of the
study and the proposed follow-up actions would be discussed and reviewed with
the Bank. The terms of reference for the study were also finalized during
negotiations and are given in Annex 4-2.    In addition, as a first step to
establishing a forward looking system which would place new exporters more at
par with existing exporters and would encourage firms to expand their exports,
agreements were obtained from the banks participating in this project that
they will adopt by December 31, 1988, credit policy guidelines to facilitate
the access of new exporters and expanding exporters (whose requests are based
on confirmed export L/Cs, proper payment guarantees and safeguard mechanisms)
to foreign currency needed for inputs.
(2) Export Financing and Promotion
4.13      In the present system of export finance, exporters have access
through the commercial banks to preshipment and short-term postshipment export
loans. The $275 million Export Development Fund (EDF) financed under SAL and
operated by UBB is currently the only foreign currency loan scheme supported
by the Government. For dinar loans, a maximum of 40% of the postshipment
loans and of 23% to 40% of the preshipment loans are currently rediscounted by
NBY at a discount rate set every quarter equal to the revaluation rate plus
1%. 1/ For the portion of the loans it rediscounts, NBY has required that
the banks charge at least the rediscount rate, and at most that rate plus a 2%
spread. Medium- and long-term postshipment export loans are provided by the
YBIEC.Z'  YBIEC loans are denominated in dinars and carry a rate comparable
1/ At the end of 1986, NBY had rediscounted only about one-fifth of the total
outstanding (US$1.2 billion equivalent) preshipment loans, and about
one-third of the total (US$1.3 billion equivalent) postshipment loans.
2/ YBIEC granted about $3.4 billion equivalent of these loans during the
1981-1986 period (of which 52% was for equipment and machinery export and
31% for the shipbuilding industry).  About $708 million of such loans were
granted in 1986.



- 19 -
to the NBY guidelines for the short-term export loans. As previously
mentioned, YBIEC is the only agency in Yugoslavia which provides export credit
insurance against noncommercial risks; it is currently not permitted to
provide insurance against commercial risk, except as a coinsurer with private
insurance companies.
4.14     There are a number o. .nortcomings to this export finance system:
(a) a 22 spread is too low to provide enough of an incentive for banks to take
the risks of potential nonperformance by exporters and to cover the banks'
handling costs; (b) over 90X of Yugoslavia's exports are now covered by
buyers' bank guarantees. As more and more exports are sold to private sector
buyers in many countries, it will be necessary that non-L/C methods of
payments become increasingly accepted by banks and exporters in Yugoslavia;
(c) this would require considerable extension of available commercial risk
coverage and strengthening of the commercial risk insurance agencies; and if
this is to be accomplished through expansion of YBIEC's export credit
insurance system, it may be necessary to increase the bank's capital base for
commercial risk coverage, extend its coverage to all exports, and improve its
capacity to handle such risk on a larger scale; and (d) a gradual move from
dinar denominated to foreign currency schemes for all postshipment loans
should be considered since the present arrangements are causing (instead of
alleviating ) working capital problems for the exporters and resulting in
unnecessary cost to YBIEC.
4.15     There is also a need to enhance the marketing of Yugoslav exports.  A
more active interest by firms in technology rather than marketing and the
legacy of trade with the public sector in many partner countries may be two of
the factors which have slowed development of export marketing in Yugoslavia.
Many enterprises and numerous institutions (the trading companies, marketing
institutes, the Chambers of the Economy, the banks, as well as the Government)
are involved in aspects of the current efforts to promote Yugoslav exports
through improved marketing. However, there is a need to develop a catalytic
center(s) which can inspire and lead exporters in developing workable and
imaginative export marketing strategies in such a way as to spur innovation,
flexibility, and aggressive marketing of exports, and at the same time, to
permit the pooling of the resources needed to develop the massive information
base and market linkages required.
4.16     As part of the appraisal of this project, preliminary reviews of the
export finance system and of export marketing in Yugoslavia were undertaken
with the assistance of Bank consultants. These reviews are expected to be
further developed through a study of industrial export competitiveness to be
carried out by YBIEC. Preliminary terms of reference for this study were
developed in collaboration with the Bank. The study is to be implemented in
three phases. The first phase will concentrate on an analysis of the
effectiveness of current export marketing in Yugoslavia and of the adequacy of
the export finance system, with the objective of leadirg to concrete policy
recommendations and proposals for institut.onal development in these areas.
Phase II will aim at assessing possible ir,dustrial strategies for broadly
defined engineering product groups; and Phase III will aim at designing a firm



- 20 -
level action program for capital good exports based on an in-depth micro
analysis of the product groups selected as strategic groups in Phase II. This
is an ambitious program to enhance export finance, marketing and export
competitiveness, for which assistance from high-caliber local and
international experts will be needed. In conjunction with this project, the
Government has stated its intention to provide full support to YBIEC in
carrying out this program. In addition, the policies of the three
participating banks toward export credits will be covered under the credit
policy guidelines to be adopted and implemented by end 1988 by each bank
(para. 4.12). Also, in line with recommendations made by the Bank in the
course of project formulation, the three banks confirmed at loan negotiations
that they have increased their interest rates on preshipment export loans (for
the part nct discounted by NBY) so that, for each bank, the weighted average
of these rates is currently 12% above the revaluation rate. This step should
encourage the banks to accept the credit risks that may be involved in
extending preshipment e  no-t loans to new and potential exporters.
E. The Participating 6aDkc
(1) Background
4.17     The banks who will be the intermediaries vnder this project are three
of the largest and relatively stronger of the nine commercial banks (or bank
groups) in Yugoslavia.  In terms of assets, they account for about 50% of the
total assets of the nine banks.  They are critical in terms of coverage of
export-oriented industries, and have currently the readiest and most viable
export-oriented subproject pipelines. As previously indicated, the difficult
economic environment in recent years and the specific institutional
characteristics of the banking system have jeopardized the financial position
of all Yugoslav banks. Like others, the three borrowing banks have been
unfavorably affected. However, each of the three banks has begun to take
actions to remedy this situation and each has agreed to implement a multiyear
program of financial measures under this project to substantially expand and
accelerate these efforts. These programs will permit the banks to improve
significantly their financial performance, and will enable them to sustain and
further improve their performance if improvement is achieved in the overall
economic and financial environment.
(2) Past Performance
4.18     The overall financial performance of the three banks up to 1986 is
summarized in Annexes 4-3, 4-4 and 4-5. Prior to 1986, the three banks
accumulated large foreign exchange losses due to the general practice of
Yugoslav banks of lending in unlinked dinars (i.e., with repayments not tied
to changes in exchange rates) a significant part of their foreign exchange
borrowing. Sharp and frequent devaluations and reschedulings of such loans
increased these losses. Up to 1986, banks did not write off these losses when
they occurred but treated them as deferred losses and included them as assets
in their balance sheets. Two of the three banks (Jugobanka and UBB) had low
collection ratios. The net income of the three banks was low even prior to



- _1 -
necessary adjustments to conform with generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP). As a ratio of assets, unadjusted net income in 1984 was 0.9% for
Jugobanka, 0.7% for LBL and 1.9% for UBB. However, with adjustments to
conform with GAAP (e.g. by writing off all current losses), net income was
negative in 1984 and 1985 for all three banks. Up to 1985, all three banks
did not allocate income to reserve funds, but distributed most of their
unadjusted income as dividends to owners. On an adjusted basis, the three
banks showed negative equity in 1984 and 1985.
4.19     The overall tinancial performance of the three banks improved to some
extent in 1986 following the enactment of new banking and accounting laws.
Current foreign exchange losses and a part of the deferred losses were written
off in 1986.  Net income increased substantially, and even on an adjusted
basis became positive in 1986 (as a percentage of assets, it was 3% fot
Jugobanka, 1.9% for LBL, and 1.1% for UBB).  None of the three banks built up
the RF and the JLF by 1% in 1986 as required by law, and they all continued to
distribute dividends to owners . Ncvcrtheless, the increase in incomp pnqlhlpd
all three banks to reach a position of adjusted positive net worth in 1986.
4.20     Among the three banks, financial performance differed in some
respects. Jugobanka reduced arrears as a ratio of maturities due from 23% in
1985 to 11.5% in 1986 (excluding rescheduling of external debts to foreign
banks). LBL was the only bank among the three banks to increase total assets
in real terms between 1984 and 1986 (at an annual average of around 4%) and
was able to maintain an arrears ratio of maturities due of only about 1%
during this period. LBL also wrote off in 1986 a higher share of deferred
foreign exchange losses (about 18%) than the two other banks. However, LBL
incurred higher losses due to Agrokomerc (an agricultural conglomerate in
Bosnia-Herzegovina, now under bankruptcy) promissory notes than Jugobanka and
UBB. UBB had in 1986 a high arrears ratio of almost 27% of maturities due,
excluding rescheduling. It also incurred large losses of about US$155 million
equivalent due to the exchange risk arising from the Bank's currency pooling
under SAL, which it did not cover.
4.21     Unaudited financial statements for 1987 indicate further improvement
in financial performance of the three banks. All tnree banks set up
provisions against heavy losses on Agrokomerc promissory notes as well as
against arrears over 60 days. The three banks wrote off foreign exchange
losses incurred in 1987 and a higher than the legally required share of
deferred foreign exchange losses carried over from previous years. The net
income of UBB and Jugobanka in 1987 amounted to Din 19 billion and
Din 6 billion respectively; LBL showed a loss of Din 13 billion as a result of
provisioning against higher Agrokomerc losses than the two other banks. All
three banks had substantial surpluses on the "revaluation account" (para.
3.12). All three banks increased their JLF by 4.0-4.5% as compared to the 1%
legally required build up. On the other hand, none of the three barks built
up the RF by the required 1%, mainly because the RF (unlike JLF whi,h can be
used for lending) has to be deposited with NBY at 0% interest. Jugobanka and
LBL did not distribute funds (dividends) to members in 1987; UBB distributed
4.9% of its total income (i.e. of its net income plus the surplus of the
revaluation account).



- 22 -
(3) Program of Financial Measures
4.22     Preliminary financial results for 1987 and projections of financial
performance of the three banks are shown in Annexes 4-3 to 4-5. These
projections take into account recent changes in monetary policies introduced
in January 1988, as well as important additional changes supported by the
Standby Agreement approved in principle by the IMF Board (para. 3.18 and
3.19). Updated financial projections will be reviewed annually with each of
the borrowing banks; and several measures will be taken by each bank under
this project in order to strengthen its financial position.
4.23     Increase in Rates of Commission and Interest.  The projections
clearly show that in order to achieve satisfactory financial performance, the
three banks have to take several measures to increase substantially their
earnings. In taking such measures the banks are constrained by several
factors. At the end of 1986, about 10% of their total loans were at a fixed
nominal interest rate of 13%.  Foreign exchange loans conbstituting 16% v'
their lending portfolio generated a commission of 0.5%, a very low level given
the credit risks involved and handling costs. The 0.5% commission on
guarantees is also too low. Prior to April 1988, the commission rates on
foreign exchange loans and on foreign exchange guarantees had been kept
uniform among all Yugoslav banks through a self-management agreement.
Following a recent decision within the YBA, each bank is now free to set its
commission rates in accordance with its own policies, taking into account the
credit risk of borrowers, maturities and currencies.  During negotiations,
agreements were obtained that an interest rate policy would be adopted which
will ensure that for each bank earnings will be sufficient to cover expenses,
provisions, and allocations to funds. Initial increases in rates would be
implemented by July 1, 1988, and would consist of increases in the commission
on foreign exchange loans to a weighted average of at least 3%, in the
commissions on guarantees to a weighted average of at least 1%, and in
interest rates on dinar loans to a weighted average rate of 15% or higher
above the revaluation rate. Implementation of these increases will constitute
a condition of effectiveness of each loan agreement. Thereafter, the adequacy
of the interest rates and other charges to be set by each bank in satisfying
the earnings performance referred to above will be reviewed annually with the
Bank. A substantial increase in income is one of the major prerequisites
needed to enable the three banks to take the following additional measures
needed to strengthen their financial position.
4.24     Deferred and Current Foreign Exchange Losses.  The law requires the
banks to write off, within a period of 15 years (13 years starting 1987),
foreign exchange losses which were incurred in previous years, but were
deferred and placed as assets in their balance sheets. Agreements were
obtained with Jugobanka and LBL that they will eliminate deferred foreign
exchange losses within five years starting in 1988, at an annual rate of at
least 20% of the outstanding deferred losses as of end 1987. In order to take
into account the foreign exchange losses incurred under SAL, an agreement was
obtained from UBB that it will write off deferred foreign exchange losses
(including SAL losses shown as contingent liabilities) withini 6 years starting



- 23 -
in 1988 as follows: 5% in 1988, 20% in each of 1989-1992, and 15% in 1993 of
the outstanding losses as of end 1987. All three banks agreed, in addition,
to write-off all current foreign exchange losses in the year of occurrence.
4.25     Foreign Exchange Exposure.  Each of the three banks had a substantial
foreign exchange exposure at the end of 1987, primarily because of the past
practice of using foreign exchange borrowing for dinar lending. The current
levels of foreign exchange exposure could be a major source of future losses.
The new foreign exchange system (para. 2.13) should facilitate the process of
elimination of foreign exchange exposure. The banks will no longer be
required to surrender all their foreign exchange holdings to NBY, and will be
able to acquire in the interbank market foreign exchange against dinars.
Agreements were obtained from the three banks that they will take all measures
satisfactory to the Bank necessary to protect themselves against the risk of
foreign exchange losses. To this end, each of the three banks plans to
eliminate at least one-third of its end 1987 exposure annually starting in
1988. As of 1988, UBB is charging borrowers of EDF funds under the SAL a
Dremium to help cover future losses under SAL.
4.26     Arrears.  In 1986, the collection ratios for long-terir loans ' were
about 73% for UBB, 90% for Jugobanka, and 99% for LBL.  The coi  :tion rates
are expected to improve in view of (i) the provisions in the new accounting
law prohibiting banks from lending to enterprises in arrears on existing loans
unless these enterprises are implementing rehabilitation programs and
requiring banks to impose penalty interest rates on delayed payments
(para. 3.14); and (ii) future improvements in the bank's appraisal capacities
(para 4.49). As previously mentioned, this law also requires banks to
transfer arrears over 60 days to doubtful loans, and to set up provisions for
the total amount of doubtful loans (para. 3.14). At negotiations, agreements
were obtained from the three banks that these requirements regarding loan
losses be met. Confirmation was obtained that that the three banks have
complied with these requirements in 1987.
4.27     Rescheduling. Repayments of foreign exchange loans by enterprises to
banks have been rescheduled, according to arrangements made for all loans
rescheduled by agreements with foreign banks. In 1986, a small percentage of
dinar loans was also rescheduled; however, in 1987, as permitted by the new
accounting law, the banks capitalized about 50% of the revaluation component
of interest payments. AgLreements were obtained from the three banks at
negotiations that they will adopt by December 31, 1988, and implement
thereafter credit policy guidelines to ensure that loan reschedulings as well
as new lending are subjected to careful evaluation by the banks of the
financial viability and creditworthiness of the enterprises.
4.28     Losses on Promissory Notes.  The three banks incurred in 1987
substantial losses due to promissory notes issued by Agrokomerc.  These notes
1/  The ratio of cash collected divided by the total amount due excluding
foreign debt rescheduled through agreements with foreign banks.



- 24 -
were bought in part directly from Agrokomerc, and in part from enterprises,
which endorsed these notes. All notes have been guaranteed by Behatska Banka
which is presently under liquidation. The three banks set up provisions in
1987 against the notes which were uncollected by the end of 1987. The
adequacy of the provisions made should be evaluated by SDK in its 1987 audit
reports of the three banks. Receipt of the 1987 audit report of each bank
will be a condition of effectiveness of its loan agreement. The Government is
currently reviewing all regulations pertaining to promissory notes.
Agreements were obtained from the three banks to adopt and implement credit
policy guidelines by end 1988 to ensure that purchases of such notes are
subjected to careful evaluation.
4.29     Reserves.  It is difficult to define the adequate provision base
needed to protect the banks against potential portfolio losses.  However,
given the low levels of reserves of the banks, the general economic situation
in Yugoslavia, the severe financial problems of many enterprises, and the
currently low provision base of the banks, it is important that banks increase
these reserves against such losses. As stated earlier, the Banking Law of
1986 requires each bank to attain a Reserve Fund (RF) of 5% of the lending
portfolio in the current year, and a Joint Liability Fund (JLF) of 5% of the
lending portfolio of the previous year by 1990, and to increase each of the
two funds by no less than 1% annually. Agreements were obtained that the RF
and JLF of each bank would be increased annually in accordance with agreed
schedules (Annexes 4-3, 4-4, and 4-5) so that by end 1990 the amounts
allocated to the RF would be at least 5% of the current outstanding total loan
portfolio, and by end 1991 the amount allocated to the JLF would be at least
the sum of 5% of the previous year's outstanding total loan portfolio plus 2%
of the current outstanding medium and long-term loan portfolio, and to
maintain at least these levels of reserves thereafter. The increase in the
JLF above the legal limits would provide the banks with the necessary extra
cushion against portfolio losses.
4.30     Distribution to Members.  In order to help ensure that the reserves
build-up and write-off of foreign exchange losses requirements are achieved,
the banks will not distribute funds (dividends) to founders until the agreed
targets for the RF and JLF are met and all deferred and current foreign
exchange losses are written off. Agreements that this policy will be
implemented by the banks in 1988 and thereafter were obtained from Jugobanka,
LBL, and UBB at negotiations.
4.31     Financial Management Improvement and Audits.  There is a need to
improve the financial management of the three banks, particularly by improving
the management information system (MIS) and internal auditing. Technical
assistance to the borrowing banks for strengthening MIS and internal auditing
will be provided under this project. In addition, there is a need to expand
the scope of bank audits, to include additional analysis of portfolio quality,
adequacy of the provisions, foreign exchange exposure, arrears on the
long-term and short-term portfolio, collected interest payments, the banks'
contingent liabilities, and assessment of compliance with legal requirements.
Agreements were obtained at negotiations that the banks' accounts and



- 25 -
financial staterents would be audited annually by SDK and that the audits
would include the above analysis beginning with 1987 financial accounts.
(4) Projected Performance
4.32     The financial projections for 1988 to 1992 indicate a gradual
improvement of the financial performance of the three banks. Net income
(including surplus of the revaluation account) as a percentage of assets is
expected to increase from 2.9% in 1987 to 4.8% in 1991 for Jugobanka, from
1.4% to 4.0% for LBL, and from 1.3% to 4.0% for UBB. The projected arrears
ratio is expected to decrease by 1991 to 10% for UBB (from 27% in 1986), to 6%
for Jugobanka (from 10%) and remain low at 2% for LBL. It should, however, be
recognized that the banks' costs and earnings will be strongly affected by
future changes in the Yugoslav economic and financial environment, including
changes in exchange rates, interest rates, banking competition, and levels of
lending. These changes will have to be closely monitored. Agreements were
obtained at negotiations to ensure periodic Bank review of the progress made
by the ba..s i.. i..przv;  thc_r fii.a     pc rf-rnca.
F. The Subprojects
(1) Subproject Pipeline
4.33     The capital and foreign enchange shortages during much of the past
decade combined with the trade and industrial policies pursued by the country
have left the Yugoslav industrial sector with capital stock that is not well
suited to competition in convertible currency trade.  The capital stock of
those manufacturers reviewed by the appraisal mission tended to be: (a) aged,
outmoded, and costly to maintain and use; (b) designed initially to produce
low quality output at high volume for sale to ciearing trade areas; and
(c) designed and selected on the basis of input and output price ratios which
arose from an over-valued Dinar and a protected local market.
4.34     Yugoslavia finds itself confronted, on the one hand, by the need to
adjust its economy towards more efficiency-oriented pricing and, on the other
hand, by a capital stock that is not able to provide the desired short-run
supply response to a reformed price structure. Adjusting the capital stock
away from the protected local market and clearing trade orientation Qf
previous years is paramount to the efforts to assist the structural reform of
the economy. Such reorientation will require (i) investment in production
capacity more suited to a reformed environment, (ii) renewing and upgrading
the equipment of export-oriented firms, and changing production technology
towards the more flexible, quality-oriented production required by convertible
currency markets.
4.35     This project focuses on the smaller and more efficient of the
subprojects within the exporting community which aim at such a reorientation.
Because the transition from the current to a reformed environment will not be
immediate, it focuses on subprojects and enterprises which are financially
viable in both environments. This objective forces a careful project and
enterprise selection and appraisal and implies that only a targeted portion of
the existing demand would be met.



-26 -
4.36     By early May 1988, participating banks had received 62 subproject
proposals (with an estimated total cost of about US$1,160.0 million equivalent
and a foreign exchange requirement of about US$450.0 million) for financing
under the credit line (Annex 4-6).!" In addition, the banks were finalizing
arrangements for receiving subproject proposals from mostly nonmember
enterprises from all other regions in Yugoslavia.  The subprojects in the
current pipelines are distributed among about fifteen subsectors (with
greatest representation among the electrical appliances, automobile parts, and
textiles sectors) in which Yugoslavia has attained success in exporting.
Subproject and enterprise size within the proposed pipelines vary widely.
Fifty subprojects would require foreign exchange financing of less than US$7.0
million, and 29 would require foreign exchange financing of less than US$4.0
million. More than 802 involve rehabilitation and expansion directed to
upgrading product quality and to reorienting sales to convertible currency
markets, while the remaining 202 would produce new products for the
participating enterprises. As a basis for finalizing the eligibility criteria
and the appraisal methodology, and for assessing the pipeline, 18 subprojects
were appraised in some deLail by thLe appi-aiM - ..a..is.i. -   L .  j i p   i. z I...
banks, while the remainder were subjected to preliminary review. Of the 18
projects appraised, 13 were found to be financially and economically viable,
and ten met all of the criteria for inclusion under the line of credit as
described below.
(2) Eligibility Criteria
4.37     The investments under the proposed credit line would meet three sets
of criteria: (a) they must be export-oriented, (b) they must be commercially
and environmentally sound, and financially and economically viable, and
(c) they must be sponsored by enterprises who are managerially, commercially,
and financially strong. The detailed eligibility criteria given in paras.
4.38-4.41 below were be agreed with the participating banks at loan
negotiations.
4.38     Export Orientation.  As the project seeks to assist export-oriented
firms rather than marginal exporters and to encourage reorientation toward
convertible currency markets and currency-based transactions as opposed to
exchanges under cooperation agreements or barter trade, subprojects would be
considered export oriented if they satisfy the following criteria: they
export directly or indirectly by value (excluding premium and subsidies)
within 3 years of start-up in the case of expansion, moderniz-.tion or
debottlenecking of already-existing product operations, and within 5 years of
start-up in the case of new export product lines or new exporting enterprises
(i) at least 40% of tht. incremental output to convertible currency areas; and
(ii) at least 20% of the incremental output in exchange for convertible
foreign currency.
1/ This compares with total medium- and long-term lending in 1986 for
industry by the three participating banks of about US$1.4 billion
equivalent.



- 9 7 -
4.39     Project Viability.  The subprojects would need to meet the following
viability criteria: (i) the market analysis and marketing plan, the
technology, and the environmental impact must be judged to be satisfactorv;
(ii) the subproject would achieve a real economic internal rate of return
higher than 12% (the currently estimated opportunity cost of capital for
Yugoslavia); and (iii) the subproject would achieve a real financial internal
rate of return higher than 122 or the highest real interest rate on borrowed
funds for the subproject at the time of appraisal, whichever is higher.
4.40     Enterprise Eligibility.  The immediate problem for the participating
banks in this project is to assess the extent to which incremental resources
provided to an enterprise are used in productive wai and, thus, the extent to
which loans made to the enterprise increase the financial benefits in the
economy. The broader problem is to assess enterprise creditworthiness in
terms consistent with the long-term objective of supporting only those firms
which make a contribution to national economic efficiency.
4.41     In assessing Dorrower eiigiDiiiLy, Li*e participating banks will focus
on three determinants of enterprise strength: (i) assessment of management
competence and effectiveness; (ii) assessment of enterprise commercial
viability, and (iii) assessment of enterprise financial strength on the basis
of the investing enterprises' past and projected financial statements and
acceptable liquidity and profitability ratios. In judging whether an
enterprise has a satisfactory projected financial situation, the following
guidelines will be used: a return on revalued total assets of above 12X, a
current ratio above 1.2, and debt service coverage above 1.5. Yugoslav law
prohibits banks from lending to nonviable enterprises and excludes from
borrowing those enterprises which are more than 60 days in arrears on existing
loans (para. 3.14). Thus, the enterprises must also be current in terms of
debt service on existing financial obligations. The enterprises must also be
audited by SDK or another acceptable external auditor and must have
satisfactory audit reports.
(3) Appraisal and Supervision Methodology
4.42     Participating banks will submit subloan requests to thorough project
and enterprise appraisals to determine their eligibility as per the criteria
set in the paragraphs above and would ensure adequate supervision of the
subprojects during implementation.
4.43     All the subprojects will be prepared and supervised in accordance
with the recently developed Common Methodology which will be applied by all
Yugoslav enterprises and banks in project selection and monitoring. The
preparation missions for this project participated in the review of the
Methodological Guide to the Common Methodology and made recommendations for
adjustments which have been accepted.1'  The proposed methodology is
1/ An English translation of the summary of the Common Methodology and the
recommendations of the appraisal mission are included in the project file
(Annex 1).



- 28 -
therefore acceptable but still needs to be supplemented with satisfactory
assessment of shadow prices. The Government will be supporting a shadow
pricing study to be carried out by YBA (para. 4.50). As the shadow pricing
study is not expected to be available in the initial stages of project
implementation, satisfactory arrangements have been made with the
participating banks to ensure adequate economic appraisals of the subprojects
(para. 4.48).
(4) Appraisal and Supervision Capacities
4.44     The development of the Common Methodology has spurred the banks to
take several types of actions to enhance their appraisal and supervision
capacities. As indicated below, these actions have included organizational
changes, recruitment and redeployment of staff, and preparation for
implementation of major training programs and for utilization of computers in
project and enterprise analysis.
4.45     Currently, the allocation of roles and relative responsibilities in
project appraisal between the basic banks and the associated bank differ
substantially among the three bank groups who will participate in this
project. The SMA governing LBL transfers the major responsibility for project
appraisal to the associated bank, and a separate department within the LBL
associated bank (the Economic Institute) carries out these project
appraisals. The Institute is staffed with economists, engineers and financial
analysts with appropriate qualifications; and many of these staff have gained
experience in appraising projects under IFC and Bank funding. LBL has
complied with the agreements reached under the FY87 Energy Conservation
Project to recruit additional staff for the economic Institute and to
establish and adequately staff a separate supervision department, all within
1987. The supervision department has established procedures for loan
monitoring, including twice-yearly supervision visits. LBL has been
responsible for preparing the detailed procedural manuals for implementation
of the Common Methodology and has a number of staff who are fully familiar
with it.
4.46     Jugobanka's project appraisal and supervision is more decentralized
because of the geographic dispersion of its lending activities. Appraisal and
supervision are largely the responsibility of the credit departments of the
basic banks, which have experienced staff. The basic banks also employ the
services of specialized outside institutes. Staff within the Jugobanka
associated bank who have previously worked in the basic banks take the role of
coordinating and supervising subloan processing. They will also be increasing
the use of qualified outside institutes. As part of the preparations for
application of the Common Methodology, the associated and the basic banks have
already recruited additional staff and are planning to implement a substantial
program of training for staff throughout the group.
4.47     At UBB, subloan appraisals are conducted in some cases by the basic
banks and in others by the associated bank, and supervision is carried out by
the staff who appraised the projects. Investbanka and Agrobanka, two of the



- 29 -
three major basic banks of UBB, perform their own appraisals.  Both are
specialized basic banks with extensive secLOral experience and previous
experience with the Bank loans. On the other tiand, Beobanka (the largest
basic bank in Yugoslavia) and tne small basic banks within the UBB group have
conducted appraisals in conjunction with the associated bank and the Institute
for Economics of Investrment which was founded by all Belgrade banks to assist
in investment evaluation. In order to strengthen UBB's capacity to implement
the Common Methodology, this Institute, which is currently staffed with about
twenty highly educated professional engineers and economists, has been merged
as of end of 1987 with UBB, and will conduct or supervise project appraisals
within the group as needed. UBB has already initiated a training program to
prepare staff within the associated and basic banks for implementation of the
Common Methodology.
4.48     While their institutional arrangements and levels of skills of their
staff differ, it was the judgment of the appraisal mission that, given the
high caliber of the three banks' senior managers, their serious intent, and
the actions currently being taken, the three banks will become highly
competent in project assessment. However, in order to achieve this in the
shortest possible period, the banks' managements concurred with the appraisal
mission that it was important to utilize this project as effectively as
possible to build up their internal capacities in project appraisal, as well
as in portfolio monitoring and rehabilitation and financial management. As
indicated below, these goals would be achieved primarily through the technical
assistance to be provided under this project. In addition, in order to assist
them in economic appraisal of the subprojects under this line of credit (at
least until the shadow pricing study is completed), the banks would procure
the services of highly experienced local economists with qualifications
acceptable to the Bank. They will also utilize marketing and engineering
consultants as needed to e-isure fully adequate subproject appraisals.
Agreements to this effect were obtained at loan negotiations.
G. Technical Assistance
4.49     Technical assistance under the project will consist of assistance for
the borrowing banks. The current economic environment complicates the loan
appraisal, ,inancial management, and portfolio management tasks faced by the
three participating banks. The project seeks to assist the banks in these
areas by providing technical assistance for (i) strengthening and
supplementing bank appraisal and portfolio supervision and rellabilitation
capacities, (ii) improving the capacity for timely provision 3f management
information on bank financial position and loan portfolios, and
(iii) improving the internal auditing and control systems of the banks.
Technical assistance for each bank will include (i) foreign consultancy (for
MIS, information technology and lending operations); (ii) local consultancy
(for subloan appraisals and applications programming); (iii) foreign visits;
(iv) local and foreign training; and (v) software, publications, and
miscellaneous related items. Annex 4-7 summarizes the content of this
assistance as agreed with the three banks at negotiations.



- 30 -
H.  Aciofiyap ng Measures to Strengthen the Banking Sector
4.50     As part of the appraisal of this project, the Bank developed with
each of NBY, SDK and YBA a proposed program designed to enhance their
activities and strengthen the banking sector. The NBY program aims at
development of NBY's capacity and the capacities of the Republican National
Banks in banking supervision, and includes internal and external training of
bank supervisors, and development of supervision policies and procedures. The
SDK program includes strengthening SDV's bank and enterprise audit groups, and
would focus on the SDK Special Audit Group, which was established with the
encouragement and assistance of the Bank and IFC. The nunber and
qualifications of the staff of this Group has fallen far short of the targets
in the original development plans and does not permit the Group to cope with
the volume of audits of banks and enterprises currently required. This
program will support the Audit Group's management and audit staff, staff
training, and the development of audit curriculums. The YBA program includes
further development and dissemination by YBA of the Common Methodology for
investment selection. In conjunction with the development of this
methodology, YBA has developed a training program targetted at developing
trainers and a nucleus of expertise in the use of this methodology within the
banks and the enterprises. As previously mentioned, the Government will also
be supporting a YBA shadow pricing study which should produce two extremely
useful outputs: (i) static conversion factors which allow, at least, the
estimation of the indirect foreign exchange and other costs of domestically
provided inputs, and (ii) equilibrium shadow prices which relate to the
expected price structure during and after the structural adjustment process.
The study is scheduled to be initiated by September 1988, and it is expected
that more than 3 months of work will be required to develop the static
conversion factors and upwards of nine months to develop the equilibrium
estimates.  The YBA program will include the training program as well as the
shadow pricing study.  In support of the objectives of this project, the
Government has recommended to these institutions to complete preparation of
these programs and to implement them expeditiously, and has confirmed its
intention to provide these institution with full support for these programs.
I. Project Cost and Financing
4.51     The total cost of the subprojects expected to be financed under this
line of credit is currently estimated at about US$300.0 million of which
US$150 million would be in foreign exchange. This estimate is based on the
review of the current pipelines from the three borrowing banks, and the
expected proportion of the projects in those pipelines which would likely
qualify for inclusion under the credit line (Annex 4-6). This estimation of
the pipeline size is conservative in view of the fact that it does not take
into account subprojects which have not yet been identified by the
participating banks nor subprojects which could be proposed to them by other
banks in Yugoslavia. The total cost of the technical assistance components is
estimated at about US$2.0 million equivalent of which about US$0.8 million
would be in foreign exchange. These estimates cover the expected cost of



- 31 -
local and foreign consultants' services, training, software, publications and
related goods (Annex 4-7).
Project Cost
$Million
Local     Foreign   Total
Investments in Subprojects                              150.0      150.0    300.0
Technical Assistance                                      1.2         0.8      2.0
Total                                              151.2       10        302Q
Proposed Financing Plan
Local           Foreign         Total
Enterprises/Borrowing
Banks        IBRD
--------------(US$ million)--------------
Investments in subprojects                 150.0        30.8    119.2      300.0
Technical Assistance                         1.2         -        0.8        2.0
Total                                    '51.2        3.        120.0    32.
4.52     It is proposed that Bank loans aggregating to $120.0 million
equivalent be extended to the three borrowing banks who would be allocated
equivalent amounts. The borrowing banks would on-lend an aggregate amount of
$119.2 million to enterprises for investment. An amount of $800,000 would be
reserved by the banks for technical assistance. The local currency
requirement of the investment component, and the remaining foreign currency
requirement, would be covered by the enterprises and the participating
banks.1'  The local cost of the technical assistance would be covered by the
beneficiaries of this assistance.
J. Main Loan Features
4.53     The following main loan features were agreed at negotiations:
4.54     Subloan Appraisal and Supervision.  The Bank would approve subloans
based on acceptable appraisal reports for the subprojezts prepared by the
intermediary banks. All appraisal reports will contain a full description of
the subprojects (including goods and services required, details of procurement
and financial plan), and tiorough market, technical, environmental, economic
and financial evaluations of the subprojects, and an assessment of the
sponsoring enterprise. The market appraisal will include analysis of the
1/ Preliminary discussions are under way between the borrowing banks and the
Export Import Bank of Japan on possible cofinancing of this project. This
could result in an adjustment at a later date to the project financing
plan.



- 32 -
markets for the products to be produced under the subproject and of the
marketing plan; the technical appraisal will include an analysis and judgment
on the appropriateness of the technology and the engineering of the project.
The financial appraisal for the subprojects will include cash flow analyses of
project efficiency, profitability and liquidity. The ecoiomic appraisal will
include discounted cash flow analyses in which project inputs and outputs are
valued (directly and indirectly) at border prices. The analysis of the
soundness of the sponsoring enterprises would be carried out as per the
criteria set out in para. 4.41.  The participating banks would have to conduct
regular supervision of the subprojects. Agreements were reached at loan
negotiations on the detailed content of appraisal reports and on the
arrangements for subloan supervision.
4.55     Subloan Size and Free Limit.  The maximum subloan amount would be
US$7.0  million per subproject and per enterprise (generally a WO).'I  At
least $20 million of each loan would be provided to subprojects receiving $4.0
million or less in Bank funds. The maximum size of any subproject financed
under this credit would be US$25.0 million. These limits will have the
benefit of providing for the wide range of subprojects already identified,
including the .-maller subprojects. The free limit would be US$2.5 million.
The borrowing banks would approve subprojects within the free limit once the
Bank has reviewed three of that borrowing bank's appraisals of subprojects in
this category and has found them to be satisfactory. For projects above the
free limit, prior Bank approval would be required.
4.56     Subloan and Loan Maturities.  The repayment period of the subloans
for investment would not exceed fifteen years with a grace period of five
years; within this limit, subloan terms would be determined by the borrowing
banks based on the subprojects expected cash flow and investment payback
period.
4.57     The loans to the borrowing banks would be made on the Bank's normal
terms and conditions as applicable to such loans, including the standard
commitment charge. Loan repayment will be in accordance with the normal Bank
terms for Yugoslavia (15 years including 5 years grace) under a composite
amortization schedule.
4.58     On-lending Interest Rates.  Bank funds for investment would be
on-lent by the intermediary banks at interest rates consistent with the
interest rate policy agreed with the Bank (para 4.23). Beginning July 1,
1988, these rates would be the Bank's rate plus a commission whose weighted
average is at least 2.5% per annum.
1/  in these cases, an enterprise is considered to be the lowest level
distinguishable independent commercial entity (generally a WO, but in some
instances a BOAL) which has independent links to external markets for all
inputs and outputs. The entity may be part of a group of enterprises or
be separate. Where there is interdependence of entities, such as
characterized by nonmarket-determined transfer pricing, all concerned
entities may need to be aggregated for the analysis of the enterprise.



- 33 -
4.S9     Subloan Foreign Exchange Risks.  The foreign exchange risk on all
investment subloans will be borne by the borrowing enterprises. The principal
amount of each subloan would be the dollar equivalent (determined as of the
date of repayment) of the value of the currencies disbursed out of the Loan
Account for the subloan.
4.60     Procurement.  The procedures employed for proc-lrement of goods and
services financed from Bank funds will be in accordance with the Bank
Guidelines.  ICB procedures will normally be employed on all contracts
estimated to exceed US$3.0 million equivalent.  Prior review of all ICB bid
documents by the Bank will be required.  For goods estimated to cost less than
US$3.0 million and more than US$1.0 million and which are to be financed from
Bank funds, limited international bidding, as set out in the World Bank
Guidelines for Procurement, may be used. Prior review of the bid documents
for the first two contracts to be procured through LIB under each loan would
be required. Items or groups of items estimated to cost $1.0 million or less
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international
shopping. Consultants will be procu,ed in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Expected amounts and methods of procurement are indicated in the table below.
Procurement
Anticipated
Procurement Method              Total
Project Element                    ICB      LIB    IS      Othei_    Cost
--------- --------US$ m:llion---------------
Subproject Investments            24.0      80.0   196.0    -           300.0
(18.0)   (64.0)  (37.2)   -          (119.2)
Technical Assistance               -         -       0.1    1.9a'         2.0
-        -       (0.1)  (0.7)        (0.8)
Total                     24.0     80.0   196.1    1.9         302.0
(18.0)   (6LA     (IL371  (0.7)      (120.0)
Note:   Figures in parenthesis are respective amounts; expected to be financed
by the Bank.
a/ Engaged in accordance with Bank Guidelines on use of Consultants.
4.61     Disbursement of Loan Proceeds.  Disbursements from the proceeds of
the proposed loans would cover 100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory) for equipment and materials, and 100% of total
expenditures for Technical Assistance. Given the estimated average size of
contracts, disbursements against contracts valued at less than $750,000 will
be made on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs). Documentation to
support these applications will be retained by the three banks, audited by
auditors acceptable to the Bank and made available for review by the Bank upon
request. In order to help facilitate and expedite the technical assistance,
services for technical assistance up to a maximum of $50,000 for each bank,



which are procured in accordance with Bank guidelines and for which payment is
made before the date of the Loan Agreements but on or after April 1, 1988,
will be eligible for reimbursement.  The estimaLed disbursement schedule is
given in Annex 4-8.  This is based oln tLle aiLual disbursement profile for
similar projects in Yugloslavia for FY 76-85.
4.62     Closing Date.  Based on the pipelines of the participating banks, it
is expected that the credit component of the project will be committed within
2-3 years after Board approval and disbursed within 6 years. Therefore, it is
proposed that the last date for submission of subloan applications to the Bank
will be June 30, 1991. The project will be completed by December 31, 1993.
The closing date of the loan will be June 30, 1994.
4.63     Reporting Requirements and Audits.  Each borrowing bank will submit
co the Bank quarterly, semi-annual, and annual reports on the status and
progress of the project. For each bank, the reports will include, inter alia,
(i) a summary of the operations and financial situation including a summary of
lending operations (approvals, commitments and disbursements), progress on the
technical assistance component, and progress on the financial strengthening
program (including resource position, portfolio information, arrears data,
data to permit review of each bank's spread aid commission and steps being
taken to write off losses); and (ii) a summary of procurement activities and
progress on the utilization of the loan. The semi-annual and annual reports
will also include forecasts of the concerned bank's projected operations and
financial performance over a three-year period. Each bank will also be
required to submit periodic progress and supervision reports on subproject
performance including an assessment of progress against agreed or anticipated
operational targets; reasons for shortfalls, if any; and actions being taken
or proposed to be taken, by the concerned bank and the enterprises to improve
the performance. Each bank will also send to the Bank copies of its annual
reports and SDK audit reports within six months of the end of the relevant
fiscal year. These detailed reporting requirements were discussed and
finalized at negotiations. At negotiations, agreement was reached on the
auditing arrangements for project accounts and statements of expenditure the
scope and quality of SDK audits of the bank's financial accounts and, target
dates for completion of the annual audit reports by SDK. Each bank will also
prepare, within six months of the closing date of its loan, a project
completion report dealing with project implementation and costs, and the
benefits which have been or are expected to be derived from it.
4.64     Environment.  Although their efforts in this regard are just
beginning, the three banks are increasingly aware of the importance of
environmental considerations and recognize the need to increase their review
of the environmental impact of their subprojects in order to ensure
environmentally sound investments. The banks will require each subborrower
under the Project to design and operate each subproject in compliance with
environmental standards in keeping with agreed environmental guidelines.
Compliance with these undertakings will be closely monitored by the three
banks and Bank staff.



- 35 -
K. Project Benefits
4.65     The project would have several benefits.  It will help increase
exports directly through financing of high return investments. It would also
help increase exports indirectly through rationalization of incentives and
enhancement of the export environment. On the basis of the appraisal
mission's assessment of the banks' current pipelines, it is estimated that the
net present value of the net economic benefits of the line of credit component
of the project would be about US$600 million, and the average payback period
for the subprojects would be 3 years. Further, it is expected that the
subprojects will become net foreign exchange earners within 4 years of
implementation. Through the programs to be undertaken by the FSFER, the
project would pave the way for actions to improve exporters' access to
intermediate inputs at world market prices and to alleviate some of the main
disadvantages faced by exporters. The YBIEC study, which is planned to be
carried out in conjunction with this project, will help provide the basis for
enhancement of the export finance system and of export marketing and for
design of strategies to improve the competitiveness of selected export goods.
The project will also help to reorient the capital stock to facilitate price
reform. By investing in only those subprojects which would be viable in the
current and in a reformed environment, the project would make a contribution
in increasing the portion of the capital stock that would prosper in a
reformed environment, and in increasing the number of enterprises having
vested interests in economic reform. This would provide an improved basis for
the supply response that would be one of the main objectives of the reform of
domestic price policies.
4.66     Furthermore, by supporting and expediting (i) an ambitious program
for consolidation of the financial position of the three banks which account
for a major proportion of the total assets of the commercial banks in
Yugoslavia; (ii) the institutional strengthening of these banks and of the
regulatory agencies in the banking sector; and (iii) the implementation and
further development of a satisfactory methodology to be used by all Yugoslav
banks and enterprises in selecting economic investments, the project, and the
accompanying measures which are planned to be undertaken in parallel with it,
will reinforce efforts to ensure financial discipline in the economy and will
set the stage for, and help achieve substantial strides toward a comprehensive
program for structural adjustment of the Yugoslav financial sector.
L. Project Risks
4.67     The major project risk relates to the possibility of the Government
delaying further reform measures needed to promote higher productivity and
financial discipline. However, the project would have several benefits even
if such reform is delayed which would arise from the economically efficient
investments financed under the credit line. The subproject selection criteria
emphasizes viability in both second best and first best economic terms, thus
requiring that the investments meet the economic efficiency criteria in both
the current and the reformed environment; and the appraisal arrangements made
will help ensure that the projects will meet these criteria. There are risks



- 36 -
that the credit line will not be fully disbursed as a result of the
deliberately stringent eligibility criteria or the lack of availability of
complementary local funds. However, these risks are small given the small
size of the credit line relative to the total demand for investment credit and
the liquidity of the intermediary banks in respect of domestic funds. There
is also a risk that the borrowing banks will not be able, because of the
complexities and difficulties of the economic environment, to fully undertake
the ambitious financial consolidation program and meet the financial targets
set under the loan. Nevertheless, even with reasonable adjustments in these
targets, the actions which would be undertaken would lead to major improvement
in the financial performance of these three banks. In the absence of reform,
some of the technical assistance benefits would be lost, since the motivation
of the banks, to use this institutional development assistance would be
compromised. However, while the short-term benefits of these efforts would be
adversely effected, this component is likely to have a longer-term positive
impact and its costs are relatively small.



- 37 -
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01     During negotiations, an agreement was obtained that a duty exemption
system for exporters will be developed and that measures will be prepared to
improve exporters' access to imported inputs (paras. 4.10 and 4.12).
5.02     Agreements were also obtained during negotiations on the following
actions for consolidation of the financial position of the borrowing banks:
(a) setting of adequate levels of interest rates and commissions (para. 4.23);
(b) write-off of deferred and current foreign exchange losses and SAL currency
pool losses (in the case of UBB), and coverage of foreign exchange exposure
(paras. 4.24 and 4.25); (c) transfer of arrears over 60 days to doubtful loans
and setting up of provisions against all doubtful loans (para. 4.26);
(d) adoption of guidelines to ensure careful evaluation of the financial and
economic viability of the borrowing enterprise as a basis of loan rescheduling
and new lending (paras. 4.27 and 4.28); (e) build up of reserves (paras. 4.29
and 4.30); and (f) satisfactory audit of the financial accounts of the
borrowing banks (para. 4.31).
5.03     Agreements were also obtained during negotiations on (a) implementa-
tion of agreed eligibility criteria for the subproject and the sponsoring
enterprise (paras. 4.38-4.41) and of satisfactory arrangements for subloan
appraisal and supervision (paras. 4.48, 4.54 and 4.63); (b) implementation of
agreed technical assistance programs by the borrowing banks (para. 4.49);
(c) the main features of the subloans for investment (paras. 4.54 to 4.59);
(d) procurement and disbursement methods and arrangements (paras. 4.60 and
4.61); and (e) reporting requirements under the project (para. 4.63).
5.04     Actions on the following, satisfactory to the Bank, will be
conditions of loan effectiveness: (a) agreed increases in 1988 interest rates
and commissions (para. 4.23); and (b) receipt of the 1987 audited statements
of the borrowing banks (para. 4.28).
5.05     The proposed project would be suitable for Bank financing of
US$120.0 million.



- 38 -                      ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
YUGOSLAVIA
EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Documents in the Project File
II.   THE INDUSTRIAL EXPORTS SECTOR
2-1      Yugoslavia:  "Export Performance and Policies", Bank Report
No. 2972-YU, October 16, 1980.
2-2      Yugoslavia:  "The Challenge of Adjustment", Bank Report No. 6353-YU,
July 10, 1987.
2-3      Report for the Bank on Yugoslav Export Industries, L.B. Cunha and
D.D. Corneiro, July, 1987.
2-4      "Export Diversification in Developing Countries:  Recent Trends and
Policy Impact", IMF Staff Studies for the World Economic Outlook, August, 1987.
2-5      Law on Rehabilitation and Liquidation of Organization of Associated
Labor, Official Gazette of the SFRY, No. 72, December 31, 1986.
2-6      Law on Depreciation of Socially Owned Resources, Official Gazette of
the SFRY, No. 72, December 31, 1986.
2-7      Law on Foreign Exchange Operations, Official Gazette of the SFRY,
Nos. 66/85 and 71/86.
2-8      Law on the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreign Exchange
Operations, Official Gazette of the SFRY, Nov. 3, 1988.
III.  THE BANKING SYSTEM
3-1      First Industrial Credit Project, PPAR No. 5119, June 11, 1984.
3-2      Second, Third, and Fourth Industrial Credit Project, PCR No. 6570,
December 31, 1986.
3-3      Sixth Industrial CrediL Project, Bank Report No. 3780-YU,
April 1, 1982.
3-4      Seven'h Industrial Credit Project, Bank Report No. 4301-YU,
May 23, 1983.
3-5      Energy Conservation and Substitution Project, Bank Report
No. 5955-YU, March 6, 1987.



- 39 -                       ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
3-6      Structural Adjustment Loan, PR No. P-3606--YU, June 2. 1983.
3-7      Law on the Premises of the Banking and Credit System, Official
Gazette of the SFRY, No. 70, December 20, 1985.
3-8      The Law on the Amendments and Supplement of the Law on the
Fundamei.cals of the Banking and Credit System. Official Gazette of the SFRY
No. 72, December 31, 1986.
3-9      The Law on Total Revenue and Income, Official Gazette of the SFRY,
No. 72, December 31, 1986.
3-10     The Decision on Interest Rates and Credits for Primary Issue in 1987,
Official Gazette of the SFRY, No. 71, December 29, 1986.
IV. THE PROJECT
C-1      Decision on the Refunds of Customs and Other Duties and on Other
Measures of Stimulating Exports (Official Gazette No. 71/86).
C-2      Decision on the Refunds of Customs and Other Duties and on Other
Measures of Stimulating Exports (Official Gazette No. 71/86).
C-3      Report for the Bank on Yugoslavia's Official Export Credit Insurance
and Finance System, First Washington Associates, December 1987.
C-4      Report for the Bank on Export Marketing in Yugoslavia, Mary Lou Ejan,
February, 1988.
D-1      Jugobanka, Self-Management Agreement
D-2      Jugobanka, Statutes
D-3      Jugobanka, Audit reports
D-4      Jugobanka, Appraisal data
D-5      Jugobanka, Five-year plan 1986-1990
D-6      LBL, Self-Management Agreement
D-7      LBL, Statute
D-8      LBL, Audit Reports
D-9      LBL, Appraisal data
D-10     LBL, Five-year plan (1986-1990)



- 40 -                      ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
D-l1     LBL, Self-Management Agreement
D-12     UBB, Statute
D-13     UBB, Audit report
D-14     UBB, Appraisal data
D-15     UBB, Five-year plan (1986-1990)
E-1      Data on eigtheen subprojects prepared during the appraisal mission's
visit.
E-2      Estimation of Shadow Price for Project Evaluation by (Janez Sirse and
Boris Majcen) Institute for Economic Research, Ljubljana, May 1987.
E-3      "A Uniform Methodology for Evaluating the Social and Economic
Justification and Efficiency of Investment in the SFRY, Belgrade, July 1987.



- 41 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA
EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
The Industrial Exports Sector
Basic Data
National accounts aggregates               1983      1984       1985       1986
(Increase in percent at constant prices)
Gross social product                         -1.0        2.0       0.6        2.8
Agricultural output                          -1.1        2.2      -6.2        7.0
Industrial production                         1.3       5.6        2.7        3.9
Construction activity                       -13.1      -4.2       -7.0       -2.2
Balance of payments
(convertible area)                            (In billions of U.S. dollars)
Exports, f.o.b.                             6.0       6.5.       6.5        7.4
Imports, c.i.f.                           -7.0       -7.7       -8.3       -9.9
Trade balance                              -1.7      -1.2       -1.8       -2.5
Services and transfers, net                 1.9       2.0        2.1        2.7
0.2       0.8        0.3        0.2
Net capital inflows (including
errors and omissions)                   -0.7       -0.2        0.0        0.5
Use of Fund credit (net)                    0.4       0.0        0.0       -0.3
Reserve movements (increase in              0.0      -0.5       -0.2       -0.5
assets -)
External reserves; end of period            1.6       2.2        2.4        2.8
Export Performance                             (Increase in percent)
Total merchandise exports
Value changes                           -2.3        2.7        4.8        5.9
Volume change                            0.0       11.4        8.7       -0.8
Convertible merchandise exports
Value change                              9.4       7.0        0.4       14.1
Volume change                            11.9      13.9        4.1        2.5
Growth of export marketsl'                    3.5        5.9       3.3        1.5
1/ Growth of import volume in markets for Yugoslavia's convertible exports.
Source: IMF



- 42 -                       ANNEX 2
rage 2 of 6
The Industrial Exports Sector
Table 1: Share of GNP (Z)
1965X'   1970      1975      1980      19862'
Industry - of which                    34.3                37.0      39.1      43.3
manufacturing              27.7       -        29.9      32.1      35.2
Agriculture                            21.9       -        16.9      14.5      15.5
Construction                           10.3       -        10.3      11.0       7.3
Services3/                             30.6       -        33.1      32.4      31.0
Other4'                                 2.9       -         2.7       3.1       2.9
Share of Fixed Investment
Industry - of which                    36.4      32.2       -        43.5      47.3
manufacturing              16.7      15.6       -        26.1      26.4
Agriculture                             9.4       7.3       -         4.6       7.2
Construction                            1.6       2.7       -         3.8       3.3
Services3'                             17.7      29.5       -        16.6      19.8
Other4'                                34.9      28.3       -        31.5      22.4
Share of Employment
Industry - of which                    34.4       -        39.0      38.1      40.0
manufacturing              29.5       -        34.0      33.4      35.5
Agriculture                            13.2       -         5.5       4.8       5.0
Construction                           10.4       -        10.3      10.9       8.9
Services 3/                            23.3       -        23.7      23.8      23.5
Other4'                                18.6       -        21.6      22.5      22.6
Share of Total Exports
Food                                   20.0       -        11.7       -         9.3
Agriculture                             5.7       -         6.0       -         3.4
Fuels                                   1.2       -         2.6       -         1.9
Ores Minerals                          17.7       -         9.1       -         8.8
Manufactured                           55.3       -        70.2       -        76.5
Chemicals                           5.8       -        11.2       -        11.4
Basic Manufatures                  26.8       -        30.6       -        31.6
Machinery                          22.7       -        28.4       -        33.5
Unallocated                             0.1       -         0.4       -         0.2
1/ Figures for employment refer to 1962.
2/ Figures for investment refer to 1985.
3/  Transportation, tr-de, catering, tourism and articrafts.
4/ Housing, finance, education, public health and social needs.
Source: Statistical Yearbook and data provided by Yugoslav authorities.



- 43 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 3 cf 6
The Industrial Exports Sector
Table 2: Industrial Shares of GNP (X)
1965    1975    1980    1985    1986
Total Industry                         100      100      100      100     100
MINING, EXTRACTION, AND ENERGY
101  Electrical Energy                         5.3      6.4      7.0     7.3      7.3
102  Extraction of Coal                        4.7      2.5     2.2      2.6      2.5
103  Coal Processing                           0.4      0.2     0.2      0.5      0.4
104  Extr'n of Crude Petro. & Gas              0.7      0.7     0.6      0.5      0.5
105  Crude Petroleum Refining                  1.1      1.7     1.9      1.4      1.6
106  Iron Ore Mining                           0.4      0.5     0.3      0.2      0.3
107  Iron and Steal                            4.0      4.1     3.6      4.1      4.0
108  Nonferrous Ore Mi-aing                    2.2      1.9      1.5     1.4      1.4
109  Nonferrous Metals                         0.8      0.9     0.7      0.6      0.6
110  Processing of Nonferrous Metals           0.7      0.7     0.7      0.7      0.7
111  Nonmetallic Ore Extract                   0.9      0.6     0.4      0.4      0.4
112  Manufacture of Nonmetallic Minerals   1.8          2.0     2.0      2.5      2.5
113  Metal Fabrication                         9.2      8.9     9.2      8.3      8.1
MACHINERY AND CHEMICALS
114  Machinery, Nonelectrical                  5.3      5.6     6.4      6.7      6.7
115  Transport Equipment                       4.9      5.3     5.7      5.5      5.5
117  Electrical Machinery                      4.5      5.6     5.9      6.4      6.6
118  Manufacture of Chemicals                  3.1      3.5     3.8      4.5      4.5
119  Processing of Chemical                    2.2      4.5     5.6      5.5      5.6
TRADITIONAL EXPORTS
116  Shipbuilding                              1.2      1.4     0.8      1.0      1.0
122  Sawmills and Wood Board                   3.2      2.4     2.1      2.0      1.9
123  Furniture and Fixtures                    4.7      4.5     4.3      3.8      3.9
124  Paper                                     1.6      1.8      1.8     1.8      1.8
126  Finished Textile Products                 5.9      7.2     6.7      6.9      7.2
128  Footwear                                  2.4      2.1      1.9     2.3      2.3
129  Rubber                                    1.1      1.2      1.4     1.4      1.4
133  Tobacco                                   3.3      2.1      1.9     1.7      1.7
135  Miscellaneous Manufactures                0.4      0.5     0.5      0.6      0.6
MANUFACTURERS FOR THE DOMESTIC MARKET
120  Extraction of Stone and Sand              1.0      1.1      1.2     1.0      1.0
121  Building Materials                        3.4      3.7      3.7     3.0      2.9
125  Yarns and Fabrics                         7.2      5.0     4.5      4.3      4.3
127  Leather and Fur                           1.0      0.8     0.7      0.7      0.7
130  Food Processing Products                  8.4      7.2      7.2     6.9      6.8
131  Beverages                                 1.0      1.7      1.9     1.7      1.7
132  Animal Feed                               0.2      0.3     0.3      0.3      0.3
134  Printing and Publishing                   1.7      1.5      1.4     1.3      1.4
Source:  Statistical Yearbook, various issues.



-44 -                                      Page A of 6
The Industrial Exports Sector
Table 3:  Relative Performance in Real Outgut and Export Growth
1980          1981        1982         1981         19a4         19851 986
GDP    X    GOP    X    GOP    X   GLOP       X    GOP    X    GOP    X    GOP    X
Yugoslavia                2.3   -      1.4   4.7   0.5  -6.2  -1.0   0.0   2.0  11.4   0.5   9.4   3.6  -0.8
LOCs                      3.5  -4.2   2.1  -6.0   1.6  -7.6   1.4   3.2   4.1   7.1   3.2   1.0   3.5   8.2
Africa                3.7  -1.2   1.8 -14.9   0.8  -5.1  -1.9   3.4   1.7   5.6   2.0   7.1   1.6   2.2
Asia                  5.4   8.8   S.S   8.5   5.0   1.1   7.6  10.7   7.9  13.6   S.9   S.0   S.7  17.1
Europe                 1.5   3.9   2.3   3.1   2.4   1.7   1.1   8.3   3.6  13.4   2.1   4.2   3.2   2.4
Mideast              -2.5 -15.4  -2.0 -17.6  -0.2 -19.7   0.2  -9.3   0.9  -4.4  -1.0  -8.8   0.0 -16.6
Western Hemisphere   5.4   1.2   0.7   6.0  -1.0   2.4  -3.0   8.2   3.2   3.S   3.5   0.0   4.0  -8.8
Nonoil Exporters          4.5   8.5   2.7   5.2   2.5   1.1   3.1   8.2   S.5  11.6   4.6   5.2   5.4   7.7
Exporters of Manuf.      4.6  10.4   4.8   7.2   4.9   1.1   7.4  10.1   8.2  13.8   6.3   4.4   6.0  14.1
Notes:   Figures are annual rates of real growth.
X   - Exports
GNP - Output
Source:  IMF. World Economic Outlook. 1987
Statistical Yearbook, various issues.



- 45 -                                 ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 6
The Industrial Exports Sector
Table 4: Real Growth of Outout and Exports by Industries
1976i-79       1980-S3        1984-86          1986
Ex-    Out-   Ex-    Out-   Ex        Out    Ex-    Out-
ports put    parts  W&        parts  gf       ports Qd
Total Industry                             5.5    7.2   -1.3    2.5    3.9    4.0   -4.1    3.9
MINING. EXTRACTION. AND ENERGY
101  Electrical Erergy                          -       7.9    -       4.1    -       4.1    -        3.9
102  Extraction of Coal                         -       3.5  -15.3    7.0   -2.4    5.1  -12.8    0.9
103  Coal Processing                             *    18.9    3.2    9.6   24.7    0.7  -12.8   -1.0
104  Extration of Crude Petroleum and Gas   -           3.3    -       1.2    -        1.3    -       0.9
105  Crude Petroleum Refining                          IC.8   -4.4    1.6    1.6    3.0  -31.9   12.8
106  Iron Ore Mining                            -      -2.9    -       4.3    -       8.5    -       21.6
107  Iron and Steal                              *      6.7   16.1    3.9    8.9    4.5  -18.8    1.0
108  Nonferrous Ore Mining                      9.7    2.8    4.5    2.2    8.9    1.1  -21.7   -1.0
109  Nonferrous Metals                           *      4.4    6.7    1.9   -4.6    3.7    0.9    2.9
110  Processing of Nonferrous Metals                    5.0   -3.9    2.3    1.2    5.1   14.0    1.8
111  Nonmetallic Ore Extract                   11.8   -O.S  -26.2    1.0    9.8    2.8    6.3    2.7
112  Manufacture of Nonmetallic Mine             *      7.7    7.1    S.0    5.8    8.3   -1.9    3.8
113  Metal Fabrication                          8.1    7.2    4.3    1.9    1.5    1.7    4.7    1.0
MACHINERY AND CHEMICALS
114  Machinery, Nonelectrical                    *    10.8    2.5    3.3    7.1    4.2   14.1    3.7
115  Transport Equipment                               10.4   -9.2    0.5    3.7    4.1   11.9    3.9
117  Electrical Machinery                       8.3   10.4    0.8    2.0    4.7    8.0    7.4    6.4
118  Manufacture of Chemicals                  14.1    8.0   -0.6    6.0   11.4    4.3    4.9    5.8
119  Processing of Chemical                            11.2   12.7    4.7    7.3    2.3    3.2    4.9
TRADITIONAL EXPORTS
116  Shipbuilding                              22.24  -4.5   15.1    2.7   12.7   10.1   42.5   -2.9
122  Sawmills and Wood Board                    9.2    5.7   14.3   -0.3    4.3    2.4   -5.7    2.0
123  Furniture and Fixtures                      *      7.6   -0.3    2.4   13.7    1.0   -3.8    7.3
124  Paper                                     19.9    8.5    3.7    2.8    3.7    2.7    3.6    4.0
126  Finished Textile Products                  5.41   4.7    3.0    2.6    8.3    6.7    0.2    7.6
128  Footwear                                   8.22   3.7    1.3    5.3    3.9    7.5   -4.8    7.6
129  Rubber                                    17.2   12.8    0.8    2.2   -4.4    3.3    5.1    0.0
133  Tobacco                                    5.2    6.9    4.3    1.4  -20.5   01.5  -12.6    0.0
13S  Miscellaneous Manufactures                         9.2   -1.0    0.0   -1.3   11.2    1.6   14.7
MANUFACTURES FOR THE DOMESTIC MARKET
120  Extraction of Stone and Sand               2.7    8.2  -14.9   -0.7    1.4    0.3   -3.0    2.9
121  Building Materials                          *      6.7   25.9    1.3   -4.7   -2.3  -12.9    0.0
125  Yarns and Fabrics                          5.41   4.3   -6.5    1.6   -2.2    3.7   -9.4    4.9
127  Leather and Fur                            8.72  -3.5    8.5    4.0    4.9    3.6   -0.4    0.0
130  Food Processing Products                  33.8    8.2   -7.2    1.1   -6.5    2.1  -27.3    1.0
131  Beverages                                          8.7    0.7    4.8   10.5   -1.5  -10.9    7.4
132  Animal Feed                                -       9.4    -       3.3    -      -1.7    -        8.1
134  Printing and Publishing                   -8.1    5.7   13.7    0.8   15.0    4.5   23.6    7.6
Notes:  "       ' - N.A.
Combined with preceeding industry.
J/  Industries 125 and 126 are combined in 1970 classification.
./  Industries 127 and 128 are combined in 1970 classification.
Source: Statistical Yearbook, various issues.



- 46 -                      ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 6
The Industrial Exports Sector
Table 5: Index of Labor Productivity (1980-1986)
(Main Export Subsectors of Industry)
----------------------------------------------------------------__-----------__
1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986
Manufactured goods - Total             100   102    99    97   100    99   100
5. Crude petroleum refining           172   107   112   102   100    90   102
9.  Nonferrous metals                 106   103    97    99   100    98    96
10. Processing of nonferrous metals   101   101   102    98   100   108   109
13. Metal fabrication                  107   107   104    99   100   100    99
14. Machinery, nonelectric             103   107   104   101   100   103   109
15. Transport equipment                 97    97    98    96   100    99   101
17. Electrical machinery                97    97    96    95   100   106   108
18. Manufacture of chemicals            90    96    88    89   100    98   102
22. Sawmills and wood board            104   102   101    97   100   100   102
23. Furniture and fixtures             104   102    98    97   100    95   100
25. Yarns and fabrics                  101   103    98    98   100    99   101
26. Finished textile productions       104   106   102    98   100    98    99
28. Footwear & other leather prod'n   101   103    98    97   100    98    96
Capacity Utilization
--------------------------------------------------------__-------------------__
1977  1979  1980  1981  1984  1985
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__
Manufactured goods - Total              81    81    80    80    77    77
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__----__
5. Crude petroleum refining            91    87    82    73    60    57
9. Nonferrous metals                   86    79    83    82    80    79
10. Processing of nonferrous metals    78   81    80    82    79    78
13. Meta'. fabrication                  78    82    81    80    76    76
14. Machinery, nonelectric              81    80    82    81    76    78
15. Transport equipment                 81    81    76    74    76    74
17. Electrical machinery                80    82    81    80    76    77
18. Manufacture of chemicals            82    83    82    81    78    73
22. Sawmills and wood board             83    81    80    75    77    78
23. Furniture and fixtures              80    79    80    77    77    75
25. Yarns and fabrics                   84    85    85    85    85    85
26. Finished textile production         82    82    84    84    81    81
27. Footwear of other leather prod'n   84    86    85    86    86    83
Source:  Yugoslavia Statistical Yearbook - Several Issues (Table 117-3)



YUiGQSLAVIA
EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Selected Interest Rates
(n Dereent oer annuw)
1981       J~AL. -1982    1983          1984            1985                 19*6                    _U17             jIM"
June  Oct.   Feb.  July   Hay  Oct.   Jan.  July  Nov.   Feb.  pr.  July   Ian.   Wr.  July  Oct.   Jan.
Central Bank interest rates
Official discount rate and
liquidity credits2'                     6       12    14      22    30      30  47       54    70    61       68    73    56      61    81       92      13a  108
Selective credits3'                      1-6      4-8   4-9   8-12 18-22  18-22 31-35 36-40 48-52 48-50  53-55    71    56            61    61      92      131 69-79
Commercial bank interest rates
Deposits rates
Slight deposits of OALs4'               -        I     1       4     4       4   4        4      4     4       4     4      4       4     4       4        4    7.5
Dinar deposits of households
Sight                                7.5     7.5   7.5    7.5   7.5    7.5 7.5         7.5   7.5   7.5    7.5   7.5   7.S    7.5   7.5    7.5           7.5  7.5  P.
3 months                                        .     .   12    12       30  47       54    70    61      68    73    42       46    4       92       131  lag
6 months                              ..       .        ..   15    1S                                        ..    .   46      52    61       93      132
Long-terms'                      9-10   II-IS i3-20  18-28 18-28  35-38 52-55 59-62 72-73 63-64  71-73 76-78 56-61  61-64 84-88  95-99 134-138
Lending rates
Short-tern credits               9-12    9-16  9-21  17-30 30-38  39-42 47-62 59-63 60-80 60-80  60-80 60-62 60-83  58-83 W8-99 91-111 130-15S
Long-term credits                7-12    9-18 11-21  18-30 30-38  39-47 46-57 50-62 50-75 50-75  50-75 50-82 S-82  S5-76 84-95 91-106 120-153
Source: NOY
1/ The revaluation rate and the interest rate an one month deposits were set at 106% in January 1988.
2/ The rate on liquidity credits was 8 percent for the period 1978-81.
_/ Credits fur exports, agriculture, and imports.
4J Organization of Associated Labor.
I/ The lower rate is for 1-year deposit; the higher rate is for 3-year deposit. the higher rate is for dinar deposits with 2-year *turity.
i/ No interest is paid on foreign exchange deposits of OALs.                                                                                                      3R
2/ Effective July 1. interest rate on foreign currency deposits are to be 2 percented points above the corresponding currency's thm country. 
0



- 48 -                      ANNEX 4-1
Page I of 3
YUGOSLAVIA
EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Terms of Reference for a Program to Establish and
Implement a Duty Exemption System
Background
1.       Realizing that the current fixed drawback system (which refunds
estimated duties according to present schedules) needs to be supplemented by
an individual drawback system (which refunds the actual duties paid by export
enterprises), the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Economic Relations has been
preparing for the introduction of the individual drawback system. In the
processing of preparing the new system the authorities are facing difficulties
in estimating the physical input-coefficients (of the major export-related
import items) which are the cornerstone of the individual drawback system, due
to a lack of experience in this highly technical area. In turn, the Federal
Secretariat for Foreign Economic Relations has recognized that a duty
exemption system (which will be an extension of the temporary import scheme
currently offered only for foreign enterprises) will be much more desirable
than the individual drawback system, because it will exempt exporters from the
working capital and interest burdens related to duty payments, while its
administrative burdens including the preparation of the physical
input-coefficients would La similar to those of the individual drawback
system. Therefore, the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Economic Relations is
planning to establish the duty exemption system rather than the individual
drawback system.
Objective
2.       The purpose of the technical assistance is to assist the Federal
Secretariat for Foreign Economic Relations in establishing and implementing
the duty exemption system (which is a much more ambitious program than the
individual drawback system) for the purpose of providing free trade status for
export industries, which is a first step in reducing exporters' disincentives
and assuring equal footing with foreign competitors.
Task Force for Duty Exemption System
3.       The counterpart for the technical assistance will be a Task Force for
the Duty Exemption System (DETF). The DETF will be composed of
representatives of the Secretariat for Foreign Economic Relations, Secretariat



- 49 -                       ANNEX 4-1
Page 2 of 3
of Finance, Office of Customs, Federal Chambers of Commerce, and the export
industries. The DETF will carry out is work in the Secretariat of Foreign
Economic Relations and will be headed by the Duty Drawback Section Chief of
the Secretariat of Foreign Economic Relations. The objective of the DETF is
to initiate the preparatory work for the establishment and implementation of
the duty exemption system, utilizing he technical assistance to be provided by
the export industries project.
Technical Assistance Tasks
4.       The proposed technical assistance aims at assisting the DETF in:
(a) preparing a pilot duty exemption scheme;
(b) preparing revisions in the laws and regulations needed to
establish the duty exemption system;
(c) training the staff who will be implementing the duty exemption
system for all export industries; and
(d) estimating the physical input-coefficients for the priority
export items and implementing the duty exemption system.
Tentative Schedule for Duty Exemption Implementation
5.       The following is a tentative schedule for implementing the duty
exemption system:
Tasks                                           Target Date
-  Preparing a pilot duty exemption scheme
for selected garment enterprise                January 1, 1989
-  revising the laws and regulations              December 31, 1990
-  Implementing the Duty Exemption System for:
(a)  all textile enterprises                   February 28, 1990
(b) wood processing and leather
manufacturing sector                      September 30, 1990
(c)  engineering industries                    February 28, 1990
(d)  remaining export industries               September 30, 1990



- 50 -                      ANNEX 4-1
Page 3 of 3
Preliminary Estimates of Local and Foreign Exchange Costs
6. The following are preliminary estimates for local and foreign exchange
components to be supported by the technical assistance:
Technical Assistance Task           Local Costs       Foreign Exchange Costs
-  Assistance in data processing for                         - Personal computers.
physical input-coefficient estimates
-  Local industrial specialists to        - Local
assist in estimating input-              consultants
coefficients
-  Training of DETF staff                                    - Foreign study tour
-  Foreign Expert who can guide the                          - Foreign consultants
input-coefficient estimation work
TOTAL                                    $300,000           $300,000



- 51 -                      A ,Nm., 4-i
Page 1 of 2
YUGOSLAVIA
EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Terms of Reference for a
Study on Exporters' Access to Imported Inputs
Obiective
i   1.   The objective of the study is to examine current administrative
procedures and mechanisms designed to provide access to imported inputs for
exporters. This study would provide an important quantitative and analytic
base from which a medium-term strategy could be developed to improve the
competitive position of Yugoslavia's exports.
Analysis
2.       This study will be based on analysis of aggregate as well as detailed
data concerning export activities. It will include analysis of:
(a) The degree of duty-free status of imported inputs achieve through the
duty drawback system and the temporary import scheme;
(b) the actual share of imported inputs used for export production
activities in total imports of LBO and K items for enterprises whose
exports are larger than their imports;
(c) past records of LBO and K import values used for the production of
export value in selected sectors and enterprises;
(d) average production cycles of enterprises in the selected sectors;
(e) methods of payment and credit periods for exports in the selected
sectors; and
(f) methods of payment and credit period for imports for export
production in the selected sectors.
3.       The study will analyze these data to determine the case with which
well established export enterprises with good past records of imports and
exports, exporters which have been substantially increasing export volume, and
new exporters without past export experience, can access imported inputs under
the LBO and K regimes.
4.       The study will also analyze the possible costs incurred, such as:
(a)  The level of costs over world market prices chat export enterprises
might encounter due to limited access to imported inputs;



- 52 -                      ANNEX 4-2
Page 2 of 2
(b) the degree of difficulty which may be encountered in planning
ambitious export expansion programs by exporting enterprises due to
the uncertainty of access to LBO and K items;
(c) the frequency and possibility of reduced export sales and potential
sales because of the uncertainty of imported inputs; and
(d) administrative costs incurred by export enterprises, authorized
banks, NBY and government agencies in administering the current
procedures.
Results
5.       Based on the above analysis, the study will evaluate the
effectiveness of the current mechanisms and propose alternatives to:
(a) Exploit Yugoslav export potential by including potential or new
exporters, encourage rapid expansion of exports based on ambitious
programs, and rapidly adjust to the changing conditions in the world
market;
(b) increase the competitiveness of exporters by assuring world market
prices for export activities; and
(c) assure that the highest priority be paid to export activities.
6.       The report will also attempt to estimate the annual foreign exchange
needs (stock as well as flow) to meet the import needs of exports over the
next five years. Finally, the report will recommend improvements needed to
meet import demand for export expansion.
7.       The findings of the study will be jointly reviewed by the Government
and the World Bank to discuss possible measures needed to implement the
findings.
Program
8.       The study will be carried out by the Federal Secretarial for Foreign
Economic Relations. But, in order to obtain detailed data and review export
enterprises opinions on the impact of the current mechanisms on their export
strategies, an export enterprise survey will be carried out by a research
institute to be designated by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Economic
Relations, based on carefully prepared questionnaires (the World Bank will
assist in the designing of the questionnaires).
9.       The Federal Secretariat for Foreign Economic Relations will
immediately begin the preparatory work for the study, and the study will be
formally completed during the period from September 1, 1988 to June 30, 1989.
The completed study will be reviewed in July 1989.
(07 32f )



- 53 -                      ANNEX 4-3
Pages 1 of '9
YUGOSLAVIA
EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
The Borrowing Banks: Financial Aspects
Jugobanka Udruzena Banka Beograd (Jugobanka)
I.  Summary of Main Institutional Aspects
1.       Jugobanka, an associated bank, was established as a bank specializing
in export financing. Gradually, over the years, it diversified into all
banking activities. Jugobanka's self-management agreement and statutes set
out its objectives, nature of operations and organization. At the end of
1986, the Jugobanka system consisted of the associated bank and 24 basic
banks. Two of the basic banks are also members of other associated bank
systems. Of all the Yugoslav banks, Jugobanka has the widest coverage since
it is the only Yugoslav associated bank that has basic banks in each Republic
and Autonomous Province. Jugobanka has a network of 41 branches, 202
subbranches and 149 agencies in Yugoslavia. The basic banks are, in turn,
owned by about 5,000 business enterprises and Basic Organizations of
Associated Labor (BOALs). Jugobanka has also an agency in New York and 21
representative offices outside Yugoslavia.
2.       Since 1983, Jugobanka has undergone three partial reorganizations in
an attempt to respond to the needs of the country's changing financial
environment. It nas modernized its MIS and strengthened its accounting
procedures to provide for a better assessmeniL of lts Lfinances.  At presC.t,
Jugobanka has eight divisions. Of these, the International Division liaises
with the World Bank; the Resources Division also includes a unit responsible
for project appraisal; and the Fiscal and Accounting Division undertakes the
accounting and financial functions of the associated bank as well as the
consolidation of the annual accounts for the group as a whole. Jugobanka's
other divisions undertake foreign money market operations, short-term
operations including operation of a money market within the Jugobanka complex,
and corporate planning. At the end of 1986, Jugobanka had a staff of 12,040.
The bank's management is composed of an executive board, a president, and five
vice presidents. Jugobanka has so far not been a borrower under Bank loans.
However, it has been a financial intermediary for IFC projects in Yugoslavia.
3.       Main institutional aspects of relevance for Jugobanka's financial
performance are briefly summarized below.
4.       Internal Audit.  In common with most other Yugoslav banks,
Jugobanka's internal audit arrangements are in need of strengthening, and
Jugobanka management has agreed to utilize appropriate technical assistance in
this regard (Annex 4-7).



- 54 -                      ANNEX 4-3
Pages 2 of 19
5.       Management Information Systems (MIS).  Jugobanka has gradually been
extending the computerization of its operations and has already undertaken
substantial investment in computer hardware. However, applications are
limited at present and Jugobanka wishes to expand quickly the scope and
quality of its computer-based operations. Jugobanka management has agreed to
utilize appropriate technical assistance towards this end (Annex 4-7).
6.       Project Appraisal and Supervision.  Jugobanka's project appraisal and
supervision is more decentralized because of the geographic dispersion of its
lending activities. Appraisal and supervision are largely the responsibility
of the credit departments of the basic banks, which have experienced staff.
The basic banks also employ the services of specialized outside institutes.
Staff within the Jugobanka associated bank who have previously worked in the
basic banks take the role of coordinating and supervising subloan processing.
They will also be increasing the use of qualified outside institutes. As part
of the preparations for application of the Uniform Methodology, the associated
and the basic banks have already recruited additional staff and are planning
to implement a substantial program of training for staff throughout the
group. Jugobanka's project appraisal and supervision capabilities will be
further reinforced through technical assistance (Annex 4-7).
II. Operations
7.       Jugobanka's main areas of operations are short-term (ST) and medium-
to long-term (MLT) loans, and guarantees. In the period 1984-86, Jugobanka's
operations, in common with most other Yugoslav banks, were affected by the
unfavorable economic circumstances prevailing at the time, e.g. the slowdown
of the economy with reduced demand for investment funds by the enterprises,
the financial difficulties faced by the borrowing enterprises which affected
loan repayments, and the restrictive monetary policies, including credit
ceilings, adopted by the NBY. Jugobanka's total assets decreased in real
terms by an average of 5% a year during 1984-1987. Jugobanka's operations are
estimated to have improved by 1988, but their growth is expected to continue
to be affected by the pace of improvement in the overall economic situation
and by more effective financial policies. Assets are consequently expected to
return to growth in real terms by 1990 (para. 25). Details of Jugobanka's
asset structure and lending activities are given in Table 1.
8.       Medium- and Long-Term (MLT) Loans.  MLT loans are normally for
capital projects and are generally for periods up to twenty years with
maturities typically ranging between 5 to 10 years. Overall, the share of MLT
loans in Jugobanka's total assets declined from 35% in 1984 to 28% in 1986 and
25% in 1987. Commitments of total MLT loans and MLT loans in local currency
decreased sharply in real terms in 1985 by 25% and 35%, respectively. MLT
local currency loans increased by 80% (in real terms) in 1986.  Jugobanka
attributed this increase to an increase in MLT salective credits. On the
other hand, commitments of MLT foreign exchange loans decreased steadily



- 55 -                       ANNEX 4-3
Pages 3 of 19
between 1984-86 in real terms by an average of 40% a year, due to the shortage
of foreign exchange resources. Jugobanka has been concentrating its lending
in the industrial sector, which accounted for 78% of total lending in 1986.
9.       Short-Term (ST) Loans.  Jugobanka's ST loans are mostly renewable
credits for financing working capital needs of enterprises, normally granted
for three months. As required under the 1986 Banking Law, new loans are not
granted to an enterprise which is in arrears in respect of due repayments
unless the enterprise undertakes a satisfactory rehabilitation program.
Between 1984-86, the percentage of ST lending in total assets increased from
20% to 24% but declined to 17% in 1987. The faster growth of ST lending than
MLT lending in 1984-86 period was due to the slowdown of long-term investments
and the exclusion of ST selective credits from credit ceilings; and the
increase in MLT lending in 1987, compared to ST lending, was mainly due to the
capitalization of the revaluation.
10.      Selective Credits.  The main objective of the selective credits is to
provide loans to priority sectors to stimulate exports and agricultural
production. Selective credits are extended on the basis of credit and
monetary policies prescribed for the specific year. Details of Jugobanka's
sources and uses of funds for selective credits during 1984-1986 are
summarized in Table 1. Selective credits were not subject to credit
ceilings. NBY rediscounted 34% of Jugobanka's total selective credits in
1986, compared to 37% in 1984 and 42% in 1985. Selective credits represented
a very important component lending for Jugobanka, constituting about 40% of
Jugobanka's total local currency loan portfolio (55% of the ST, and 19% of the
MLT, local currency loan portfolios).
11.      Promissory Notes.  Jugobanka, in common with many other Yugoslav
banks had excess liquidity during 1984-86 (para. 16) partly due to the credit
ceilings on certain types of lending. Jugobanka, therefore, increased its
holdings of assets not covered by the credit ceilings, including promissory
notes. Jugobanka's purchases of promissory notes included notes in the amount
of Din 34.4 billion issued by Agrokomerc, an agricultural conglomerate in
Bosnia-Herzegovina, which is currently under bankruptcy. Jugobanka set-up
provisions against the uncollected amount involved in 1987. Jugobanka expects
to recover part of this amount following negotiations with the concerned
parties.
12.      Guarantees.  The value of guarantees are understated in Jugobanka's
audited financial statements as the equivalent value of foreign exchange
guarantees was recorded at historical exchange rates. Due to lack of data, it
has not been possible to revalue the foreign exchange guarantees at current
exchange rates. Jugobanka is less exposed on account of guarantees than the
other two banks under the Project, LBL and UBB. The ratio of Jugobanka's
guarantees to its total assets declined between 1984-86 and, at 52% in 1986,
was significantly lower than in the case of LBL. However, unlike LBL and UBB,
foreign currency guarantees represented the bulk of Jugobanka's



- 56 -                      ANNEX 4-3
Pages 4 of 19
guarantees, accounting for about 62% in 1986. Jugobanka, in common with other
Yugoslav banks, has been charging low commissions on guarantees, ranging
between 0.5 to 0.8%. However, the issue of increasing the commission rates
was reviewed within the YBA and starting mid-1988, each bank can charge its
own fees.
III. Resource Mobilization
13.      Major sources of resources for Jugobanka during 1984-87 were deposits
and borrowings, both short-term and medium- to long-term. Details of
Jugobanka's liability structure and borrowings are given in Table 2.
14.      Deposits.  Jugobanka's total deposits decreased in real terms by an
average of 6.5% a year during 1984-1987, and at about the same rate as 1987.
However, their share in Jugobanka's total resources remained at around 64%.
The share of demand deposits in total deposits decreased sharply from 41% to
24% due to the low interest rates on demand deposits. Jugobanka was able to
increase fixed term deposits from individuals both in local and foreign
currency. Local currency deposits from individuals represented an increasing
share of total deposits from 23% to 40%. Deposits in foreign exchange
increased in real terms by an average of 8.6% a year during 1984-86, and
constituted 55% of total deposits in 1986 compared to 40% in 1984. Since
foreign exchange deposits are not permitted to be used for lending, local
currency deposits constituted an important source of funds for Jugobanka
during 1984-86.
15.      Borrowings.  The share of borrowings in Jugobanka's resources
remained at around 27% during 1984-87.  The share of total MLT borrowings to
total assets decreased steadily from 24% to 20% while the corresponding share
of ST borrow-ngs increased from 3% to 7%. Jugobanka's major sources of local
currency borrowings were NBY rediscounts and the interbank money market. The
share of foreign exchange borrowings in total borrowings increased markedly
from 21% to 74%. This increase was due, in part, to the revaluation of the
debt in US dollar terms due to exchange rate changes between the US dollar and
other currencies. lFC provided about 15% of Jugobanka's total borrowings in
1985 and 8% in 1986. Jugobanka was able to increase its ST foreign exchange
borrowings substantially from US$21 million equivalent in 1985 to US$176
million equivalent in 1986, due to its specialization and expertise in foreign
exchange operations.
16.      Liquidity.  Jugobanka's liquidity improved during 1984-86, and its
current ratio increased from 1.2 in 1984 1.5 in 1987. The main reasons for
the improved liquidity were: (i) the increase in obligatory reserve
requirements on ST deposits of enterprises (from 14.2% in 1984 to 16.7% at the
enid of 1986 and to 20% at the er of 1987), and (ii) the practice of Yugoslav
banks to redeposit their foreign 2xchange deposits at NBY. According to
Yugoslav regulations, banks may use up to 15% of their ST resources for MLT
lending. At the end of 1986, Jugobanka was in a satisfactory situation in
this regard, since only 7% its MLT lending was financed from ST resources.



- 57 -                      ANNEX 4-3
Pages 5 of 19
IV. Financial Performance
17.      Foreign Exchange Exposure and Risk.  In common with other Yugoslav
banks, the main source of foreign exchange exposure for jugobanka was the
practice of using foreign exchange borrowings for local currency lending. At
the end of 1986, Jugobanka had about US$185 million equivalent in foreign
exchange borrowings on its own account. The preliminary financial statements
for 1987 show a decline of the imbalance to US$140 million equivalent. The
1986 Banking Law prohibits this practice; hence, no increase in foreign
exchange exposure is expected in the future from this source through new
loans. However, under the national-level external debt rescheduling
arrangements with foreign banks, the rescheduling is automatically transferred
to the banks, which in turn reschedule their corresponding loans to
enterprises. These rescheduling arrangements have been a major cause of the
increase in foreign exchange losses for banks in respect of loans which were
not linked to changes in the currency rates. Jugobanka has had to carry the
resulting losses due to the currency devaluations. In contrast, the foreign
exchange borrowings undertaken by Jugobanka on behalf of its subborrowers have
not resulted in foreign exchange losses for Jugobanka, as the foreign exchange
risk is carried by the subborrowers.
18.      Jugobanka's deferred foreign exchange losses during 1984-86 are
summarized in Table 3. The 1986 Banking Law prevents banks from passing on to
enterprises the foreign exchange losses incurred before 1986 and deferred by
the banks. The Law requires these losses to be written-off within 15 years
(13 years starting 1987) in equal installments. Any foreign exchange loss
incurred by banks after 1986 has to be written-off in the year of occurrence.
fln 1986, Jugobanka wrote-off 5.8% of the deferred losses (instead of the 7%
write-off required), as well as all the foreign exchange losses incurred in
1986. Jubobanka's unaudited financial statements show a decrease in the
deferred foreign exchange losses by 25% compared to 8% write-off required.
19.      Arrears and Doubtful Loans.  The arrears ratio out of maturities due
in the year remained at about 40% in 1985 and 1986. However, the major part
of the amount not collected in respect of foreign exchange maturities was on
account of automatic rescheduling of maturities on total loans (in foreign
exchange and Dinar) due from enterprises following national level rescheduling
of external debt. If such rescheduling is excluded, Jugobanka's arrears ratio
in respect of maturities on total loans due (foreign exchange and Dinar)
declined from 23% in 1985 to 11.5% in 1986. The arrears ratio in respect of
the local currency maturities due also decreased sharply from 12% in 1985 to
5% in 1986. Details of Jugobanka's arrears and doubtful loan situation are
given in Table 3. The number of loans in arrears (excluding rescheduling)
over two years decreased sharply in 1986 to 342 compared to 1,230 in 1985.
The principal outstanding in respect of these loans also decreased
substantially in 1986. Doubtful loans also decreased steadily during 1984-86
from Dinar 44 billion (7% of the total portfolio) to Dinar 23 billion (1.4%).
The ratio of recovery of these loans out of total doubtful loans for the year
increased from 6% in 1985 to 14% in 1986. The percentage of provisions in
respect of doubtful loans increased steadily from 27% in 1984 to 61% in 1986.
According to the 1986 Banking Law, banks have to allocate provisions equal to
100% of their doubtful loans. Overall, therefore, Jugobanka has been able to
achieve a significant improvement in its arrears situation.



- 58 -                       ANNEX 4-3
Pages 6 of 19
20.      Profitability.  Profitability indicators for Yugoslav banks have to
be viewed with caution since, prior to 1986, the banks followed certain
practices which resulted in substantial overstatements of their income and
understatement of their liabilities. According to Jugobanka's audited
financial statements, Jugobanka's net income increased substantially between
1984-86 from Din 13 billion to Din 70 billion.  In 1987 the net income and the
revaluation surplus amounted to Din 301 billion. The return on assets
increased from 1.1% in 1984 to 2.7% in 1986 and the ratio of operating
expenses to total assets decreased from 1.9% to 1.8%.  However, further
adjustments to some of the financial data given in the audited financial
statements are needed for conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles (GAAP). A summary for Jugobanka's adjusted income for the period
1984-1986 is given in Table 4.  Until the end of 1985, Yugoslav banks were
permitted to defer foreign exchange losses and record them in their assets.
In keeping with the 1986 Banking Law, Jugobanka wrote off the current foreign
exchange losses incurred in 1986, and, in addition, 9.6% of the deferred
foreign exchange losses incurred in previous years (required to be written off
in 15 years under the Law). With the adjustments required to comply with
GAAP, Jugobanka's adjusted net income increased substantially from a loss
level of Din 34 billion in 1984 to net income of Din 75 billion in 1986; and
the return on assets, which was negative for 1984 and 1985, amounted to 3% in
1986. The preliminary financial results for 1987 show net income of Din 9
billion and a surplus of revaluation of Din 292 billion and the returned on
assets increased to 3.4%.
21.      The distribution of Jugobanka's net income for the period 1984-1986
is summarized in Table 4. The percentage of distribution to members
(dividends) out of total unadjusted net income decreased from 31% to 28%.
Jugobanka, in common with other Yugoslav banks, did not allocate income to
any of its reserve funds prior to 1985, since this was not a requirement under
the then prevailing Banking Law. In 1987, Jugobanka did not distribute
dividends to its members and allocated its net income and revaluation surplus
to its funds.
22.      Jugobanka's net income in 1986 was insufficient to build up reserve
funds as required by the 1986 Banking Law, even if no dividends to members
were distributed (para. 23). Jugobanka's local currency MLT lending portfolio
containing a substantial part (33%) at low fixed interest rates, currently
exerts a further constraint on Jugobanka's earning potential. Jugobanka's
commission rates on foreign exchange lending ranging between 0.5 to 0.8% are
inadequate to cover the associated credit risks and processing costs. In
order to build up reserve funds, to write off the foreign exchange losses and
to build up adequate provisions against portfolio losses, Jugobanka will have
to increase its earnings substantially (para. 30). In 1987, Jugobanka's net
income increased sharply, and enabled the bank to increase the JLF to 6.0%
23.      Reserves.  According to Jugobanka's audited financial statements, the
ratio of Jugobanka's total equity to its total assets increased from about
3.5% in 1984 to 5% in 1986. However, further adjustments are needed to
conform with GAAP. With these adjustments, Jugobanka's adjusted equity was
negative in 1984 and 1985, but then increased to Din 65 billion in 1986, a
ratio of 2.1% to total assets (Din 147 billion in 1987, a ratio of 1.7% of



- 59-                        ANNEX 4-3
Pages 7 of 19
total assets).  One of the major causes of past low reserves in Yugoslav banks
was the practice of distributing dividends to their founding members while
overstating their income by deferring losses and inadequate provisioning.
Since 1986, banks are not allowed to defer losses and are required to build up
their reserve funds by at least 1% a year. In 1986, Jugobanka did not meet
the required build up of 1% for each of JLF and RF as required by the 1986
Banking Law. In 1987, Jugobanka increased the JLF by far more than the
required build-up to reach 6% (an increase of 4.5%), but the RF increased only
by 0.8%. There is a need to build up the Reserve Fund substantially in the
next few years, at least to the levels required by the Law.
Operational and Financial Projections for Jugobanka
24.      As currently projected by the Bank, the rate of inflation in
Yugoslavia is expected to slow down gradually from 130% in 1988 to 60% in
1991. In keeping with the Federal Government's current policy in this regard,
the exchange rate between the Dinar and currencies of main trading partners is
expected to be adjusted to compensate for the difference in the rates of
inflation in Yugoslavia and its main trading partners. The projections are
based on Jugobanka's medium-term plan for 1987-1991. However, the projections
also take into account of the implications of recent changes in monetary
policies. These are (i) the increase in NBY reserve requirements to 11% of all
Dinar deposits, ST and MLT; (ii) the interest rate paid on these reserves will
be 3% (which is very low and negative in real terms); (iii) abolition of
credit ceilings; (iv) interest rates on demand deposits in Dinars has been set
at 20% of the revaluation rate; (v) interest rates on borrowings from NBY
(derived from the foreign exchange deposits that the banks redeposit at NBY)
has been set at 91% of the revaluation rate, and (vi) indexation of the
principal of term loans of maturities of one year or longer and of time
deposits of 3 months or longer. On the whole, the recent changes, , and in
particular, the high reserve requirements on which the interest rate are very
low, will have an unfavorable effect on the Yugoslav banks' income, and will
necessitate additional measures to increase the banks' profitability. Other
key assumptions together with Jugobanka's projected financial statements are
given in Tables 6 to 10.
25.      Operations. During 1988-1991, Jugobanka's assets are projected to
decrease slightly in real terms. This is due mainly to a reduction in MLT
Dinar loan approvals of 30% in 1988 and 10% in 1989 reflecting the unfavorable
overall economic environment, which is projected to improve gradually in 1990
and 1991 in keeping with the expected improvement in the economic situation.
Loan approvals in foreign exchange are expected to decline by 20% in 1988 and
10% in 1989, and to increase only gradually in subsequent years. Approvals of
ST foreign exchange and Dinar loans are expected to decline in 1988 and 1989,
with a gradual improvement in subsequent years. Overall, Jugobanka's lending
disbursements are expected to increase only gradually between 1988 and 1991.
26.      Resource Mobilization. Jugobanka's projected resource mobilization
plan is satisfactory. Between 1988-1991, total MLT resources are estimated at
Din. 3092 billion in 1986 prices. Jugobanka is expected to meet 50% of the
local resource requirements from new borrowings, and the balance from deposits
(40%) and internal cash generation (10%). In accordance with the Foreign



- 60 -                       ANNEX 4-3
Pages 8 of 19
Exchange Law, Jugobanka is expected to meet 100% of its new foreign exchange
disbursements from new foreign exchange borrowings. The LT borrowings in local
currency are projected to meet 15% of LT local currency lendings. The Bank
group (through this project and other IFC loans) would meet about 10% of the
foreign exchange resources on a disbursement basis. ST local currency
deposits are expected to remain at around the 1987 level, with a slight
increase in real terms, due to the new interest rate policy of term deposits
of 3 months and longer. MTT local currency deposits, on which the real
interest rates are positive, are expected to increase in real terms by 3%
annually between 1988-1991. Foreign exchange deposits, both ST and MLT, are
expected to remain at around the 1987 levels in real terms, due to the
reluctance of Yugoslav individuals to increase such deposits in domestic
banks. NBY is assumed to continue to rediscount 30% of ST selective credits,
and 15% of MLT selective credits.
27.      Foreign Exchange Exposure. Jugobanka is expected to eliminate the
foreign exchange exposure between its liabilities and assets which amounted
to US$ 140 million equivalent at the end of 1987, at the rate of one third
about US$ 47 million equivalent) each year starting 1988.
28.      Liquidity. Jugobanka's use of ST resources to finance MLT lending is
projected to increase from 0.2% in 1987 to around 10.5% in 1991. This level is
within the 15% permitted by the 1986 Banking Law. Jugobanka's current ratio is
expected to remain at about the same level (1.5) in 1987. Overall, Jugobanka
is not expected to face liquidity problems, particulary since 4% of its assets
are expected to be in cash and 11% of its local currency deposits would be
held as reserves with NBY; however, the new monetary policy will have an
adverse impact on the liquidity of all Yugoslav banks.
29.      Arrears and Doubtful Loans. The rate of arrears (excluding
rescheduling of debts to foreign banks) as a percentage of maturities due has
been moderate, at 10%, for Jugobanka. Provisions under the 1986 Banking Law
which stipulate that banks cannot make new loans to enterprises that are in
arrears in respect of due repayments and steps that Jugobanka is expected to
take to strengthen further its lenaing and portfolio supervision activities
with the help of appropriate technical assistance (Annex 4-7) are expected to
be adequate to ensure that this ratio does not increase substantially. The
projections assume the arrears ratio will decrease from 10% in 1987 to 6% in
1991.
30.      Profitability. In order to increase its net income and to build up
reserve funds and provisions, Jugobanka would need to raise the weighed
average interest rate on MLT local currency loans to 15% above the revaluation
rate from mid-1988 onwards. Although such an increase may reduce somewhat the
demand for loans, it is considered not to be excessive (interest rates on
short-term deposits for 3 months is expected to be at a minimum of 5% above
revaluation), and it would contribute, further, to an improvement in the
appropriate allocation of scarce funds. It is also assumed that Jugobanka will
charge on the selective credits not rediscounted with NBY this level of
interest rate. In addition, commission rates on foreign exchange loans are



- 61 -                      ANNEX 4-3
Pages 9 of 19
expected to be raised from 0.52 in 1987 to 31 from mid-1988. Although this
would be a steep increase, it is not deemed excessive in view of the risks
involved in such loans and the hardling costs. Similarly, commissions on
guarantees are also expected to be increased from 0.5Z in 1987 'o an average
of 1Z from mid-1988.
31.      Overall, these projections imply a gradual improvement in Jugobanka's
profitability. Although Jugobanka's overall level of operations is expected to
show only modest growth due to the adverse economic environment and
constraints on raising new substantial foreign exchange resources, Jugobanka's
financial performance is expected to improve to acceptable levels if Jugobanka
takes the steps discussed above. Jugobanka's net income, as a percentage of
total assets, is projected to increase from 2.91 in 1987 to 4.81 in 1991. The
increase in income would enable Jugobanka to increase its RF by 1Z a year from
1987 onwards to reach 52 by 1990, as required by the 1986 Banking Law.
Jugobanka would also be able to write-off deferred foreign exchange losses in
five years.
32.      The projected financial position should enable Jugobanka to service
its foreign debt. Since banks have to redeposit all foreign exchange deposits
with NBY, the foreign exchange needed to service external debt will have to be
sold by NBY to Jugobanka .
33.      Obviously, Jugobanka's future performance would be affected by
changes in the economic and financial environment, and in laws and
regulations. The effects of such changes on Jugobanka's performance will have
to be continuously monitored.



ANNEX 4-3
- 62 -                      Pages 10 of 19
Table 1:  JUGOSANKA: Asset Structure & Oetails gf Lona-Term Loans & Selective Credits
1984                 1985                   1986
Dinars               Dinars                 Dinars
(bln)   Percent      (bln)   Percent        (bln)  Percent
A. Asset Structure
Oeposits with NBY                 196        17.0       455      23.0           908       29.0
Short-term Loans                  226        20.0       474      24.0           737       23.0
Other Current Liabilities         266        23.0       454      23.0           487       16.0
Long-term Loans &
Investments                    398        35.0       479      24.0          885       28.0
Deferred Foreign
Exchange Loans                  46         4.0        86       4.0           81        3.0
Other Long-term Assets              9         1.0        18       1.0         ___8         1.0
Total Assets               1,142        100.0    1,965    100.0          3.137      100.0
1984                           1985                            1986
Foreign                      Foreign                          Foreign
Total   Dinar   Exchanae  Total   Dinar   Exchange    Total    Dinar    Exchange
B. Details of Long-term Loans
(Dinars bln)
Total Commitments           59       31        28        81      37        44         142        111      31
In 1984 prices              59       31        28        44      20        24          46        36       10
Total Disbursements         58       17        17        56      29        27          91        60       31
In 1984 prices              58       17        17        31      16        1S          29         19      10
Breakdowsn by Sectors:
-Industry                   43       19        24        53      19        34         111        84       27
-Agriculture                 4        3         1         2       2         -           9         6        3
-Transportation              4        1         3        1S       6         9           8                  -
-Trade                       1        1         -         3       3         -           5         5        -
-Others                      7        7         -         8       7         1           9         8         1
,Source: Jugobanka
1984                     1985                         1986
Long-   Short-              Long-   Short-              Long    Short-
Total   term    term       Total    term    term    Total    term    term
C. Details of Selective Credits
(Dinars bln)
Sources of Funds
NBY                           51      20        31       99       27       72       139       47      92
Jugobanka                     87       17       ZQ      137       11      119       12        34    222
Total                        138      37       101      236       45      191       412       81    331
Lending
Export                       103      32        71      160       39      121       287       73    214
Agriculture                   22        -       22       56         -      56       103        -    103
Food                               -              -       2         -       2          1       -       1
Housing                        -        -         -                 -                    
Others                        13        S        8        18       6       12        21        8      13
Total                        L0 17              0       lu3       45i    191        412       81    311.
NBY Rediscounts (Z)             37       62        44       42      60       38         34       58     23
Source: Jugobanka



A-3EX 4-3
- 63 -                     Pages 11 of 19
Table 2:  JUGOSANKA: LiabilitX Structure. Details of Borrowings & Guarantees
1984                198S                    1986
Dinars              Dinars                 Dinars
(bin)   Percent    (bin)   Percent         (bin)  Percent
A. Liability Structure
Demand Deposits                   303       27.0        357     19.0          470        16.0
Short-term Deposits               174        16.0      381      21.0          655       22.0
Short-term Borrowings              29         3.0       113      6.0           182       6.0
Other Current Liabilities          73         7.0       117      6.0           176       6.0
Long-term Deposits               255        23.0       488      27.0          860       29.0
Lcng-term 3orrowing              269         24.0      434      24.0          647       22.0
Total Liabilities            LA LG                           I.f a.929               I.L.fl
19q84        1       986
B. Details of Borrowings
(Dinars bin)
Local Borrowings
Short term                                           3         33         27
Long term                                           2&         2Q         21
Total net increase in local borrowings              23         53        120
(percentage growth in 1984 prices)                           18%         2
C.  Foreign Exchange Borrowings
(USS million equivalent)
Short term
Foreign Banks                                        7         2'         :.
Long term
IFC                                             -         2          25
Foreign Banks                                                      iL DE 105
Total long-term                             89         115       130
Total Foreign Exchange                              96        136        306
Source: Jugobanka
i2m
O. Guarantees
Domestic guarantees                                     410       584
Foreign exchange guarantees"                             636      997
Foreign exchange letters of credit                        46        SO
Total                                              1,092    1.631
1/ Converted at historical exchange rate.
Source: SOK



ANNEX 4-3
- 64 -                           Pages 12 of 19
Table 3: JUGOBANKA: Oeferred Foreign
Exchanae Losses. Arrears & Doubtful Loans
1 9412X
A. Details of Deferred Foreian
Exchange Losses (Oinars bin)
Balance as of January 1                         27         47         86
Current losses                                  20         40         44
Write-offs                                      Q           1         49
Balance as of year end                          47         86         81
1/  Converted at historical exchange rate.
Source: SOK
1985                     1986
Foreign                 Foreign
Oinar Exchange Total Dinar Exchange Total
B. Oetails of Arrears in Renavment
of Long-term Loan (Oinars bln)
1.  Arrears balance as of January               2      10     12       3      14        17
2.  Amounts due during the year                57    104    161    116    137          253
3.  Total amount due (I + 2)                   52    114    173     119    15I         270
4.  Cash collection                            52      51    103    113       52       165
5.  Rescheduled                                 1     40      41       1      8S        86
6.  Transfer to doubtful loans                  3      14     17       3       4         7
8.  Arrears, as of year end                     3      14      17      2      10        12
9. Ratios (%)
a. Cash collection (4/3)                    88     45      59      95      34       61
b. Arrears (1-a)                            12     55      41       5     66         39
c. Rescheduling (5/3)                        2     35      24       1     56         32
d. Arrears [1-(4/(3-S))]                    12     31      22.6    5      22.7       11.4
1/ Equivalent Dinar billion.
2/  Excluding rescheduling of foreign exchange, (1 colletion ratio).
Source:  Jugobanka, SOK, mission calculation.
Maturities of
Number of             Principal            Principal in
Loans             Outstanding               Arrears
1986     1985         1986      1985        Um          18
C.  Distribution of Arears by
Period (Dinars bln)
Up to 3 months                    725       263      4,944    18,750        1,967       5,112
3 to 6 months                    464        274      7.641      61928         7,9         533
6 to 12 months                    394       320      19,022     9.090      8.919          536
1 to 2 years                     215       224       6,195    13,932          394         495
Over 2 years                    _1_2    1.230        9.988    28.242          676      10.873
Total                                                                 NZjf  L_31J  2_29Q    Z_.&2  L_21S  JL.512
Source: SOK
1984       1985         128k
D. Details of Doubtful Loans
(Oinars bln)
1. Balance as of January 1                                14          44          34
2. Current (less charge-offs)                             30          10           2
3. Recovery                                                -           3           5
4. Rescheduled                                             -          17           8
S. Balance as of year end (1 + 2 - 3 -4)                 !U           34          l}
6. Provisions                                             12          19          14
7. Percentage of provisions to balance (6/5)             27%         56%         61%
Source: Jugobanka



- 65 -                       ANNEX 4-3
Pages 13 of 19
Table 4: JUGOBANKA: INCOME STATEMENTS & DISTRIBUTION
OF NET INCOME
1984       1985        1986
A. Income Statements
(Dinars bln)
1.   Interest Income                                   92        171         403
2.   Other Income                                      16         35          52
3.   Gross Income (2 + 1)                             108        206         455
4.   Interest Expenses                                 80        154         312
5.   Other Expense                                     22         34          47
6.   Foreign Exchange Losses Writes-off                 1          1          50
7.   Statutory Obligations                              1          1           4
8.     Net Income (3 - 4 - 5 - 6 - 7)                   4         14          41
9.   Income Not Collected                               9         11          29
10.    Total Net Income (8 + 9)                        13         25          70
Adiustments
11.  Current Losses                                  (-47)     (-40)           -
12. Foreign Exchange Losses for
Previous Years                                  -          1           5
13. Adjusted Net Income for
the Year (10-11+12)                           (-34)      (-14)         75
Source: SDK, mission calculation.
1984        1985        1986
B.  Distribution of Net Income
(Dinars billion)
Allocation to Property and Equipment Fund               0           2          7
Allocation to Reserve Fund                              0           3          4
Allocation to Joint Liability Fund                      0           2         10
Income Accrued but not Collected                        9          11         29
Distribution to Members                                 4           6         20
Total1'                                                U           _2         70
1/ Unadjusted
Source: SDK



- 66 -                       ANNEX 4-3
Pages 14 of 19
Table 5: JUGOBANKA: CHANGES IN RESERVES
1984     1985      1986
A.  Build-up Reserves
(Dinars bln)
1.   Property and Equipment Fund                         11       27        51
2.   Reserve Fund                                         3         6       12
3.   Joint Liability Fund                                 6       12        25
4.   Total Funds                                         20       45        88
5.   Accrued income-'                                    19        29         5
6.   Total (4 + 5) as shown by SDK                       39        74      146
7.   Deferred F.E. Losses                               (46)     (86)      (81)
8.   Adjusted Equity (6-7)                              (-7)      (12)      65
9.   Adjusted Total Assets-'                         1,096    1,879    3,056
1/  This represent the amount of interest earned but not collected.
2/ Total assets - deferred fore gn exchange losses.
Source: SDK, Mission calculation.
1985                        1986
Property                Property
Fund    RF    JLF       Fund       RF    JLF
B.  Changes in Reserves
(Dinars bln)
1.   Balance as of January 1        11.3      3.0   6.2      26.9    6.2    11.6
2.   New funds invested              6.1      0.6   4.2       0.7    1.5       4.0
3.   Allocation of net income        2.5      2.6   2.5       6.7    4.6    10.4
4.   Withdrawals by members           -        -   (0.4)    (1)    (0.1)   (0.4)
5.   Revaluation of property         7.1       -     -       18.0      -        -
6.   Write-offs                       -        -   (0.8)       -       -      (0.6)
7.   Balance as of year end         26.9     6.2  11.        51.   12.2    25.01
Source:



ANNEX 4-3
Pages 15 of 19
- 67 -
Table 6: JUGOBANKA: ASSUMPTIONS
1987     1988       1989       1996       1991       1992
DONESTIIC INFLATION                                          131.1%   131.1%    IO.OZ    8a.o%          61.1%      43.3%
EXCHANGE RATE YEAR-END                                        130       2925       5764       9982     15471      26886
OPERATIONS
APPROVALS (REAL 6ROWTH):
LT LOCAL CURRENCY                           -OO.OX   -3t.0Z    -16.OZ        t.OX       1.1%       2.0%
LT FOREIGN CURRENCY                         -11.O%   -23.3Z    -1I.1O        O.O%       1.6%       1.3%
ST LOCAL CURRENCY                            -5.t%   -1.6%        6.O%      3.0%       4.3%       5.0X
ST FOREIGN CURRENCY                          -5.3%   -11.1%       -5.6%      3.0%       2.1%       2.0%
STRUCTURE
DEPOSITS (REAL GROWTH)
LOCAL: SIGHT DEPOSITS                                 3.8%    -2.0%      -2.1%       3.6%       O.t%      0.t%
S.T. DEPOSITS                                 0.0%      3.0X       3.0%      3.8%       3.0%       3.3%
L.T. DEPOSITS                                 O.6%      3.6%       3.0%      3.0%       3.3Z       3.0%
F.E.: S.T. DEPOSITS                                 O.O%      O.6%       3.O%       3.O%       6.O%      O.6%
L.T. DEPOSITS                                 O.O%      0.0%       3.O%      0.3%       O.O%       8.3%
N;Y REDISCOUNTS (Z OF ST SELECTIVE CREDITS)                   30.0%    30.3%       13.6%      13.3%      18.3X     13.O%
NBY REDISCOUNTS (% OF LT SELECTIVE CREDITS)                   15.0%    15.0%        5.0%       0.0%      3.O%       O.O%
JLF FUND BUILD-UP                                              6.0%      5.0%       5.0%       5.0%      5.0%       5.0%
RESERVE FUND BULD-UP                                           2.03      2.6%       3.6%       4.6%      5.0%       5.0%
ARREARS (PERCENTAE OF TOTAL AMOUNT DUE)                        2.X%    4.a%         5.o%       4.0%       3.0%      2.0%
PROVISIONS (PERCENTAGE OF ST DISBURSEMENTS)                    1.3%      1.3%       1.6%       1.6%       1.3%      1.3%
6ENERAL PROVISIONS BUILD-UP (I OF LT LENDING)                  3.8%      0.5%       1.3%       1.5%      2.3%       2.3%
LOCAL LT BORROWING (PERCENTAGE OF LT '-ENDIN6)                25.0%    13.3%       16.3%      10.0%      16.3%     13.6%
F.E. LT BORROWING (PERCENTAGE OF LT LENDING)                13.3X   163.3%    130.3%    126.6%   1O.OZ    133.3%
F.E. ST BORROWING (PERCENTAGE OF LT LENDING)                 133.3%   133.3%    133.3%    l3O.3%   IO.3%    163.3%
COMMISIONS ON FOREIGN CURRENCY OPERATIONS                      t.5%      1.8%       3.0%       2.8%      2.8%       2.3Z
NRITE-OFF OF DEFERRED F.E. LOSSES                             23.t%    26.3%       21.1%     23.32      26.3%      21.1%
CAPITALIZATION OF REVALUATED AMOUNT DUE                        O.O%      6.6%       6.3% O.O% O.3%                  6.0%
MATURITY OF CAPITALIZED REVALAUTION                              5         a          I          6          a         a
FOREIGN EXCHANGE EXPOSURE (YEAR-END)                           140        93         47          a          a         I
CASH AS PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL ASSETS                             4.3%      4.8%       4.0%       4.6%      4.6%       4.6%



ANNrX 4-3
Pages 16 of 19
- 68 -
Table 7: Jubobanka: Projected Financial Results
Constant Prices (1986)
(Billion of Dinar)
1997      1988      jI9q        1996       1991       1992
I TOTAL COMMITMENTS                                                799       '29         467       7'81        395        413
2 TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS                                              735       693         454        370        383        40
3 TOTAL ASSETS                                                    3734      3726        3524       3445       3428       3393
4 SHORT-TERM LENDING (INCLUDING CURRENT MATURITY)                   643       673        485        443        472        48
5 LONG-TERM LENDING (INCLUDING REVALAUTION)                         948       990        963        913        848        862
6 SHORT-TERM BORROWINe (INCLUDING CURRENT MATURITY)                 275       423        253        263        212        115
7 LON6-TERM BORROWING                                               779      575         484        392       3;1         311
8 TOTAL DEPOSITS                                                   1825     1t83        1107       1132       1154       1173
9 JLF AND RF                                                         68        93        115        131        142        144
10 NET INCOME                                                        186        97        127        132        166        173
It NET WORTH (TOTAL EQUITY -DEFERRED F.E. LOSSES)                     98       118        134        145        153        152
STRUCTURE (% OF TOTAL ASSETS
12                   TOTAL LENDIN6S                                42.6%    44.6%        41.1%      39.3%      38.5%      37.4%
13                   TOTAL BORROWINGS                              28.2%    26.8Z        28.9%      17.2%      15.8%      12.6%
14                   TOTAL DEPOSITS                                59.7%    63.9%        68.71      71.6X      73.1%      74.9%
15                   TOTAL RESERVES                                 3.4%       3.4%       3.9%       4.2%       4.4%       4.5%
16 CAPITALIZATION OF REVALUATION I TOTAL REVALUATION                O.O%      O.3%        1.O%       6.O%       t.0X       t.OX
LIQUIDITY RATIOS
17 PERCENTAGE OF SHORT-RESOURCES FOR LONG-TERM LENDIN6S            -6.6%       4.7%       8.5%      1.9%      11.9%      19.0%
18 CURRENT RATIO                                                  150.7%   138.8%    141.47.    142.8%    141.31    143.71
19 CASH I TOTAL ASSETS                                              4.8%      4.8%        4.8%       4.8%       4.8%       4.0%
PROFITABILITY
23 NET INCOME / TOTAL ASSETS                                         5.6%      2.6%       3.6%       3.8%       4.8%       5.1%
21 NET INCOME I TOTAL RESERVES                                    145.2%    76.2%        93.8%      90.8%    108.8%    114.1%
22 INTEREST INCOME I TOTAL ASSETS                                  37.4%    40.7%        35.5%      29.6%      25.6%      21.5%
23 INTEREST EXPENSE / TOTAL ASSETS                                 36.7%    36.6%        36.7X      24.5%      19.5%      15.1%
24                   SPREAD (22-23)                                  6.7%      4.8%       4.9%       5.1%       6.1%       6.4X
25 INTEREST INCOME / AVERAGE LENDIN6 PORTFOLIO                     63.4%    65.9%        53.9%      43.7%      36.5%      29.6%
26 INTEREST EXPENSE I AVERAGE BORROWING PORTFOLIO                  49.21    56.3%        44.6%      35.6%      27.2%      26.0%
27                   SPREAD (25-26)                                 14.3%      9.51       9.4%       8.7%       9.4%       8.9%
28 GENERAL PROVISION I LT LENDIN6S                                  O.8X      6.8%       6.8%        6.O%       1.0%       6.6%
29 PROVISION / S.T. DISBURSEMENTS                                    1.6%      1.8%       !.8%       1.6%       1.O%       1.O%
36 ARREARS ' TOTAL AMOUNT DUE                                       2.0%       4.0%       5.0%       4.8%       3.06       2.8%
31 INTEREST RATE ON LOCAL LENDIN6                                   8.5%    16.5%        19.6%      19.0%      19.0%      19.0%
(EXCLUDING NBY'S REDISCOUNTS AND FIXED RATES)
RESERVES
32 JLF (X OF PREVIOUS YEAR'S LENDING PORTFOLIO)                     6.71%      5.7%       6.2%       6.8%       '.2%       6.9%
33 RF (PERCENTAGE OF LENDIN6 PORTFOLIO)                              1.1%      2.6%       3.6%       4.6%       5.62       5.0%
34 TOTAL BORROWINGS / TOTAL RESERVES                                 8.2       7.8        5.;        4.1        3.4        2.0



ANNEX 4-3
Pages 17 of 19
- 69 -
Table 8: Jubobanka balance sheet (current prices)
(Dinar Bln)
BALANCE SHEET                                          ESTIMATED
-----------    ---- ----------PROJECTED --------------------
ASSETS                                                        1987     1988       1989      1996       1991       1992
DEPOSITS WItH N8Y                                         3153      7963     16161      29684      48385     68486
ST LOANS                                                  1478      3558      5131       8432      14'383    17414
OTHERS (INCLUDIN6 CASH)                                   1614      2812      5593       9887      15781     21826
LT LOANS AND INVESTMENTS                                  2186      5236     16186      1737q      25852     36792
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENTS                                     94       152        182       268        225       229
DEFERRED F.E. LOSSES                                        69        49         32        16          a         0
TOTAL ASSETS                       8588    19769      37285     65667    114466    144737
LIABILITIES
ST DEPOSITS                                               2776      6892     13912      25424      41233     58389
ST 8ORRONINGS                                              632      2239      2678       3861       6455      4925
OTHERS                                                     743      1149      2418       4586       7780     11628
LT DEPOSITS                                               2358      5711     11788      21554      35172     50840
LT BORROWINGS                                             1791      3643      5123       7472       9178     13286
FUNDS EMPLOYED
JLF AND RESERVE FUNDS                                      156       496       1215      2491       4326      6122
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENTS                                    138       184       231        278        321       353S
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND FUND         8588    19709      37285     65667    114466    144737
INCOME STATEMENT
INTEREST EARNED                                           3216      8617     13255      19461     26796      31129
INTEREST EXPENSE                                          2636      7221     11432      16651     26419      21912
NET INTEREST INCOME                          574       795       1823      3351       6377      9217
OTHER INCOME                                                28        93        229       465        648       904
TOTAL INCOME                                 662       889       2652      3754       7625      10121
EXPENDITURE
PROVISIONS                                                  14        29        36         52         86       127
URITE-OFFS                                                  16        1?        21         26         '4        29
DEPRECIATION                                                 7        12         17        21         26        29
ADMINISTRATIVE EIPENSFS                                    125       288       576       1636       1658      2321
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                     162       346       649       1135       1863      2505
STATUTORY OBLIGATIONS                                           13       29         58        184       166       2;'2
NET INCOME                          427      514       1345       2516      5656       7''84
-- -- -- --.   - -- -- -- - -- -- --  -- - -- -- -- --  - -- -- -- -   - -- ---_--   -  -- -- -- -- -  -- -- -- -- -



ANNEX  4-3
-  70  -                                Pages  18 of  19
Table 9: .'ubobanka Balance Sheet In 1986's Prices
ACTUAL ESTIMATED
                     ---- ----------PROJECTED --------------------
ASSETS                                           1986        1997     1989       1989      1990      190I       1QQZ
DEPOSITS WITH NBY                              9U        1371      1494      1527       1559      1585       1665
ST LOANS                                      1115        643       673       485        443       472        418
OTHERS (INCLUDING CASH)                        5!2        712       532       529        519       515        512
LT LOANS AND INVESTMENTS                      1148        948       993       963        913       848        862
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENTS                         91         41         9         17        11         7          5
DEFERRED F.E. LOSSES                            95         36         9         3          1         0          I
TOTAL ASSETS           3651       3734      3726      3524       3445      3428       3393
LIABILITIES
ST DEPOSITS                                   1553       1264      1333      1315       1335      1353       1369
ST BORROWINGS                                  313        275       423       253        200       212        115
OTHERS                                         281        323       217       229        241       255        273
LT DEPOSITS                                    842       1625      1088      1167       1132      1154       1173
LT BORROWINGS                                  584        779       575       484        392       31l        311
FUNDS EMPLOYED
JLF AND RESERVE FUNDS                           76         68        93       115        131       142        144
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENTS                         99         60        35        22         15        11          8
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND FUND      3651        3734     3726      3524       3445      3428       3393
--- -- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- -- --- --  -- -- -- --- -- --  -- -- _-  -- -- --_    --- -- -- -- -- ---  -- -- -- --
REAL GROWTH RATE
ASSETS                                                       1987     1988      19B9       1998      1991       1992
DEPOSITS WITH NBY                                       52.32%    8.97%      2.25%     2.05%      1.71%     1.27%
ST LCANS                                               -36.69%    4.66%   -27.96%    -8.69%       6.61%   -13.57%
OTHERS (INCLUDING CASH)                                 37.66%  -24.26%    -6.54Z    -1.80%    -0.74%    -6.71%
LT LOANS AND INVESTMENTS                                -9.56%    4.43%       .73%    -5.21%    -7.33%       1.66%
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENTS                                -49.54%  -29.711   -39.99%   -36.61%   -32.46%   -27.41%
DEFERRED F.E. LOSSES                                   -68.42%  -69.38Z   -66.67X   -72.22%  -1OO.OX%
TOTAL ASSETS                      2.27%   -1.22%    -5.41%    -2.25%    -8.48%    -1.64%
LIABILITIES
ST DEPOSITS                                            -22.45%    8.18%      0.93%      1.5.%     1.36%     1.!5%
ST BORROWIN6S                                           -9.31%   54.64%   -48.21%   -21.14%       6.131   -45.53%
OTHERS                                                  61.52%  -32.75%      5.18%     5.39%      6.03%     6.75%
LT DEPOSITS                                             21.76%    5.36%      2.56%     2.27%      1.99%     1.62%
LT BORROWINGS                                           33.34%  -26.13%   -15.82%   -18.98%   -23.23%       3.35%
FUNDS EMPLOYED
JLF AND RESERVE FUNDS                                   -3.11%   36.76%    23.83%    13.92%       8.56%     1.W9%
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENTS                                -39.39%  -41.98%   -37.23%   -33.14%   -27.99X   -21.34%
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND FUND                 2.27%   -8.22%    -5.41%    -2.25%    -1.48%    -1.84%
_ _ ___ _-   -  ------ ----- ------ -----  ------ ----- ------  ----- ------ -----  ------ ----- ----_ -  -----



ANNEX 4-3
-  71  -                                   Pages  19  of  19
Table 10: Jugobanka Sources and Uses of Fund
ESTIMATED ----PROJECTED-
1987     1988       1989       1991       1991       1992
SOURCES
OPERATIONS
NET INCOME                                                      216       411       1087       1998       4279       6324
ADD: DEPRECIATION                                      7       12         17         21         26         29
PROVISIONS AND WRITE-OFFS                       14        29         36         52         86        127
iNCREASE IN:
DEMAND DEPOSITS                                612      1358       2344       3829       5169      5513
ST DEPOSITS (LOCAL)                            281       680       1248      2170       2913       3274
ST DEPOSITS (F.E.)                             813      1644      2986       4889        6736       7288
ST DEPOSITS FROM ENTERPRISES (F.E.)            144       244        443        724        997       1686
ST BORROWINGS (LOCAL)                          286       981       -328      -189         762        576
ST BORROWINGS (F.E.)                            18        61        147        326        562        728
ACCRUED INTEREST AND OTHERS                    229       573       1675       1827      2638       3864
LT DEPOSITS (LOCAL)                            283       686       1259      2696        2946       3365
LT DEPOSITS (F.E.)                            1274     2669       4738       7756       16679     11563
LT BORROWINGS (LOCAL)                          215       491        799       1176       1431       1284
LT BORROWINGS (F.E.)                           853      1382       1961      2159        1665        -16
UNCOLLECTED INCOME                              25        87        193        341        556        784
TOTAL SOURCES                       5251    11249       17944     29669      41373      44921
USES
INCREASED IN:
CASH                                           222       447        703       1133       1554       1611
DEPOSITS WITH NBY                             2107     4253       7724      12645      17469      18851
SECURITIES                                     189      434         767      1227       1657       1767
SHORT-TERM LENDING (LOCAL)                     641      1336        345       1152      2887       3342
SHORT-TERM LENDING (F.E.)                      167       175       294        479        649        666
RESERVE FOR DEPOSITS                           111       359       534        879        1212      1331
DEFERRED FE LOSSES                             -16       -16       -16        -16        -16          a
ACCRUED INTEREST                               296       667       1186      1887       2548       2718
ARREARS                                         -5        59        132         46         55        29
LT LOCAL LENDING                               738      2197       4165      6916       9535      16633
LT FE LENDIN6                                  786      1269       1754      2666       1518          46
FIXED ASSETS                                    87        46         47         47         42        32
DISTRIBUTION TO MEMBERS                          a        36       315        675       2402       4495
TOTAL USES                          5251    11249       17944     29669      41373      44921
--  - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - -- -  - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - -  - -   - -  - - - - - -



- 72 -                      ANNEX 4-4
Page 1 of 18
YUGOSLAVIA
EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
The Borrowing Banks: Financial Aspects
Liublianska Banka Liublijana (LBL)
I. Summary of Main Institutional Aspects
1.       LBL, an associated bank, is the third largest bank system in
Yugoslavia and the principal banking institution in SR Slovenia. LBL's
self-management agreement (SMA) and statutes set out its objectives, nature of
operations and organization. The associated bank was incorporated in 1955.
The LBL system consists of the associated bank, 22 basic banks of which 14 are
within SR Slovenia and 8 outside the Republic. The basic banks are owned by
over 5,500 enterprises and BOALs, mostly in industry, trade and agriculture.
At end of 1986, LBL had a network of about 400 offices throughout Yugoslavia
and a staff of around 14,100. LBL also had 15 representative offices and 4
affiliates abroad, and a offshore subsidiary in New York. LBL has been the
borrower under an earlier Bank loan in 1987 (Loan No.2790-0 for US$90 million)
for the Energy Conservation and Substitution Project. In addition, IFC had
made a loan for US$55.5 million in 1986.
2.       LBL is divided into nine departments and five special units.  The
departments are organized along functional lines, each headed by a vice
president. The departments include the following: Planning, Resource
Management, Investment Promotion and Analysis, Personal Banking, Foreign
Transactions, Foreign Relations, Accounting, Personnel and Administration and
Electronic Data Processing. Main institutional aspects of relevance for
financial performance are summarized below.
3.       Management.  LBL has developed a stable and competent cadre of senior
and middle management. In developing such management, LBL has profited from
its extensive relationship with foreign financial institutions, where many of
the senior managers have been trained. LBL has also successfully recruited
persons having broad experience in industry and Government. The dynamic
outlook of LBL's senior management is indicated by the considerable emphasis
given on training, new analytical techniques and office technology.
4.       Internal Audit.  In common with most other Yugoslav banks, LBL's
internal audit arrangements are in need of strengthening and LBL management
has agreed to utilize appropriate technical assistance in this regard
(Annex 4-7).



- 73 -                      ANNEX 4-4
Page 2 of 18
5.       Management Information Systems (MIS).  LBL is among the leaders among
Yugoslav banks in the computerization of its operations and has undertaken
considerable investment in computer hardware. However, the existing system is
not fully operational and applications are limited at present. UBB management
is keen to expand quickly the application of computer-based techniques and has
agreed to utilize appropriate technical assistance (Annex 4-7). This would
include the definition of LBL's hardware and software needs and identify the
most cost-effective means for bringing to full utilization the existing system
and the strengthening of LBL's MIS.
6.       Project Appraisal and Supervision.  The SMA governing LBL gives the
major responsibility for project appraisal to the associated bank and a
special department within the LBL associated bank, the Economic Institute
carries out these project appraisals. The Institute is staffed with
economists, engineers and financial analysts with appropriate qualifications;
many of these staff have gained experience in appraising projects under IFC
funding. LBL has complied with the agreements reached under the FY87 Energy
Conservation Project to recruit additional staff for the Economic Institute
and to establish and adequately staff a separate supervision department, all
within 1987. The supervision department has established procedures for loan
monitoring, including twice-yearly supervision visits. LBL has been
responsible for preparing detailed procedural manuals for implementation of
the Uniform Methodology and has a number of staff who are fully familiar with
it. LBL's project appraisal and supervision capabilities will be further
strengthened through technical assistance under the project (Annex 4-7).
II. Operations
7.       LBL's main areas of operations are short-term (ST) and medium- and
long-term (MLT) loans, and guarantees. LBL has been more successful than most
other Yugoslav banks in expanding its operations, despite the overall
unfavorable economic situation in the country. LBL'S total assets increased
by 3.9% in constant prices between 1984-86 to reach US$8 billion equivalent in
1986, but dropped to US$7.8 billion equivalent in 1987. LBL's total loans
outstanding increased by 20% in jnstant prices in 1986 but declined by 11% in
1987. Lending to other banks, which is not subject to credit ceilings,
increased the fastest in 1986. The share of LBL's total lending to its total
assets increased from 58% in 1986 to 48% in 1987, while the share of
securities and other assets decreased from 9% in 1986 to 10% in 1987.
Deposits with NBY increased from 25% in 1986 to 35% in 1987, due to the
increase of obligatory reserve requirements and increased deposits of foreign
exchange savings from individuals which LBL redeposits with NBY. Details of
LBL's asset structure and lending activities are given in Table 1.
8.       Medium- and Long-Term (MLT) Loans.  MLT loans are normally for
capital projects and are generally for periods up to twenty years with
maturities ranging from 5 to 10 years. In accordance with LBL's credit
policy, new long-term loans were extended primarily for export production
(43%) and for production of basic raw materials (20%). Between 1984-86, the
share of foreign exchange lending in LBL's total lending increased from 31% to
47% and MLT foreign exchange loans outstanding increased from US$519 million
equivalent to US$1,115 million equivalent in 1986.



- 74 -                      ANNEX 4-4
Page 3 of 18
9.       Short-Term (ST) Loans.  LBL increased its ST lending between 1984-86
at a higher rate than its long-term lending. The share of ST lending in LBL's
total loan portfolio increased from 40% in 1984 to 46% in 1986. The ST loans
are mostly renewable credits for financing working capital needs of
enterprises and are normally granted for three months. As required under the
1986 Banking Law, new loans are not granted to an enterprise which is ii.
arrears in respect of repayment of due repayments unless a satisfactory
rehabilitation program is adopted by the concerned enterprise. The
distribution of outstanding ST loans to enterprises is summarized in Table 1.
The share of outstanding loans to industry increased frcm 54% in 1984 to 56%
in 1986, mainly due to the increase in the ST selective credits. However,
foreign exchange loans outstanding to industry decreased from US$167 million
in 1984 to US$157 million in 1986.
10.      Promissory Notes.  Because of the credit ceilings imposed in respect
of loans to enterprises and individuals, LBL used its excess local currency
liquidity (para. 16) to extend ST loans to other Yugoslav banks directly or
through the Yugoslav money market. The share of loans to other banks in total
ST loans thus increased sharply from 19% in 1985 to 31% in 1986. LBL also
utilized the excess liquidity to increase its holdings of promissory notes.
These included notes of about Din 90 billion issued by Agrokomerc (para. 4.29)
which is currently under bankruptcy. LBL expects to recover substantial
amount following negotiations with the concerned parties. LBL provisioned in
1987 against all the uncollected amount of the Agrokomerc promissory notes.
11.      Selective Credits.  LBL has expanded its selective credits, though
not at the same pace as the other two banks under the project. Details of
LBL's selective credits are given in Table 1.
12.      Guarantees.  The value of LBL's guarantees are understated in its
audited financial statements because the equivalent value of foreign exchange
guarantees was recorded at historical exchange rates. Between 1984-86, LBL's
total guarantees increased from about Dinars 1,180 million to Dinar 3,096
million (though this represented a decreasing percentage of total assets from
114% to 87%). As discussed earlier (Annex 4-3, para. 12), commission rates on
guarantees are determined within YBA. LBL's current rates are low (between
0.5 to 0.8%) and will need to be increased to permit the required increase in
earnings (para. 30).
13.      Resource Mobilization.  Major sources of resources for LBL were
deposits and borrowings, both short-term and medium-to long-term. Details of
LBL's liability structure and borrowings are given in Table 2. Total
liabilities increased in real terms by 3.1% a year between 1984-86, slightly
less than the increase in total assets (3.9%) due to the increase in LBL's
capital funds. In 1987, the total assets increased by 6% in real terms while
total liabilities increased by 4.7% and capital funds by 12.7%. Deposits were
a major source of funds for LBL during 1984-87, though their share in total
resources decreased from 72% to 63%. This decrease was offset by an increase
in borrowings from 24% to 26%, and an increase in adjusted capital funds from
negative levels to 4.6% (para. 23).



- 75 -                      ANNEX 4-4
Page 4 of 18
14.      Deposits.  Deposits have been a very important source of funds for
LBL, which has the highest percentage of deposits to total assets among
Yugoslav banks. Between 1984-87, total deposits increased in real terms by
2.0% a year, although their share in tctal assets declined from 71% to 63%.
Foreign exchange deposits increased much faster at an annual average rate of
around 32% in real terms, and their share in total deposits increased from 27%
to 45%.   This was enabled by the high levels of remittances from Slovenians
working abroad.
15.      Borrowings.  The share of borrowings in LBL's total assets decreased
from 26% in 1986 to 24% in 1987. The share of foreign exchange borrowings in
total borrowings remained at around 70%, and amounted to about US$1,360
million equivalent in 1986. Both ST and MLT foreign exchange borrowings
increased significantly in 1986, by US$55 million and US$362 million
respectively. Loans from the Bank Group amounted to about US$55 million in
1986, mostly from IFC, and these constituted 15% of the of the net increase in
foreign exchange borrowing. Most of the increase in short-term Dinar
borrowings was due to the increase in NBY rediscount facilities for selective
credits (para. 11).
16.      Liquidity.  LBL's liquidity improved during this period.  Its current
ratio increased from 1% in 1984 to 1.3% in 1987. The main reasons for the
improved liquidity were: (i) the increase of obligatory reserve requirements
on ST deposits of enterprises (from 14.2% in 1984 to 16.7% at the end of 1986
and 20% at the end of 1987), and (ii) the practice of Yugoslav banks to
redeposit the foreign exchange deposits at NBY. According to Yugoslav
regulations, banks can use up to 15% of their ST resources for MLT lending.
In this respect, LBL was close to the permissible limits as at the end of
1986, 14% of LBL's MLT lending was financed from ST resources.
IV. Financial Performance
17.      Foreign Exchange Exposure and Risk.  In common with other Yugoslav
banks, LBL's main source of foreign exchange exposure was the practice of
using foreign exchange borrowings for local currency lending. At the end of
1987, LBL had nearly US$246 million in long-term foreign exchange borrowings
on its own account. As discussed earlier (para. 27), the 1986 Banking Law
prohibits this practice, hence, no increase in foreign exchange exposure is
expected in the future from this source through new loans. However, increases
in exposure could arise in respect of existing foreign currency loans which
are rescheduled under national-level external debt rescheduling agreements.
LBL had agreed under its previous Bank loan (Loan No. 2790-0) for the Energy
Conservation and Substitution Project) to eliminate its foreign exchange
exposure by 1988. LBL did not comply with the agreed schedule of reduction in
foreign exchange exposure primarily because NBY constrained the use of foreign
exchange resources.
18.      LBL's deferred foreign exchange losses between 1984-86 are summarized
in Table 3. As discussed earlier (Annex 4-3, para. 18), the 1986 Banking Law
prevent banks from passing to enterprises the foreign exchange losses incurred



- 76 -                      ANNEX 4-4
Page 5 of 18
before 1986 and deferred by the banks. These losses are to be written-off
within 15 years (13 years starting 1987) in equal installments. The 1986
Banking Law provides that any loss incurred by the banks after 1986 has to be
written off in the year of occurrence. Under the Energy Conservation Loan,
LBL agreed to write off these losses within 5 years but has complied only
partly with the agreement. In 1986, LBL wrote off 17.4X of the deferred
losses, instead of the 20X write-off agreed upon; in 1987, however, LBL wrote
off 26%. LBL wrote-off the foreign exchange losses incurred in 1986 and in
1987, as required by the Law.
19.      Arrears and Doubtful Loans.  LBL's portfolio and arrears situation
compares favorably with most Yugoslav banks. Details of LBL's arrears
situation are given in Table 3. Between 1984-86, the collection ratio in
respect of maturities due was about 502. However, almost all of the
ancollected amounts were due to the automatic rescheduling of due foreign
exchange loan repayments from enterprises following the national-level
rescheduling of foreign debt. Such rescheduling of external loans was
substantial, US$378 million in 1985 and US$814 million in 1986 (Table 3),
amounting to between 45% to 66% of the total foreign currency portfolio.
Excluding the rescheduling, the arrears ratio to maturities due was only 1% in
1986. The number of loans in arrears decreased substantially from 18,463 in
1986 to 3,831 in 1986. Doubtful loans were also low and amounted to Dinar 8
billion (or 0.4% of the toal loan portfolio) in 1986, while LBL had set asiae
provisions for Din 5 billion. To reinforce further its capabilities for
monitoring and supervision of its portfolio and arrears situation, LBL
management has agreed to utilize appropirate technical assistance (Annex 4-7).
20.      Profitability. As discussed earlier (para. 18), prior to the
introduction of the 1986 Banking Law, Yugoslav banks followed practices that
resulted in substantial overstatement of income and understatement of
liabilities. According to LBL's audited financial statements, between
1984-86, LBL's net income increased from Din 6 billion to Din 61 billion.
However, further adjustments are needed to conform with GAAP. LBL incurred
losses of Dinar 12 billion during 1986 on account of two of its basic banks.
In 1987, LBL incurred losses in the income statement of Din 13 billion but had
a surplus in the revaluation account of Din 103 billion. Further a,justments
are required in respect of foreign exchange losses which used to be deferred
prior to the 1986 Banking Law. LBL's adjusted income statements are
summarized in Table 4 for the period 1984-1986. The adjusted net income was
negative in 1984 and 1985 and amounted to 1.9% of assets in 1986. The
correspondent ratio in 1987 was 1%. The decline in profitability was mainly
due to provisioning against Agrokomerc promissory notes.
21.      The distribution of unadjusted net income for the period 1984-1986 is
shown in Table 4. Between 1984-86, the percentage of distribution to members
(dividends) out of total net income declined from 38% in 1984 to 22% in 1986.
LBL, in common with most other Yugoslav banks, did not allocate *ncome to any
of its reserve funds prior to 1985, particularly as this was not a requirement
under the then prevailing Banking Law; however, it did not distribute any
dividends in 1987.
22.      LBL's net income generated in 1986 was insufficient to build up
reserve funds as required by the 1986 Banking Law, even if no dividends to



- 77 -                       ANNEX 4-4
Page 6 of 18
members were distributed. LBL's local currency MLT portfolio contains a
substantial part (551) at low fixed interest rates which exerts a further
constraint on LBL's earning potential though its significance will diminish
over time due to inflation. LBL's commission rates on foreign exchange
lending, 0.51 to 0.81, are inadequate to cover the credit risks and processing
costs. In order to build up reserves, to write-off the foreign exchange
losses and to build up an adequate provision base against portfolio losses,
LBL will have to increase its earnings substantially (para. 31).
23.      Reserves.  According to LBL's audited financial statements, the ratio
of LBL's total equity to its total assets increased from 3.41 in 1984 to 52 in
1986 and 5.32 in 1987. However, after necessary adjustments to confcrm with
GAAP, the adjusted equity was negative in 1984 and 1985, and increased to
Din 99 billion in 1986, representing 2.8% of LBL's total assets; and Din 439
billion in 1987, representing 4.6% of LBL's total assets. Details of LBL's
reserve funds are given in Table 5. As discussed earlier (para. 20), one of
the causes of past low reserves in Yugoslavia banks was their practice of
distributing dividends to their founding members while overstating their
income by deferring losses and inadequate provisioning. Since 1986, banks are
not allowed to defer losses, and are required to build up their reserve
funds. LBL did not meet in 1986 the build up of 1% for each of JLF and RF, as
required by the 1986 Banking Law. In 1987, LBL increased its JLF to 6% (for
more than the required level) but did not increase its RF by the required
amount.
Operational and Financial Projections for LBL
24.      Assumptions in regard to inflation and exchange rates have been
discussed earlier in Annex 4-3, para. 1. Other key assumptions together with
LBL's proje..ted financial statements are given in Tables 6 to 70.
25.      Operations. During 1988-1991, LBL's assets are projected to grow in
real terms at an average annual rate of 2%. This low rate of increase is due
mainlv to a reduction in MLT Dinar loan approvals of 301 in 1988 and 1989
reflecting the unfavorable overall economic environment, which is projected to
improve gradually in 1990 and 1991. Loan approvals in foreign exchange are
expected to decline by 20% in 1988 and 10% in 1989, and to increase only
gradually in subsequent years. Approvals of ST foreign exchange and Dinar
loans are expected to decline in 1988 and 1989, with a gradual improvement in
subsequent years. Overall, LBL's lending disbursements are expected to
increase only gradually between 1988 and 1991.
26.      Resource Mobilization. LBL's projected resource mobilization plan is
satisfactory. Between 1988-X991, total MLT resources on a disbursement basis
are estimated at Dinar 4254 billion. LBL is expected to meet 50% of the
resource requirements from new borrowings, and the balance from deposits (442)
and internal cash generation (6%). LBL is expected to meet 15% of its
projected LT local currency lendings from LT local currency borrowings, while
meeting 100% of its foreign exchange lendings from foreign exchange
borrowings, in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Law. The Bank, through
this project and the Energy Loan of 1987, would meet about 21% of the foreign
exchange resources on a disbursement basis. ST local currency deposits are
expected to remain at around the 1987 level, with slight decrease in real



- 78 -                       AINNEX 4-4
Page 7 of 18
terms, due to the negative real interest rates on demand deposits. MLT local
currency deposits, on which the real interest rates are positive, are expected
to increase in real terms by 3% annually between 1988-1991. Foreign exchange
deposits, both ST and MLT, are expected to remain at around the 1987 levels in
real terms, due to the reluctance of Yugoslav individuals to increase such
deposits in domestic banks. NBY is assumed to continue to rediscount 30% of ST
selective credits, and 15% of MLT selective credits.
27.      Foreign Exchange Exposure. LBL is expected to eliminate the foreign
exchange exposure between its liabilities and assets which amounted to US$
246 million equivalent at the end of 1987 at the rate of one third (about
US$ 82 million equivalent) each year starting 1988.
28.      Liquidity. LBL's use of ST resources to finance MLT lending is
projected to increase from 4.5% in 1987 to around 15% in 1991. LBL's current
ratio is expected to remaia at about the same level (1.3) as in 1987. Overall,
LBL is not expected to face liquidity problems, particulary since 4% of its
assets are expected to be in cash and 11% of its local currency deposits would
be held as reserves with NBY; however, the new monetary policy will have an
adverse impact on all Yugoslav banks.
29.      Arrears and Doubtful Loans. The rate of arrears (excluding
rescheduling of debts to foreign banks) as a percentage of maturities due has
been low, at only 1%, for LBL. Provisions under the 1986 Banking Law which
stipulate that banks cannot make new loans to enterprises that are in arrears
in respect of due repayments and steps that LBL is expected to take to
strengthen further its lending and portfolio supervision activities with the
help of appropriate technical assistance (Annex 4-7) are expected to be
adequate to ensure that this ratio does not increase substantielly. The
projections assume an arrears ratio of 2% which is deemed conservative.
30.      Profitability. In order to increase its net income and to build up
reserve funds and provisions, LBL would need to raise the average interest
rate on ST and MLT local currency loans from around 8.5% above the revaluation
rate in 1987 to 15% above the rate from mid 1988 onwards. Although such an
increase may reduce somewhat the demand for loans, it is considered not to be
excessive (interest rate on 3 month deposit is expected to be set at 5% above
revaluation), and it would contribute, further, to an improvement in the
appropriate allocation of scarce funds. It is also assumed that LBL will
charge on the selective credits not rediscounted with NBY this level of
interest rate. In addition, commission rates on foreign exchange loans are
expected to be raised from 0.5% in 1987 to 3% from mid-1988. Although this
would be a steep increase, it is not deemed excessive in view of the risks
involved in such loans and the processing costs. Similarly, commissions on
guarantees are also expected to be increased from 0.5% in 1987 to an average
of 1% from mid-1988.
31.      Overall, these projections imply a gradual improvement in LBL's
profitability. Although LBL's overall level of operations is expected to show
only modest growth due to the adverse economic environment and constraints on
raising substantial new foreign exchange resources, LBL's financial



- 79 -                       ANNEX 4-4
Page 8 of 18
performance is expected to improve to acceptable levels if LBL takes the steps
discussed above. LBL's net income, as a percentage of total assets, is
projected to increase from 1.4% in 1987 to 2% in 1988 and to 4% in 1991. The
increase in income would enable LBL to increase its RF by 1% a year from 1987
onwards to reach 5% by 1990, as required by the 1986 Banking Law. LBL would
also be able to write-off deferred foreign exchange losses in five years.
32.      The projected financial position should enable LBL to service its
foreign debt. Since banks have to redeposit all foreign exchange deposits with
NBY, the foreign exchange needed to service external debt will have to be sold
by NBY to LBL.
33.      Obviously, LBL's future performance would be affected by changes in
the economic and financial environment, and in laws and regulations. The
effects of such changes on LBL's performance will have to be continuously
monitored.



ANNEX 4-4
- 80 -                     Page 9 of 18
Table 1: LBL: ASSET STRUCTURE & DETAILS OF LONG-TERM LOANS & SELECTIVE CREDITS
1984                 1985                    1986
Dinars    Share    Dinars    Share           Dinars   Share
(bin)      (%)       (bin)      (Z)          (bin) (ln
A. Asset Structure
Deposits with NBY                  218        20.0       441      23.0           900    25.0
Short-term Loans                   285        26.0       477      25.0         1,015    28.0
Other Current Assets               189        17.0       317      17.0           511    14.0
Long-term Loans &
Investments                     329         30.0       526      27.0        1,048    29.0
Deferred Foreign
Exchange Losses                  60          6.0       115       6.0            95      3.0
Other Long-term Assets              18         2.0        37       2,0            81      2.0
Total Assets                l gas                           j.L_    L              J.5A.A
B. Details of Long-term Loans
(Dinars bin)
Aogroval s
-  Industry                         44                    59                     143
-  Agriculture                      1S                     7                      21
-  Other                            22                    56                     178
Total                      21                   122                     342
Commitments
-  Local                            86                   112                     311
-  Foreign                           4                     9                      14
-        Total                     92                    121                     32
Disbursements
-  Local                            72                    92                     270
-  Foreign                           4                     8                      13
-        Total                      76                    00
1984                  1985                   1986
Long- Short-          Long- Short-           Long- Short-
Total ISM   term    T l t           term    Total term  term
C. Details of
Selective Credits
(Dinar bin)
Sources cf Funds
NBY                75      1    74       75      3    72       133      2   128
National Bank
of Slovenia      20    20      -       25    25       -       58    61       -
LBL               100      9    91      204    15   189        i       2       1
Total         195    3    16         34    43              564    85   479
Lending
Export            11S      8   107      190    15   174        334    20   314
Agriculture        48      -    48       79      -    78       153      -   153
Manufacturing      13    11       2       1S    14      1       17    17       -
Coal                5      -     5         8     -      8       12      -    12
Others             14    11       3       14    14      _       48    4      _
Total           19i    U    16        304    43   Zh.i       564    &i   479
Source:  SDK, LBL.



ANNEX 4-4
- 81 -                    Page 10 of 18
Table 2: LBL: LIABILITY STRUCTURE & DETAILS OF BORROWINGS & GUARANTEES
1984                 1985                    1986
Dinars    Share    Dinars    Share           Dinars   Share
(bln)       M~       (bln)       M ~         (bln)      M%
A. Liability Strurture
Demand Deposits                    216         21.0       329      18.0           555      16.0
Short-term Deposits                277         26.0       494      27.0           998      29.0
Short-term borrowing               119         11.3       138       7.8           303       9.0
Other Current Liabilities           60          5.7       113       6.2           174       5.0
Long-term Deposits                 243         23.0       465      26.0           842      24.0
Lon-term Borrowings                133         13.      2J75       10             584      17.0
Total Liabilities          i nag     **gU   ~IflU.                                   1.l
B. Details of Borrowings
(Dinars bln)
Local Currency Borrowinas
Short -term                                               9         112
Long-term                                                1s          46
Total                                                24          158
Forgian Exchange Borrowinas
(US dollars Equivalent)
Short-term                                              (31)         56
Long-term
-IBRO                                                    4           5
-Dollar Adjustment to IBRO                               --
Currency Pool
-Foreign Banks                                         190         288
rotal L.T. Change in Foreign Exchange             242         340
Net In.rease (Decrease) in
Foreign Exchange Borrowings                             211         396
C. Details of Guarantees                                      1984      uim           f
(bln Dinars)
1. Guarantees                                             614       965     1.849
a. Foreign currency - Long-term                        338       504       933
b. Local currency                                      376       461       916
- Long-term                                      153       240       383
- Short-term                                     123       221       533
2. Letters of Credits                                      99       20S        255
3. Collection of Conmercial Papers                         33        38         66
4. Other Transactions                                     432       614        926
5. Total
6. Percentage of total assets (adjusted)                 114%      101%        87%
LBL



- 82 -                       ANNEX 4-4
Page 11 of 18
Table 3: LBL: DEFERRED FOREIGN EXCHANGES LOSSES, ARREARS &
RESCHEDULING OF LONG-TERM LOAIS
1984       1985       1986
A. Details of Deferred Foreign
Exchange Looses (bln Dinars)
Balance as of January 1                             40         60         115
Current losses                                      20          55         (-)
Write-offs                                            0          0        (20)
Balance as of year end                              60        115          95
Maturities of
Number of            Principal         principal 'n
Loans            Outstanding            arrears
1986    1985      1986       1985       1986       1986
B. Details of Arrears in
Long-term Lending
(bln Dinars)
Up to 3 months              258    2,999    4,174    7,598          887    1,351
3 to 6 months               661       161        33       279         6        29
6 to 12 months               38        23       383         4        61        16
1 to 2 years                 78    1,821          3    7,100          3       667
Over 2 years              2,796   13,459        108    2,323         63       106
AlSl;   18,463    i1. 17.304    1020    2.1-69
Source: SDK
Foreign Exchange Rescheduling
C. Distribution by Sector
1984       1985       1986
1.   Economic sectors                               20         92        256
2.   Banks and other                                  2         22       113
3.   Other                                            2         4           3
Total                                     22       118        372
US$ equivalent                                104        378        814
Source: LBL



- 83 -                       ANNEX 4-4
Page 12 of 18
Table 4: LBL: INCOME STATEMENfS & DISTRIBUTION OF NET INCOME
1984       1985         1986
A.  Income Statements (bln Dinars)
'.   Interest income                                92        218        509
2.   Other income                                   15         28         43
3.   Gross income(l + 2)                           107        246        552
4.   Interest expense                               71        164        309
5.   Other operating expenses                       20         35          79
6.   Provision for loan losses                        1          1          1
7.   Deferred foreign exchange losses                8         10        105
8.   Statutory obligations                            1          3          9
9.   Net income                                      6         32         48
10.  Uncollected Income                              -           7        13
11.  Total net income (8 + 5)                        6         39         61
Adiustments
13. Uncovered Foreign Exchange Losses
for this Year                              (20        (55)         -
14.  Uncovered Loan Losses                           -          -        (12)
15.  Foreign Exchange Losses in Previous Years   -              -         20
16. Adjusted Net Income
for the Year (12-13-15)                    (-14)      (-16)        69
Source:  SDK, mission calculation.
B. Distribution of Net Income
(bln Dinars)
Allocation to Property and Equipment Fund             0          7          6
Allocation to Reserve Fund                            0          8         10
Allocation to Joint Liability Fund                    0         14         19
Income Accrued but not Collected                     1           7        13
Distribution to Members                               5          3         13
Total"'                                          13         39         6
1/ Unadjusted
Source: SDK



- 84 -                       ANNEX 4-4
Page 13 of 18
Table 5: LBL: CHANGES IN RESERVES
1984      1985       1986
A. Build-up of Reserves
1.   Property and Equipment Fund                      20         46         99
2.   Reserve Fund                                      6         16         34
3.   Joint Liability Fund                              9         26         48
4.   Total Funds (1 + 2 + 3)                          35         88        181
5.   Accrued Income1'                                   5        12         25
6.   Total Reserves (4 + 5)                           40        100        206
7.   Deferred Foreign Exchange losses                (60)      (115)       (95)
8.   Uncovered losses in previous years                 -         -        (12)
9.   Adjusted Equity (6-7-8)                        (-20)      (-15)        99
10.  Adjusted Assets '                             1,029      1,799      3,555
11.  Adjusted Equity/Adjusted assets              Negative  Negative         2.8
1/  Interest earned but not collected.
2/  Total assets - deferred F.E. losses - uncovered losses.
Source: SDK, mission calculation.
B. Changes of Funds (unadiusted)
(bln Dinars)
1984              1985              1986
Prop.             Prop.             Prop.
Fund   RF  JLF   Fund   RF  JLF   Fund   RF   JLF
1. Balance as of January 1    13.4  4.7  7.2   20.0  5.8  9.0   4.5  1.6   26.5
2. Allocation of New Income       -    -    -      6.6  8.5 13.8   6.2 10.4   18.4
3. New funds invested            2.8  1.2  1.9    4.9  1.7  4.2  10.0  8.2    4.5
4. Withdrawals by Members       (0.1)  -    -    (0.2)  -  (0.6) (0.5)(0.2)  (1.1)
5. Revaluation of Property       3.8   -   3.8   13.7   -    -   35.3   -          -
6. Profit as Salef of Equip.    -    -    -        0.4   -    -    2.0   -         -
7. Balance as of year-end       20.O              45.-  R    1.25Q  98.   4
Source: SDK



ANNtX 4-4
Page 14 of 18
- 85  -
Table  6:   LBL:   Assumptions
1997     1966       1989      1991       1991       1992
DONESTIIC INFLATION                                         136.32   130.62    ItN.#%       IO.11      66.1%    4;0 i
EXCHANGE RATE YEAR-END                                       1366      2925       5764      9982      15471     26186
OPERATIONS
APPROVALS (REAL GROWTH) 
LT LOCAL CURRENCY                          -36.62   -36.02    -16.61        6.O%       1.0%      2.9%
LT FOREIGN CURRENCY                        -IO.OI   -21.12    -11.10        6.35       1.02       1.1%
ST LOCAL CURRENCY                           -5.12   -1I.6%        1.0%      3.0%       4.0%      5.0%
ST FOREIGN CURRENCY                         -5.3%   -16.6%      -5.3%       1.1%       2.35      2.1Z
STRUCTURE
__ _____ _.____
DEPOSITS (REAL 6ROHTH)
LOCAL: SIGHT DEPOSITS                                6.3%    -2.1%      -2.02       6.O%      1.1% O.3%
S.T. DEPOSITS                                6.6%      3.6%       3.0%      3.3%       3.1%       3.02
L.T. DEPOSITS                                6.3%      3.9%       3.0I      3.0%       3.6%       3.0%
F.E.: S.T. DEPOSITS                                 6.3%     0.05       3.02      0.05       0.35       3.a.
L.T. DEPOSITS                                6.0%      3.02       0.0%      a.o%       O.6%       6.0%
N9Y REDISCOUNTS (2 OF ST SELECTIVE CREDITS)                  36.6%    36.6%       11.1%     10.32      10.10      10.32
NPY REDISCOUNTS (S OF LT SELECTIVE CREDITS)                   15.6%    15.t%       5.6%      O.OS       6.6%       6.6%
JLF FUND BUILD-UP                                             6.6%      5.1%       5.0%      S.9%       5.6%       5.1%
RESERVE FUND BULD-UP                                          2.1%      2.6%       3.6%      4.6%       5.05       5.6%
ARREARS (PERCENTAE OF TOTAL AMOUNT DUEI                       2.6%      2.1%       2.0%      2.0%       2.8%       2.0%
PROVISIONS (PERCENTA6E OF ST DISBURSEMENTS)                   1.6%      1.0%       1.0%      1.0%       1.6%       1.3%
6ENERAL PROVISIONS BUILD-UP (2 OF LT LENDING)                 6.3%      *.5%       1.1%      1.5%       2.6%      2.8%
LOCAL LT BORROWING (PERCENTAGE OF LT LENDING)                25.6%   1.6%    1.t2         10.0%      16.10     10.05
F.E. LT BORROVIN6 (PERCENTA6E OF LT LENDING)                1t6.3%   16O.62   It.32    106.9%   I6.t%    126.3%
F.E. ST BORROVIN6 (PERCENTAGE OF LT LENDING)               i  .O%   It1.6%    100.3%    100.1%    100.6%    166.6%
COMMISIONS ON FOREIGN CURRENCY OPERATIONS                     6.5%      1.9%       3.01      3.0%       3.6%      3.1%
WRITE-OFF OF DEFERRED F.E. LOSSES                            21.6%    21.1. 21.1%           29.1%      20.1%    20.1%
CAPITALIZATION OF REVALUATED AMOUNT DUE                        6.6%     6.6% 0.3%            6.0% 0..%            9.6%
MATURITY OF CAPITALIZED REVALAUTION                             5         5          5         5          5         5
FORE16N EXCHANGE EXPOSURE (YEAR-END)                          246       164         82         6          O         a
CASH AS PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL ASSETS                            4.8%      4.11       4.1%      4.8%       4.1%      4.0%
===_-J2  zlS=sazazzzzazuzuz:sS:S22s::22:iS:22              zz::22= S=2 .2222=====2-==22-==    _ S..==:==



ANNEX 4-4
Page 15 of 18
- 86 -
Table 7: LBL - Project Financial Results
Constant Prices (1986)
(Billion of Dinar)
ESTIMATED ----------         PROJECTED --------------------
1997     19K        198       1993       1991       1992
I TOTAL COMITMENTS                                             1148       958       633        486        564       527
2 TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS                                           983       921        596       474        489       514
3 TOTAL ASSETS                                                 4114      4182       3813      3796       3791      3778
4 SHORT-TERN LENDING IICLUDIN6 CURRENT NATURITY)                961       937        632       553        583       526
5 LONG-TERN LENDING (INCLUDING REVALAUTION)                    1361      1174       1366      1356       1037      1387
6 SHORT-TERM BORROWING (INCLUDING CURRENT MATURITY)             356       436        152       145        149        55
7 LONG-TERN BtORROING                                           613       537        452       366        281       293
8 TOTAL DEPOSITS                                                1815     1144       1376      1395       1117      1137
9 JLF AND RF                                                     119      I16        129       147        164       171
18 NET INCOME                                                    157        91        141       123        163       187
11 NET WORTH (TOTAL EQUITY -DEFERRED F.E. LOSSES)                182       152        161       173        181       185
STRUCTURE (X OF TOTAL ASSETS
12                 TOTAL LENDIN6S                               49.31    48.5?      44.52      42.4Z      42.7?     42.7?
13                  TOTAL BORROWINGS                            23.61    23.32       15.81     13.5?      11.32      9.2?
14                  TOTAL DEPOSITS                              66.32    67.9Z      73.9X      75.71      77.12     78.6b
15                  TOTAL RESERVES                               5.3I      4.3?      4.3Z       4.5?       4.8?      4.9?
16 CAPITALIZATION OF REVALUATION / TOTAL REVALUATION             8.I?      0.8I      0.02       6.3?       1.1O      3.3?
LIWUIDITY RATIOS
!          ~~~------__-_-_-___
17 PERCENTA6E OF SHORT-RESOURCES FOR LONG-TERN LENDIN6S          4.5?      7.8?     12.1?      15.4?      18.1?     25.3X
18 CURRENT RATIO                                               129.5?   126.1?    127.7?    125.89    124.8?    124.61
19 CASH I TOTAL ASSETS                                           4.1?      4.3?      4.4?       5.9?       5.3?      4.3?
PROFITABILITY
23 NET INCONE I TOTAL ASSETS                                     3.89      2.2?      3.7?       3.2?       4.3?      4.9?
21 NET INCOME I TOTAL RESERVES                                  73.61    56.1?      95.5?      72.1?      93.1?    161.1?
22 INTEREST INCOME I TOTAL ASSETS                               41.3?    42.4?      37.2?      33.2?      26.3Z     22.3?
23 INTEREST EXPENSE I TOTAL ASSETS                              33.3?    38.6?      32.2?      25.8?      23.9?     16.2?
24                  SPREAD (22-23)                               7.6?      3.6?      4.9?       4.4?       5.4?      6.1?
25 INTEREST INCOME I AVERAGE LENDING PORTFOLIO                  69.6?    69.86      57.5?      46.6?     38.82      33.8?
26 INTEREST EXPENSE / AVERAGE  MRROWIN6 PORTFOLIO               52.8?    59.6?      46.6?      37.1?     29.1?      21.4?
27                  SPREAS (25-26)                              15.8?    11.2?      13.9?       9.5?       9.9?      9.4?
28 GENERAL PROVISION I LT LENDIN$S                               0.32      1.01      *.3?       3.3?       3.3?      3.3?
29 PROVISION I S.T. DISB(MSEIENTS                                1.82      1.3?       1.3?      1.0?       1.3?      1.0?
33 ARREARS / TOTAL ANOUNT DUE                                    2.1?      2.3?      2.3?       2.3?       2.0?      2.1?
31 INTEREST RATE ON LOCAL LENDING                                8.5?    15.0?       19.3?     18.3?      18.0?     19.3?
(EXCLUDING NBY'S REDISCOUNTS AND FIXED RATES)
RESERVES
32 JLF (? OF PREVIOUS YEAR'S LENDING PORTFOLIO)                  6.7?      5.7?      6.2?       6.8?       7.3?      7.61
33 RF (PERCENTAGE OF LENDINS PORTFOLIO)                          1.8?      2.6?      3.6?       4.6?       5.02      5.3?
34 TOTAL BORROWINGS / TOTAL RESERVES                             4.5       5.8       3.7        3.0        2.4       1.9



ANNEX 4-4
Page 16 of 18
- 87 -
Table  8:   LBL  - Balance  Sheet  (in  current prices)
ESTINATED  - -  --    -        PROJECTED - ----------------
ASSETS                                                       1987      1988      1989       1996       1991      1992
DEPOSITS WITH NOY                                         3311     8146      16440      36206     49155      69716
ST LOANS                                                  2211     479        6666      16531     17765      22451
OTHERS (INCLUDIN6 CASH)                                   12M     2769       5611    I1"        16457      22263
LT LOANS AND INVESTMENTS                                  2441     5644      11275      26116     31591      46362
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENTS                                    191       245       293        333       358        361
DEFERRED F.E. LOSSES                                        76        57        39         19         6          1
TOTAL ASSETS                       9438    21594      41343     72289    115526    161152
LIABILITIES
ST DEPOSITS                                               3925      9142     1856N      33872     55156      79169
ST BORROWINGS                                              819      2118      167       2762      4536       2364
OTHERS                                                     453      1113      2394       4582      7823      11760
LT DEPOSITS                                               2335      5521     11322      26853     34649      48485
LT BORROWINGS                                             1418     2939       4791       6968      8549      12562
FUNDS EMPLOYED
JLF AND RESERVE FUNDS                                      273      562       1363       2796      4987       7293
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENTS                                    223       299       377        456       526        588
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND FUND        9438    21594       46343     72289    115526    161152
!-====- z ====__==z=======zzzz==zz--==zzz==-z=zz=--  G - ZZS - - Z ZS ZZZZZSZ=s: ZS:== ===s==ZSZZ$=ZZZZZZ -x-_a  ZS==sB
INCOME STATEMENT
INTEREST EARNED                                           3912     9159      14994      21832     31432      35891
INTEREST EXPENSE                                          3145     8375      13611      19645     24139      26162
NET INTEREST INCOME                          656       783      1983       3187       6293      9788
OTHER INCOME                                                29        99       243        435       761        985
TOTAL INCOME                                 686       882      2226       3622      6994      16772
EXPENDITURE
PROVISIONS                                                  19        41        58         72       119        175
WRITE-OFFS                                                  19        21        24         36        38         32
DEPRECIATION                                                15       23         30         39        45         51
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES                                    125      298        576       1636      1659       2321
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                     178       371       686       1176       1861      2579
STATUTORY OBLIGATIONS                                          13        29        S8        164        166       232
NET INCOME                          362      492       1489      2343       4967       7961
.- - - - - - - - - - - - -    -  ...... -...... -- - - - -- - - - -    -._ ...     .__._........._............. ._ -  --.......... -  ---    -. -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -     -  -- - -



-  88  -                                ANNEX  4-4
Page 17 of 18
Table  9:   LBL  - Balance  Sheet in  1986's Prices
ACTUAL ESTIMATED
-___ ----------    ---- ----------PROJECTED --------------------
ASSETS                                           19k6       1987      1998     I1          199I      1991      1992
DEPOSITS WITH NOY                             908        1446      1520      1554       1586      1613      1634
ST LOANS                                      1115        961      "7         632       553        583       526
OTHERS (INCLUDIN6 CASH)                        512        525      523        533       583        547       522
LT LOANS AND INVESTMENTS                     148        1341      1174     164       1656       1637      1187
PROPERTY AND EWUIPMENTS                         81         93        46        28         17        12         8
DEFERRED F.E. LOSSES                            95         33        11         4          I         O
TOTAL ASSETS           3651       4114     4682       3813      3796       3791      3778
LIABILITIES
ST DEPOSITS                                   1553       1717      1728      1749       1779      1807      1832
ST BORROWINGS                                  363        356       46        152        145       149        55
OTHERS                                         208        197       211       226       241        257       276
LT DEPOSITS                                    942       I615      1144      1673       1695      1117      1137
LT BORROWIN6S                                  594        613       537       452       366        291       293
FUNDS EMPLOYED
JLF AND RESERVE FUNDS                          71         119       166       129        147       164       171
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENTS                         99         97       57         36         24        17         14
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND FUND      3651       4114      4182      3813       379       3791       3779
REAL 6ROWTH RATE
ASSETS                                                      1987      199e      1989       199n      1991       1992
DEPOSITS WITH NBY                                       59.97?    5.56?      2.24?     2.6U?      1.73?     1.311
ST LOANS                                                -5.27?   -5.64?   -31.321   -12.52?       5.43?    -9.73?
OTHERS (INCLUDIN6 CASH)                                  2.56?   -6.31?      1.36?     9.92?    -6.21?    -4.531
LT LOANS AND INVESTMENTS                                 1.27?    1.23?    -6.81?    -6.93?    -1.896       4.83?
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENTS                                  2.38Z  -44.17?   -41.23?   -36.95?   -32.77?   -27.901
DEFERRED F.E. LOSSES                                   -65.28?  -67.39?   -66.67?   -72.22?  -166.6?        ----
TOTAL ASSETS                     12.461   -6.53?    -6.59?    -6.45?    -1.12?    -6.36?
LIABILITIES
ST DEPOSITS                                              9.89?    1.26?      1.18?      1.72?     1.59?     1.41?
ST BORROWINGS                                           17.571   12.42?   -62.607    -4.47?       2.63?   -62.78?
OTHERS                                                  -1.42?    6.67?      7.61?     6.32?      6.76?     7.381
LT DEPOSITS                                             26.59?    2.79?      2.54?     2.32?      2.65?     1.71?
LT BORROWINGS                                            4.94?  -12.44Z   -15.981   -19.82?   -23.32?       4.46?
FUNDS EMPLOYED
JLF AND RESERVE FUNDS                                   69.57?  -16.52?    21.32?    13.92?    11.56?       4.46?
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENTS                                 -2.26?  -41.54?   -36.94S   -32.941   -27.95?   -21.25?
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND FUND                 12.486   -6.53?    -6.591    -6.45?    -1.12?    -6.36?
--------------------- - -------- - ------ - ------- - -------------- - --  -  ------- ----  -  -  - -- -- -- -  -  -  - -- ----_- ------------------- -  -  - 



ANNEX 4-4
- 89 -                                    Page 18 of 18
Table 10: LBL - Sources and Uses of Fund
ESTIPATED ----P POJECTED --------------------
1997     1993       1999       193       1991       1972
SOURCES
OVi'ATIONS
NET INCONE                                                      325       376       1228       1869       4198       6831
ADD: DEPRECIATION                                    15        23         31         38         45         51
PROVISIONS AND MITE-OFFS                        19       41         58          72       119        175
iNCREASE IN:
DEMANO DEPOSITS                                721     1636       2761       4518       6889       6495
ST DEPOSITS (LOCAL)                            636     154        2924       4687       6594       7412
ST DEPOSITS (F.E.)                             995      833       3329       5456       7584       8125
ST DEPOSITS FRON ENTERPRISES (F.E.)            119      244        443        724        997       1888
ST BORROVIN6S (LOCAL)                          145      879      -1279       -114          8          I
ST WRMOhINBS  (F.E.)                            61       96         183       346        S19        664
ACCRUED INTEREST AND OTHERS                    227      567       1665       1916       2613       3635
LT DEPOSITS (LOCAL)                            34U       924       1511      2569       3529       3967
LT v HOSITS (F.E.)                            1153     2362       42"        7622       966U8     1469
LT BORRUNINBS (LOCAL)                          199      438        712       1656       1292       1155
LT BORRONINGS  (F.E.)                         916      1315       1913       2168       1553         21
UNCOLLECTED INCONE                              28        92       217        378        627        963
TOTAL SOURCES                       5682    12223      19179      32413      4533       56323
USES
INCREASED INi
CASH                                           218      486        928       2472       1459       1173
DEPOSITS VITH NBY                             2111     4195       7619      12473      17172      19594
SECURITIES                                     115      264        467        747       1669       1176
SHORT-TERN LENDIN6 (LOCAL)                     966     2836        741       1918       4265       5624
SHORT-TERN LENDIN6 (F.E.)                       92       15B       253        413        566        574
RESERVE FOR DEPOSITS                           164      534        791       1288       1783       1966
DEFERRED FE LOSSES                             -19      -19        -i9        -19        -19          8
ACCRUED INTEREST                               341      785       1389       2222       36         320U
ARREARS                                         12       26         57         49         91        157
LT LOCAL LENGING                               794     2424       4793       8528      12581      13982
LT FE LENDIN6                                  775     1261       1743       1995       1512         51
FIIE  ASSETS                                   124        77         78        78         76         54
DISTRISUTiON   TO HERKERS                        I         5       349        358       1935       4471
TOTAL USES                          5682    12223      19179      32413      45338      56323
-   -  __ -- - - - - -- - - - - -   - _---__ _ --- __-_ __-__-_             _   __-_             _  _           _   _



- 90 -                      ANNEX 4-5
Page 1 of 19
YUGOSLAVIA
EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
The Borrowing Banks: Financial Aspects
Udruzena Beogradska Banka (UBB) - Financial Aspects
I.  Summary of Main Institutional Aspects
1.       UBB, an associated bank, is the largest bank system in Yugoslavia and
the principal banking institution in SR Serbia.  UBB's self-management
agreement (SMA) and statutes set out its objectives, nature of operations and
organization.  The associated bank was incorporated in 1976.  At the end of
1986, the UBB system consisted of the associated bank and 20 basic banks, of
which 19 are located in SR Serbia.  UBB's member basic banks are owned by
about 4,000 business enterprises and Basic Organizations of Associated Labour
(BOALs).  UBB has an agency in New York and a network of 11 representative
offices in Europe, Africa and Asia.  Four of UBB's basic banks (Investbanka,
Beobanka, Agrobanka, and Jugoslovenska Kreditska Banka) represented, in 1986,
approximately 86% of UBB's total assets and 75% of its gross income.  At the
end of 1986, UBB had a staff of about 14,000.  UBB's management is composed of
an executi-; bn-A  a president, and seven vice presidents.  UBB has been the
borrower under two previous Bank Loans in 1983, the first for the Serbia
Regional Development Project (Loan 2307-0 for US$136 million) and, the second
for the Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan 2326-0 for US$275 million). The Bank
has also made loans to Agrobanka for agriculture projects and to Investbanka
for re ional development projects. Main institutional aspects of relevance
for financial performance and summarized below.
2.       Internal Audit.  In common with most other Yugoslav Banks, UBB's
internal audit arrangements are in need of strengthening and UBB management
has agreed to utilize appropriate technical assistance in this regard
(Annex 4-7). The technical assistance would be aimed at developing the
internal auditing capabilities by (a) identifying internal auditing
requirements, (b) developing policies, procedures, systems for meeting those
requirements, and (c) identifying training needs and developing an appropriate
training plan to mee. the above objectives.
3.       Management Information Systems (MIS).  UBB is at the early stages of
computerization of its operations but wishes to move quickly in this area.
UBB management has agreed to utilize appropriate technicaL assistance to
strengthen its computer operations including a better definition of its
hardware and software needs and the development and implementation of an
appropriate MIS (Annex 4-7).
4.       Project Appraisal and Supervision.  At UBB, subloan appraisals are
conducted in some cases by the basic banks, and in others, by the associated
bank. Supervision is carried out by the staff who appraised the projects.
Investbanka and Agrobanka, two of the largest basic banks, conduct their own



- 91 -                       ANNEX 4-5
Page 2 of 19
appraisals. Both are large, specialized basic banks with extensive sectoral
experience and previous experience with Bank loans. On the other hand,
Beobanka (the largest basic bank in Yugoslavia) and the smaller basic banks
within the UBB group conduct their appraisals in conjunction with the
associated bank and with the assistance of the Institute of Economics of
Investment which was founded by all Belgrade banks to assist in investment
evaluation. This Institute, which is staffed with about 20 highly educated
professional engineers and economists, has been merged with UBB at the end of
1987 and will assist UBB in the project appraisals. UBB's project appraisal
and supervision capabilities will be further strengthened through approriate
technical assistance (Annex 4-7).
II. Operations
5.       The main areas of UBB's operations are short-term (ST) and medium-and
long-term (MLT) loans, and guarantees. In the period 1984-87, UBB's
operations, in common with most other Yugoslav banks, were affected by the
unfavorable economic circumstances prevailing at the time (Annex 4-3,
para. 7). Total assets, consequently, decreased in constant prices by an
average of 6.62 a year during 1984-1987 period. Operations are expected to
show a gradual return to positive growth in real terms by 1990 (para. 24)
Details of UBB's asset structure and lending activities are given in Table 1.
6.       MLT loans.  Maturities range up to 20 years, the majority being
between 8 to 12 years. Overall, MLT loans maintained their share at about 302
of UBB's total lending portfolio. However, commitments of- MLT loans decreased
in real terms during 1984-86, the impact being greater in the case of local
currency loans, due mainly to the credit ceilings on local currency lending.
Foreign currency lending was constrained by lack of resources (para. 13).
UBB's MLT portfolio continues to be dominated by the industrial sector,
although the latter's share in total loan approvals has been decreasing (from
83% in 1984 to 68% in 1986). The industrial sector, however, has been
absorbing an increasing share of UBB's total foreign exchange loan approvals,
reflecting the sector's need for imports of new equipment and inputs, mainly
for export growth.
7.       Short-term (ST) Loans.  ST loans provided by UBB are mostly renewable
credits for financing working capital needs of enterprises and are normally
granted for three months. As required under the 1986 Banking Law, new loans
are not granted to an enterprise which is in arrears in respect of due
repayments, unless a satisfactory rehabilitation program is adopted by the
concerned enterprise. Between 1984 - 1986, UBB increased ST loans faster than
MLT loans mainly through (i) selective credits, which are mostly ST and which
were not subject to credit ceilings and (ii) interbank ST lending.



- 92 -                      ANNEX 4-5
Page 3 of 19
8.       Selective Credits.  The main objective of the selective credits is to
provide loans to priority sectors for stimulation of exports and agricultural
production. Selective credits are extended on the basis of credit and
monetary policies prescribed by NBY for the specific year. Details of UBB's
sources and uses of funds for selective credits during 1984-1986 are
summarized in Table 1. NBY rediscounts about 30X of selective credits.
Consequently, the Yugoslav banks, including UBB, have been expanding these
credits whose share in UBB's total lending portfolio increased to 15X in 1986.
9.       Promissory Notes.  UBB faced excess liquidity during the period
1984-86 and increased its holdings of promissory notes which were exepmt from
credit ceilings. The promissory notes purchased by UBB included notes of
about Din 26 billion issued by Agrokomerc, an agricultural conglomerate in
Bosnia-Herzegovina, which is ctrrently in bankruptcy. UBB has recovered
Din 14 billion of its notes, and set-up provisions against the remaining
amount in 1987.
10.      Guarantees.  The amount of guarantees provided by UBB has been large,
amounting to around 150% of total assets in 1984, and about 100% in 1985 and
1986 (Table 2). Foreign exchange guarantees accounted for 70% of the total
and have been decreasing (from US$7.4 billion in 1984 to US$4.9 billion in
1986). UBB, in common with other Yugoslav banks, has been charging low
commissions, ranging between 0.5% to 0.8%, on all guarantees. However, the
issue of increasing the commission rates is being reviewed within YBA. UBB
expects to be able to increase the commission rates, and assurances will be
sought from UBB in this regard (para. 30)
III.  Resource Mobilization
11.      Major sources of resources for UBB were deposits and borrowings, both
short-term and medit'm- to long-term. Details of UBB's liability structure and
borrowings are given in Table 2.
12.      Deposits.  UBB's total deposits decreased in real terms by an average
of 6.1% a year between 1984 to 1986 and 3% for 1987. However, their share in
UBB's total resources increased to around 59% in 1987. There were significant
shifts in the structure of deposits. The share of demand deposits in total
deposits decreased significantly (from 45% in 1984 to 33% in 1986), due to the
low interest rates on demand deposits and the increase in interest rates on
fixed term deposits. Interest rates on deposits are uniform for all Yugoslav
banks in accordance with an agreement within YBA. Dinar deposits from
individuals constitute a major source of low cost funds for Yugoslav banks (7%
i.jminal intetest and no obligatory reserve requirements), and UBB was able to
maintain the share of these deposits in the total deposits at about 40%.



- 93 -                       ANNEX 4-5
Page 4 of 19
13.      Borrowings.  Between 1984-86, UBB increased its dependence on ST
borrowings (from 8.7% of total assets to 13.6%) while the share of MLT
borrowings in total assets decreased (from 30% to 22.7%). Local currency
borrowings, which decreased by 251 in real terms in 1985, then increased in
1986 by 6% in real terms, the major part of the increase being due to
increased ST borrowings in local currency mainly from NBY rediscounts of
selective credits. UBB has been finding it in':reasingly difficult to expand
its foreign currency borrowings and in 1986 mnvde net repayments cf around
US$150 million equivalent to foreign banks. Due to the Bank's currency
pooling lending, in 1986, UBB's foreign exchange obligations increased by
US$140 million equivalent (US$214 million equivalent at end 1987), resulting
from changes in currency exchange rates. UBB did not pass on this risk to
subborrowers, and consequently, it incurred a loss on this account.
14.      Maturity Matching.  According to  Yugoslav banking regulations, banks
may use up to 15% of their ST resources for MLT lending. UBB's situation in
this case was satisfactory since, at the end of 1986, only 3% of its ST
resources financed MLT lendings. This occurred mainly in respect of MLT
lending in local currency where nearly 11% of S.T. resources financed MLT
local currency lendings. In contrast, in the case of foreign exchange
lending, 19% of the MLT resources were used for ST lending.
III. Financial Performance
15.      Foreign Exchange Exposure and Risk.  In common with other Yugoslav
banks, the main source of foreign exchange imbalance, in the case of UBB, was
the practice of using foreign exchange borrowings for Dinar lending. At the
end of 1986, UBB had borrowed in foreign exchange nearly US$123 miiillion
equivalent on its own account but could reduce the imbalance to $US82 million
at end 1987. UBB has carried the resulting losses due to the currency
devaluation estimated at US$214 million at the end of 1987. As mentioned
earlier (Annex 4-3, para. 17), the 1986 Banking Law prohibits this practice,
hence no increase in foreign exchange exposure is expected in the future from
this source through new loans.  However, under the national level external
debt rescheduling arrangements with foreign banks, the rescheduling is
automatically transferred to the banks, which in turn reschedule their
corresponding loans to the borrowing enterprises.  These rescheduling
arrangements have been a major cause of the increase in foreign exchange
losses for the banks in respect of loans which were not linked to changes in
exchange rates. In contrast, the foreign exchange borrowings that UBB
undertook on its subborrowers account have not resulted in foreign exchange
losses for UBB, as the foreign exchange risk is carried by the subborrowers.
16.      Details of UBB's deferred foreign exchange losses during 1984-86 are
summarized in Table 3. The 1986 Banking Law prohibits banks from passing on
to the borrowing enterprises foreign exchange losses incurred before 1986 and
deferred by the banks. The Law provides that these losses are to be



- 94 -                       ANNEX 4-5
Page 5 of 19
written-off within fifteen years (13 years starting 198; in equal
installments. UBB has been complying with the Law; and wrote-off 9.3%) in
1986 and 10% in 1987 of the deferred foreign exchange losses, in addition to
all the losses incurred in 1986 and in 1987.
17.      Arrears and Doubtful Loans.  UBB's arrears ratio in respect of
maturities due in the year increased from 40% in 1984 to nearly 58% in 1985,
but then declined to 47% in 1986 (Table 3). However, a major part of the
decline in arrears was due to the automatic rescheduling by UBB of maturities
due from enterprises, following the national level rescheduling of external
debt. If such rescheduling is excluded, the arrears ratio actually increased
from 20% in 1984 to 34% in 1985, subsequently declining to 27% in 1986. The
latter arrears ratio is still high and is a cause of concern. UBB has been
taking steps to address the arrears situation. The arrears (excluding
rescheduling) overdue one year or more were written off in 1986, the number of
loans in arrears consequently decreasing from 4,692 in 1985 to 3,079 in 1986.
Doubtful loans decreased from Din 100 billion in 1984 to Din 62 billion in
1986. However, the principal outstanding of the loans that have *naturities in
arrears increased sharply from Din 43 billion to Din 157 billion in 1986.
Table 3 provides a summary of the number of loans in arrears. In accordance
with its percentage share (68%) in total loans, the industrial sector had the
highest amount of arrears during this period, particularly in the metallurgy,
metal products and chemicals subsectors.
18.      Recent developments are expected to lead to an improvement in UBB's
arrears situation. Many of the major enterprises in arrears are going through
rehabilitation programs which are expected to improve their financial
capabilities. The 1986 Banking Law requires banks to transfer all arrears
overdue by over 60 days to doubtful loans and to set aside 100% provisions for
those loans. Enterprises will consequently not be able to obtain new loans
until they repay their dues. Nevertheless, the arrears and portfolio
si;-uation will need to be closely monitored and assurances will be sought from
UBB to improve its portfolio supervision and to enforce penal actions against
enterprises in default. To enable UBB to strengthen its portfolio operations
management and loan appraisal systems, appropriate technical assistance will
be provided under the project (Annex 4-7).
19.      Profitability.  Profitability indicators for ;.goslav banks have to
be viewed with caution, since prior to 1986 the banks followed certain
practices which resulted in substantial overstatement of their income and
understatement of their liabilities. According to UBB's audited financial
statements between 1984-86, UBB's net income increased substantially (in
nominal terms) from Din 22 billion to Din 84 billion. The return on assets
increased from 0.7% to 2.8%, the ratio of operating expe-.ses to total assets
decreased from 2.2% to 1.7%, and the spread between cost of funds and yield on
earning assets increased from 6% to 12.5% in 1986. The net income and the
revaluation surplus amounted to Din 370 billion in 1987 and the correspondent
return on assets was 5.9%. However, further adjustments to some of the
frnancial data given in the audited financial statements are needed to make



- 95 -                      ANNEX 4-5
Page 6 of 19
them conform to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Table 4
provides a summary for UBB's adjusted income statements for the period
1984-1986.  Until 1985, Yugoslav banks were permitted  to defer foreign
exchange losses and record them in their assets.  In compliance with the
changes required by the 1986 Banking Law, UBB wrote off the current foreign
exchange losses incurred in 1986 and, in addition, 9.62 of the deferred
foreign exchange losses incurred in previous years (required to be written of
within 15 years under the current Law). However, the foreign exchange losses
arising from thc Bank's currency pooling lending were not passed on to
subborrowers by UBB; in accordance with GAMP, these losses have to be written
off. With such adjustments, the adjusted net income increased from a negative
level of Din -13 billion in 1984 to Din 39 billion in 1986 and the return on
assets, which was negative in 1984 and 1985, increased to only 1.1% in 1986.
The preliminary figures for 1987 show an adjustment total income of Din 167
and a return on assets of 2.6%.
20.      The distribution of unadjusted net income for the period 1984-1986 is
sumnarized in Table 4. The percentage of distribution to members (dividends)
out of total net income decreased from about 90 in 1984 to around 40% in
1986. UBB, in common with other Yugoslav banks, did not allocate income to
any of its reserve funds prior to 1985, particularly as this was not required
under the then prevailing banking law. In 1987, UBB distributed Din 18.5
billion to its members (902 of net income) while it retained the revaluation
surplus.
21.      UBB's net income generated in 1986 was insufficient to build up
reserve funds as required by the Law, even if no dividends to members were
distributed. The local currency MLT lending portfolio contains a substantial
part (58%) at low fixed interest rates which currently exerts a further
constraint to UBB's earning pctential, although its relative share will
decline over time with inflation. UBB's current commission on foreign
exchange lending of 0.5% is inadequate to cover the credit risks and
processing costs. In order to build up reserves, to write-off the foreigrn
exchange losses, and to build up an adequate provision base against portfolio
losses, UBB will have to increase its earnings suDstantially (para. 30).
22.      Reserves.  According to the audited financial statements, the ratio
of UBB's total equity to its total assets increased from 4.1% in 1984 to 6% in
1986, but declined to 3.5% in 1987. However, after necessary adjustments,
principally deduction of foreign exchange losses arising from the Bank's
currency pooling lending from UBB's reserves, UBB's adjusted equity was
negative in 1984 and 1985, and increased to a positive level of Din 58 billion
in 1986 and Din 36 billion in 1987. As discussed earlier (para. 19), one of
the major causes of past low reserves in Yugoslav banks was the practice of
distributing dividends to their founding members while overstating their
income by deferring losses and inadequate provisioning. Since 1986, banks are
not allowed to defer losses, and are required to build up their reserve funds
to levels stipulated under the 1986 Banking Law. The major factor behind the
decline of adjusted equity to total assets in 1987, is the foreign exchange
losses derived from the currency pooi system because UBB did not pass the



- 96 -                       ANNEX 4-5
Page 7 of 19
foreign exchange risk of the pool system to the ultimate sub-borrowers.  UBB
has not met the required build up of 12 for each of and RF in 1987, but
allocated more than the requirement for JLF to reach 6.7% of the previous
year's total lending portfolio.  There is a need to build-up the reserve funds
substantially in the next few years, at least to the levels required by the
1986 Law.
0perational and Financial Projections for UBB
23.      Assumptions in regard to inflation and exchange rates have been
discussed earlier (Annex 4-3, para. 24) together with the recent changes in
rionetary policies. Other key assumptions together with UBB's projected
financial statements are given in Tables 6 to 8.
24.      Operations. During 1988-1991, UBB's adjusted assets are projected to
remain constant in real terms. This is due mainly to a reduction in MLT Dinar
loan approvals of 30% in 1988 and 10% in 1989 reflecting the unfavorable
overall economic environment, which is projected to improve gradually in 1990
and 1991. Loan approvals in foreign exchange are expected to decline by 202
in 1988 and lO% in 1989, and to increase only gradually in subsequent years.
Approvals of ST foreign exchange and Dinar loans are expected to decline in
1988 and 1989, with a gradual improvement in subsequent years. Overall, UBB's
lending disbursements are expected to increase only gradually between 1988 and
1991.
25.      Resource Mobilization. UBB's projected resource mobilization plan is
satisfactory. Between 1988-1991, total MLT resources are estimated at Din 5260
billion in 1986 prices. UBB is expected to meet 25% of the local resource
requirements from new borrowings, and the balance from deposits (40X) and
internal cash generation (10X). In accordance with the Foreign Exchange Law,
UBB is expected to meet 100% of its new ST and MLT foreign exchange
disbursemenits from new foreign exchange borrowings. The proposed Bank loan
would provide about 10% of the foreign exchange resources on a disbursement
basis. The majority of the new ST foreign exchange disbursements are expected
to be financed from the 1983 SAL revolving fund. ST local currency deposits
are expected to remain at around the 1987 level, with no increase in real
terms, due to the negative real interest rates on such deposits. MLT local
currency deposits, on which the real interest rates are positive, are expected
to increase in real terms by 3% annually between 1988-1991. Foreign exchange
deposits, both ST and MLT, are expected to remain at around the 1987 levels in
real terms, due to the reluctance of Yugoslav individuals to increase such
deposits in domestic banks. NBY is assumed to continue to rsdiscount 30% of ST
selective credits, and 15% of MLT selective credits.
26.      Foreign Exchange Exposure. UBB is expected to eliminate the foreign
exchange exposure between its liabilities and assets which amounted to US$ 82



- 97 -                       ANNEX 4-5
Page 8 of 19
million equivalent at the end of 1987 at the rate of one third (about US$ 27
million equivalent) each year starting 1988. However, due to the Bank's
currency pooling system, UBB's liability in regard to the SAL increased by US$
214 million equivalent by end 1986. This exposure is also expected to be
eliminated over three years at the rate of one thied a year starting 1988
(about US$ 71 million equivalent).
27.      Liquidity. UBB's use of ST resources to finance MLT lending is
projected to increase from 0.2% in 1987 to around 5X in 1991. This level is
substantially within the 15Z permitted by the 1986 Banking Law. UBB's current
ratio is expected to remain at about the same level (1.3) in 1987. Overall,
UBB is not expected to face liquidity problems, particulary since 4X of its
assets are expected to be in cash and 11% of its local currency deposits would
be held as reserves with NBY. However, the new monetary policy will have an
adverse impact on all Yugoslav banks.
28.      Arrears and Doubtful Loans. The rate of arrears (excluding
rescheduling of debts to foreign banks) as a percentage of maturities due has
been high, at 272, for UBB. Provisions under the 1986 Banking Law which
stipulate that banks cannot make new loans to enterprises that are in arrears
in respect of due repayments, and steps that UBB is expected to take to
strengthen further its lending and portfolio supervision activities with the
help of appropriate technical assistance are expected to be adequate to ensure
that this ratio is redu^ed. The 1987 Law requires banks to transfer all
arrears over 60 days to doubtful loans, and to allocate provision of 100% of
doubtful loans. It is projected that this write-off, along with the other
measures, will assist the projected arrears ratio to decrease from 27% in 1987
to 10% in 1991.
29.      ProfiAability. In order to increase its net income and to build up
reserve funds and provisions, UBB would need to raise the average interest
rate on MLT local currency loans to average Is% above the rate from mid 1988
onwards. ALthough such an increase may reduce somewhat the demand for loans,
it is considered not to be excessive, and it would contribute, further, to an
improvement in the appropriate allocation of scarce funds. It is also assumed
that UBB will charge on the selective credits not rediscounted with NBY this
level of interest rate. In addition, commission rates on foreign exchange
loans are expected to be raised from 0.5% in 1987 to 3% from mid-1988.
Although this would be a steep increase, it is not deemed excessive in view of
the risks involved in such loans and the handling costs. Similarly,
commissions on guarantees are also expected to be increased from 0.5% in 1987
to an average of 1% from mid-1988.
30.      Overall, these projections imply a gradual improvement in JB's
profitability. Although UBB's overall level of operations is expected to show
only modest growth due to the adverse ecoromic environment and constraints on



- 98 -                       ANNEX 4-5
Page 9 of 19
raising new substantial foreign exchange resources, financial performance is
expected to improve to acceptable levels if UBB takes the steps discussed
above. UBB's net income, as a percentage of total assets, is projected to
increase from 1.3% in 1987 to 41 in 1991. The increase in income would enable
UBB to increase its RF by 1% a year from 1987 onwards to reach 5% by 1990, as
required by the 1986 Banking Law. UBB would also be able to make special
reserve for MLT loans at rates increasing from 0.51 in 1988 to 2% in 1991, and
to write-off deferred foreign exchange losses in five years. UBB will also
have to write-off the deferred losses arising from the Bank's currency pooling
system in 5 years starting 1989.
31.      The projected financial position should enable UBE to service its
foreign debt. Since banks have to redeposit all foreign exchange deposits with
NBY, the foreign exchange needed to service external debt will have to be sold
by NBY to UBB against Dinars.
32.      Obviously, UBB's future performance would be affected by changes in
the economic and financial environment, and in laws and regulations. The
effects of such changes on UBB's performance will have to be continuously
monitored.



ANNEX 4-S
- 99 -                    Page 10 of 19
Table 1: UBB: ASSET STRUCTURE & DETAILS OF LONG TERM LOANS & SELECTIVE CREDITS
1984                1985                   1986
Dinars    Share    Dinars    Share         Dinars   Share
A. Asset Structure                   (bin)      (%I       (bin)      (x}         (bini    (X1
Deposits with NBY                  68         5.0       176      8.0           335       6.0
Short-term Loans                  167        12.0      322      14.0          624       ;7.0
Other Current Assets              414        30.0      680      30.0         1.198      33.0
Long-term Loans &
Investments                  S42        30.0       778      34 0        1.133       31.0
Deferred Foreign
Exchange Losses               69         5.0        99       4.0           89        2.0
Other                          12         1.0     ___3       1..           49        1.O
Total                  1399        1]0.     2,275    l0Ll            hf29      100.0
19a4                      198s                     1986
Dinars   Equivalents   Dinars   Equivalents   Dinars   Equivalents
(bin}                   (bin)                     (bin)
B.  Details of LT Loans
Approvals:
Industry & Mining              232                    189                       264
Agriculture S Forestry           21                     26                       45
Other                          _2k                     Ju                       i2
279                   267                       386
Coammnts
Local                             174        1.102       285        1.033         423        1.091
Foreign Exchange                 9_-- 58                  41 42                                143
Total                             183        1,160       296        1.075         479        1,234
In 1984 prices                    183                    163                      154
Disbursements
Local                             144.3        915       244.5        885         366.9        949
Foreign Exchange                     .9         i         11.3        41          55.8        144
Total                             153.2        971       255.8        926         422.7      1,093
In 1984 prices                    153                   141                       136
C. Details of Selective Credits (Dinars bin)
1984                 1985                  1986
UBs         NBY        UBB        NKY         UBB         NBY
Sources Rediscounts Sources Rediscounts Sources Rediscounts
Total                  Total                  Total
Short-term
-Export             54      30    84      88       47   135    173        60   233
-Agriculture        38      30    68      SS       45   100    135        75   210
-Import of
Equipment           3       3      6      2        -      2       1       -      1
-food                 1      1      2       3       4      7      4        2      6
-Coal                 1      -      1       3       1      4       1       -      1
-Fertilizers        -_16                                                   6 ___
Total Short-Term    97       64   161    L.51       9 297        llQ      143   47
Long-Term
-Export             12       1    13      22        3    25      44        3    47
-Manufacturing      19       2    2_1    24         -            la         -    A
Total Long-Term       31      l    34      46        I    49      Z2        2    75
Total Selective
Credits           128      67   195    197       100   297    402       147   549
Percentage of NBY
rediscounts
Short-term            39.8                  39.1                  30.2
Long-term            AA 86.14O
Total                     34.                   IlL!                  26.6
Sotrce: U8B



-  100 -                                           Page 11 of 19
Table 2: UBB: LIABILITY STRUCTURE & DETAILS OF SOURCES OF BORROWING & GUARANTEES
1984                 1985                    1986
oinars    Sh4re    Dinars    Share           Oinars   Share       Dinars   Share
A. Liability Structure                (bin)      (7.       (bin)       (M)         (bin)     (ZM        (bin)       MX)
Demand Deposits                    342         26.0       467           21.0      689        20.0
Short-term Deposits                197         1S.0       373           17.0      700        21.G
Other Current Liabilities          179         13.0       279           13.0      581        17.0
Long-term Deposits                 221         16.0       413           19.0      691        20.0
Long-term Borrowings              401          30.0       641           29.0      749        22.0
Total                           1._19         UB.       L.LZ1         IA=    3.4 aA.LJ
B.  Sources of Borrowino (Dinars bin)                   jai        18 Mi
A.  Local Currency Borrowinas
Short term                                            16         40        108
Long term                                             19         2Z         39
Total                                              1           67        147
% changes in constant 1984 prices                              -25.         6X
B.  Foreign Exchange Borrowings (US$ equivalent)
Short term                                            43        -38         -2
Long term
IBRO                                              244           0          0
Dollar Adjustment to Bank's Currency
pool I/                                           -          1S        140
Foreign banks                                     hi         21491.
Total change in foreign exchange borrowings  399             ZA5
Net increase (decrease) in
foreign exchange borrowings                            392        167         (13)
1/ Not included in SOK report.
Source: SDK. mission calculation.
C. Qtails of Guarantees (Dinars bin)
Letters of Credit                               23              25          30
Letters of guarantees                        2,093          2,314        3.538
(of which: - Dinar)                      (520)            752)     (1.279)
(- Foreign Exchange)             (1,573)         (1,562)      (2,259)
(Equivalent $ billion)1'              (7.L4           (S.O)       (S.4)
Total                                        2,116          2,339        3.568
Source: SOK



- 101 -                       ANNEX 4-5
Page 12 of 19
Table 3: UBB: DEFERRED FOREIGN EXCHANGE LOSSES, ARREARS & DOUBTFUL LOANS
1984      1985        1986
A. Deferred Foreign Exchange Losses
(Dinars bln)
Balance as of January 1                     33.7       69.5       99.7
Current Losses                              41.4       40          -
Write-offs                                  (5.6)      (6.7)    (10.2)
Balance as of year end                      69.5       99.7       89.8
B. Details of Arrears of Long-Term Loan Portfolio
(bln Dinars)
1.  Arrears Balance as of January 1            4.8             3.4             10.9
2.  Amount due during the year                82.0           118.3            215.2
3.  Total amount due (1 + 2)                  86.8           121.7            226.1
4.  Cash collected                            52.2            51.3            118.8
5.  Rescheduled                               21.4            43.6             62.6
- Local Currency                          (0.6)           (0.2)            (1.1)
- Foreign Exchange                       (20.7)          (41.4)           (61.5)
6.  Transfer to doubtful loans                 9.8            15.9             25.2
- Local Currency                           N.A.            N.A.           (11.8)
- Foreign Exchange                        N.A.             N.A.           (13.3)
7.  Arrears as of year end                     3.4            10.9             19.4
Ratios
a.  Cash collection in 2 (4/3)          60.1             42.2            52.6
b.  Rescheduling (5/3)                  24.6             35.8            27.7
c. Foreign Exchange rescheduling
out of total rescheduling         96.7            95.0             98.2
d.  Arrears ratio [1-4/3-51]'           20.2             34.3            27.3
1/ (1- collection ratio excluding rescheduling of foreign exchange).
Source: SDK, UBB, Mission calculations.
C. Details of Arrears By Aging (Dinars bln)
Maturities of
Number of          Principal                principal in
loans           outstanding                  arrears
1986    1985       1986      1985       1986      1985
Up to 3 months        1,981   2,633       150.5      23.5       15.3       7.9
3 to 6 months           611   1,614         3.7      10.4        2.3       1.6
6 to 12 months          487      266        3.5       2.4        1.8      0.4
1 to 2 years              -       68        -         1.8       -         0.3
Over 2 years                     ill                 4.6        0.5      0.5
Source:  4,692SDK6            42.8       19.4      10.
Source: SDK



- 102 -                      ANNEX 4-5
Page 13 of 19
Table 4: UBB: INCOME STATEMENTS & DISTRIBUTION OF NET INCOME
1984     1985      1986
A. Adiusted Income Statements (Dinars bln)
1.   Interest income<")                               105       244       478
2.   Other income                                       12       42        57
3.   Total gross income (1 + 2)                        117      286       535
4.   Interest expense                                   74       187      345
5.   Provisions and write-offs                           4       45        81
6.   Operating expenses                                 29        24       50
7.   Statutory obligations                               1         2        8
11.  Net income                                          9       28        51
12.Income earned but (3-4-5-6-7) not collected          13        11       33
Total                                             22        39        84
Adjustments for the Income of the Year
14. Write-off of deferred losses
from previous years                              6         7        11
15.  Uncovered losses in the current year              (41)     (37)        -
16. Foreign Exchange losses from
currency pool                                   (-)      (15)      (56)
17.  Total adjusted income [13+14-15-16)              (-13)     (-6)       39
(1) Cash basis.
Source: SDK audit report and mission calculations.
B.  Distribution of Net Income1'                    1984      1985        1986
(Dinars bln)
Allocation to Property and Equipment Fund          0         3.5        19.6
Allocation to Reserve Fund                         0         2.1        14.5
Allocation to Joint Liability Fund                 0         5.8         8.8
Income Accrued but not Collected                   0.5      16.3         8.1
Distribution to Members                            5.3      11.2        32.9
Total                                            5.8      38.9        83.9
1/ Unadjusted.
Source: SDK



- 103 -                      ANNEX 4-5
Page 14 of 19
Table 5: UBB: CHANGES IN RESERVES
A.  Build-up of Reserves
(bln Dinars)                                  1984       1985        1986
1.  Property and Equipment Fund                        15         32         67
2.  Reserve Fund                                        5          9         28
3.  Joint Liability Fund                                8         19         49
4.  Total Funds (1 + 2 + 3)                            28         61        144
5.  Reserves for Uncollected Income                    30         4.         74
6.  Total (4 + 5)                                      58        102        218
7.  Deferred Foreign Exchange Losses                  (69)      (100)       (89)
8.  Foreign Exch&nge Losses due to Currency
Pool System                                    -       (15)        (71)
9.  Adjusted Equity (6-7-8) Networth                 (-11)      (-13)        58
Source: SDK, and mission calculations.
1984              1985               1986
B. Changes of Reserve Funds  Prop.                Prop.              Prop.
(unadjusted (bln Dinars  Fund   RF  JLF   Fund   RF  JLF   Fund   RF   JLF
1. Balance as of January 1       9.8  4.6  6.6   14.7  5.5  8.5   31.9  9.4  19.2
2. New funds invested             2.5  0.9  1.9    4.9  1.8  5.0    5.6  4.2  10.5
3. Allocation net income          0    0    0       3.5  2.1  5.8    8.8 14.5  19.6
4. Withdrawals by members          -    -    -       -    -    -        -    -      -
5. Revaluation of properties   2.4   -    -         8.8   -    -    20.3   -        -
6. Profit on sales of equip.    -    -    -          -    -    -       0.2   -      -
7. Balance at year-end          14.7  5.5  8.5   31.9  9.4 19.2   66.9 28.0  49.4
Source: SDK



ANNEX  4-5
Page  1.5 of  19
- 104 -
Table  6:   UBB  - Assumptions
1987     1988       1989      199O       1991       1992
DOMESTIIC INFLATION                                         131.01   131.D     IOO,6X       80.6Z     61.11    Ua.01
EXCHANGE RATE YEAR-END                                       1381      2925      5764       9982      15471     26086
OPERATIONS
APPROVALS (REAL GROWTH):
LT LOCAL CURRENCY                          -36.2   -31.61    -16.62        6.62       1.6Z      2.62
LT FOREIGN CURRENCY                        -13.O2   -26.61    -16.62        3.62       1.62      1.62
ST LOCAL CURRENCY                           -5.62   -1.6X       6.02       3.62       4.32      5.12
ST FOREIGN CURRENCY                         -5.02   -16.O2      -5.6a       6.O2       2.6Z      2.61
STRUCTURE
DEPOSITS (REAL GROWTH)
LOCAL: SI6hT DEPOSITS                               O.62    -2.62       -2.12      6.02       3.62       1.62
S.T. DEPOSITS                                6.32      3.62      3.3Z       3.62       3.61      3.02
L.T. DEPOSITS                                6.02      3.62      3.62       3.62       3.02      3.06
F.E.: S.T. DEPOSITS                                 6.2      6.62       6.1o2     6.62       6.2x       1.12
L.T. DEPOSITS                                6.62      6.61      o.12       6.62       6.62      1.62
NBY REDISCOUNTS (2 OF ST SELECTIVE CREDITS)                  36.01    36.12       11.OZ     11.OZ      1O.62     11.1O
NOY REDISCOUNTS (2 OF LT SELECTIVE CREDITS)                  15.6%    15.32       5.12       6.62       6.32      0.62
JLF FUND BUILD-UP                                             6.62      5.62       5.62      5.02       5.62      5.62
RESERVE FUND BULD-UP                                          2.03      2.62      3.62       4.62       5.02      5.62
ARREARS (PERCENTAE OF TOTAL AMOUNT DUE)                       2.62      2.62       2.06      2.62       2.62      2.62
PROVISIONS (PERCENTAGE OF ST DISBURSEMENTS)                   1.6%      1.1O       1.62      1.OX       1.62      1.62
GENERAL PROVISIONS BUILD-UP (% OF LT LENDING)                 6.62      O.52       1.62      1.52       2.12      2.12
LOCAL LT BORROWING (PERCENTAGE OF LT LENDING)                25.62    16.62       16.62    1.12       16.12     16.32
F.E. LT BORROWING (PERCENTAGE OF LT LENDING)                1OO.62   11.62    166.62    100.02   1I1.1O    111.1O
F.E. ST BORROWING (PERCENTAGE OF LT LENDING)                166.062   10.02    106.32    186.62   IO.6X   16.02
COMMISIONS ON FOREIGN CURRENCY OPERATIONS                     6.52      1.89       3.82      3.6Z       3.02      3.62
WRITE-OFF OF DEFERRED F.E. LOSSES                            26.62    23.62      26.62      26.32      26.62     26.06
CAPITALIZATION OF REVALUATED AMOUNT DUE                       6.62      6.62       6.62      6.OX       6.01      6.62
MATURITY OF CAPITALIZED REVALAUTION                             5         5         5          5          5         5
FOREIGN EXCHANGE EXPOSURE (YEAR-END)                          123        82         41         *          O         O
CASH AS PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL ASSETS                            4.62      4.52      4.02       4.12       4.62      4.16
DEFFERED CURRENCY POOL LOSSES                                 278       563        472       381        296        199
= ==== == ===S ========== _s=  == =., _ ==   =_ ==== = == = == = _=== _ ==== _ :====  ===:=======--=t======        =



ANNEX 4-5
Page 16 of 19
- 105 -
Table 7: UBB - Project Financial Results
Constant Prices (1986)
(Billion of Dinar)
3-MAT;Ea  I           ----P-,r----------------- POv--
19tI 2E C       1 9  1          9        92
I  TOTAL COWHITHENTS                                          1090       996       647       533       5S2       577
2  TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS                                        1024       9S9       632       520       537       563
3  TOTAL ASSETS                                               3817      3679      3477      3392      3323      3255
4  SNORT-TERM LENDING (INCL CURRENT MATURITY)                 lOSO       99S       721       642       672       577
S  LONG-TERN LENDING (INCL REVALUATION)                       1189       15SO     1088      1014       930       957
6  SHORT-TERM BORROWING (INCL CURRENT MATURITY)                274       279       189       200       222       113
7  LONG-TERM BORROWING                                        103S       894       748       604       464       458
8  TOTAL DEPOSITS                                              808       831       8S3       873       893       910
9  JLF AND RF                                                  100       107       12S       137       147       154
10 MET INCOME                                                  164       141       132       108       143       178
11 NET WORTH (TOTAL EQUITY - DEFERRED F.E. LOSSES)  27                    36       106       136       152       161
3TRJCTU;E '%.OF TOTAL ASETS
!2                  TOTAL LENDIN6S                                58.7%    58.3%       52.1%      48.8%      48.2Z      47.1X
10                  TOTAL BORROWINGS                              34.3%    31.9%       27.1%      23.7%      26.71      17.51
14                  TGTAL DEPOSITS                                57.1%    61.1%       64.3%      67.6%      69.5%      71.9X
15                  TOTAL RESEPVES                                 4.8%      4.2X       4.5%       4.6%       4.9%       5.12
16 CAPITALIZATION OF REVALUATION ! TOTAL REVALUATION               O.6%      O.O%       O.O%       O.8%       6.6%       6.6%
LIQUIDITY RATIOS
17 PERCENTAGE OF SHORT-RESOURCES FOR LONG-TERN LENDINGS          -17.4%   -12.2%       -8.3%      -4.4%      -1.5%       8.47.
18 CURRENT RATIO                                                 134.1%   131.8%    134.6%    133.2%    131.5X    132.7%
19 CASH I TOTAL ASSETS                                             5.7%      5.1%      11.6%  ' 3.8?         13.71      13.7%
PROFITABILITY
26 NET INCOME / TOTAL ASSETS                                       4.3%      3.8X       3.8?       3.21       4.3%       5.5%
21 NET INCOME I TOTAL RESERVES                                    89.6%    91.3%       85.47      69.1%      88.6%    167.7%
22 INTEREST INCO"E i TOTAL ASSETS                                 58.3%    56.2%       4'.6%      35.2X      2q,9%      24.6%
23 INTEREST EXPENSE / TOTAL ASSETS                                43.2%    44.8%       37.4Z      31.6%      24.2%      17.7%
24                  SPREAD (22-23)                                  7.1%     5.4?       5.2%       4.6%       5.7%       6.9%
25 INTEREST INCOME   A AVERAGE LENDING PORTFOLIO                  84.4%    82.8%       68.6%      57.1%      46.8%      36.4%
26 INTEREST ENPENSE / AVERAGE BORROWING PORTFOLIO                 66.3%    67.3%       53.4%      42.9%      32.7%      22.8Z
27                  SPREAD (25-26)                                 18.8%    15.5%      15.1X      14.2?      14.1?      13.6?
28 GENERAL PROVISION I LT LENDINGS                                 6.6%      O.6%       O.1%       6.O%       0.3%       6.9%
29 PROVISION / S.T. DISBURSEMENTS                                   1.06      1.6?      1.6?       1.6%       1.61       1.O%
36 ARREARS / TOTAL AMOUNT DUE                                      2.8%      2.1%       2.0%       2.3?       2.6%       2.Q%
31 INTEREST RATE ON LOCAL LENDING                                  8.5%    15.5Z       20.1Z      26.0%      19.2%      19.6?
(EXCLUDING NBY'S REDISCOUNTS AND FIXED RATES)
RESERVES
32 JLF (Z OF PREVIOUS YEAR'S LEADING PORTFOLIO)                    6.7%      5.6?       5.3?       5.7%       6.1%       6.4?
33 RF (PERCENTAGE OF LENDING PORTFOLIO)                             1.5%     2.6?       3.6?       4.6%       5.0%       5.6%
34 TOTAL BORROWINGS / TOTAL RESERVES                                7.1      7.6        6.6        5.1        4.3        3.4
35 NET NORTH (FUNDS LESS DEFERRED LOSSES) (DIN BILLION)              62       192       1122      2581       4MB.       6868
36 NET WORTH t TOTAL ASSETS                                         9.7%      1.6%      3.0%       4.8%       4.6?       4.9X



ANNEX 4-5
-106  -                                  Page  17  of  19
Table 8:  UBB- Projection Balnace
Sheet in Current Prices
ESTIMATED--------- PROJECTED-----------
ASSETS                                                           1987       1999       1989       1993        1991      '1992
DEPOSITS WITH NOY                                             2245      5466      11149      2a467       33297      47269
ST LOANS                                                      2416      5265       7629       12234      23468      24613
OTHERS (INCLUDING CASH)                                        866      1818       5 723      11985      18543      25689
LT LOANS AND INVESTMENTS                                      2735      6882      11515       19317      28334      43817
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENTS                                        165       212         254        291        314         321
DEFERRED FE AND CURRENCY POOL LOSSES                           359       627        518         489        3K199
TOTAL ASSETS                         8793     19463      36784       64662    131257    138846
LIABILITIES
ST DEPOSITS                                                   3158      7292      146314      26671      43162      61832
ST BORROW[NGS                                                  629      1477       1q97       73813       6769       4816
OTHERS                                                         332       749       1575        2987       5165       7667
LT DEPOSITS                                                   1859      4397       9823       16635      27201      38857
LT BORROWINGS                                                 2386      4729       7916      1.599       14142       19517
FUNDS EMPLOYED
JLF AND RESERVE FUNDS                                          231       564        1321       2687       4477       6583
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENTS                                        191       254         318        383        448        485
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND FUND           9788    19463       36784       64632    181257      138846
INCOME STATEMENT
INTEREST EARNED                                               4412      9771      15661      22741       38293      34129
INTEREST EXPENSE                                              3789      8718      13749       19787      24516      24527
NET INTEREST INCOME                             624       1852       1912      24954       5776        9682
OTHER INCOME                                                    27        88         228        387        686        834
TOTAL INCOME                                    658      1141        2132       3341       63,82      18437
EXPENDITURE
PROVISIONS                                                      21        43          54         79        132         193
WRITE-OFFS                                                       9         19         22         28        3j7         39
DEPRECIATION                                                     9         16         22         28         34         3q
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES                                        125       288        576        1636       1658       2321
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                        163       365         674       1172       1868        2591
STATUTORY OBLIGATIONS                                               13        29         58        184         166        232
NET INCOME                            377       747        1433       2365       4356        76131



ANNEX 4-5
-107  -                                P~age  18  of  19
Table 9: UBB - Balance Sheet in 1986's Prices
ACTUAL ESTINATED
-          -----------    ---- ----------PROJECTED - - ----------------
ASSETS                                           186         1987      1988       1989      199        1991       192
DEPOSITS WITH NBY                              9I           976      1132      1354       1375       1093       1137
ST LOANS                                       ills        1353      995        721        642        672       577
OTHERS (INCLUDIN6 CASH)                         512         374      344        541        624        639        602
LT LOANS AND INVESTMENTS                       1148        1189      1153     189        1814        930        957
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENTS                          81          72        a         24         15         13          7
DEFERRED F.E. LOSSES                             95         156       118        49         21         1t          5
TOTAL ASSETS           3651        3817      3679       3477      3392       3323       3255
LIABILITIES
ST DEPOSITS                                    1553        1373      1378      1383       1433       1417       1431
ST BORROVIN6S                                   303         274       279        189       263        222        113
OTHERS                                          231         144       142        149       157        166        178
lT DEPOSITS                                     842         808       831       853        873        893        910
LT BORROWIN6S                                   584        1035       894       748        684        464        458
FUNDS EMPLOYED
JLF AND RESERVE FUNDS                            78         180       187        125       137        147        154
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENTS                          99          83        48         38        29         14         1i
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND FUND       3651        3817      3679      3477       3392       3323       3255
REAL GROWTH RATE
ASSETS                                                        1987      1988       1989       1998      1991       1992
DEPOSITS WITH NBY                                          8.45%    5.74l      2.1?%      1.99%      1.68%      1.27%
ST LOANS                                                   3.49%   -5.25%   -27.54%   -10.91%        4.57%   -14.1X%
G'YERS (INCLUDIN6 CASH)                                  -26.98%   -8.36%    57.28%    15.44%    -2.4Q%    -1.017.
iT LOANS AND INVESTMENTS                                  13.47%   -3.32%    -5.'3%    -6,80%    -9.33%         2.0%
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENTS                                  -11.58%  -43.99%   -4Q.34%   -36.62%   -32.41%   -27.28%
DEFERRED F.E. LOSSES                                      64.39%  -24.16%   -59.681   -56.12%   -54.13%         ----
TOTAL ASSETS                       4.56%   -3.62%    -5.58%    -2.43%    -2.84%    -2.D5%
LIABILITIES
ST DEPOSITS                                              -11.59%    8.39%      2.34%      1.252      i.15"      1.DOX
ST BORROWIN6S                                             -9.71%    2.072   -32,41%       5.98%     1.8r'    -P.1:7
OTHERS                                                   -27.88%   -1.89%      5.788      5, 77.23,%X
LT DEPOSITS                                               -3.99l    2.82%      2.61.    2.42%        2.824      1. 1%
LT BORROWINGS                                             77.28%  -13.61'!   -10.ol2   -ic. ;    -.3.2         -i.;;4
FUNDS EMPLOYED
JLF AND RESERVE FUNDS                                     42.76%    6.67%    1T.D%        9.c4%      7.33%      5.Di2
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENTS                                  -16.12%  -42.172   --?, 357   -33.273%   -28.05'.   -2-ae
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND FUND                   4.56%   --.62X    -5.53%    -2. -4       -2.04%    -2.05X
--- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- --



- 108 -                                  ANNEX 4-5
Page 19 of 19
Table 10: UBB - Sources and Uses of Fund
ESTIMATED  -----------------PROJECTED --------------------
1987     IqBe       1989       159?       1991      1992
SOURCES
OPERATIONS
NET INCONE                                                     334       634       1141      1593       3629       6571
ADD: DEPRECIATION                                    9        16         22         28        34         39
PROVISIONS AND WRITE-OFFS                      20        43         54        79        132        193
iNCREASE IN:
DEMAND DEPOSITS                               898      1993      3439       5617       7583       80B9
ST DEPOSITS (LOCAL)                           315       762      1398       2323       3263       3668
ST DEPOSITS (F.E.)                            554      1135      2862       3376       4648       5033
ST DEPOSITS FROM ENTERPRISES (F.E.)            79       244       443        724        997       1680
CURRECNY POOL LOSSES                          237       285       425        568        615        467
ST BORROWINGS (LOCAL)                        -132       338      -519       -113          a          I
ST BORROWIN6S (F.E.)                          -33        42       238        611       1232       1716
ACCRUED INTEREST AND OTHERS                   131       329       617       1349       1514       1758
LT DEPOSITS (LOCAL)                           387       938      1721       2857       4618       4517
LT DEPOSITS (F.E.)                            781      1599      2965       4755       6547       7389
LT BORROWINGS (LOCAL)                         268       662       986       1442       1749       1565
LT BORROWINGS (F.E.)                         1206      1933      2612       2898       2326       -317
UNCOLLECTED INCONE                             26        89       238        364        564        794
TOTAL SOURCES                      5353    10979       17717     28168      38522      42242
USES
INCREASED IN:
CASH                                          273       496      3070       4878       4895       5232
DEPOSITS WITH NOY                            1216      2735      4967       8131      11195      12122
SECURITIES                                     46       135        195       296        416        427
SHORT-TERN LENDIN6 (LOCAL)                    926      1954       622       1639       3942       4643
SHORT-TERN LENDING (F.E.)                     243       396       667       1387       1474       1512
RESERVE FOR DEPOSITS                          155       483       721       1187       1635       1791
DEFERRED FE LOSSES                             -8       -18       -18        -18        -18       -13
DEFEERED POOL LOSSES                          237       285       -91        -91        -91        -91
ACCRUED INTEREST                              152       329       562        931       1257       1341
ARREARS                                       -54        29         64        59        136        176
LT LOCAL LENDING                              774      2312      4411       7369      13213      16787
LT FE LENDING                                 978      1576      2153       2421       1754       -123
FIXED ASSETS                                  124        63        64         64         58         44
DISTRIBUTION TO MEMBERS                        18       237       323        243       1731       4423
TOTAL USES                         5858    13979       17717     28168      38522      42242
-- - - -- - - -- - - --  - - -- - -  -- - - -- -  - -- - - -- -  - -- - -   - - -_    - - -- - - -- - - --  - - -- - -



- 109 -                         ANNEX 4-6
Page 1 of 4
YUGOSLAVIA
EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
The Suboroiect Pipelines
Table 1: Current Suhnroject Pipelines
SUBSECTOR           SPONSOR                          MAIN             FOREIGN      IBRD
BANK NO.    CODE                 NAHE                    PRODUCT/ACTIVITY          COST       LIMIT
(USS. MILLION)
JUW    1    113     Gosa. HIP-Processing Equipment       containers                1.3        1.3
JUB   2    113      Gosa. HIP-Foundry                    gray cast pig iron        4.0       4.0
JUB   3    114      OLT, Osijek Foundry                  machinery                 S.0        5.0
JUG   4    114      Jelsingrad                           machine tools             S.0        S.0
JUB   5    114      OLT, Osijek Foundry                  farm machinery            5.0        5.0
JUW    6    115     ZCZ, Surface Protection              automobile paint          3.9        3.9
JUG   7    115      ZCZ. Karoserija                      automobile parts          6.5        6.5
JUG   8    11S      ZCZ. Machanical Processing           automobile parts          6.8        6.8
JUB   9    115      ZCZ, Preseraj                        automobile parts          7.2        7.0
JUB  10    115      ZCZ. Zastava, Voja Radic             aluminum coolers          4.3        4.3
JUB  11    115      ZCZ. Components. 21, octobar         automobile parts          4.8        4.8
JUB  12    117      Naronaplast                          floppy diskettes          5.4        5.4
JUG  13    117      El Nis, X-Ray Plant                  X-ray machines            2.1        2.1
JUB  14    122      Serbian Glass Factory                glass                     5.0        5.0
JUB  15    125      22 December, Garments                fabrics                   3.7        3.7
JUB  16    125      Delnice, Lucice                      fabrics                   3.9        3.9
JUl  17    12S      Letex                                fabrics                   2.0        2.0
JUB  18    126      Makedonka                            fabrics, textiles         5.1        5.1
JUB  19    127      Prodex                                rabbit breeding          4.0        4.0
JUB  20    128      Partizan, Azma                       shoes                     2.7        2.7
JUB  21    130      Ulpin                                frozen foods              3.3        3.3
LBL   1    110      Kovinopi Astika                      Steel & plastics          2.7        2.7
LBL   2    112      Oo Termika                            insulated panels         1.5        1.5
LBL   3    112      Oonit Medvode                        gasket                    5.9        5.9
LBL   4    113      IMP Livar                            fans                      2.1        2.1
LBL   S    11S      ITAS Kocevic                         vehicles                  3.5        3.5
LBL   6    117      Iskra Do Ero                         electric had tool         5.7        5.7
LBL   7    117      Iskra Kibernetika                    elec. equip. & mach.   11.2          7.0
LBL   8    117      Ajis. Ptuj                           catering equip.           1.6        1.6
LBL   9    123      Alples Zelesnik                      Furniture                 0.3        0.3
LBL  10    124      KTL                                  Lamin. packing            2.1        2.1
LBL  11    125      Dekorativna                          textile                   5.1        5.1
LBL  12    125      Tekstilindus                         cotton fabrics            6.1        6.1
LBL  13    130      Mercator                             Vegetable Oils            0.8        0.8



ANNEX 4-6
- 110 -                          Page 2 of 4
YUGOSLAVIA
EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
The Suboroiect Pipelines
Table 1: Current Subproject PiRelines ECont dl
SUBSECTOR           SPONSOR                           MAIN             FOREIGN      IBRO
BANK NO.    CODE                 NAHE                     PRODUCT/ACTIVITY          COST       LIMIT
(USS. MILLION)
Use   1    112      ElectroporceLan                       insulators                1.4        1.4
UBS    2    112     Jugoazbest                            engine gaskets, brakes  1.6          1.6
USS   3    113      Fabrika Kuglicnih Lezaja              rolling bearing           2.5        2.5
UBS   4    113      Fabrika Kuglicnih Lezaja              machinery                 1.7        1.7
UBs   5    113      IMI Traktora                          tractors                  6.4        6.4
UBB   6    114      Prva Petoletka                        pumps, valves, etc.    40.0          0.0
UBS   7    114      Prva Petoletka                        cylinders                33.4        0.0
UBB   8    114      Krusik                                machinery                13.5        0.0
UBB   9    114      Krusik                                machinery                 8.3        7.0
UBB  10    114      Milan Blagojeric                      machinery                 2.8        2.8
UBB  11    115      Autoventil                            automobile parts          5.5        S.S
UBB  12    115      IMI Traktora                          tractors                 35.2        0.0
UBS  13    115      IMI Traktora                          cast irons                2.0        2.0
UBB  14    115      Industrija motora Rakovica            off-road vehicles        31.2        0.0
UBB  1S    11S      DHM  Beograd                          engines                  34.5        0.0
UBS  16    115      FAP-Priboj                            automobile               12.3        7.0
UBS  17    117      El-Nis                                printed circuits          1.5        1.5
UBS  18    117      El-Nis                                elect. assemblies         4.1        4.1
UBB  19    117      Provodnici, Loskovac                  auto cable                4.7        4.7
UBS  20    117      Stampana Kola                         electric equip.           1.0        1.0
UBS  21    118      Takovo                                instant products          0.9        0.9
UBS  22    118      Viskoza, Loznica                      chemicals                36.4        0.0
UBS  23    119      Merima                                stearic, oleic acids    1.0          1.0
UBB  24    123      Polet                                 furnitures                6.0        6.0
UBB  25    125      Cveta Dabic                           cotton fabrics            4.5        4.5
UBS  26    125      Nitex                                 cotton yarn (to #50)    5.0          S.0
UBS  27    125      Nitex                                 cotton yarn (#70-100)  10.0          7.0
UBS  28    130      Frikom                                frozen foods              0.6        0.6
TOTAL                                                                             451.6      213.6
AVERAGE SIZE                                                                        7.3        3.5
PERCENTAGE                                                                        100.0%      51.4%



- 111 -                     ANNEX 4-6
Page 3 of 4
The Subproject Pipelines
Table 2: Sunmmary of Foreign Exchange Financing Requirement
(US$ million)
Total   Foreign   IBRD
Code            Activity                   Frequency    Cost      Cost    Limit"'
110  Processing of Nonferrous Metal             1        3.6       2.7       2.7
112  Manufacturing of Nonmetalic Mine           4       22.9      10.4      10.4
113  Metalwork Fabrications                     6       25.0      18.0      18.0
114  Machinery, Nonelectrical                   8      239.6    113.0       24.8
115  Transport Equipment                       13      556.4    165.8       56.3
117  Elect. Mach. & App.                        9       73.5      37.3      33.1
118  Manufacture of Chemicals                   2       74.8      37.3       0.9
119  Processing of Chemicals                    1        5.0       1.0       1.0
122  Sawmills and Wood Board                    1       19.7       5.0       5.0
123  Furniture and Fixtures                     1        0.8       0.3       0.3
124  Paper                                      1        3.6       2.1       2.1
125  Yarns and Fabrics                          8       81.2      37.2      34.3
126  Finished Textile Products                  1       11.2       5.0       5.0
127  Leather and Fur                            1       16.9       4.0       4.0
128  Footwear                                   1       18.9       2.7       2.7
130  Food Processing Products                   3        9.5       4.7       4.7
Total                                     62     1162.6    451.6    213.6
of which:
Jugobanka                                 21      376.1      91.0     90.8
LBL                                       13       77.8      48.6     48.6
UBB                                       28      708.7    312.0      74.2
1/   Excluding projects which total cost exceed US$25 million, and IBRD limit
reflects the maximum subloan size of US$6 million.



The Suboroiect Pioelines
Table 3: Summarv of Prp1ects Aporaised by Bank Staff (Nov. '87)
Viability            Proiect Size                Market Orientation
Foreign
Sector                                                                            Total Cost       Cost                  Conv.
Bank     _Cde        Comoanv                Main Products               ERR        FRR    (USt mil)       (USI mil)   Export    V*tL          Direct   TIDl/
UBB        113       IKL                    Auto ball bearings    >100 %2/         >100 %    3.0             2.5        90 S       90 S        90 S        a
UBB        117       Rekovac                Auto cable               >100 %2/        33 %    9.4             4.3       100 S      100 %       100 X        B
JUB        117       Naronaplast            Floppy diskettes        >100 t2'       >100 %    9.4             5.4        65 X       65 t        65 X      A/B
LBL        112       Donit Tozd            Gaskets                  >100 %2/       >100 X    8.3             3.6        31 S       31 %        31 S      A/B
LBL        117       Iskra Kibanetika    ELect. equip. meters    87 %                57 X   22.6            11.2        50 S         So        S s0 S      a
LL        113       rMP Livar             Butterfly vales             85 %          69 %    2.5             2.0        74 X       74 X        65 S        B
LBL        117       Iskra Electromotor  Elect. motors                 70 %          82 %   20.0             8.R        so X       50 S        21 S        B
LBL        125       Textilindus            Fabrics                    58 X          39 %    9.1             6.0        31 S       29 S        19 %        B
UBB        115       Autoventil             Auto, valves               49 X          46 %    9.3             5.5        99 S       99 S        99 X        8
JUB        117       Magnohrom              Bricks                     48 X          28 X   12.8             5.6        so X       50 S        50 %        A
JUB        215       Makedonka              Fabrics                    39 %          62 %    6.5             5.1        31 S       30 S        24 S        8
EL8        117       Iskra Do Ero           Elect. hand tools          35 %          23 X   11.2             5.7        50 X       50 S        25 X        B
LBL        126      1I1                     Fabrics                    34 %          30 %    6.3             4.4        51 S       51 S        51 X        a
JUB        114       Jelsingrad             Machine tools              23 %          57 %   19.3             5.0        95 S       29 S        29 X        B
UBB        115       DMB                    Auto. engine               17 %           16 %   80.2           34.5       100 $       100 x       65 %        A
JUG        130       ulpiln                 Frozen foods                7 %          18 %   14.4             3.3       100 x      100 S        38 X        a
JUB        217       Kosa                   Leather                    <0 %          <0 %    8.7             1.7        5,          s 5o x     50 X        B
JUB        113       Gosa                   Compressor reservoir    (B %             22 X    3.9             1.3        40 S       40 S        40 X        B
1/  Type A represents projects producing new products, and type B represents expansion and modernization projects.
Z/  These projects have particularly high returns because capital costs are relatively small compared to operating costs.                                    X 
0I
t4IO



- 113 -                     ANNEX 4-7
Page 1 of 3
YUGOSLAVIA
EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Technical Assistance for the Borrowing Banks
Technical assistance for each of the borrowing banks would be composed of
three categories: (i) direct assistance for project appraisal, supervision
and portfolio management, (ii) support for strengthening financial management,
and (iii) a training program Lo support the above objectives. A description
of each of these component and a table showing estimated cost are provided
below:
1. Assistance for Project Appraisal, Portfolio Management
1-1      Assistance by local experts for economic appraisals of the
sub-projects under the line of credit, and for assessment of market
prospects and technology as needed.
1-2      Assistance by foreign and local consultants in project operations
including project and enterprise analysis, project supervision and
follow-up, project/enterprise reviews and rehabilitation.
1-3      Assistance by foreign and local consultants to develop a lending
operations portfolio management and review system and a related
information system, including computerized applications for
sub-project appraisals and financial forecasting for client
enterprises, which will be integrated into the Management information
Systems.
1-4      Softwares, publications and miscellaneous
2.  Financial Management System
2-1      Assistance by foreign consultants and local programmers to develop
both computerized and non-computerized management information systems
to support decision making and to provide appropriate periodic
reports.
2-2      Assistance by foreign and local consultants to develop the internal
auditing capabilities by identifying internal audit requirements, and
by developing policies, systems and training programs.



- 114 -                     ANNEX 4-7
Page 2 of 3
2-3      Assistance by foreign and local consultants in the area of financial
operations such as foreign exchange management, etc.
2-4      Hardwares, softwares, publications, and miscellaneous.
3. Training Program
3-1      Training program for associated bark staff for project operations,
portfolio management, financial management, internal auditing and
other training requirements as identified in the process of carrying
out the activities discussed above.
3-2      Training program for member basic banks in the above areas.  Because
of the quality and the scope of the training program, both programs
will be carefully designed and led by highly experienced foreign and
local experts.
3-3      Foreign visits by senior management to selected seminars, banks, and
firms outside of Yugoslavia.
3-4      Software, publications, and miscellaneous.
Detailed technical assistance program for each bank have been agreed at
negotiations.



- 115 -                       ANNEX 4-7
Page 3 of 3
Estimated Average Cost for Each Bank
(In US$ Thousand)
Jugobanka                         LBL                           UBB
Foreign  Local    Total    Foreign  Local    Total    Foreign  Local    Total
Cost    Cost       Cost      Cost      Cost        Cost      Cost    Cost       Cost
1-1        0       60        60           0       60         60         0       60        60
1-2       30       32        62           0        0          0        40       25        65
1-3       10       30        40           0        0          0        40       25        65
1-4        5        5        10           3        2          5         3        1         4
Subt'l   45       127       162           3       62         65        83      111       194
2-1       15       40        55         80       86         166        50       70       120
2-2       30       32        62          30       32         62        40       54        94
2-3        5       10        15          20       33         53        20       41        61
2-4       40       10        50           4        2          6         4        2         6
Subt'l   90        92       182        134       153        297       114      165       279
3-1       15      140       150          30       20         50        30       20        50
3-2       50       30        80          20       30         50        20       30        50
3-3       30       20        50          20       20         40        20       20        40
3-4        5        5        10           3        1          4         3        1         4
Subt'l   95       195       290          73       71        144        73       71       144
230      414       644        210      286         496       270      347       617
Contingencies (10%)
20       41        61         20       29          49        30       33        63
Total   250       455       705         230      315        545       300      380       680



- 1 1t -*   '1
Page 1 of I
YUGOSLAVIA
EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Projected Disbursement Schedule
Year                            Sem. Annual    Cummulative        Percent
(US$ million) (US$ million)
FY89     1st Half (10-12/88)                    7.3             7.3           6.1
2nd Half                              15.1           22.4          18.7
FY90     1st Half                              16.3           38.7           32.3
2nd Half                             17.6            56.3          46.9
FY91     1st Half                              16.8           73.1          60.9
2nd Half                              13.8           86.9          72.4
FY92     1st Half                              10.8           96.7          80.6
2nd Half                              8.4           106.1          88.4
FY93     1st Half                               6.0          112.1          93.4
2nd Half                              4.0           116.1          96.8
FY94     1st Half                               3.0          119.1          99.3
2nd Half                              0.9           120.0         100.0



IBRD 20413
r-                                            --        ^                                          5. r* ..                                                        ,                          'r
A   J S T R i ;                                                                                                                                                                    A 5'2         A   . 0
H U N G A R Y
< > - g ) 4 - ' :^> 3 > '\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~R                                                                                      O M  A  N  I A J
YUGOS[AVIA
A>     -- -~~~        Railays
European Hi ghvsv
Other Cl., I High.ups
0<> 5   25   50 5    o  >a
Prov-nes                                                                                                                                                                   GR FC
- *-          International Boundaries                                                                                                  70                                                              A 2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APRIL 19J7



