rDocumen Of
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
f/    ge8 3   -- vA
Report No. 6260-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
N{INTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
April 22, 1987
Industry Department
Energy and Industry Staff
This document has a sestricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of September 1986)
Currency Unit = Indian Rupee (Rs)
$1.00 - Rs 13.0
Rs 1.00 = $0.77
FISCAL YEAR
Government, DOT and MTNL: April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DEL   -  Direct exchange (telephone) line
DOE   -  Department of Electronics
DOT   -  Department of Telecommunications
GDP   -  Gross Domestic Product
GOI   -  Government of India
HCL   -  Hindustan Cables Ltd.
RTL   -  Hindustan Teleprinters Ltd.
.1-3   -  I!zernational Competitive Bidding
ITI   -   ladian Telephone Industries, Ltd.
LIB   -  Limited International Bidding
MOC   - Ministry of Commiunications
MTNL  - Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited
(Bombay/Delhi Telephone Corporation)
OECF  -  Overseas Export Credit Fund of Japan
PABX  -  Private Automatic Branch Exchange
PCM   -  Pulse Code Modulation
PCO   -  Public Call Office
PSE   -  Public Sector Enterprise
R&D   -  Research and Development
STD   -  Subscriber Trunk Dialing
TAX   -  Trunk Automatic Exchange
VSN   -  Videsh Sanch&r Nigam (corporation
created April 1, 1986 to operate
overseas service; formerly Overseas
Communications Service)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
NINTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:  Department of Telecommunications (DOT)
Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited (MTNL).
Amount:          $345 million, equivalent
Terms:          Repayment over 20 years, including
5 years' grace, at the applicable rate of
interest.
Onlending
Terms:          From the Government of India (GOI) to DOT: Standard
GOI terms for capital-at-charge (currently 8% per
annum with no repayment of principal).
From GOI to MTNL: Commercial terms of 15 years,
including three years' grace, at not less than 13%
per annum.
GOI would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Financing
Plan:           IBRD             $ 345.0
OECF            $  60.0
UNDP            $   2.5
GOI/DOT/MTNL    $1,642.5
Total         $2,050.0
Economic Rate
of Return:      20%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 6260-IN, dated April 22, 1987.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of theit official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
INDIA
NINTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAZ AND PROJECT SUMMARY ....*.....................            iii
I.    INTRODUCTION *eeoooooooooooooe*oooeoooeoooooooo.                 1
II*   THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR .......................****0       1
urganization ......I...    .........................         1
Access to Service  I.....,............,...*........          1
Demand for Service ......                                    2
Quality of Service                  ...                      2
Technology                                                   3
Telecommunications Equipment Manufacture .............       3
Sector Constraints                                           4
Sector Objectives and Strategy ....................          6
Bank Group's Role in the Sector                              7
III* THE PROGRAM AND PROJECT                                           8
Rsults of the Sixth Plan.                                    8
The Program *OoOo*000000000000 .0000000..0.. .               8
Project Ratfonale    ...* .......... .................       9
Project Objectives .......10
Project Description          .............o, *.oee*    10
Project Cost        ......... 0*..0.*0.****..***    11
Project Financing ......013
Procurement 00..                                       ....  ......  13
Implementation                                              16
Consultancy ............................                    16
Disbursement                                                16
Performance Indicators                                      17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising
Messrs. S. Ettinger (Deputy Division Chief), G. But.tex (Sr.
Telecommunications Engineer), S. Luode (Financial Analyst), T. Nulty (Sr.
Economdst), A. Newatead (Consultant), and Ms. D. Thompson (Consultant)
which visted India in April 1985 and January/February 1986.



- ii -
Page No.
IV.   THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES .............      ...................    17
Sectoral Organization .............................,    17
Department of Telecommunications (DOT)    ..............     17
Institutional Improvements        ...........................    18
DOT's Institutional Action Plar ......    ................   19
Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limiced (MTNL)       .............   20
Staffing       .     .     o..                              21
Training .........................                          22
Accounting System and Audit *      *4........................    22
Billing and Collection ...................o. .,oooo ...    22
V.    FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS 0.................,.......    23
Financial Analysis .........0*...00..0.0*.. 0*.00.0*.*.     23
Tariffs ..................  .                               25
Telecommunications Bonds  *     ********** **............................    25
Financial Projections        ................................    26
Economic Analysis **....................................    28
Least Cost Solution *......o.oooo....................o      30
Return on Investment oo   o...................o......e...o    30
Project Risks ............. .* .0 ....0.0..0...0.00..0..    30
Environment and Health ...      ........................*...    31
VI.   RECOMMENDATIONS .. ..... .o.. ...  ... $* **0*0*e***. *0.*. . 0*    31
ANNEXES
1. Sixth Plan - Physical Achievement      .................  33
2. Telephone Lines Demand and Supply ....o.............     34
3. Performance Indicators *e****                   e***...........................    36
4. Seventh Plan Investment Program       ...................  39
5. Project Components ............ oo  .. ....oo ..  ..o    41
6. Bank-Financed Items - Ccst, Description
and Procurement ..............*.............*..    44
7. Schedule of Disbursements ........................    48
8. Implementation Schedule and PERT Chart .............     49
9. Economic Cell Studies *,*,*,*****,*****,****,***...   51
10. Organization Charts .......................      ...    53
11. Training ..,....    56
12. Auditing of Accounts                     e               57
13. Historical Financial Statements .,........*.*......      58
14. DOT/MTNL Consolidated Projections .................      61
15. Summary of Tariffs          ................... ....    67
16. Return on Investments ...........,..............,.    70
17. Selected Documents Available in Project File ....oe    73
MAP - IBRD No. 19634-India



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Despite steady expansion over the past several decades and the
assistance of eight Bank Group loans/credits, India's telecommunications
network remains inadequate. The long waiting period for a telephone
connection (averaging 5 years in the main cities), the low call completion
rates (averaging 50X on subscriber trunk dialling (STD) calls nationwide)
and the widely-reported public dissatisfaction provide clear evidence of
the problem. Under the Seventh Five Year Plan (1985-90), the Government of
India (GOI) is placing higher priority on the sector, in terms of both
investment levels and institutional and policy reforms, and has requested
Bank assistance to support these efforts. In contrast to previous
projects, which supported the overall expansion of the national network,
the proposed project would be limited primarily to the four metro cities
(Bombay, Pelhi, Madras and Calcutta), the long distance links between them
(which form the backbone of the national network), studies and training.
The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1991, and the loan
would be closed on December 31, 1992.
II* THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Organization
2.01      The Department of Telecommunications (DOT) within the Ministry of
Communications (MOC) provides public telecommunications services in India
and with neighboring countries. In an important institutional reform, DOT
was separated from the Department of Posts in January 1985. The Mahanagar
Telephone Nigam Limited (TMNL) under MOC, a public corporation established
April 1, 1986, operates the Bombay and Delhi networks (para 4.01). The
Videsh Sanchar Nigam (VSN-overseas communications service) was also
established April 1i 1986 as & public corporation under MOC to operate
telecommunications services with! the rest of the world. Telecommun.cations
equipment is manufactured locally by three public sector enterprises
(PSEs): (a) Indian Telephone Industries Ltd. (ITI) under MOC; (b) Hindustan
Teleprinters Ltd. (HTL), under MCC; and (c) Hindustan Cables Ltd. (HCL),
under the Ministry of Industry. Manufacture of all telecommunications
equipment is now open to the joint sector, and subscriber equipment and
cables to the private sector as well (para 2.10).
Access to Service
2.02      As of March 31, 1986, total installed telephone exchange capacity
was 3.7 million lines, with 3.2 million connected direct exchange lines
(DELs) and about 4.1 million telephones (Annex 1). The average density of
only 0.40 DELs (0.52 telephones) per 100 population, is among the lowest in
Asia, and well below the DEL density in Malaysia (6.3), Philippines (1.2),
Thailand (1.1), and Sri Lanka (0.7). Among the metro cities, DEL density
ranges from 2.7 in Calcutta to 5.4 in Bombay, but even the latter is far
below other large cities of the developing world. About 83% of the local



- 2 -
exchanges are automatic. Telex service, which is vital for the business
sector, reaches only 30,500 subscribers nationwide, 67% of whom are in the
four metro cities. To provide minimum telecommunications services to small
towns, DOT has installed about 25,000 long-distance public call offices
(PCOs), but about 25,000 towns with populations over 2,000 still have no
telephone service. Some 35,000 public telegraph offices provide basic
telegraph service for rural communities.
Demand for Service
2.03      As of March 31, 1986, 75% of expressed demand (working lines plus
registered applicants) for telephones was satisfied, down from 85% in
1980. The total telephone waiting list grew from 334,000 to 1,067,000, and
the average time for a subscriber on the waiting list to receive service
increased from about 2-1/2 years to 3-1/2 years, as the 7.5% p.a. network
growth failed to match the 10% p.a. demand growth over the period. These
figures understate actual demand because (a) many people are reluctant to
pay the registration fee!J with distant prospects of a connection, and (b)
no waiting lists are kept in areas without service. DOT's Economics Cell
projected expressed demand to increase by 10% p.a. to 10 million by 1995;
an estimate of total demand by then is 15 million. Over 1986-90, DELs are
expected to increase at 8.7% p.a., and the waiting list to reach
1.6 million (Annex 2).
quality of Service
2.04      Problems.  In almost all categories, the quality of service is
inadequate. Failure rates of local inter-exchange calls due to equipment
malfunction or system congestion during FY86 were: Bombay 8%, Delhi 23%,
Calcutta 43%, and Madras 24% (Annex 3); well-operated networks achieve
2-3%. Subscriber Trunk Dialing (STD) failure rates, due largely to system
congestion and poor maintenance (but including about 25%-30% of "engaged"
and "no answer" calls), were 70% in Bombay, 48% in Delhi, 92% in Calcutta,
and 45% in Madras, with an average of about 48% nationwide. This reflects
the fact that long distance telephone development has not kept pace with
that in local networks. This poor STD performance, combined with the
unreliability of the current call-metering system and its inability to
provide detailed billing (provision of automatic message accounting
equipment under the project will correct this), have resulted in about half
the subscribers requesting their access to STD service barred.
Consequently, manual trunk service is heavily congested, with long delays.
Subscriber complaints per 100 telephones per month averaged 43 in the metro
cities. Faults were cleared after an average of 8 hours in Delhi and 12.7
in Madras, which is reasonable, but 27.7 and 34 hours in Bombay and
Calcutta respectively. These longer delays partly reflect cable flooding
during the monsoon, and cable theft in Calcutta.
1/ The registration fee ranges from Rs 100-1,000 depending on exchange
size. The "Own Your Telephone" deposit scheme, requires an advance
deposit of Rs 5,000-8,000, for priority connection.



-3 -
2.05      Causes.  The poor quality of service is mainly caused by:
(a) substandard equipment from domestic manufacturers; (b) poor
maintenance; (c) lack of spare parts and tools; (d) shortage of local and
long distance facilities; and (e) ineffective traffic management. The poor
condition of the network, and DOT's inability to provide sufficient DELs,
particularly fer high traffic '7usiness subscribers, encourages repeated
unsuccessful call attempts, which worsen congestion.
2.06      Corrective Actions.  DOT is attempting to improve quality
through: (a) widespread replacement of faulty dials on ITI-manufactured
telephones; (b) special efforts to improve maintenance in older exchanges,
starting in Bombay; (c) rewiring of distribution boxes 'n the underground
network; and (d) introduction of advanced equipment (digital switching;
jelly-filled cables, etc.). These actions are beginning to be reflected in
the quality of service, particularly in fault and complaint rates
(Annex 3).
Technology
2.07      The Indian network transmission systems are analog coaxial and
micro-ave. Switching systems are Pentaconta (crossbar) and the older
Strowger (step-by-ctep) type, both electromechanical. However, consistent
with the recommendations of both the Bank and GOI's Committee on
Telecommunications (The Sarin Committee, 1981), GOI decided in the early
1980s to move directly into digital electronic switching and transmission.
DOT has adopted the E-10 series digital telephone switching system of
CIT-Alcatel of France, and the digital telex switching system of Siemens of
West Germany. The new transmission media will consist of pulse code
modulation (PCM) equipment systems on cable, optical fiber, digital coaxial
and digital microwave systems. In addition, satellite transmission,
utilizing India's domestic satellites which are primarily for television,
is the primary medium to remote areas especially in the northeast and
northwest, and a secondary medium between the metro cities. DOT is
introducing digital technology initially into the local exchanges in major
cities, the trunk automatic exchanges (TAXs) and the major long distance
transmission routes linking them; the first digital telex and telephone
exchanges were commissioned in 1986. During the Seventh Plan, DOT will
continue to install Pentaconta, Strowger and even manual exchanges, as the
gradual phasing out of manufacture of these obsolete systems will only be
completed by the end of the Eighth Plan.
Telecommunications Equipment Manufacture
2.08      In accordance with India's Industrial Policy Resolution of 1956,
ITI (which produces switching equipment, transmission equipment and
telephone instruments), HCL (which manufactures cables) and HTL (which
manufactures teleprinters) were given monopolies to produce, under
essentially cost-plus pricing, telecommunications equipment for DOT. These
PSEs have, however, been giv~-en insufficient incentives to meet quality
standards and delivery schedules, or reduce costs. ITI, in particular has
often delivered (and receired )ayment for) incomplete sets, but, being part



- 4 -
of MOC, was not penalized. Moreover, due to India's policy of
techrological self-reliance, which restricted licensing agreements.and
precluded foreign investment, the PSEs have been characterized by obsolete
products and an absence of innovation.
2.09      Factories to manufacture electronic teleprinters (by HTL) and
jelly-filled e'ables (by HCL) were financed under Telecommunications VIII,
and RCL plans to convert its remaining dry-core cable production capacity
to jelly-filled (for water impermeability). CT-Alcatel's E-1OB digital
electronic switching system is being produced by two new ITI factories,
under a transfer-of-technqlogy agreement. Through the Center for
Development of Telematics, India is trying to develop an indigenous digital
switching system. A major effort is underway to create digital
transmission manufacturing capacity (for optical fiber systems, digital
microwave and PCM equipment), mainly under transfer-of-technology
agreements between ITI (sad other PSEs) and foreign collaborators.
2.10      To promote competition and greater reliability of supply, GOI/DUT
are developing multiple domestic sources of equipment, and DOT has begun to
adjust its domestic procurement practices accordingly (para 3.11).
In a major policy shift announced in March 1984, the private sector is now
allowed to manufacture subscriber terminal equipment (such as PABXs,
telephone instruments, and teleprinters) and telecommunications cables, and
to take up to 491 equity in joint ventures with central/state governments
to manufacture switching aid transmission equipment. Licenses have been
granted to a number of such firms to produce telephone instruments and
PABXs in competition with ITI, with the firms allowed to choose from among
three foreign technologies preselected by the Department of Electronics
(DOE). Although foreign investment is not expressly forbidden in the
sector, to date only domestically-owned firms have been granted licenses.
The only production which has resulted so far from the 1984 policy is of
small-pair cables; in this case, however, the capacity limit set by GOI for
private firms appears to be below the most economic scale of production.
Private sector telephone production is expected to begin later in 1987, and
MTNL has already placed orders on a number of these new producers. Imports
are still only permitted in the absence of local production capacity.
Sector Constraints
2.11      The poor state of telecommunications in India is due primarily
to:
(a) severe underinvestment in the sector, averaging only 0.2%
of GDP over FY74-86, whereas 0.4X-0.7X is generally
needed for rapid development; this reflects the low
priority given to telecommunications in the past, and
GOI's reluctance to finance investment in the sector with
general revenue (except for foreign lending totalling
less than 10% of investment, the telecommunications
infrastructure has been financed almost entirely by
self-generated funds). The inadequate funding problem



has been exacerbated by delayed decisions on plan
allocations (which only became reasonably clear midway
through the second year of the Seventh Plan, for
example), and annual investment budgets, msking planning
very difficult for DOT. This, plus the overall shortage
of funds and often of equipment, results at times in
sub-optimal dimensioning of facilitiest, and resultant
higher long-term costs (e.g., when cable trenches have to
be reexcavated for expansion);
(b) GOI's hitherto excessively self-reliant and public-sector
oriented indastrial and technological development
policies, maokng DOT's progress largely contingent upon
that of ITI (and, to a lesser extent, HCL and HTL). DOT
has had to accept all the output of these factories, even
when it was of significantly inferior quality (as was the
case with telephone instruments, and still is with
crossbar exchanges). Furthermore, GO's reluctance to
close down factories, and hence eliminate jobs, means
that DOT will have to continue to accept obsolete
equipment, even when more modern equipment is available
domestically. Imports are not allowed to compete with
domestic production, and long delays in obtaining DOE's
import clearance have resulted when ITI or other fiims
have claimed that they could produce the requisite
equipment (regardless of cost and, to some extent,
quality), or even some components of it. The recent
liberalization of manufacture, and measures to be taken
by DOT (para 3.11), are intended to encourage domestic
competition and to address some of these issues;
(c) DOT's organizational culture, with regulations,
centralization and procedures unsuited for a high
technology sector, and poor staff motivation resulting
from low salaries, promotion by seniority, and lack of
performance incentives, which frustrate the many
competent and conscientious staff in DOT. As a
Government department, DOT is bound by GO1 salary scales
and internal procedures, and requires approval from other
agencies for major investments, operating budgets,
imports, hirings, etc. Its planning and implementation
procedures have resulted in significant lags (often eight
to ten years) from the recognition of the need for a new
exchange or transmission route, to its -commissioning.
The inadequate delegation of authority to the local level
is a major contributing factor to these delays
(para 4.07).



- 6-
Sector ObJectives and Strategy
2.12      Objectives.  In the past few years, the sector's problems and
their causes, as well as the implications for India's overall economic
development, have received considerable attention in India. Largely in
response, a series of technological, institutional and investment measures
are being undertaken or planned, to:
(a) raise public confidence, particularly in the business
community, by improving the quality of service and of
billing for those who already have telephones;
(b) slow the rate of growth of unsatisfied demand, by
accelerating network expansion; the goal of eliminating,
or even merely reducing, the waiting lists, has been
shelved due to inadequate resources (para 3.02);
(c) extend telecommunications in rural areas, to meet
economic, medical and social objectives, so that everyone
will be within 5 km of a telephone/PCO;
(d) introduce new services for business users, including
mobile radio, and data and video transmission; and
(e) raise off-budget the necessary financial resources for
(a) to (d) above, through higher profits and sale of
bonds.
2.13      Strategy   Due to its overall budgetary stringency, and concern
over how efficiently DOT/MTNL could utilize greatly expanded resources, GOI
is providing only a moderate increase for telecommunications in the Seventh
Plan. Its strategy therefore gives great weight to improving sectoral
efficiency. The main initiatives in this respect have been:
(a) liberalization of telecommunications equipment
manufacturing (para 2.10);
(b) introduction of digital and o%tical-fiber technologies,
(para 2.07);
(c) separation of telecommunications from posts, to provide a
greater focus of attention to the former's special
problems (para 4.06); and
(d) creation of MTNL (para 4.08), as a pilot for the
introduction of more commercially-oriented management
into the network.
The Bank's efforts would be geared largely to supporting and advancing
these initiatives.



- 7-
Bank Group's Role in the Sector
2.14      Past Experience.  The hank Group has made eight loans and credits
(totalling $800 million) for telecommunications since 1962. These have
provided most of the foreign exchange for India's telecommunications
development. During this period, the number of telephones installed has
increased from 373,000 in 1962 to more than 4.2 million today, the trunk
network has been expanded and modernized, and sn automatic telex network of
about 30,500 subscribers has been established. The Bank Group has also
assisted DOT in modernizing its organizational and management structure,
and in establishing an Economics Cell which has begun to analyze pricing,
demend, and investment issues in the sector (Annex 9). Bank Group support
has also been instrumental in making possible higher levels of investmant
in the sector, and in helping DOT make more efficient use of available
resources. The main implementing agency has been the Telecommunications
Branch of the Posts and Telegraph Department (now DOT); however, in the
Seventh and Eighth Projects (Loan 1592-IN and Credit 1112-IN), the Bank
also financed investment in ITI, HCL and HTL.
2.15      Project performance audits have been conducted on the first six
projects. These audits have found the projects to be generally successful
ir terms of expansion and financial performance. The Seventh and Eighth
projects, which were closed in Dece&ber 1984 and December 1985
respectively, had a largely similar impact. However, like their
predecessors, both projects were subject to lengthy procurement delays. In
addition, the serious constraints that remain in the sector (para 2.11)
demonstrate that in certain respects progress has been limited.
Furthermore, the Bank loans, which have approximated lines of credit for
telecommunications imports, gave the specific iteu.. being financed
relatively limited attention beyond the procurement stage (because of the
wide geographic distribution of the project works), and achieved only
relatively minor institutional improvements. The Bank is now giving
greater attention to these aspects, and through the proposed project is
seeking to address several of the key issues and problems, particularly
procurement procedures, domestic competition, and institutional
improvements.
2.16      The rate of disbu-rsement under Bank-firanced telecommunications
projects since FY70 has in general been slower than the India-wide average,
although there has been some recent improvement; the Eighth Project was
96% disbursed after five years, compared to an average of only 77% in the
three previous loans/credits. Disbursements have lagged behind appraisal
estimates mainly as a result of lengthy procurement approval procedures.
2.17      Present Strategy.  In light of this experience, and given
telecommunications importance in India's development strategy
(para 5.11), the Bank has modified its approach to lending to the sector to
give greater attention -.o:
(a) institutional issues (decentralization; streamlining
investment procedures; maintenance; over-staffing; staff



- 8 -
motivation; relations with subscribers; etc.), some of
which have already been addressed and others which are to
be addressed by DOT and MTNL (paras 4.07 and 4.09), with
closer Bank supervision of DOT's and MTNL's overall
performance, utilizing performance indicators
(para 3.15);
(b)  telecommunications equipment manufacturing, with respect
to which the Bank will support and monitor DOT's efforts
to increase competition in its domestic procurement, and
to subject ITI, HCL and HTL to the discipline of
commercial contracts in their non-competitive s&aes
(para 3.11);
(c)  accelerating project implementation, by requiring
advanced procurement and revised procurement procedures
to minimize delays (para 3.10); and
(d)  appraising and supervising specific investment programs,
primarily to assure a balanced program of high-priority
investments (para 3.05).
In addition, the Bank is continuing to give attention to the financial
viability of sector institutions, and their ability to contribute to their
investment programs. The need for (i) strategic planning by ITI
(especially to prepare for the phasing out of its electromechanical
switching systems), HCL and HTL, and (ii) further policy liberalization in
telecommunications manufacturing might be pursued in connection with
possible future lending operations.
III. THE PROGRAM AND PROJECT
Results of the Sixth Plan.
3.01      During the Sixth Plan (1980-85), DOT achieved only 65X of its
targets for incremental local telephone exchange capacity and DELs, and
45%-50% for long-distance facilities (Annex 1). The shortfalls were due
to: (a) overly optimistic physical targets, given the planned financial
allocation; (b) actual annual budgets in real terms somewhat below the
Sixth Plan allocation; and (c) shortage of necessary equipment, due to
production problems of the domestic manufacturers, and import clearance and
procurement delays. These shortfalls have resulted in a growing waiting
list (para 2.03) and acute shortages of long distance facilities
(para 2.04), which, in turn, have inhibited improvements in service quality
and revenues.
The Program
3.02        In preparation for the Seventh Plan (1985-90), an inter-agency
committee estimated that an investment of $11.2 billion (Rs 138 billion) in



constant 1985 prices was required to reduce waiting time for a pbone line
to within one year, and achieve satisfactory service quality. However$ in
view of overall budget constraints and other priorities, the Seventh Plan
document, in October 1985, allocated to DOT only $3.3 billion
(Rs 40.1 billion), or 29% of the estimated requirements. Recognizing this
inadequacy, the Seventh Plan document notes, however, that additional
resources could be mobilized through, for example, the sale of bonds and
increased DOT profits (from higher tariffs and efficiency). As a result,
DOT prepared its 5-year program (Annex 4) for a total investment of
$4.9 billion (Rs 60 billion), with direct and indirect foreign exchange
costs estimated at 15% and 18% of total cost respectively. The program,
which is sound (for its size) and balanced, aim to expand the network by
about 2.1 million lines capacity and 1.6 million DELs. The proposed
project (para 3.05) is based on this level. This would be the minimum
prudent level to:
(a)  fully utilize manufacturing capacity already coming on
stream;
(b)  restore to the sector the already low 3.1% share of
public sector investment it had under the Fourth and
Fifth Plans, up from 2.5% under the Sixth Plan; and
(c)  represent a significant but manageable 8.7% p.a. DEL
growth rate, which would, however, lag behind the
estimated 10% p.a. expressed demand growth (para 2.03).
The program would be financed about 50% ($2.5 billion) from DOT and MTNL
internal cash generation, 20% ($1 billion) from the sale of MTNL bonds
(HTnL's initial flotation attracted $290 million, compared to an authorized
level of $120 million; MTNL is seeking permission to borrow the entire
amount), and 15% ($0.7 billion) each from foreign and GOI loans.
Project Rationale
3.03      The Ninth Telecomrjunications Project would help implement the
sector strategy (para 2.17). Given the Bank's previous experience in the
sector (para 2.14), the proposed oroject will address the broad
institutional issues (para 4.05-1.09), including procurement policies and
procedures (paras 3.09-3.11). It would also focus mainly on a narrower
part of network expansion/modernization, namely the metropolitan networks
of Bombay, Delhi, Calcutta and Madras, and the long-distance transmission
routes between them, which are the: (a) backbone of the Indian
telecommunications system, whose effective operation is critical for the
upgrading of the entire domestic network; (b) areas into which digital and
optical fiber technologies are being initially concentrated, and which
require foreign exchange resources for the direct import of equipment not
yet produced in India; (c) sources of the network's greatest profit, thus
easing the sector's overall financial constraint in the medium and long
terml and (d) areas with some of the greatest problems and longest waiting
times for new connections. The four cities contain about 34% of the
country's DELs and generate about 47% of total revenues.



- 10 -
Project Objectives
3.04      The basic project objectives are to:
(a) help meet the demand for telecommunications services in
the four metro districts, by connecting an additional
715,000 subscribers;
(b) improve the quality of telephone service and billing in
the metro districts, through the introduction of modern
technology, network rehabilitation, and replacement of
substandard equipment;
(c) provide good quality subscriber trunk dialing (STD)
service between the metro districts, and to other major
cities;
(d) improve the efficiency and profitability of the network,
especially in areas with high traffic density;
(e) meet the training requirements in the new digital and
optical fiber technologies; and
(f) support DOT/MITNL's institutional improvement efforts.
ProJect Description.
3.05      The project comprises all the investments in the four metro
cities during the Seventh Plan, plus the new long distance links between
them, a long distance network management system, a training component and
consultancy services. The main project components are detailed in Annex 5
and are summarized below.
A.       Installation of local and long distance transmission
facilities (inclading optical fiber and digital microwave
systems), within and between the four metropolitan networks
of Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi and Madras, together with local
and long distance telephone and telex switching facilities
and associated urban cable networks, and subscriber plant
and buildings, to increase telephone exchange capacity in
the four metropolitan areas by about 1,000,000 local lines
and 50,000 trunks, and telex exchange capacity by about
14,000 local and 1,000 transit lines. Most of the
transmission equipment and some of the cables will be
imported and financed from the proposed Bank loan. With
the exception of 195,000 lines to be imported from Japan,
the switching equipment will be manufactured/assembled in
India.
B. (i) Modernization and expansion of domestic satellite earth
station networks;



- 11 -
(ii) Establishment of a packet switched data network between the
four metropolitan cities and other major cities and
industrial areas;
(iii)  Establishment of a long distance network management system,
including appropriate facilities to improve traffic flows
by locating and bypassing or eliminating bottlenecks; and
(iv)  Introduction of automatic message accounting facilities in
the four -etrapolitan networks, to permit detailed billing
of STD calls.
C.       Support, together with UNDP of a training program for
upgrading five regional telecommunications training centers
and anpower development, including 99 manmonths of ITU
experts, 125 fellowships, and training and laboratory
equipment (para 4.11).
D.       Provision of consultants' services for institutional
improvements in DOT (para 4.07) and for design of B (iii)
above.
Prolect Cost
3.06      The project would represent about 40% of the national program.
Total project cost in current prices is estimated at $2.05 billion
(Rs 26.7 billion) with direct and indirect (imported inputs for the
manufacture in India of telecommunications equipment) foreign exchange
components of $418 million (Rs 5.4 billion) and $411 million
(Rs 5.3 billion) respectively. Local cost estimates include $211 million
(Rs 2.7 billion) for customs duties (at 45%) and taxes. Project base cost
estimates reflect prices as of late 1986, and are based on experience with
contracts in India and other countries.  Total project costs are in
Table 3.1. Bank-financed items are detailed in Annex 6.



- 12 -
Table 3.1: ESTIMATED PROJECT COST
% of
Total
-r Re billion --            $ million  B- ase
Local Poreign Total   Local Foreign Total   Cost
A.  Local switching        6.61   .65    7,26    509       50     559      33
Cable networks         4.41   .91    5.32    339       70     409     24
Telex                  1.18    -      1.18     91       -      91       5
Local transmission      .86  1.04    1.90      66      80     146       9
Long distance
switching             1.29    -      1.29     99     -        99      6
Long distance
transmission          1.12   1.16   2.28      86      90     176     10
Subtotal           15.47   3.76  19.23  1,190    290   1*480       87
B. Satellite
services               .38   .30      .68     29      23      52      3
Data network            .21   .20      .41     16      15      31       2
Network mangement
system                 .07   .13      .20      5      10      15       1
Automatic message
accounting             .13   .39      .52     10      30      40      2
Subtotal             .79  1        1,81     60     78      138
C.  Training                .75   .10      .85      58      8      66       4
D.  Consultants             .01   .02      .03       1      2       2       1
TOTAL BASE COST    17.01  4.91   21.92  1,308    378   1,686    100
- _      m       -_ -_ __
Physical contingencies       .85   .25    1.10      65      19      84       5
Price contingencies         3.37   .27    3.64    259       21     280      17
TOTAL COST           21.23a/5.43   26.66  1,632a/  418   2,050    122
__ -             -      -      -        m     _
i/  Includes $411 million in indirect foreign exchange.
3.07      Price contingencies are based on estimates of local cost
increases of 6% p.a., and foreign cost increases of 3% in 1986/87, 1% in
1987/88-1989/90 and 3.5% thereafter. Physical contingencies of 5X have
been added to local and foreign costs. Since procurement is at an advanced
stage (para 3.10), price contingencies for direct foreign exchange costs
have only been calculated for compenents under Parts B, C and D, for which
tenders are still under preparation. Actual bid prices have been used
elsewhere. Price contingencies as a percentage of base costs plus physical
contingencies are 19% for local and 6% for foreign costs.



- 13 -
Project Financing
3,08      The proposed sources of project financing are shown in Table 3.2
below. Except for cables to supplement domestic production, the proposed
Bank loan would finance imported new-technology transmission systems and
training equipment not yet produced in India, and consultant services. The
Bank loan would finance 83% of the direct foreign exchange requirements of
the project, or 19% of total costs (net of taxes and duties). Switching
equipment imports will be financed by OECF ($60 million). UNDP will
finance part of the training component with a $2.5 million grant effective
November 1985. ITI is expected to secure the foreign exchange (about $190
milliov' for the imported kits for the assembly of E-1OB switching
equipme... from the French Government and commercial credits. The remaining
foreign exchange costs of the equipment ($10.5 million) and all local costs
(except consultants) will be financed by GOI/DOT/NTNL.
Table 3,2: PROJECT FINANCING
($ million)
Source                 Local       Foreign       Total
IBRD                                 345.0         345.0
OECF                      --          60.0           60.0
UJNDP                     --           2.5            2.5
GOI/DOT/MTNL            1,632         10.5        1,642.5
TOTAL   1,632        418.0        2,050.0
a/ Includes $411 million indirect foreign exchange which GOI expects tO-
finance from the French Government and from other bilateral and
commercial sources.
Procurement
3,09     Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.3 below.
Procurement of all Bank financed items (except training equipment) would be
by international competitive bidding (ICB), in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Eighteen bidding packages estimated to cost $1.0 million or
more each and totalling $337.3 million including contingencies, would be
subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation. The
training equipment, estimated at $5.5 million, including contingencies,
will be procured by DOT, by limited international bidding (LIB) on the
basis of evaluations and comparisons of bids invited from a list of at
least three qualified suppliers eligible under the guidelines. LIB is
justified as these are relatively small contracts and there are a limited
number of suppliers of such equipment. Three contracts for consultant
services, estimated to cost $2.2 million, including contingencies, will be
awarded after selection in accordance with the Bank guidelines. The
Imported switching equipment ($60 million) to be financed by OECF will be
procured in accordance with their guidelines. Other goods and equipment



- 14 -
not financed under the Bank loan will be procured according to local
competitive bidding or following direct negotiation with major suppliers,
in accordance with GOI procedures. The award of related civil works
contracts and equipment installation by DOT will also follow the standard
GOI procedures.
Table 303: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
($ millions)!J
Item                 ICB             LIB      LCB    Negot. b/ Other           Total
Local switching    --              --          68.0c/  551.2   60.0 d/         679.2
Cable networks      73.4  (73.4)               85.0    338.6    -              497.0 (73.4)
Telex                                                   110.6    --            110.6
Local
transmission      83.3  (83.3)                 --       --      --            83.3 (83.3)
Long distance
switching                                              120.3    --            120.3
Long distance
transmission      94.4  (94.4)   --            --       -                     94.4 (94.4)
Satellite
services          25.4  (25.4)   -                                            25.4 (25.4)
Data network       16.6  (16.6)  --             --       -       --             16.6 (16.6)
Network manage-
ment system        11.1  (11.1)   --           --       -       --             11.1 (11.1)
Automatic message
accounting
system            33.1  (33.1)   -                                            33.1 (33.1)
Training           --             8.0  (5.5)                                     8. -  --  8.0  (5.5)
Consultants        --                         --                 2.2 (2.2) !/   2.2  (2.2)
Installation and
civil works                       --_          -        -     368.8 fQ       368.8
Subtotal        337.3 (337.3) 8.0  (5.5)  153.0  1,120.7  431.0 (2.2)  2,050.0(345.0)
Percent             16.5          0.4           7.5      54.6   21.0           100
Percentage of
Bank loan                (97.8)       (1.6)                         (0.6)          (100)
Note: Figures in parentheses represent the amounts financed by the proposed Bank loan,,
a/  Including contingencies.
b/  Contracts with public sector enterprises (ITI, HCL and MTL).
c/  Chiefly for subscriber equipment.
d/ Financed by OECF and procured according to their guidelines.
e/  Bank Guidelines for selection of consultants.
g Force account or private contractors following LCB or direct negotiation.



- 15 -
3.10      To avoid the delays experienced under previous projects, bids for
10 packages totalling about 73% of the Bank financed items were opened in
July-August 1986, and cost estimates have been based on these figures.
This is a major improvement in procurement performance. DOE import
clearances have also been obtained for all of these items, thus resolving a
major procurement problem in some previous projects. To further reduce the
risk of procurement delays, for about 40% by value of the Bank-financed
items DOT has already evaluated the bids and obtained Bank clearance of the
award. Non-Bank-financed equipment for the project is expected to be
available on a schedule compatible with that of the imported equipment.
3.11      DOT has begun a systematic effort to increase competition in
domestic procurement by encouraging private- and joint-sector suppliers and
thereby reducing dependence on the PSEs. DOT's basic approach is to first
place development orders with all new domestic suppliers who can meet DOT's
technical specifications, with prices based on fixed mark-ups over
reference international prices. As a next step, these firms are invited to
participate in local competitive bidding (LCB), for relatively small lots
to supplement the purchases of ITI's or HCL's output. Finally, once
sufficient domestic capacity for the specific product is available from
several suppliers, all procurement would be carried out under LCB (with
public sector firms receiving the 10% price preference mandated for all
sectors by Government).Q/ Progress and problems on these matters would be
discussed periodically with the Bank. This approach is contained in an
action plan agreed at negotiations [para 6.02(a)]. Implementation of the
above measures would increase the share of DOT/MTNL domestic procurement by
competition from a present level of about 15% to some 30%-40% over the
period of the project, depending upon how rapidly the new producers
develop. (Investments to produce jelly-filled cables, telephone
instruments and PABXs are now being made by a number of private and joint
sector firms, and transfer-of-technology agreements for several public
sector firms are being negotiated for digital transmission equipment.) In
the longer term, we would expect the share to increase to about 60% (the
main exception would be switching equipment). Such increase in competition
is likely to have a significant effect on the prices paid by DOT: bid
prices recently received by DOT and MTNL from joint and private suppliers
for cables and telephone instruments have been 10%-15% below the prices
established for procurement of these items from HCL and ITI. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that DOT and MTNL will (a) continue
to take all action necessary to expand competition in domestic procurement,
in accordance with the agreed action plan; and (b) introduce commercial
contracts for single source purchases from PSEs effective by April 1, 1987
tpara 6.01 (a)]. To provide adequate incentives, such contracts will not
>/ This preference is likely to be of minimal significance for the
project, as public/private competition is expected only for cables and
subscriber equipment and to date the private sector has won, despite
the preference, in the few cases which have occurred; its broader
implications will be pursued in the overall Bank-GOI industrial policy
dialogue.



- 16 -
be cost-plus as in the past, but instead will have prices based on
independently-estimated reasonable costs, and will include penalties for
late and/or non-sequentia' delivery or substandard quality.
Implementation
3.12      DOT and MTNL will implement the project, which is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1991. Annex 8 presents the agreed implementation
schedule for the Bank-financed components. DOT has prepared engineering
designs for the main transmission routes under the project. Detailed
designs of the metropolitan networks are being made by MTNL and DOT. The
lengthy internal and interagency procurement clearance procedures, which
caused undue delays in the past, have been reviewed, and a revised general
PERT chart for procurement activities agreed upon, which has so far cut the
average bid evaluation and award time by about 40%, to about 6-8 months
(Annex 8).  Although MTNL is entitled to procure its own equipment, DOT is
is procuring on its behalf under this project.  DOT and  TMNL would install
and carry out acceptance tests on all equipment, lay and commission all
cables, and supervise the construction of cable ducts by local
contractors. For new-technology equipment, DOT and MTNL staff would be
assisted by contractors' engineers. The first 150 km of optical fiber
cable would be laid by the contractor, who would provide training and
supervise further installation. ITU/UNDP will supply training experts for
the upgrading of regional training centers (para 4.06) utilizing
Bank-financed training equipment.
Consultancy
3.13        To design the network management system, DOT will employ a firr,
of international consultants; to advise on delegation of authority to field
units and on the investment planning and budgeting process (para 4.07),
DOT will use mainly domestic consultants. During negotiations, an
assurance was obtained that DOT will appoint consultants for all three
studies by September 30, 1987, exchange views with the Bank on the
consultants' findings, and take appropriate actions in accordance with a
timetable to be agreed with the Bank (para 6.01(b)]. DOT plans to issue
the tenders in March 1987, complete bid evaluation by June 30, and send
award recommendations to the Bank by July 31. Terms of reference, and
short lists of bidders, are now being prepared.
Disbursement
3.14      The proposed Bank loan of $345 million would be distbursed against
full standard documentation for 100% of foreign expenditures for equipment,
100% of ex-factory prices of locally-manufactured equipment (should local
suppliers win any of the contracts) and 100% of consultancy contracts. The
estimated schedule of loan disbursements (Annex 7) is based on Bank
disbursement experience for industrial and telecommunications projects in
India. It should be easily achieved because bids for over 73% by value of
Bank-financed items were opened by August 1986. The loan closing date is
December 31, 1992.



- 17 -
Performance Indicators
3.15      The list of project implementation, service quality, productivity
and financial performance Indicators (Annex 3) was agreed upon during
appraisal. During negotiations, an understanding was reached and recorded
in the agreed minutes on DOT/MTNL's performance indicator targets for
1987/88 and 1988/89 [para 6.02(b)J. An assurance was also obtained that
DOT and MTNL would review periodically with the Bank their respective
performance in these areas, their future targets and proposals to achieve
them, and then take all measures necessary to meet these targets
(para 6.Ol(c)I. DOT and MTNL will report progress against the physical and
implementation indicators in quarterly project reports and against the
financial indicators in annual financial statements. Levels of DOT's and
MTNL's internal cash generation will also be reviewed annually.
IV. THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
Sectoral Organization
4.01      The efficient provision of telecommunications services requires
flexible, innovative and commercially-oriented entities, able to
accommodate rapid technological change and meet the public demand for
satisfactory service. Aware of this, GOI established the Mahanagar
Telephone Nigam Limited (MTNL) effective April 1, 1986. This public sector
corporation, which will operate and develop the two largest networks in
India, Bombay and Delhi (currently 411,000 and 273,000 DELs, respectively),
Is also able to raise funds through the flotation of bonds (para 5.08). If
the new corporation becomes efficient and fl^xible, it is expected to be a
model for future changes in sectoral organization (paras 4.08-4.09).  DOT
continues to operate the network in the rest of India. At present the two
entities are separate mainly in name. DOT often procures on behalf of
MTNL, and the latter is still using DOT's standard operating procedures,
remuneration and staffing guidelines etc. The long and difficult task of
separating the assets and liabilities has begun. The development of real
autonomy for MTNL will be an evolutionary process, particularly given the
difficult staffing issues (para 4.10).
Department of Telecommunications (DOT)
4.02      DOT Board.  The six-member DOT Board is chaired by the Secretary
of the Ministry of Communications, and has Members for Development,
Operations, Finance, Personnel and Administration, and Technology. The DOT
Board establishes policies, but also exercises management functions, and
due to limited delegation, even deals with relatively minor operational
matters. The Member for Finance reports directly to both MOC and the
Ministry of Finance. The sei.Aration of Telecommunications from Posts (on
January 1, 1985) has enabled the DOT Board to focus more on the unique
issues of telecommunications. The present Board members have all been
promoted from within DOT, which guarantees a sound base of sector knowledge



- 18 -
and experience. The resulting continuity may help offset the impact of the
short average tenure of Board membership (about 2 years), but tends to
limit the infusion of new ideas. Although the Board has considerable
power, it remains subject to the normal controls exercised over GOI
departments, and 001 approval is required for annual budgets, salary
scales, tariff increases and major investment projects.
4.03      DOT Directorate.  A headquarters staff of some 2,100 comprises
the DOT Directorate, which assists the Board. Just below the Board members
are 29 Deputy Directors General. Directors, at the next level, each head a
cell. The Directorate prepares DOT's development plans, within the
framework approved by the Planning Commission.
4.04      DOT Regional Structntre.  The regional level comprises 2
metropolitan districts (Calcutta and Madras), 5 major districts (Ahmedabad,
Bangalore, Hyderabad, Kanpur and Pune), 22 minor districts, aiiin 15 circles
each covering one state (except in the northeast and northwest where each
covers several states). The districts and circles, in turn, are divided
into some 250 secondary switching areas. MTNL (para 4.01) is responsible
for the Bombay and Delhi networks., The districts and circles manage
telecommunications within their geographic areas. Four construction groups
for major works and four maintenance groups for long-distance service are
centered at Delhi, Bombay, Madras and Calcutta to cover the north, west,
south and east of the country, respectively. Other separate units are
responsible for tvaining, research, material design and testing, workshops
and stores. The General Managers from the districts, circles and other
units report directly to the Board and have limited delegated authority.
Organization charts are presented in Annex 10.
Institutional Improvements
4.05      DOT has overseen the steady expansion and modernization of
India's telecommunications network, has many excellent staff and has
undertaken a aumber of specific measures to improve performance (e.g.,
establishment of the Economics Cell, the materials management group and a
management information system). However, more fundamental changes are
required to improve institutional efficiency and effectiveness. In
particular, DOT has had problems with staff motivation and productivity,
slow procedures (e.g., for procurement and investment sanctioning),
inadequate delegation at all levels and, in general, a mode of operation
geared more to maintaining the existing system than to rapid and efficient
telecommunications development.
4.06      Various recommendations have been made for improving DOT, most
notably and comprehensively by GOI's Committee on Telecommunications (Sarin
Committee) in 1981. However, the reform process is complicated, given
DOT's size, its multiple objectives (profitability, meeting demand, rural
coverage, employment, national security), and divergent views and interests
within GOI/DOT on the best solution. Nevertheless, and while substantial
problems remain, major progress has been made in the past two years.
Firstly, the separation from Posts in January 1985 expanded the number of



- 19 -
Board members concerned exclusively with telecommunications from two to
six. This has increased the high level focus on telecommunications issues
and decreased the individual Board members' "span of control" to manageable
levels.  Secondly, ITIL is to serve as a pilot for testing organizational
and procedural changes which might subsequently be applied to the rest of
the network. Thirdly, DOT has launched measures to improve its own
performance (para 4.07). The priority is now to ensure that these GOI/DOT
initiatives are given the best chance to achieve their objectives.
DOT's Institutional Action Plan
4.07      To improve performance in several key areas, as central elements
in its institutional action plan, DOT has initiated actions to:
(a) upgrade maintenance at old exchanges, provide tools and
spare parts, and ensure that managerial responsibility
for the improvements is clearly identified;
(b) reduce the staffing ratio from 100/1,000 DELs to about
75/1,000 DELs by 1990 (pare 4.10), by efficiency
improvements, manpower planning and training;
(c) streamline its project sanctioning procedures (e.g.,
additional posts required can now be sanctioned together
with projects); and
(d) retrain staff displaced by new technology; during 1986-90
the training emphasis will shift from induction courses
to on-the-job refresher and upgrading courses
(para 4.11).
Bank supervision missions will monitor the progress in implementing the
above measures. In addition, consultants to be financed under the project
will recommend specific measures to deal with two complex and interrelated
issues:
(a) delegation of authority to the field units in planning,
resource allocation, purchasing, project sanctioning, and
opening/closing of installations, including (i) the
organizational structure of the circles/districts and of
the headquarters directorate, (ii) degree of delegation;
and (iii) performance monitoring of the field unit
managers; and
(b)  DOT's investment planning and budgeting process, to seek
ways to accelerate the cumbersome process, reduce the
wasted effort involved in repeated revisions of
investment plans, and ensure that financial and economic
considerations are taken adequately into account at the
project design stage.



- 20 -
Wahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited (NTL
4.08      While MTNL is at an early stage, and is still, lu effect, largely
an integral part of DOT, its broad structure is already clear. The Board
of MTNL currently has eight members, including four from DOT and one each
from the Ministry of Finance, the Planning Commission, the Ministry of
Administrative Reform, and DOE. The Managing Director is assisted by
General Managers for Delhi, Bombay, Personnel, Management Services, and
Planning and Projects. The Bank strongly supported the creation of a
telecomuunications corporation. Prior to negotiations MTNL presented to
the Bank a statement of its overall policies and plans for its own
institutional development. More attention is being paid to the
introduction of new services, especially for business customers.
Potential outside Board members from both the public and private sectors,
are being sought. A serious effort is starting to change the
organizational "culture"; even without formal procedural changes, many
processes are reportedly already faster at M NL than at DOT.
4.09        MTNL has hired local consultants to advise it on (a)
organizational structure; (b) subscriber grievances; (c) exchange staff
productivity; (d) staff motivation; and (e) materials management and
inventory control. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that MTNL
will review with the Bank the findings and recommendations of these
institutional consultants promptly upon completion, and take actions on the
recommendations in accordance with an appropriate timetable
[para 6.01(d)]. The consultancies were initiated during October
1986-January 1987, and their reports are due April-July 1987.
Staffing
4.10      As of March 31, 1986 (before MTNL was created), DOT's total staff
was 345,400, with operational staff (which excludes project, installation,
telegraph traffic and civil engineering (administrative) staff) of 289,300,
equivalent to about 100 staff per 1,000 DELs. Although it has fallen from
114 in 1980/81, this ratio is still high. (For advanced countries, it is
generally 7-12, for middle income countries 20-40, and poor countries
similar to India 60-90.) These high staff numbers reflect the continued
use of manual telephone exchanges, the failure to promote STD (para 2.04),
and the past GOI employment policy of hiring excess unskilled and
semi-skilled staff, resulting in 1lw work motivation and high absenteeism.
Over FY80-84, total staff increase4 by 6% p.a., but in PY85 and PY86 staff
growth was virtually halted by a Government hiring ban. DOT has initiated
a policy to restrict future staff sanctions to about 25/1,000 DELs of new
equipment installed, and thereby to lower its overall operational staff
ratio to 75/1,000 DELs by end 1990. To achieve this, DOT is initiating
"cadre restructuring" to retrain and/or replace lower-grade staff with a
smaller number of higher-level staff to meet the requirements of a digital
system. Staffing standards for some categories were revised during
1984-86, and DOT expects to continue this revision, resulting in a 10%-15X
cut in staff requirements. The main constraints in lowering the staff
ratio are that: (a) not all staff can be retrained to operate and maintain



- 21 -
the new technology equipment, and highly trained staff may have to be hired
to fill this gap, while redundant staff cannot be eliminated; and (b) the
number of DELs will only be expanded moderately rapidly. However, the
target of 75 staff/1,000 DELs should be achievable, as considerable slack
exists in certain categories such as linemen or technicians and the new
technology equipment requires fewer operative and maintenance s'aff. The
staff ratio is one of the performance indicators to be mon.toreu
(para 3.15).
Training
4.11      DOT's technical training program is extensive and comprehensive,
and is reflected in the generally high professional level of the
engineering staff. There are 26 circ.le and district training centers for
operative categories (e.g., linemen, wiremen, operators, phone inspectors,
etc.) and 13 regional training centers for junior supervisory staff. The
Advanced Level Telecommunications Training Center at Ghaziabad provides
courses for middle- and top-level engineers from India and neighbkring
countries. Senior management training is given at the Telecommunications
Training Center at Jabalpur. During 1980-85, those receiving training grew
at 5.5% p.a., roughly equal to the growth in staff (Annex 11). About 12%
of those eligible for training receive it in any given year. During
1986-90, the emphasis will shift from induction courses (to drop from
almost 80% of training now to 10% by 1990) to on-the-job refresher and
upgrading courses, in accordaace with DOT's objective to retrain staff
displaced by new technology. However, the training centers are currently
ill-equipped to do this. An upgrading pr3grem for five regional training
centers, initiated with ITI/UNDP support,j would be supported under the
proposed project with imported equipment for training in digital
techniques, optical fiber systems, computer aided maintenance, and
management. DOT's Course Development Cell is developing suitable
job-oriented modular courses to upgrade staff at all levels.
Accounting System and Audit
4.12      Financial reporting within DOT has been on a commercial basis
since 1972, but Parliamentary control remains on a cash basis. Both
accounts are audited by the Controller and Auditor General, who audits all
Government accounts. DOT's provisional financial accounts have normally
been submitted to the Bank Group within four months after the close of the
fiscal year, as covenanted by previous loan/credit agreements (but were
four months late for FY86). However significant delays have occurred in
#/ UNDP ProJect IND/85/032/A/01/20 approved November 26, 1985 for $2.5
million for upgrading of Telecommunications Training Center and
Manpower Development. Project document available in project file.



- 22 -
finalizing the accounts and the subsequent audit.4/ The FY83, FY84 and
FY85 audited accounts were received almost two years after the end of the
fiscal year. Poor auditing of the public secto:.s is a countrywide problem,
which is being addressed by the Bank and GOI. DOT has improved data
collection procedures and accounting staff training, and now hopes to
finalize its accounts somewhat faster.
4.13      At negotiations, an understanding was reached that:  (i) DOT and
MTNL would submit to the Bank their provisional financial statements within
six months of the close of the fiscal year, and finalized financial
statements when they are submitted for audit, and (ii) these financial
statements will include an aging analysis of accounts receivable
[para 6.02(c)]. In addition, an assurance was obtained that the audit
reports thereon, by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, will be
provided to the Bank no later than nine months after the close of each
fiscal year [para 6.01(e)|. The Controller and Auditor General is expected
to continue to audit DOT, and a commercial firm of chartered accountants
will audit MTNL.
BillinE and Collection
4.14      DOT and MTNL monitor the billing and collection performance in
all districts and circles effectively. Billing is bimonthly. Billing in
the four metro cities is computerized. DOT has been following a strict
disconnection policy for nonpaym6nt of bills after 25 days, and is also
authorized to disconnect Government services for nonpayment. During
FY80-85 accounts receivable averaged about two months of total billing,
which is satisfactory. However the trend is worsening. Targets for
collection performance are included in the performance indicators
(Annex 3). Although recorded excessive metering complaints are not
particularly high (O.6%-1.0% of bills issued), customer dissatisfaction
with the billing system is considerable, especially regarding the STD
service, which is charged together with the local calls. The automatic
message accounting facilities to be installed in all telephone exchanges
within the four metropolitan areas under the project (para 3.05), will
provide reliable, accurate and detailed billing data for STD service. This
billing data will be automatically transferred to and processed by the
in-house main frame computer (financed under the Eighth Project). The new
billing process will provide automatically itemized STD billing and is
expected to restore customers' confidence, increase use of iT1 service and
also improve management control over billing and collection.
4/ The covenant under the ongoing Eighth Project (Credit 1112-IN) requires
DOT to submit the audited accounts "within a reasonable time after
submitting the provisional accounts."



- 23 -
V. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Financial Analysis
5.01      Background.  As a GOI Department, DOT's finan(;es form part of the
national budget; DOT earnings are remitted to the Government's consolidated
fund, and expenditure is funded through parlirmentary appropriation. DOT
pays interest, currently at 8% p.a., on funds provided by GOI (foreign
loans and Government "capital-at-charge"l contributions) in excess of DOT's
internal gqneration. DOT receives the same interest rate on funds
transferred to the Government (in the past, this included transfers to
cover postal losses).
5.02      Financial Performance.  DOT's financial performance deteriorated
over the Sixth Plan period. The rate of return on net fixed assets in
operation declined from 22% p.a. in FY81 to 17% p.a. in FY85 on an
historical cost basis, and from 15% p.a. to 12% p.a. on a revalued basis,
and the operating ratio (of operating expenses to operating revenues)
increased from 63% to 66%. Furthermore, DOT's net internal cash
generation, which during the Fifth Plan exceeded 100% of capital
expenditure, declined to about 70% during the Sixth Plan. This
deterioration accelerated in FY86, with the rates of return on historical
and revalued cost bases dropping to 13% and 8% respectively (the latter
below the 11% covenanted under the Sixth Project, and the operating ratio
reaching 72%). The past financial performance is given in Annex 13, and
summarized in Table 5.1 below:
Table 5.1: DOTa/ FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
(Rs billion, current terms)
Year Ending March 31           1981    1982    1983    1984    1985  1986  /
Operating Revenues              6.6     7.7      9.4    10.9    12.4  13.1
Operating Expenditure           4.1     4.8      6.0     6.9     8.2   9.5
Operating Income                2.4     2.9      3.4     4.0      4.2   3.6
Operating Ratio (%)C/            63       63      64      63       66    72
Return on Assets (X)
- Book Value                   22      21       19      19       17    13
- Revalued                     15      15       13      13      12      8
Net Internal Cash as %
of Capital Expenditure         96      71       72      68      60    52
a/  Based on DOT commercial accounts; pre-1985 for Telecommunications
Branch of P&T.
b/ Provisional estimates.
c/ Ratio of Operating Expenditures to Operating Revenues.



- 24 -
5.03      The deterioration in financial performance has been due primarily
to the 19% p.a. increase in staff expenses (67% of operating expenditures),
reflecting cost-of-living allowances averaging 10% p.as., a 5% p.s. increase
in staff numbers, and a 3% p.a. increase in base salaries. Telephone
revenues (84% of total revenues) rose over the period at only 15% p.a. as
revenue per DEL declined by 3% p.a. in "real" terms, due to falling "real"
tariffs (para 5.07) and insufficient improvements in service quality.
5.04      Financial Position.  Despite slowly deteriorating operating
performance, DOT's financial position has remained strong, with a high
level of liquidity and creditworthiness, because DOT has been able to
finance from net income a large majority of its Sixth Plan investment,
which itself was relatively modest [para 2.11(a)]. "Equity" (internal
resources) increased, long term debt rose only marginally, and accounts
receivable remained satisfactory (para 4.14). For example, as of end FY85,
the current ratio was a healthy 4.9 and the long-term debt to equity ratio
only 18/82. The financial position is given in Annex 13 and summarized in
Table 5.2 below:
Table 5.2: FINANCIAL POSITION
(Rs billion, current terms)
Fiscal Year                                  1981                  1985
Ending March 31:
Assets
Net plant in operation!/                        11.1                  26.5
Plant under construction                         6.7                  10.8
urrent Assets                                   2.7                   5.7
Other Assets                                     5.1                  10.8
Total Assets                                  25.6                  53.8
Liabilities
"Equity"                                        21.3                  43.1
Long-term Debt                                   3.4                   9.4
Current Liabilities                              0.5                   1.2
Other Liabilities                                0,4                   0.1
Total Liabilities                             25.6                  53.8
Ratios
Current Ratio                                  4.9                   4.9
Debt/Equity Ratio                            15/85                  18/82
a/ Historical cost basis.
5.05      Revaluation of Assets.  In compliance with a Seventh Project
covenant, DOT completed, in March 1980, a revaluation study on the life and
current value of its fixed assets. Consequently, net fixed assets in
operation as of March 31, 1980, were revalued by about 25%, and has an
index of 6% p.a. been applied subsequently. In light of reduced world
inflation and falling (somewhat below the general inflation rate) falling



- 25 -
"real" prices for telecommunications equipment, an understanding has now
been reached that DOT and TMNL will review jointly with the Bank, the
annual' adjustment index by March 31, 1988 [para 6.02(d)]. DOT's and MTNL's
telecommunications assets will continue to be revalued, on a memorandum
basis, in accordance with the present and, later, revised index, for use in
determining their rate-of-return performance. However, in accordance with
GOI rules, the revaluation is not used for other internal purposes.
Tariffs
5.06      Polic  and Structure.  The main objectives of telecommunications
tariff policy in India have been to:
(a) earn a reasonable return on investment;
(b) constrain demand for new connections, in light of the
supply shortage;
(c) keep rates low in the rural and backward regions, for
social purposes; and
(d) encourage efficient utilization of capacity.
The resulting tariff structure (Annex 15), which is generally
satisfactory, differentiates between: (i) calling levels (with higher
rates on calls above a certain bimonthly limit); (ii) benefit to the user
(based on the size of exchange area); and (iii) time of day in long
distance service. An understanding was reached during negotiations that
the Bank and DOT would jointly identify any problem areas of the tariff
structure for further study by DOT or consultants [para 6.02(e)].
5.07      Level.  DOT's telephone tariffs declined by about 30% in real
terms during the 19709, but remained constant from 1979 to 1983 through
annual increases (substantial in July 1981 and March 1982, and slight in
March 1983). After that, due largely to complaints about poor telephone
service, nominal levels were not increased for over 2 1/2 years, resulting
in a further 25% decline in real tariffs. To correct for this, to meet the
11% p.a. rate of return covenanted under the Eighth Project, to provide the
necessary additional finance for DOTJMTNL's investment program (para 3.02),
and in view of GOI's tight budgetary position, tariffs were increased an
average of 25% in December 1986, which should be sufficient to meet the 11%
rate of return at least through FY88. In view of the excess demand
relative to supply, a much larger tariff increase would probably be
justified economically, but could create problems with the subscribers
because of the poor quality of service.
Telecommunication Bonds
5.08      In early 1986, GOI introduced a new financial instrument, power
and telecommunications bonds, to be sold by public corporatio-is to
supplement the Seventh Plan resources. This is the first time that public



- 26 -
non-financial entities have been permitted to issue their own bonds. The
objective is to take advantage of the (a) buoyant capital markets, and
(b) large amount of "black money" in the economy. MTNL's initial issue, in
November 1986, for Rs 1.5 billion was oversubscribed and about
Rs 3.8 billion ($290 million) was raised. Future issues would be
determined annually, based on the need for and expected availability of
funds; a total of about Rs 12.0 billion ($925 million) over the Seventh
Plan period is anticipated (para 3.02). The oonds have 7 years maturity
and .14% p.a. interest; this is slightly below market rates, but they are
exempt from the wealth tax, to encourage wealthy individuals to invest in
them rather than in unrecorded assets.
Financial Projections
5.09      Annex 14 summarized in Table 5.3 below, shows the projected
consolidated financial statements, with supporting assumptions, of DOT/M L
for the Seventh Plan period. As the assets and liabilities of MTNL and DOT
have yet to be separated, the financial structure of MTNL to be defined and
the rules for sharing revenues and common costs between DOT and MTNL to be
finalized, no separation of accounts has been attempted. Consequently the
projections and financial targets have been determined before any income
tax liability of NTNL. The projected financial performance appears
satisfactory over the period mainly due to expected improvements in the
quality of service; if these do not occur, further tariff increases would
be required. The rate of return on revalued net fixed assets is expected
to average 12% p.a. during the period. During negotiations, an assurance
was given that the rate of return on the revalued assets of DOT and MTNL
(consolidated) would not fall below 11% p.a. [para 6.01(f)]. An
understanding was reached and recorded in the minutes of negotiation that
once the long-term formula for division of revenue between DOT and MTNL has
been adopted, and MTNL's financial statements for its first two years (FY87
and FY88) are available, separate rate of return targets would be adopted,
consistent with the 11% consolidated rate of return covenant
[para 6.02(f)].  This approach would av,d delaying the project while the
financial relationships between DOT and MINL are being finalized.



- 27 -
Table 5.3: DOT/TMNL PROJECTED FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE a/
(Rs billion, current terms)
Year Ending March 31            1987       1988     1989      1990
Operating Revenues              15.3       19.0     22.3     26.5
Operating Expenditure           10.8       12.4     14.4      17.1
Net Income                       3.3        4.8      5.4       6.3
Operating Ratio (%)b/             70         65       65        64
Return on Assets (%)
(revalued)                       9        11        12       13
Net Internal Cash as %
of Investment Program           52        49        59       68
a/ Excludes corporate income tax liability of MTNL.
b/ Ratio of Operating Expenditures to Operating Revenues.
5.10      Table 5.4 below summarizes DOT/MTNL's projected flow of funds
(consolidated) for the Seventh Plan period. GOI provides funds to public
corporations on commercial terms (currently 15 years including a 3-year
grace period and not less than 14% p.a. interest with a 1/4% p.a. prompt
payment discount). During negotiations, an assurance was obtained that GOI
will onlend loan proceeds to MTNL (currently estimated at $98 million)
under a subsidiary loan agreement in line with GOI's standard practice for
public corporations, but at not less than 13% p.a. [para 6.01(g)].
Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement would be a condition of loan
effectiveness. GOI would also make Bank funds available to DOT (currently
estimated at $247 million) on standard GOI terms for capital-at-charge with
Government departments (currently at 8% p.a. with no repayment of
principal). DOT/MTNL's net internal cash generation would finance
approximately 55% of the total requirements; this would be monitored as a
performance indicator (para 3.15). This is lower than the Sixth Plan
average of 70% (para 5.02) because of the larger Seventh Plan investments,
and lower projected average rate of return. The debt service coverage is
expected to remain at about 4 times, which is good.



- 28 -
Table 5.4: DOT/MT1L CONSOLIDATED FUNDS FLOW (FY86-90)
(Current Terms)
Rs billion           X
APPLICATIONS
Capital constructiona/               57.8              94
Increase in working capital           3.8              6
Total Applications                   61.6             100
SOURCES
Internal Cash from Operations        48.7             78
Less Debt Service                    13.9             (22)
Net Internal Cash                    34.8              56
OYT and Other Deposits                3.0               5
Telecom Bonds                        12.0              19
Government b/                        11.8              19
Total Sources                        61.6             100
_/ Investment program less petty works and grant in aid.
b,/ Includes foreign borrowing and local funds.
Economic Analysis
5.11      Telecommunications and Indian Development.  The importance of
telecommunications as a basic infrastructure for economic development is
becoming increasingly documented and appreciated worldwide. For India in
particular, improved telecommunications are vital to support its new
market-oriented policies, as the efficient functioning of markets depends
primarily on information flow. In this condection, telecommunications are
particularly essential for (a) export deselopment, which requires not only
reliable international telephone and telex, but also good connections to
domestic suppliers, and (b) attracting foreign investment, as reliable
telecommunications are a main determinant of where international firms
invest. Improved telecommnications is equally critical for India's basic
emphasis on rural development, especially for providing essential support
services, marketing local produce, and substituting for expensive
transportation. It is also key to the effort to decentralize industry, as
the absence of even basic telephone service makes it difficult to attract
entrepreneurs and technical staff to the rural areas and imposes heavy
costs (e.g., delays in obtaining inputs, spare parts and repairs).
5.12      Project Benefits.  The project, by focussing on the main cities
and long-distance network would:
(a) relieve bottlenecks which affect almost the entire long
distance network, and improve the efficiency of use of
the long distance facilities;



- 29 -
(b) alleviate communications constraints in the major
industrial, commercial and administrative centers which
are critical to all aspects of development; and
(c) generate high profits, which will help to reduce the
budgetary demands on GOI, and permit cross-subsidization
of less profitable (but also economically and socially
important) parts of the network.
The institutional strengthening aspects of the project (paras 4.07-4.09)
would help ensure that the potential benefits from the recent separation of
Posts from Telecommunications and establishment of MTNL are realized.
5.13      Resource Mobilization.  During the Sixth Plan, DOT had a small
net resource transfer to GOI (Table 5.5). During the Seventh Plan, with
its somewhat higher growth rate of investment, this transfer is expected to
increase reflecting the impact of telecommunications bond revenue and
self-generated cash. The resultant network growth and service quality
improvement would also lay the foundation and public acceptance for higher
resource mobilization thereafter.
Table 5.5: RESOURCE TRANSFER a/
(Rs billion, current terms)
Actual            Projected
Fiscal Years                              1981-85              1986-90
Transfers to GOI
- Customs duties and taxes                 2.5                  6,4
- Interest on GOI equity                   1.8                  5.2
- Other (transfers to cover
postal losses)                          6.7
Total                            11.0                 11.6
Transfers to DOT
- Local fund contribution to
capital construction                    6.2                  1.6
- Interest on funds with GOI               2.3                  4.3
Total                             8.5                  5.9
Net Funds to DOT                              2.5                  5.7
a/ Excludes foreign borrowing, debt service on foreign debt, and income
taxes on MTNL.



- 30 -
Least Cost Solution
5.14      The least cost solution for the provision of telecommunications
services requires the correct choice of system configuration and
technology, and the optimum path in design, dimensioning and timing of
installation. DOT's sound technical choice to introduce electronic digital
technology will reduce equipment costs, space, and maintenance
requirements, make operation more efficient and improve service. The
selection of optical fiber systems, microwave systems and copper cables for
various portions of the transmission network, is also based on long-run
least cost. The timing and dimensioning of various elements in the system
are based on generally accepted engineering practice. However the DOT's
current planning and budgeting procedures may not focus adequately on the
selection of best alternative design, and the delays in and scarcity of
budget allocation for investments often result in suboptimal dimensioning
of facilities (iara 2.11). Consultants would recommend improvements
(para 4.07).
Return on Investment
5.15      The rate of return calculations are based on the entire
investment program. The projected financial and economic rates of return
to the program are 15% p.a. and 20% p.a. respectively. These are in line
with experience in other countries. The financial rate )f return is based
on the incremental benefits and costs to DOT/MTNL. The estimated economic
rate of returr, is higher iecause it: (a) excludes from costs the duties
and taxes collected by GOI on project inputs; and (b) includes a minimum
estimate of the additional consumer surplus. These gains are partially
offset by the use of a conversion factor of 0.8 for local costs and
revenues. Sensitivity analysis indicates that in the worst case scenario
(20% cost increase, 20% benefit decrease), the economic rate of return
falls to 12% p.a. (Annex 16). The rates of return to the project will be
significantly higher since it is located in the main revenue generating
areas of c-he network.
ProJect Risks
5.16      In view of the demand-supply imbalance, there is little risk of
underutilization of most project facilities. One risk is that DOT and MTNL
will have difficulties with the new digital and optical fiber
technologies. In particular, this may affect the pace at which the
long-distance facilities are expanded. The project training component
(para 3.05) is designed largely to teach the installation and operation of
those new technologies, and DOT has high-quality technical staff. In
addition, the procurement contracts call for supervision of installation
and training in installation and maintenance. A second risk is that the
institutional and policy reforms will be ineffective or implemented only
very slowly because of either bureaucratic inertia or lack of high-level
GOI support. However, the new DOT and MTNL managements are committed to
the reforms, and core GOI agencies supportive. External consultants will
assist in formulating institutional improvement measures (para 4.07), and



- 31 -
the Bank will monitor carefully their implementation. A final risk is that
the domestic telecommunications equipment for the project (chiefly the
switching and cable components) would be inadequate in quantity and
quality. The expansion of competition in DOT's domestic procurement, and
the introduction of commercial contracts (para 3.11) should help in this
regard. Construction of ITI's new digital switching factory, with
assistance from CIT-Alcatel appears to be progressing well. The Bank would
closely monitor domestic manufacture and has indicated that further Bank
lending to the telecommunications sector beyond the proposed project would
be contingent on satisfactory progress in this area.
Environment and Health
5.17      The project would have no adverse environmental effects, as
telecommunications is a "clean" industry. Improved telecommunications
would help reduce dependence on physical travel to some extent, and
correspondingly would reduce air pollution. Furthermore, improved
telecommunications would accelerate the provision of emergency health care,
and the implementation of protective action in environmental disasters.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      At negotiations, the following assurances were received:
(a) DOT and MTNL would: (i) continue to take all action
necessary to expand competition in domestic procurement,
in accordance with an agreed action plan; and (ii)
introduce commercial contracts for single source
purchases from PSEs effective by April 1, 1987
(para 3.11);
(b) For the project studies, DOT would appoint consultants by
September 30, 1987, with terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank, exchange views with the Bank on the
consultants' findings, and take appropriate action in
accordance with a timetable agreed with the Bank
(para. 3.13);
(c) DOT and MTNL would review periodically with the Bank,
their respective project implementation, service quality,
productivity and financial performance, their future
targets and actions proposed to achieve them, and then
take all measures necessary to achieve these targets
(para 3.15);
(d) Upon completion, MTNL will review with the Bank the
findings and recommendations of its institutional
consultants and then take actions on the recommendation
in accordance with an appropriate timetable (para 4.09);



- 32 -
(e) The audit reports on DOT and MTNL financial statements by
an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank would be
provided to the Bank, within nine months after the close
of each fiscal year (para 4.13);
(f) the rate of return on the revalued assets of DOT and MTNL
(consolidated) would not fall below 11% p.a. (para 5.09);
and
(g) Bank funds (currently estimated at $98 million
equivalent) would be onlent to MTNL under subsidiary loan
agreement in line with GOI's standard practice for public
corporations but at not less than 13% p.a. (para 5.10).
6.02      At negotiations, the following understandings were reached and
recorded in the agreed minutes of negotiations:
(a) on proposals from DOT to increase competition in domestic
procurement (para 3.11);
(b) on DOT/MTNL's performance indicator targets for 1987/88
and 1988/89, (para 3.15);
(c)   i) DOT and MTNL would submit to the Bank their
provisional financial statements within six months after
the close of the fiscal year, and the finalized financial
statements when they are submitted for audit, and
(ii) these financial statements will each include an
aging analysis of accounts receivable (para. 4.13);
(d) DOT and ML would review with the Bank, by
March 31, 1988, the annual adjustment index used for
revaluation of assets (para 5.05);
(e) DOT and the Bank would jointly identify any problem areas
of the tariff structure for further study by consultants
(para 5.06); and
(f) An understanding was reached and recorded in the minutes
of negotiation that once the long-term formula for
division of revenue between DOT and HTML has been
adopted, and MTNL's financial statements for its first
two years (FY87 and FY88) are available, separate rate of
return targets would be adopted, consistent with the 11%
consolidated rate of return covenant (para 5.09).
6.03      Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between GOI and MTNL
would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para 5.10).
6.04      Subject to the above condition and assurances, we recommend a
Bank loan of $345 million, for 20 years, including 5 years of grace on
principal, at the standard variable interest rate.



- 33 -
N K1
MIA
SD   PMM - HMAIL  rAigVa
(Ari 1, 19110 -M~d 31, 1985S)
WUet    Actual
Stabin                          Stati  sStatus    IAta
8Bim~1g  lTargt    Actual    eru of    erd of    Target   Stats
6th Plm    Mddtim   AMitim   6th Plm   6th Pmi  Reacid   03/31/86
Switdit  Ct cty (laK! lns)    23*36         14.8       9*71     38.16      33.07     65      36.66
DEL9 (lakh lI1m@)a/             20.16       13.3       8.82     33.46      28.98     66      31.66
Udrrud   Cables
'i8kh pr la)                 117.48       78.0      58.93    195.48    176.41      74     nS.U
1blephne Ewhw    (#S)           7,430      3,500      3,278    10,930    10,708      94    11,482
Sub. Tal. Sts. (lakh)           26.15      17.29      11.46     43.45      37*61     67      40.57
I,D   WU
TAX (h)>-                          s18       40         12        58       30       30         31
TAK Capacity (lInes)           40,300     94,770    47,220    135,070  87,520b/      50    93,120
Mbuzal Trunk Boards             7,106      2,500        992     9,606   8,098        40      8,315
SiD Route                         137         60         76       197      205.5    127        229
L-D I 4ISSiCN
Covdal Cales (Route km)        16,641      12,000     5,594    28,641  22,235        47    23,742
ME (Route km)                  16,545      16,000     5,969    32,545  22,514        37    24,818
- Above 60 dunxwlo              2,712      14,000     3,610    16,712   6,322        26      7,927
- S.al Capacty                      -      6,750         -      6,750        -        0         -
Satellte Earth Statioiu             7         32         23        39       30       77        30
OaE    & 1MW3P
Telegraph OffLces              24,457     2D,000    10,794    44,757  35,251         54    36,521
ID PMO                         13,426      17,500    11,774    30,926  25,200        67    26,099
Tel" Excbwe (#s)                  136        100         51       236      187       51        209
Telex Capaity
- Local                        22,015     22,500    17,079    44,515  39,094         79    40,674
- Transit                           0     13,000    10,700    13,000  10,700         82    10,700
Dlex cxmsttons                 17,983      18,300     8,270    36,283  26,253        45    30,515
VFr Chams (#s)                 17,777      7,03D    5,908    24,777  23,685          86       n.a.
Open Wire Qhnne                18,059      7,500      6,057    25,559  24,116        81       ;ae
a/ 1 lakh - 100,000
b/  ncludes 1,750 raplamt Ure; not TAX cpacpty addition Is 85,770 lines.
Soure: DDT
March 1986, idated  DaB_r 1986



NINIM IEUNICKIAnI  PRCT
Telephone Lnes Dinad ard Supply
Fsntitat    Eqpsad
Total 
DELs                 Uwiting LLst  1/          E,ressed Niiu                Dend   2/    tiasfied
X                            Pler                   %         A                %
Year end    Total    Amial  Growth    Total          Anmal       Total    Arual   Growth       Total      nual        X
(March 31)  (1,OOs) Growth  (1,OOOs)  (1,OOOs)    Growth        (1,0008) Growth  (1,000s)  (1,000's) growth
1980       2,016     7.7      143         334       -           2,350    11.2      236       3,195      11.0      85.8
1981       2,149     6.6       133        446       33          2,595    10.4      245       3,546      11.0      82.8
1982       2,296     6.8       147        594       33          2,890   U1.4        295      3,936      11.0      79.5
1983       2,465     7.4       169        659        11         3,124     8.1       234      4,369      11.0      789
1984       2,668     8.2       203        738        12         3,406     9.0       281      4,850      11.0      78.3
1985       2,898     8.7       230        829        12         3,727     9.5       321      5,384      11.0      77.8
1986       3,166     7.6       268        986       2)          4,152    11.4      4'5       5,976      11.0      76.3
19873/    3,386      7.0       22D      1,200       22          4,586    10.5      434       6,633      110      73.9
1988E      3,686     8.9       300      1,385        15         5,071    10.6       485      7,363      11.0      72.7
1989       4,086    10.9       400      1,551        12         5,637    11.2      566       8,173      11.0      72.5
1990       :,506    10.3      420      1,706        10         6,212    10.2      575       9,072      11.0      72.5
1991                                                            6,833    10.0      621      10,069      11.0
1992                                                            7,516    10.0      683      11,177      11.0
1993                                                            8,268    10.0      752      12,407      11.0
1994                                                            9,094    10.0       826     13,772      11.0
1995                                                           10,003    10.0      909      15,286      11.0
*                                                                                                     91~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00
1/ ML4niian eastlite frmn 1987 =aards.
2/ Includes estnate of latent d.iand, fourd by  xt=rapolating demad of 1975 of 1,966,000 (prior tD demard fall 
in rewaion to adranc  deposit sebee introductlon) at 11% p.a., tIa prevailinate of de-mm Increase for FY
1971-75.
3/ Estimates fran 1987 omards.



INDIA
NINTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
TELEPHONE DEMAND AND SUPPLY OF SUBSCRIBER CONNECTIONS
30 -
20 -
'ID                                                                  I                              D    DPRCI
9                                                                     I                                                        4,
6                                                                                                      '  .J
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.~~~~~                                   -
K~STORIC$L GROWIH tI                      GROWMHUNDER
3-                                   EXRESE DIMD                                           7tH PLAN
INrRODUCION OF THE ,
ADVANCE DEPOSIT SCHBE                                      IDEMN
2
1f 71  72  173  '74  '75  '76  '77  78  79  '0  '81  '82  '     4 '86  '86  87  TO  '8   9   V    9   9    4 



- 36 -
*8990 - of ,
__________u_ _-_--__ .                               ----^--- o-  sItaa  ---
iscal Yew (and)                    1980    1981  19       1      19965           19WS  66  16   1969   1     m60
-Tal lAs (al Ind")            2,336 2,469 2,612   2,W7  3,054  3,307  3,667  3,7  4,3    4,7   5,407
_Tacre                          150   133   143      215    22      253    360    300    30       460    G00  2,100
- ncrim izt I cSPSdty
oawe begbadt of yewr              56         &S  8.2   &60    a3    10.9    o3    63    11.7   13.7
Toa t1z  bahsy (1,000l')                                            500    571    603    676    813    936
.l    "                                                310    360    424    455    592    715
-                                              t11    1N    143    160    2D0    23
catta                                                  230    239    290    322    371    416
2. 0tec        god Ua  (1,00D's)
- Totl Uzm (all Tra)ia        2,016  2,149 2,296   2,466  2,668  2,98W  3,166  3,3B6  3,686  4,066  4,506
--irism                         148   133   147      170    202    230    268    22)    300    400    4D 1,600
- tre  in 2 clty
OM  begUmW of yewr                6.6   6.8      7.6   862    7.4    9.3    7.0    6.9   10.9   10.3
Total MM: (1,000'.)
Bwyw                       230    299      324    366    411    453    497    537    651    692
Delh                        190   204      223    246     73    307    360    350    475    529
adraw                        81    83       86     93    102    113    124    164    160    169
CaLcutta                    174   180      184    188    196    MS       214    226    297    30
3. Tra* aitetkc  iutdhi cpcdty
-Total lin  (all Ida         40,300 46,570  50,370 54,520  8D,620 83,770  91,370 98,870 1,970 160,670 196,620
- Inte                                                                    5,600  7,500 29,O  32,700 36,W  111,0I
-increm   in  cWadty
oer bqgLm&   of yea                                                     6.5    8.2   29.4   25.6   22.5
T*ua TM Ceadty: BMW                                                15,000 15,000 1,274   ,OD0 24,000 3,00D
Dam                                             15,700  15,70D  18,052 22,00  26,OO0  32,000
madrn                                        8,000  8,000  9,197  11,000 12,000 13,000
calctta                                         8,000  8,000  9,197 12,=00   17,000 20,000
4. 'bleic couimtom
(lota    -        Una)
-Tdtal imw (all IrAia)       17,983 19,332 20,42D  21,496 22,527  ai,287 30,180 34,700 42,070 09,22D 5,620
LX=a                          1,486  1,349  1,088  1,076  1,031  3,726  3,893  4,52   7,370  7,150  7,4   30,333
- Torste La 2 capacity
aw  begim%g of yeaw               7.5    5.6    5.3    4.8   16.5   14.8   14.9   21.2   17.0   15.0
TOt  local .whaze ILW :   bay         4,616  4,673  4,802  5,216  5,836  7,049  7,300  8,400  9,500  10,600
Delhi      2,974  3,175  3,425  3,449  4,759  5,558  S,800  6,500  7,200  7,900
tra        1,132  1,133  1,131   1,559  1,996  2,353  2,150  2,300  2,00  2,?70
Cas   2,179  2,230  2,255  2,308  2,551  2,681  2,900  3,200  3,5    3,0



- 37 -
,_ wm w inzS
----------pA.________----                          __---
DMC             PI 31)        19D   1981D 18    1         1984   198    19    1987  18    89  I0
Ouantu/W0 
3miay                           30.0  30.?   32.2   34.9   41.0   36.9   32.5  3V.9  D.8  25*0  22.
Calottta                       61.0   589   44.6   35.7   42       42.7   37.7  358  32.8  29.0  2.1
a"1W                           66.0   67.7   67.5   60.2   47.9   42.4   39.3  33  32.7  29.4  2.4
madems                          31.0   37.9   44.0   43.2   39.9   40.2   38.   37.0        3.0  27.0
AU hdLa                         56.0   57.3   51.4   47.1   49.    443   42.0  40.8  36.7  33.1  29.7
laalts/100 S/tbOmflrt
lobidy                         21.0   25.0   25.8   24.5   28.5   26.0   26.1  24.8  22.3  2D.1  181
CSIatt                          25.0   23*7   2.5   25.9   21.7   22.6   201   19.1  17.2   5.5  139
alml                           38.0  40*8   43.2   41.8   37.3   34.1   33.3  314  283  25A  22.9
Madras                         25.0   2.6   2.9   28.7   26.7   2.0   251  23.1  27  17   1
All InAL                       40.0   39.0   37.2   36.2   361   33.2   30.0  2LS  25.7  23.1  208
Ava a Tiati aE FailtaObs)Mmt
BMW                             14.0   16.2   14.9   20.8   2.8   28.9   27.7  2A.6  239  216  19.4
Calot                           16.9  22.9  67.4   54.5   46.2   41.2  33.9  32.2  30.0  26.1  23.5
Dam                             5.7    5.7    4.8   4.7    8.       7.8   8.7   8.3   7.4   6.7   6.0
madess                          3.9    5.4    5.6    6.6    6.6   10.3   12.7  12.0  10.9   9.    8.8
All IrAia                        54    6.7   10.5   9.0   13    9.5    9.2   8.8   7.8   7.1   6.4
2 Faibte of lmdol vmm ~1J aAh.
DodY    -loca IAdz              2.6    2.9    22    2.3    1.4    1.6   1.7   14   1.3   1.2   1.l
-iaon                4.8    7.0    7.0   8.1    7.4    7.7    a2   7.8  7.0   6.3   5.7
CAlta  - local adw              7.7    9.8    9.2    8.6   14.6   12.5   11.9  11.5  10.4   9.3   84
- jzttbn              32.2   3D.9  27.8   25.2   39.2   42.3  42.7  40.6  36.5  32.9  29.6
DOlW     -lc   =dw              5.0    1.8    1A      1.6   2.1    1.7    1.2   1.1   1.0   09   0.8
-  j                  14.7   17.7   13.6   13.7  25.1   23.3  23.0  21.5  19.4  17.4  15.7
ldr&       load                  1.6    0.6    0.7    0.6    1.1    1.6   2.2   2.1   1.9   1.7   15
- jwion                6.2    3.9   4.9    5.4   10.5   16.0  24.3  23.1  208   L87  16.8
A1U r1la - (orall)              6.7    7.7    6.7    5.3   6*2    7.3    88   8.4   7.5   6.8   6.1
2 M3f 1xmul frwk Cafahbth bj
10.6.7                          380   36.2   38.2   33.0   32.7   33.5   32.6  30.9  27.8  25.0  22.5
Calotta                        43.0   48.2   40.7   44.3   45.1   45.7   46.3  44.0  89.6  356  32.1
Dam                            34.0   39.6   3L8   46.7   45.2   41.4   3.5  36.6  32.9  29.6  26.7
Madr                            28.0   2.3   30.S   31.4   33.3   33.5   33.3  31.6  285  25A6  23.0
All Inda                       25.0   27   27.2   26.9   27.1   26.8   26.0  24.7  22.2  20.0  1LO
2 Failure 21  Wul (level 0. 8wv imwamt
uBbay                          57.0   77.8   689   73.9   7.2   75.5  69.7  66.2  59.6  53.6  4f2
Calutta                        94.0   92.2   92.5   91.8   91.9   91.6   92.0  87.4  78.7  70.   3.7
Delai                          70.0   76.5   90.3   75.0   76.4   55.3   48.3  45.9  41*3  1.2  33.5
Madras                         54.0   52.0  50.7   56.7   49.9   50.5  45.4  43.1  3L8   34.9  31.4
All InWis                       -      57.3   51.4  47.1   49.4  n/a    n/a   43.1  38.3  3.9  31.4
2 hi1*.a bl- CaIIabi
Doday                          50.0   22.7   23.1   26.6  40.8   25.9   49.7  47.2  42.5  38.2  34.4
Cal4tta                         22.0   22.5   62.9   45.1   52.9  62.5   67.7  64.3  57.9  42.0  PA8
D1i                             30.0   32.7   37.1   39.3   36A4  "40   33.5  39.5  34.6  31.2  280
Madrs                          56.0   52.7   48.4   58.0   67.0   52.0  43.9  41.7  31.5  33.8  30.4
Bs;* Bad ttin tbczaIg, 52 In 1987 ad 1(X par jsrw ttecitr. Iine  atteM dLffa hs   WrIJ            twts *A
deaem  by 111
b/ ind  iuiteutlAma cullsl TotaL haka culls Izclsk  call caw"ala by a*wmclka dtw boid*a.
mM   Problm aida* in dAstinguistft  t  ca   cior p  uality of mvla inbm on* o.wtIc  ad
indqut mAdtw*
uW 4
4dI 1986, dq~hu  Nr  1986



- 38 -
AM 3
DSJA                                         LU 3 of 3
m _PlUu -r
U3TOU LaMu#yIAND hSETV=
 ---I----s-t---- --- -- -
Ic41.-                        4!91      882      1983      1984     1985     1966    jw        j3         1989    1990
hatqum Swann
per rL (ps) b/               2,712    2,967    3,38      3,516    3,516    3,640    3,948    4,59    4,         5,213
- c ta   (1985 C(I)                                                3,586    3,434    3,525    3,831    3,861   3,919
Tel II"Q per
Pw  ucc1mfim  (Re)          3 D,100   35,700   39,a30   38,200   39,770   40,68    45,36   54,0        59,0    63,870
- cxxmtuLt (1985 CEI)                                             39,770   33,254  40,5114   45,806   46,877  48,023
Caob OrlznUt  Cbt
per CuLb/                     1,638    1,8Z9    2,113    2,249    2,453    2,593    2,711    2,851    2,995   3,117
- coitnt (1985 CI)                                                 2,453    2,446    2,421    2,396    2,377   2,389
Operattv EAt1o (S)               63        63       64        63       66       72        70       65       64       64
kxswuzts Rale,iv
(squlvwleat da)                 67        64       61       76        8S       84        OD       75       70       65
Inantor aa S of (WA             9.4       8.8      8.2      7.0       8.3      8.0       7.8      7.6      7.4      7.2
carrot ratio                      4.9       4.7      4.6      4.4       4.9      4.1       4.6      4.4      4.2      4.0
RtO of Isturo (2)
- an revaluel ats                1        15        13       13       12        8         9       11        12      12
Not Interml Cash
Zofmo ctcfzuctl progr         117       77       76        74       70        52       56       52        64      75
Icz to Equity RatIo            15/85    15/85    14/86    13/87    19/81    24/86    24/86    27/83    27/83    26/84
Debt S.wLe Cb9ra                  9.0       8.3      6.3       6.3      5.1      3.6       3.5      3.6       3.4     3.4
9peatz Staff per
IOCOD km g CM                 114       115      112       108      100       96        90       86       81       75
CPI (1985 = 100)                                                      100       106      112      119       126     133
_q  Baud cn pwisiai ftnuxial stataste    for 198S/86.
JV  CalIIlatd an wrap DEla or oonn ctlift      per ye.



- 39 -
NMA                                            AM  4
9?         M_= E E                                               1 of 2
gn l.  .UJ  Omut MIS.?/
19ll5/86b/                    M    !98/87t                 1987/88
local  F*l:4P                 I   load  ei       lTbal    tD        bel Ibp     tal
1lca Nemk:
569                          803                           279
UIG cawl                                   142                           453                          114
Tnmmtss_m and other                         ao                            00                         1,075
Subt1a                         4,513       711    5,224      3,006     1,256    4,262      3,468     1,468    4,936
btucg                             62        00        62       142        00       142       207       00        7
I8g Distane
Sutdiz  e.uipam                  131        87       218       522        83       605       477      133       610
1bai trwm     e   _axd            42        00        42        85        00        85        24       75        99
Tramusson                       1,145      365     1,510     1,616       138     1,754    2,188      1,709    3,897
Subtotal                       1,318       452     1,769     2,223       221    2,444    2,688       1,919    4,607
RIta  facillitis                 214        00       214       298        00       298       380       155      535
Tel- n.u4amit                    216       116       332       605        00       605       522       00        522
Tha1apa                            9        00         9        89        00        89       242       66       308
Datatra'smlwcm                    11        00        11       133.       00       133        46       118       164
:omteulatlon                     135        52       187       123        00       123       126        16      142
Satellite servic                 182        10       192       358        91       449       374       165      539
Remrwi, trail;r  ard
tMtiz equipmet                  534       133       667       594        51       645       274       264      538
Staff & ainn buildi1gs           250        00       250       616        00       616       623       00       623
TcJML BASE a                   7,433     1,474    8,917      8,187     1,619     9,806    8,952      4,169    13,121
Physical contirwncies             00        00        00        00        00        00       447       208      655
Price contirgencis                0         00        00        00        00        00       564       44       608
UTMAL PwROM  aosr              7,443     1,474    8,9'17    8,187      1,342    9,806    9,963    4,421    14,384
less PattyWorks'/                412        00       412       508        00       508       500       00       500
CCNIRUCtl  POGRDM              7,031     1,474    8,505    7,679       1,619     9,298     9,463    4,422    13,885
j/ Errors due to roundii.
b/ Figur. for 1985/86 and 1986/87 are actuals.
&/ Tn          grart In aid



iE&
W -
mm  , in I   )a
(In PA. NLima1 @ormu,td
1988/89                      1989/0                     1tat (Sa alhlim)             1bt12  ($ mian)
Fical Yer wloal   Foreip                            Ttal    local  Forei          Total    load   IbCelo        Total    local  R2mIR        Total
eItiWU                                      604                            54              12,M       2,356    15,093      98D       181      1,161
U,6 Cdg1                                     46                                             6,991       751     7,742       5W        se        95
Tluts_m      u ad otb1r                     494                            15               2,843     1,539    4,382        219      111        33
Subita                            508     1,144    6,228      6,500        69     6,569     2,571    4,64E    27,219      1,736      357    2,093
1kmti                             247        00       247       186        00       186       8541       O        8%4       65        00        65
tag Dlstiac:
&atdd   quIsw                     477    ao           477       442        00       442     2,049       303    2,352        157        23       18D
1K1om  trs eEsh we                 16        60        75        28        39        67       195       174       369        15        14        28
TruulBsion                      1,213       475     1,688     1,078        00     1,078     7,240     2,687    9,927        557       207       764
Subtotal                        1,705       534    2,239      1,548        39     1,588    9,482      3,165    12,647       129       244      974
Saur  tl autie                    498       171       667       me         27       615     1,978       353    2,331        152        27       179                    g
Tlheiqu1pmt                       361        00       361       342        00       342     2,066       116    2,162        157        9        16
1W      .qih                      23D        52       282        56        00        56       626       118       744        48         9        57
a"  traz_8siom                     52        83       135        93        24       118       335       225       560        26        17       43
Iter1zaCon                         95        13       108        93        00        93       s          e        653       44         6         50
Satellite inzerv                  12D)      20        328       256        75       331     1,290       549     1,839       99        42        141
- traing si
titi gquip *mt                   231       194       425       284        63       347     1,917      705    2,622        147        54       2D1
Staff &   udn bit 1r4s            584        00       584       594   Q     0       594    2,667         O0  2.667          205        00      205
L   M88 on   I                  9,208     2,400    11,608    10,540       297    10,837    44,330    9,959    54,289      3,409       765    4,175
PuSicaluthWmnclin                 461       12)       S8l       527        15       542     1,435      343      1,778      110        26       137
tis  atinid                     1.160        51     1.211     2.103        10    2.113      3.827       10     3.932       294         9       303
WmL PtaMXN      r              10,829    2,571    13,400    13,170       322    13,492    49,592    10,408   60,A00       3,814      800    4,615         o
low Fottyi.rs                    445                 455       410                 410     2,275        00    2,275        175        00       175
0IYNJc1       P1 O             10,384    2,571    12,955    12,760        322    13,082   47,317    10,408    57,725    3,639        8D0    4.440



- 41 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
NINTH TELECONKUICATIONS PROJCT
PROJECT COMPONENTS
Part A
(a)   Local transmission facilities within the four metropolitan
networks. Installation of 60 routes, including 191 radio
channels of 34 Nb/s, 13 GHz digital microwave systems, 450 Km
of optical fiber cable including 96 140 Mb/s systems and
8 34 Mb/s systems, 1,500 PCM systems (2,000 additional
systems for other major cities are also included to benefit
from ICB bulk procurement) for the expansion and
digitalization of the metropolitan junctions networks;
(b)   Long distance facilities between the four mstrLOAlitan
networks.
(i)    Installation of the new digital (6 CHz 140  Mb/s)
microwave route Bombay-Madras and the microwave
sections Calcutta-Sambalpur and Nagpur-Dhulia on the
route Calcutta-Bombay; the new optical fiber route
(4+1 systems 140 Mb/s) Delhi-Bombay and the optical
fiber section Varanasi-Patna on the route
Calcutta-Delhi (the additional section
Trichnur-Ernakulam-Trivandrum, which is not in the
project area, has also been included to benefit from
ICB; new digital coaxial systems (140 Mb/s) for
existing coaxial cables on the section
Sampalpur-Nagpur of the route Calcutta-Bombay (similar
systems are also installed on the spur routes
Delhi-Ambala and Kolhapur-Sangli not in the project
areas);
(ii)   installation of miscellaneous analog transmission
equipment to expand the existing facilities
(multiplex, 60 Nz coaxial systems) transmultiplexes
for tbe conversion from analog to digital and
dehydrators for microwave relay stations;
(c) Switching facilities In the four metropolitan networks and
extension of cable networks.
(1)    Expansion of local switching capacity in the four
cities, from 1,157,000 lines in March 1985 and
1,460,000 lines in March 1987, to 2,295,000 lines by
March 1990; the new capacity would be about 66%
electronic digital, 19% electronic analog, and 15%
electromechanical;



- 42 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
(ii)   concommitant installation of local networks (cables,
distribution cabinets, subscriber plant) in the four
cities to expand the number of DELs from 982,000 in
March 1985 and 1,193,000 in March 1987, to 1,698,000
by March 1990, an annual growth rate of 11.6% over the
5-year period;
(iii) installation of 14,000 local lines and 1,000 transit lines of
telex digital switching capacity to expand the number of telex
DELs from 15,142 in March 1985 and 18,150 in March 1987 to 25,100
lines by March 1990; a growth rate of 11% p.a. over the 5-year
period;
(iv)   installation of 56,000 junctions of trunk switching capacity
increasing the capacity of the TAX in the four metro districts
from 46,700 in March 1985 to 102,700 in March 1990; and
(v)    upgrading the facilities in the four metro districts,
by replacement of some 210,000 lines of obsolete and
run-down local switching capacity, introduction of
some 390 km of ducting for underground cables, and
upgrading of distribution cabinets, pillars and
subscriber installations;
Part B:
(a)  Modernization and expansion of domestic satellite earth station
networks.
(i)    digitalization of seven existing satellite earth
stations nodes at Bombay, Delhi, Calcutta, Madras,
Jalandar, Lucknow and Ern'tkulum and installation of
three new digital earth stations in Bangalore, Bhopal
and Rajkot to supplement and secure the direct traffic
links between the project area and other major cities;
(i,)  construction of 18 small satellite earth stations,
including 10 transportable, for establishing basic
communications with new decentralized industries to be
set up in rural districts.
(b)  Data network.  Construction of a multi-star packet switched
data network using the four metropolitan satellite earth
stations to interconnect with 40 small station terminals.
(c)  Network management.  Establishment of a network management
system, including appropriate facilities.



- 43 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
(d)  Telephone billing system.  Supply and installation of
automatic message accounting facilities in the four
metropolitan networks under the project.
Part C:
(a) Training. Upgrading, telecommunications regional training
centers and manpower development, including 99 manmonths of
ITU experts, 125 fellowships, and training and laboratory
equipment.
Part D:
Consultant Services
i)    design of the network management system (under
Part B (c); including appropriate facilities,
organizational arrangements, and maintenance and
operational procedures;
(ii)   carrying out of a study on the delegation of authority
and responsibility to DOT field units, and their
relationship to the headquarters Directorate; and
(iii) improvement of DOT's investment planning and
budgetting process.



MUS
Uhjlm 12IMWUCAITJONS P20Jz
BANK FI)MUNE ITES-4MSr
1967/88               968/89              !;2Y90                1990191              3991/92            Totali is MiUtao     Total ; Million
local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Local Forelgn Total Local Foreign Total loald foreig   Tta    Local Foeian  Ttal LoaU."             in   oa
Part A
(a)~
aV9--               67.0  350.0  217.0  134.0  300.0  434.0  134.0  300.0  434.0  69.4  160.0  229.4  -           -       -      604.4  910.0  1314.4 31.2   70.0  101.2
DIgLI "allcmm"      -       -      -      50.0   62.4  112.4  100.0  10M.   209.2  100.0  109.2  209.2  40.8   31.2   72.0   290.81  312.0  402.8  22.4   24.0   46.4
Optical flWr        -       -       -     30.7   62.4   93.1  90.0  109.2  199.2  90.0  109.2  199.2  20.0   31.2   51.2   230.   312.0  542.7  17.7   24.0   41.7
FM systan      43.4   52.3   95.7  83.0  102.4  187.4  85.0  102.4  167.4  85.0  102.4  187.4  41.4   50.0   91.    339.81  409.5  749.3 26.1   31.5   57.6
SubNtotal       04           31.      T 37                 Wo1i           I       4            *.2 1 .2 Th    234.   195T   E r   W!2 -w                11.5  3W.
Cb)
Digital  lcrm.we -     -      -      76.0  12.7  188.7  76.0  12.7  88.7  75.8  112.6  188.4  -           -       -      227.8  33.0  565.8  17.5   26.0   43.5
Opti*el Flber      100.0   61.0  161.0  00.0   91.0  191.0  100.0   91.0  191.0  00.0   91.0  191.0  36.5   30.0   46.5   416.5  364.0  710.  32.0   3.0    60.
COIal system       143.4   84.5  227.9  43.4   84.5  227.9 - -            -      -      -       -         -      -       -      36.8  169.0  455.8  22.1   13.0   35.1
Otlur Tram.lsalon   63.0   97.5  160.4  63.0   97.5  160.5  62.8   97.5  160.3  -            -      -      -       -      -       188.8  292.5  481. 3  14.5   22.5   37.00
Subtota        I.4   243.0 -W -  W.4    -5-T  -7W- -W              WIi 2 -i  DM         26   W-4  -In   750.    46.5  1TJM  r116.   MET~ UF    U&.   173.1
Satallite Service    -      -             9.0   74.5  169.5  95.0   75.0  170.0  95.    7M.   170.0  44.6   74.5  69.1   379.6  299.0  6766  29.2   23.0   52.2
btLa Netwok         -       -       -     30.0   30.0   60.0  65.0   65.0  30.0  70.0   70.0  140.0  36.5   30.0   66.5   201.5  95.   30.5  15.5   15.0   30.5
Netmwok iunsampou    -      - -                                 20.0   40.0   60.0  25.0   45.0   70.0  20.0   45.0   65.0    65.0    MO~.  19.0   5.0   10.0   15.0
beesge ACesUntLVg
System            -       -       -     20.0   75.0   95.0  45.0  120.0  165.0  45.0  12060  165.0  20.0   75.    95.0   130.0  30.0  52060  10.    30.0   40.
Nebtotal         -      -       -    45.0  1795  324.5  22350   WX         M    T25.   310.0 -35  =17i I    C    W.7   -M~T  if1U    MIW  W.T   I   IN
!COa1Mn             50.0   30.0  10.0  50.    37.5  87.5  150.0   30.0  18.0  I50.    -         50.0  150.0   -     150.0   750.0   97.5  347.5   57.7    7.S   69.2
CoausltancySsrvlcee          6.0    6.0           10.0   10.0  -        8.0    6.0  -         2.0    2.0          -       - -             26.0   26.0   -        2.0    z.0
Total oane Cost 566.8  461.3  1048.1 977.1  1139.9 2117.0 1022.8  1260.0 2282.8  905.2  996.4  901.6 439.8  366.9  106.7  3,911.7 4344.5  815.2  300.9  326.5  427.4
Hqalm               28.3   24.0   52.3  49.9   57.0  106.9  51.I   63.0  14.1  45.3   49.8   95.1  22.    16.3   403   196.6  212.1  460.7   15.3   16.3   31.4
Prlow          ~~~~357    0.!61172           48 120251            1.    3.   4.0O  21.6  270.6 156.1   24.3  180.4   773.1   61.7  834.8    9.5    47   64.2
70W. Cm       630.8  505.7  136.5 1154.2  1201.7  2355.9 279.0  1333.6  2&12.6 119.5  1067.8 2367.3  617.9  409.5  102.4  466.4 4518.3 939.7  375.5  347.le/ 723.0
afIncindee $2.5 mtillio  frne tIES-f xaca tualaiq caqmponf.



_ 45 -
ANN1X 6
Page 2 of 4
INDIA
NINT} TELECOMUNICATIONS PROJECT
BANK FINANCED PROJECT COMPONENTS
Million)
Foreign Exchange
Requirements
Part A:
Undergtound cables                              70.0
13 GR3 34 Mb/s microwave                        24.0
Optical fiber systems                            52*0
PCM systems                                     31.5
Upper 6 GHz 140 Mb/s microwave                   26.0
Transmultiplexers                                6.0
FDM & HGTE eqwipment                             15.5
Digital coaxial systems                          11.0
60 MHz coaxial systems                           2.0
Dehydrators                                       1.0
Subtotal                                     239.0
Part B:
Digital earth stations                           13.3
Small earth stations                             9.7
Packet switched data network                     15.0
Network management system                        10.0
Automatic message accounting system             30.0
Subtotal                                      78.0
Part C:
Training equipment:                              500
Part D:
Consultant services                              2.0
Total Base Cost                              324.0
Contingencies                                   21.0
TOTAL                                     345.0



- 46 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4
INDIA
NINTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
BANK-FINANCED ITEMS-PROCUREMENT
Contracts
Bid Category                                   Quantity          ICB   LIB   Other
1. Local Networks
1.1    Underground cables                      310,000 pair km             1
1.2    Line concentrators                      100 x 100 lines             1
1.3    PCM systems                          a) 1,500 metro        )
Os                              b) 2,000 districts   )1
1.4    13 GHZ 34 mb/s microwave
systems for distr. Junction
networks
a)  Bombay                            43 radio channels)  )
(15 routes)        )
b)  Calcutta                          93 radio channels)  )
(23 routes)        )
c)  New Delhi                         26 radio channels)  )
(11 routes)        )
d) Madras                             29 radio channels)  )
(routes)           )
1.5    140 mb/s fiber optic systems for
metro distr. junctions networks
a)  Bombay                            25 systems           )
(132 kms)
b)  Calcutta                          29 systems and       )
8 systems 34 mb/s   )1/
(50 kms)           )
c)  New Delhi                         15 systems           )
(59 kms)           )
d)  Madras                            12 systems           )
(50 kms)           )
e)  Other districts                   15 systems           )
(59 kms)           )
2.     Long Distance Transmission
2.1    6GHz 140 mb/s
Microwave systems
a)  Bombay-Madras                     (3+1) 42 hops)
b)  Calcutta-Sambalpur                (2+1) 15 hops)                1
c)  Nagpur-Dhulia                     (2+1) 11 hops)



- 47 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 4
Contracts
Bid Category                                    Quantity             ICB     LIB Other
2.2    Optical fiber systems                                           )
2.2.1  140 mb/s systems                                                )
)
a)  Delhi-Bombay                           (4+1) 1,610R.km      )      1
b)  Trichur-Arnaculam Tridvandurm          (1) 314 km           )
c)  Varanasi-Patna                         (4+1) 290 km         )
2.2.2  34 mb/s systems                            1                    )
a)  Jaipur-Aimer-Ehilwara                  1 2/                 )
b)  New Delhi-Gurgaon-Behror               1 2/                 )
2.3    Transmultiplexer (analog-digital)          450                         1
2.4    Analog multiplex equipment (to             2,000 primary groups        1
expand existing analog route)             105 systems
FDM & HGTE
2.5    Dehydrators                                500                         1
2.6    60 MHz coaxial systems
a) End links Calcutta                      3  km                       1
Delhi                        10 km
2.7    Digital coaxial cable systems                                          1
2.7.1 140 mb/s systems
a)  Delhi-Ambala                           I system             )
b)  Nagpur-Sambalpur                       1                    )
c)  Kolhapur-Sangli                        1                   )
d)  Lucknow end system                     1   '                )
2.7.2 34 mb/s systems
Jaisalmer-Baimer                      1    "
2.8    Digital Transmission equipment for                                     1
satellite earth stations
(TDI/DSI techniques)
Delhi, Bombay, Calcutta, Madras,           10 stations
Bangalore, Rajkat, Jalandar, Lucknow,
Ernakulam, Bopal
2.9    Digital SCPC systems for small              8 stations                 1
satellite earth stations (decentral-
ization of industrial development
2.10   Transportable satellite earth              10 stations                 1
stations (decentralization
of industrial development)
2.11   Satellite based Data-network               35 small Terminal           I
3.     Non Voice Service                             stations
switches and peripherials for                                      1
packet-switched network "Vlkrum'
4.     Network management system                                              1
5.     Automatic message accounting                                           1
6.     Training equipment                                                    15
7.     Consultants                                                            3
1/ One single contract with the long distance optical fiber systems under 2.2.
2/ Both systems to be installed on the Delhi-Bombay cable.



- 48 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 1
INDIA
NINTH TE-LECOMMUNICATIONS PRWOJCT
Schedule of Disbursemtent I/
($ millions)
IIRD Fiscal Year               Disbursement           Cumulative
& Semester Ending:             in Semester            through Semester
FY87
December 31, 1986                   0                       0
June 30, 1987                       7.0                     7.0
FY88
December 31, 1987                  25.0                    32.0
June 30, 1988                      37.0                    69.0
FY89
December 31, 1988                  48.0                   117.0
June 30, 1989                      52.0                   169.0
FY90
December 31, 1989                  51.0                   220.0
June 30, 1990                      42.0                   262.0
FY91
December 31, 1990                  34.0                   296.0
June 30, 1991                      25.0                   321.0
FY92
December 31, 1291                  16.0                   337.0
June 30, 1992 Z                     8.0                   345.0
I/ Bank standard profiles based on actual disbursement experience for
FY76-85 for industry and telecommunications in India.
2/ The loan would be closed December 31, 1992.



IUSJ
NItm VaECMIKChXiOS PWBC
Iulementation Schedule of Bair-financed CouDounets
Activity                      1986            1987            1988            1989              9             1991
METRO, TRANSMISSION
ProcurementI 
Manufacturing                                    I
Delivery, Installation                                              I _ _
LONG DISTANCE
A. MICROWAVE LIKS
Procuremnnt 
Manufacturing                               I            -
Delivery, Installation                                      I- _--           -1
B. OPTICAL FIBER SYSTEM
Procurement                     I
Manufacturing                               3                   I
Delivery, Installation                                             _
SATE1LE SERVICES
Procureent                                      I             -!
Manufacturing                                                   I            -4
Delivery, Installation                                                          I - -  -    _
DATA NETWORK
Procurement                                     1            -
Manufacturing                                                   I-4
Delivery, Installation                                                          I-----
NEUtW   MANAGMT SYSTEM
Study, Design                                   _--             t
Procurement
Manufacturing
Delivery, Installation                                                                        - - - _
MESSAGE AONT            SSTE                                                                                                    0 0D
Procurement                                     I   . 
Manufacturing                                                   I            -
Delivery, Installation                                   .                        - - -                 ,



NITH _ELECOMtAhICA)W  PROJECT
Depoolhnf t ecm          nlaon(O)
Gened Pen choa br PrAcuw s s*Ah
ID    2    4    6    8   tCt         14   16   Is   Xt  22   24   2i6  28   30   32   34  36   3           a    42 4    46-4          t
laA p              8 a             Al            D            E op       |     |  f           i J   f  K |        h
(12 _M)                       (8 W_f)I
DOE CLEARAHM
A ~   ~        ~       ~        b noo3o otldEa ouro
Dlp"d Notofto-eon ttt S                 2                 otot  200B9'-20smn-Co t
a PfWdSuV*lnfdB                           to Cat I           fnotW. 301_M- ?WM - Cat. 01P
CbdaboDocuf                           12Cot 0                  42 VPs - 2 Yoml- Ct                                                             00A
B>nCoimc                                10 cat. t 
C FwprfnotdwWfWpodt                        I 
DtcP idOh et 00Cot t8 tt nb              ca                     Cal I SnndtP_                                                                   tsJt
D   cu E Cxn"wfo opt5Axsu                 10Cotal aCot It P_ tJnwwM*8                         1                                                       CDVwn
E AcIAppovAf*PcundF _F                     2                      OrA.Wi -Psmmfwvlhn8tCrtWw                                                        0
F Po0F WtEtncoiB,O*                       3
H  Fnapbmd  tdatW      t trctm Fn sc
t  RpW8h     GuR&b                       4 
It Afa9ftnDmatM*ftae<      0A)
OA oplttdof "I dl 00 &   cut A*wmnt       S



- 51 -                          ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
NINTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
ECONOMIC CELL STUDIES
A.           Studies Completed
1.  Subscriber distribution and inequality of originating call
traffic. Delhi (January 1978)
2. Distribution of heavy call subscribers. Delhi (February
1978)
3.  Survey of rural PCO's.   (May 1978)
4   Manpower employment in P&T.  (February 1979)
5. Subscriber distribution and inequality of originating call
traffic. Bombay (October 1979)
6. Cost and retura analysis. March 1980)
7.  Elasticity of demand for calls.   Delhi.   (September 1980)
8. India's rural telephone network. (May 1981)
9. Relationship of overseas communication and international
trade.   (September 1981)
10. Demand projections of telephones--cities and selected
towns: 1976-1990.   (December 1981)
11. P&T's relationship with railways. (June 1982)
12.  Telecommunications statistics.   (December 1982)
13.  Telex demand projections.   (January 1983)
14. Impact of recent telephone tariff revision on subscriber
calling and revenue.   (February 1984)



- 52 -
AN=R 9
Fage- '2 of 2
15. Demand projection of telephones to 2000: Volumes I and
II. [5 volumes] (December 1984, Narch 1985)
16. The patterns and levels of utilization of SAX and PT's in
rural areas-Andhra Pradesh.   (July 1985)
17. An analysis of revenue performance-Ludhiana Telephone
District (October 1985)
18. Study on prospective subscribers.
BO          Studies on hand
1. Telecommunications Statistics 1985 (January 1986)
2. Toprovement in revenue due to introduction of SPC TAX
-Bombay Telephones (Final stage).
3. Traffic and revenue analysis (Final stage).
4. Study regarding rate of return.
5. Allocation of resources to various telecommunication units
(Final stage).
6. Study regarding tariffs for satellite services (Final
stage).
C.          Studies envisged
1. Cost benefit analysis of jelly filling versus
pressurization for larger size cables.



IDIA
NINTH TELECOMINICATIONS PROJECT
DOT ORGANIZATION CHART
(January 1986)
4~~~~~~s       euj&o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~at                                         U' af
y ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
f 4   l  - WZa1V - l                                                                         gmwl   m.



ANNEX 10
-54 -             [  3Pea. 2 nf
'l,'     I    1
t    I zw1t0:~ 
\   1~:  I 
| _   . -    l Ii   I
Ii+_ I
Ii  I 



- 55-                          ami  10
M"iwmog Telephoi   idm               PSp 3  of 3
DW I*phr
p| . .
E-
r    -o.* GM~                                  -
1M~OW GM mM i                                      OES*GM     3 
_M.~  9    A-X_
&MO ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     C
. 4w '_    '_
_,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 ,* C1
- 
{E EE E 3 [66 GMi
Co T U
1' L Iw1 I_l Ir1    r             r          r      ;   r"lll-"-0mp GM  IphO



- 56 -
Pag. 1 of 1
W s  .                                                  20/81    81/82   W83               84/85   85/86    am           87/8     s/8     9 890
ab_ ,ft  Ckke             b*otlw                       13,379    13,969  15,768   13,057   11,13   10,340    6,0OO       5,O00    4,=0)   3,00W
b*fdw                         1,219    2,7M3    1,875   5,902   6,59    12,163   17,00D       19,OO    21,000  23,0
Slm l:                       14.        6m    17,647   18.939   11.79M  22.73   23.           27.eo   25.00D   26,00D
ftv  l fan sr Cabe       bAx1m                          3,666    3,520   3,590   2,974   4,149    W613    2,00           1,500    1,200    1,000
bftfd                         2,064    1,196   1,705    1,460   2386   3,525    S,lo0          6,000    7,000   7,400
SIBI                           ,730    6,718  J          4,43   _6,53    6.138    7.000        7.500    8200 
fam                                                         -        -        -        -       -      238      200    UO             125     100
Iftbr*                        1,076    1,383   1,"4   2,153   2,194   2,201    2,500           3,000    3,400   3,500
SDul.                         1.076    1.383    1.774   2.13   2.194   2.43         2,70       3,150    3        3
WMIL 1iA11                   21,404   22,873   24,714  25,546  26,521   31,28D   32,70        37,650    *,725   38,00
Ta  Staff ('00il)               28        313     330      344      345 C    346      349        361       376     35
*XStaff
b rulbg uW* b/ (O0D.)  170.8    179.4    18.6   196.2   2.8   209               210        216.6    225.6   237.0
T*AVfTainadas -
1takz  12.           5         12.1      12.      1       12.9    12.2    14.9       15.6       17.4      16.3    16.0
^J (aob d/
9370YA14                        407.5    433.6   482.4   A21.4   38         377.0    265.0       245.0    225.0   2050
-f:UmL.                         193.6    182.0   18.0   L56.0   136.4    96.1         85.0        75.0     71.0    67.0
SEAIiit4                          8.5      83      11.4    10,7      9.0    18.9       17.9       16.8     16.7    15.7
IllUL STIm:                     609.6    623.9   681.8   587.9   514.2   492.0    367.9          336.8    312.7   287.7
"I b  ofmtlmd a   ml  omw   ofZ pa..
Traliaw uas eabttlt   at 702 totW   taff a     lu         ClvUl btba,  acorie ard 1lewrph Staff.
I l     1     adcg of pasltltn  (13,000) due t hrtr    bn 19W85.
TrAitt.  1           awtmtly Ist fwr at  ainn of 30 _ads for 9ftedxite cae, 30 wek (dam f*n  50
ado 196044) for S9w say cadme, ad 52 "f  for Offlw.   kfre1 traldtg lat  for an                    a
of 5 "si    r f9_bdt aid &svusoy cade  ad for 3 waft  for Officao .
lm xr
bamasW
uNOC  9



5 57 -
AMNEX 12
Page 1 of 1
INDTA
MUM T      _LCOMUICATIONS PROJECT
AUDITING OF ACCOUNTS
Final                                              Audited
Fiscal  Accounts  Issue of Compliance Issue of   Audit    Accounts
Year    Submitted Audit    Recieved  Audit        Report   Received
Ending  for Audit Comments  from DOT  Certificate Signed   by the
March 31 (DOT)     MAh)   (DOT)        (C"AG)     (C&AG)   Bank
1981   02/20/82  04/03/82  04/20/82   04/28/82      -      12/22/82
1982   03/01/83  04/29/83  05/07/83   06/23/83    07/20/83  12/14/83
1983   02/01/84  03/28/84  07/28/84   08/24/84   09/21/84  02/07/85
1984   02/02/85  03/29/85  05/06/85   05/28/85      -     03/20/86
1985   12/27/85  01/24/86                                  09/12/86



- 58 -
USIA                                           JlM 13
Tow to  wh?dl 31               1977       1978        1979       1960       1981       1982       1983       19         1m
(I    ;     t
,,a                                                                                              2,739      3,072      3,300
xal.i (i4:1S  )                                                                                  3,305      3,558      4,3D0
Thak                                                                                             2,030      2,351      2,6M0
1Twqphm                       3,540      4,062      4,3t2       5,061      5,647      6,594      8,065      9,201      9,979
T b334     333        416        549        517        58S        750        851         93
Tele                            247        260        149         so         561        70         821        81         970
laaas  ,vj9                     125        108         157        115        195        1%         229        355        %O
Um1l8zoss                       108         50       -152        -387       -342       -387       47         -387       401
Toal Rb#enNB                  4,354      4,813       5,352      5,926      6,578      7,695      9,378     10,861     12,426
Statf exp2ae                  1,549      1,752       2,004      2,281      2,730      3,251      4,025      4,618      5,467
Otber operating                 388        438        501         S70        692        813      1,006      1,154      1,36
Dbiec. (hiat)                   373        449        537        6069        685        756        899      1,899      1,342
Pow bad Fdb                      30         is         30         33          38       -13          77          0          0
Tot Oper Exp                  2,340      2,657       3,072      3,493      4,135      4,807      6,007      6,871      8,176
E1mUoDN  Dmm                  2,014      2,156       2,280      2,433      2,443      2,88       3,371      3,99D      4,250
Otbor Incas                     147        174        2D1        224         266        342        442        551        699
D3IM  WE  DM                  2,161      2,330      2,481       2,657      2,709      3,230      3,813      4,541      4,b9
interest psyfmat                249        259        270        281         319        443        638        879      1,231
NET DIM0                      1,912      2,071      2,211       2,376      2,390      2,787      3,175      3,662      3,718
Opemlat   Ratio                  53.7      55.21      57.42       58.91      62.92      62.5S      64.12      63.3       65A
U1,00VTOt Mev                    81.3X      84.41      81.71      85.4%      85.1*       85.7%      86.0       84.71      80.2
Telepah Iv/T                      7.7S       6.92       9.12       9.3S        7.92       7.61       8.0        7*         7.51
TeUx re/ Tat r                    5.7S       5.14       9.12       9.1        8.15        9.22       8.61       7.71       ?A
Ians ncvtlbt r                    2.9%       2.22       2.9S       1.92       3.0Z        2.51       2h4        3.3S       7.61
Staff/Tat eV                     66.2S      65.92      65.2t      65.3       66.0       67.61      67.08      67.22      66.9
Oth ep/Sat op                    16.6%      16.5X      16.3%       16.3S      16.5S      16.9%      16.7       16.82      1.nZ
ller/ Tot op                     15.9X      16.91      17.1S      17.41       16.62      15.17      15.0       16.0t      16.4X
Total Staff a)                  238.0      246.0      256.1      271.0       287.5      313.3      329.3      343.5      344.9
incrtal Staf (1000)                          8.0       10.1       14.9       16.5       25.8        16.0       14.2        1.4
G0tcth Ra of Total Staff                     3.42       4.11       5.*        6.11       9.08        5.12       4.32       0.4b
Operatin stff                                                    231.1      244.1       263.7      275.6      287.9      289.3
A_g Operatn Staff                                                           237.6       253.9      269.7      281.8      288.6
Opsracl2n   Staff/lOOCEas:                                        115        114        15         112        108        100
a) TmIa     dnin1sratlw  staff



- 59- _                                                 N41113
Pa8 2 of 3
A    I 1   31                   1977        1970       1979        190                    191961  16  im 
- mt
PlAt IA                        9,34)      11,106     13,0        15,361     15,718     21,03       24,722     29,         34,3
UN SO                          2,664      3,          3,514      4,018       4,56       5,144       5,         6,629      7,617
7  pi"  InS e                  6,679       8,03       9,56       11,343     11,50       16,23      18,902     23,222      3,73
Plot ram                       3,53        3,9"       4,4M       4,58        6,693       5369       ?,IO       6,125      10,557
TVAa1t P1aid                  10,215      12,03      13,9        15,931     17,613      21,629     3,6        31,377          3
1mn                              890       8a0        1,015       1,016      1,463      173         2,01       2,1         2,@6
a n1w                            565         722       A66         99        1,'m        1,316      1,557      2,252       2,904
P1d ssp                                                                                                 1          2          3
Toal oaa    as$"               1,475       1,602      1,861       2,061      2,691      3,219       3,595      4,351       5,743
A s Kmth awt.                1,584        903       I,3M       1,32       1,395       1,421      1,445       1,474      1,424
AM       lb"                   2,249       2,392      2,5S3      2,768       3,61D      4,878       6,142      7,424       9,3JS
Ibtal O0r Masts                3,833       3,295      3,791      4,094       5,0t5      6,29        7,57      89p        10,8109
Wm 31                         15,523      16,935     19,575     22,1C9      25,641     31,146      37,243     44,626     53,85
awr u,uus:
Aamjztpwabl                      IU        134         147        16          190        222         267        325        394
MM=  sta                        239         255         234        351         359        460         514        664        76
ia  Oinat U.1.                   417        39          431        520        5ye    68     1         71         969       1,177
MWD  1ta 1                     1,990      2,1G2       2,120      2,106       2,091      2,070       2,044      2,196       3,312
mm 6                             136        319        412         413        411         475        519         535        860
im 7                                                    215        452         490        S45       6M           99       1,092
t  8                                                                          284         277        9I0       1,161      2,389
TOWl MA/30                     2,126      2,421       2,747      2,971       3,276      3,367       3,971      4,511       7,643
oftr                             391        422         577        433         119        904         726        7S0      2,639
TOW  Foeip UAW                 2,507       2,843      3,324      3,404       3,395      4,271       4,697      5,301     10,012
OMaLIAml27S                    1,406        633         617        390         368        305         28         242         tO0
MlML LMUS                      4,330       3,865      4,372      4,314       4,311      5,259       5,756      6,532      11,29
Ovt xtaicar Don                2,267       2,065      1,743       1,663      2,643      4,320       6,595      9,307      9,520
TOW  Fultd                     2,769       3,203      3,699      4,001       4,992      6,206       7,495      8,S05      10,789
Intl 3mr=                      6,57       7,02        9,761     12,131      13,673     15,361      17,37      19,982     22,237
TOal _AsaV                     8,926      11,005     13,460      16,132     18,655     21,567      24,892     28,787      33,026
mmL   mY                      11,193      13,070     15,203      17,795     21,296     25,887      31,487     3,094       42,546
LAMrrzS & EQ                  15,523      16,935     19,575     22,1G9      25,609     31,146      37,243     44,626      53,835
FAlEs
Onwmat Rtato                       3.5         4.1        4.3        4.0         4.9        4.7         4.6        4.4        4.9
DsbolWty Utto                     25.9        21.0       2D.6       17.6        15.0       15.0        13.6       12.7        U8.l
A/l /It iw (dh                    49          55        5s          61          67         64          61         76         85
iTnvAa  (2)                        9.52       7.9*        7.S*       7.12        9.42       8m         8.22        7.02       8.32
Ikm   t PLM La Ser            6,290       7,359      8,778      10,430     11,247      13,tO5     17,561     21,062      24,974
RAWOf dtaw                        32.03      29.32       26.A0      23.2        21.7X      21.12       1922       18.99       17.07t
PaI=t In erce                             14,449                 17,298      D,737     22,349      29,545     34,736      42,104
Not Plit in sitvlm                                   11,660      13,905     14,13       19,674     22,82      27,750      31,716
he rat Plot in mrl"a                                             12,762     14,021      16,9D5     21,250     25,288      29,733
1n lm     (wevalwed)                                  2,103       2,186      2,159       2,476      2,S24       3,350      3,543
Op  Supm  (.eaud)                                     3,249       3,740      4,419       5,219      6,554      7,501       8,863
Opq                            4,354       4,813      5,352       5,926      6,578       7,695      9,38       10,861     12,426
PAN d Rpas    (revaleald)                                            17.12       5.42      14,6S       13.3t      U1.32       11.9S
0t  atio  dat)                    53.72       55.22      57.42       S6.5       62.9X      62,5        64.12      63.3        65.3
opq atro (.eami)                                         60.72      63.12       67.22      67*         69*        69.1 2      71S*



- 60 -
AM u
%WIp3t 3
Ya  to Ibidi 31                   197         17          1979        190         11          19                      1            9
iht 1z                           2,161       2,330       2,481       2,657      2,70         3,=        3813 )      4,541      64,9
Dl)qw  d3 l                                               S373  440  53  609        5         756         an        1.99        142
kro1                                            18 303D                33      _                g77                     0 _O
T1   l nstervl Cob              2,564       2,791       3,064       3,299       3,432       3,973      4,789       S,640       6,291
O mtn~W$ Cbotribitla              -148       -232            4       -487          944       1,6I0       2,)U       2,961         213
othsr                             652        -752          2D          104         109         62         -2          -36        -142
=AM/IRWD    -                     324         301         118         452          54         911         543         604       2,861
3them                               35         42           0          32           0       _               0          67   1 
TotaO  FtI Eoroin                  359         343        118         484          54        I,34         543         671       4,711
TOtal Surc                     3,427       2,156       3,3DS      3,400       4,539        7,04       7,661       9,236      11,073
'r:
Costructlon Program              2,015       2,273       2,415       2,617       2,596       4,542       533j       6,416       7,246
-',ganfersto Gvt                  353        -681         385          39          69          2S          226                    -49
Tranzfe  to Postal                 547         144         111         264         912       12                      1 22        1 961
Total Debt Servioe                 256         266         277         316         383         477         765        895        1,231
Um. La W ix g Capital             256          154        187          165        59          832          A6         615         682
Total Usa                      3,427       2,156       3,375      3,400       4,539       7,074      ?7,61        9,236      11,073



- 61 -
aim 14
NO  1c 6
aN
amDM
gP4n4n3jm    ------- Estma es  -------                        TCa1 
Fiscal Yeaw                         198         1966        1967        1968         1969        1990      1966W4
Incr DEL   (1000)                    231         268         22D         300         400         43)
Total mm (100)                    2,8Y8       3,116       3,386       3,686       4,506       4,506
Avg MA (10O0)                      2,763       3,032       3,276       3,536       3,886        4,296
Tcr TOtal Staff                    3,60D         391       3,000       5,000      15,000       19,000
Tot Staff                        345,000     346,391     347,391     350,391      365,391     384,391
AvMs Ttal Staff                  343,200     345,196     346,391     348,891     357,891      374,891
OpeTating Staff                  29,300      29,600      298,800     307,300     320,800      324,300
Avwup Opeantin  Staff           231,000      29,450    294,200       303,050     314,050      322,550
Staff ratio (Operating)              100          96          90          86          81          75
hftin                                              106         1.06        1006        1.06         106
ctI                                  100         106         112         119          136         134
Di=  S_AhI (-s mdiai)
aPRAT        REVEIES
lrntal                             3,292       3,587       3,876       4,309       4,877       5,553
Local                              4,091       4,546       5,560       7,290       8,706       10,508
Trunk                              2,597       2,902       3,498       4,521        5,323       6,334
Tolepione                          9,980      11,035      12,933      16,120       18,9G6      22,395
Malegraph                            938         942         961         980        1,049       1,122
-alex                                970       1,149       1,472       2,076        2,696       3,380
Leased circauts                      940         439         449         463         476          491
Miscellganemo                       -402        -484        -517        -625        -756        -896
Total Oper Rev                    12,426      13,079      15,298       19,014     22,371       26,492      96,254
(PURNA ETPEES
Staff                              5,467       6,290       7,080       8,021       9,239       10,835
Otber                              1,367       1,572       1,800       2,059        2,399       2,811
D1reciatiln                        1,342       1,613       1,829       2,264       2,757       3,331
I   Debt Prov                          0           0          46          57          66          79
Tot Oper Ex                        8,176       9,475      10,755      12,401       14,463      17,057     64,151
OFOTIMG DIE                        4,250       3,604       4,543       6,613       7,908       9,435      32,125
Other income                         699         859         926         926         926          926      4,564
1n311  Ls  MNr                     4,949       4,463       5,470       7,540       8,834       10,361     36,689
Interest (-)                       1,231       1,701       2,127       2,701       3,395       3,993      13,924
NuT  DIIm                          3,718       2,762       3,342       4,832       5,439       6,368      22,766
Operatfing Ratio                      65.#        72.41       70.31       65.21       64.71       64.43
MR (blsta dse)                        17.1S       12.4        12.93       14.3%       14.3         14.91
MR (revalIue)                         12.11        8.51        8.71       11.12        12.0Z       12.9



- 62 -
AM 14
PAw 2 of 6
W?aflL  DS1   Whs
WN  SWf  (Rs a ltm)
- - -- - - --      b    _t  _m   _  _
iscal Uw (Mardh 31)               1985        19t5       1987       1988        1989       1990
PFid Asts:
GPA In 8rvioa                   34,343     40,650      50,307     61,274      74,030     88,033
8ao    dbprec                    7,617      9,230      11,059     13,323      16,080     19,412
NFA il uervice                  26,726     31,420      39,248     47,951      57,949     68,622
WI?                             10,557      12,756     12,399      15,312     15,546     14,623
Ital NA                         37,283     44,176      51,647     63,263      73,496     83,244
I!t Asts:
2,836      3,056      3,547       4,240      5,006       5,834
A/tR                             2,904       3,054      3,366      3,898       4,474      5,298
Ptpld ep                             3          4           4          5           6          7
T-otal CA                        5,743      6,114       6,917      8,143       9,486      11,140
Accou   w/0QI                   10,849      11,579     11,579      11,579     11,579      11,579
TrL  ASSES                      53,835      61,869     70,143      82,985     94,561     105,963
LUABUXTIS
Ourrew t KU~ties:
A/P                                394        445         515        585         675        792
Av Rental                          783       1,063        891        991       1,122       1,277
Intert Pay                           0          0          88        263         455        700
Tot-a (1                         1,177       1,507      1,494       1,838      2,252       2,769
Foreig LT Db:
WIM/ I-5                         3,312
-W6                                860
1D7                              1,082
MAO                              2,389      3,064       3,765
Proposed lD9                         0          0           0        663       1,859      3,133
Tbt IM/IED                       7,643       3,064      3,765        663       1,859      3,133
other swrc                       2,369       7,791     12,544     20,039      22,311     21,524
Total FobrL                     10,012      14,533     16,152      20,511     23,136     23,449
Telecom Bonids                       0          0       2,500      5,000       8,000      12,000
Otter iab                          100         50         150        210         279        361
Tot Lahila.tilB                 11,249      16,090     20,296      27,619     33,667      38,599
Gbvernmet                        9,519       9,648      9,714      9,800       9,209      8,551
Reserves                        33,026      36,311     40,133     45,566      51,685     58,833
Tot Equity                      42,546      45,779     49,848      55,366     60,894     67,384
LIAB & SQUTTY                   53,835      61,869     70,144     82,985      94,561     105,963
CA/a                                 4.9        4.1         4.6        4.4         4.2        4.0
Debt/%qty                           19.22      24.22       24.6%      27.32       27.8%      26.12



- 63 -
MU~ 14
Pape 3 af6
DarQieL alaiU PMWIQ
sum  M  uss (V FMn   (is milion)
Iscal Year                        1985       1986       1987        1988       1989       1990    1986-90
sa,S (V FPUIS (before Govt Qxtrbution)
ime Bef Int                      4,949      4,463      5,470      7,540       8,834     10,361     36,668
4depr                            1,342      1,613       1,829      2,264      2,757      3,331      11,795
+prwV                               0           0         46         57          67         79        20
Internal Coh                     6,291      6,076      7,34S       9,860     11,659     13,772     48,712
Dbt Servc (-)                    1,231      1,701      2,127       2,699      3,377      3,961      13,865
Net ITtnl Cgmh                   5,060      4,375      5,218       7,161      8,282      9,811     34,847
Subsx Deposits                     490        410        480        600         680        78D      2,950
Te--com Bonds                       0           0      2,500       2,500      3,000      4,000     12,000
Sbtothal                         5,550      4,785      8,198      10,261     11,962     14,591     49,797
S( CP UND6
Coitruction                      7,248      8,505      9,300      13,88D     12,990     13,080      57,755
Wr"  Capital                     1,204         41        817         881        930       1,136      3,8D5
Tot bvestum                      8,452      8,546      10,117     14,761     13,920     14,216      61,560
Total                            2,902      3,761      1,919       4,500      1,957       -375      11,763
Foreigi exhae                    4,737      1,474      1,619       4,422      2,571       -322      10,408
local fuds                      -1,835      2,287        300         78         614       -697       1,355
Net Cash/List                       59.9X      51.2%      51.6%      48.5%       59.5%      69.0%      56.6%
Net C"h/Cntr                       69.F        51.4%      56.1%      51.6%       63.A       75.0%      60.3%
*etc/ryanstr                        59.5X      47.0%      37.6%      55.1%       63.3%
Natc/ty6lcnstr                     64.2%       49.1%      45.0%      53.3%       63.5%
DS coer                             5.1         3.6        3.5        3.7         3.5        3.5        3.5



- 64 -
ANNEX 14
Page 4 of 6
INDIA
NINTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
DOT|KMTL Consolidated Projections
Notes and Assumitions
1.        Projections for FY86 are based on DOT provisional estimates.
Projections for subsequent years are on a consolidated basis for DOT and
HTML combined based on the following assumptions:
Income Statement
2.        Tariffs.  Telephone and telex revenues are projected assuming a
151 overall tariff increase effective September 1, 1986, and a 3% increase
on April 1, 1988 and 1989 to partly compensata for the cost inflation
projected at 7.5% p.a. over 1986/87-89/90.
3.        Telephone rental revenues are calculated as average rental charge
times average number of subscribers.  Installation fees, which are
calculated as the number of lines connected each year multiplied by average
connection fees, are included in the rental revenues.
4.        Local call revenues include charges for both local and pulse
metered automated long distance (STD) calls. Traffic per DEL is projected
to increase 5% p.a. in FY87-88, 7.5% in FY89 and 101 in FY90 due to
improved network performance.
5.        Trunk call revenues include charges for operator assisted long
distance calls. Trunk traffic per DEL is projected to increase at 3% p.a.
6.        Telegraph revenues are expected to grow at 7% p.s., which is
lower than the average. for the past five years (11%) since traffic will be
increasingly handled by improved telephone telex facilities.
7.        Telex revenues are projected on the basis of average number of
connected telex lines times average revenue per line. Traffic is expected
to increase 5% p.a. per line as the congestion in the network eases.
8.        Revenues from leased circuits (mainly Railways) are expected to
grow only marginally (3% p.a.) because of increase in independent networks
outside DOT's control.
9.        Miscellaneous revenues include net payments to OCS and other
international payments, which are projected to grow at the same rate as
telephone revenues.
10.       Staff expenses are expected to increase reflecting the expansion
in the total number of staff, although operating staff per DEL is expected
to decline, in accordance with DOT/TMTNL policy (para 4.10). It is assumed
that nominal wages will be adjusted fully for inflation.
II.       Other operating costs mainly operating and maintenance materials,
are assumed so remain constant in real terms per DEL.



- 65 -
ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 6.
12.       Deltociation has been calculated on a straight line basis at a
composite rate         of gross fixed assets in operation each year.  For
the calculation of rate of return on revalued assets, operating income has
been adjusted to reflect depreciation on a revalued basis.
13.       Other income includes the interest DOT receives on the funds
transferred to 001. The interest rate is projected at 8X p.a., which is
the current rate set by GOI.
14.       Tntereat egcnaes show payments DOT makes to GOI on the
capital-at-chere, hich Icludes Government "equity" contribution and
the foreign borrowing (at 8f p.a.), and interest on telecoumunications
bonds floated by MTNL (at 14% p.a.)o    The exchange loes on foreign debt
is transferred to Government.
15.       Taxes.  All projections have been made before corporate tax on
MTNL income.
Balance Sheet
16.       Fixed assets reflect the construction program detailed in
Annex 4. Works are assumed to be completed on average within four years
based on past experience.
17.       Subscriber accounts receivable have been assumed to gradually
improve fro 8S days equivalent of revenue in FY85 to 65 days in FY90.
18.       Inventories are calculated proportionately to the gross fixed
assets in operation; the proportion is expected to'improve from 8.3% in
FY85 to 7.21 in FY90 as a result of better materials management.
19.       AccountsgaMable have been calculated at 5.8% of annual cash
operating costs (wages and materials) based on past experience.
20.       Advance rental charges have been calculated at about 20% of
rental revenues reflecting bimonthly rental payments and past experience.
21.       Intest pyable has been assumed at 50% of annual bond
interest. (interest payments on the Government "capital at charge" are
made promptly at the year end.)
Funds Flow Statement
22.       Under the GOI regulations, OYT and other subscriber deposits are
recognized only as the connection is actually made. Rence, they are
assumed to increase at a same rate as telephone and telex connections.
Sum2a3   of Basic Assumptions
23.       Basic assumptions are summarized below:



- 66 -
ANNEX 14
Si;e 6 of 6
(ReS. NiUo-m)
84/85     85/86      -  -------Pr-jected             ------
FIscal Year                    Actual    Actual   86/87    87/88    88/89    89/90  7th Plan
Ccrsteuction ftcgram                      8,505    9,298    13,885    12,995    13,082   57,725
DDEIs Iner. (1000)                231       268       22D       300       400       42D
TOWl MALa (1000)                2,898    3,166    3,386    3,686    4,086    4,506
# Staff Incr.                   3,600       391     3,000    5,000    15,000    19,000
Total Staff (1000)                345       346       347       351       365       334
0pemtt  Staff                 289,300   289,600  238,800  307,300   32D,800  324,300
Staff ratio (end of yer)a/        100        96        90        86        81        75
Staff Unit COats anrawl Increase            14%        15        I(3       1(3       7.5%     1(3
Otbmr Cotso aranal increase                 10%        6&         6%        6        6%        6%
iss e of Bsds                       -         -     2,500    2,500      3,000     4,000    12,000
Trafic incr. per line (p.a.)
Telephbme traffic (local/SID)              2%        3%       7.5%      1(3       103
Trnk traffi                                3         3%        3%        3%        3%
Telc traffic                              4.4%       3%        5%        5%        5Z
a/ Aherage operatizg staff/average 1,000 MELA.



- 67 -
ANNEX I5
Page I of 3
INDIA
NINTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Summary of Tariffs
- - - - (Rs) - - - -
04/01/86    12/01/86
1 . TelePhone
(a) Advance Deposit Scheme
"Own Your Telephone" (OYT) Category Applications
Advance payment provides applicant wich priority                   no change
status for getting telephone service and is
applied against rental over 20 year period.
Deposit in exchange systems of:
(i)   10,000 lines capacity and above                  8,000
(ii)  1,000 lines capacity and above, but
below 10,000 lines                             6,000
(iii) below 1,000 lines capacity                       5,000
General and Special Category Applications
(i)   metered exchanges - 10,000 lines and above       1,OO0
- under 10,000 lines            800
(ii)  flat rate exchanges - over 100 lines             1,000
unier 100 lines             100
(b)  Installation Fee
Per connection (in exchange larger than
500 lines)                                             300         800
Shifting charge (500 lines and above                     150         600
Casual connection (10 days)                               90         half
bimonthly
rental
(c) Rental for Direct Exchange Line
(i) Measured Rate System (bimonthly rental)
Exchange systems of 100,000 lines
capacity and above                             200      no change
30,000 lines capacity,
but below 100,000 lines                        175
10,000 lines capacity,
but below 30,000 lines                         150
Under 10,000 lines                               125
(ii) Flat Rate System (annual charge)
Exchanges of 100 lines and above
providing 24 hour service                      900
Exchanges of less than 100 lines
capacity providing 24 hour service             750
Exchanges not providing 24 hours service         600



- 68 -
ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 3
- - - - (Re) - - - -
(d) Call Char es1/
-- Q0F -(no time limit)
Up to 200 (275) calls bimonthly               No charge
in excess of 200 (275)calls
and up to 3,000 (2,000) calls               0.40 (0.60) per call
bimonthly
Above 3,000 (2,000) calls bimonthly           0.50  (0.80) per call
(ii) Domestic Long Distance
(per unit of 3 minutes)
- Manual Service
Distance
(kilometers)     04/01/86      Re      12/01/86
up to      20        1.00                 2.00
21 -    50        2.00                 4.00
51 -   100        4.00                 6.00
101 -   200        8.00                12.00
201 -   500       12.00                18.00
501 - 1,000       20.00                30.00
above - 1,000       24.00                36.00
Urgent     -  twice ordinary rate
Immediate  -  four times ordinary rate
Lightning  -  eight times ordinary rate
- STD (pulse metered) Service
Distance             Periodicity of Pulse2/
(kilometers)                 (Seconds)
up to      20                 unlimited
21 -    50                     36
51 -   100                     12
101 -   200                      8
201 -   500                      4
501 - 1,000                      3
above - 1,000                       2
-Concessional Tariffs
50X of ordinary charges between 10pm and 5am on weekdays,
and all day on Sundays and National Rolidays.
l1 Revisions as of December 1, 1986 in parentheses.
1 pulse - 1 local call charge.



- 69 -
Page 3 of 3
_ _ _  (is) - _ _ 
04/01/86    12/01/86
(iii) International
~D~           E  unit of 3 minutes)
Neighboring Countries                        60       no change
Middle-East, Western Asia                    72
Europe, U.K.                                 84
U.S.A, Canada                                96
-ISD (puls  metered)
Periodicity of Pulse
Ordinary calls             1 second
Concessional               2 seconds
2. Telegraphs
First 10 words                 3.50         7.oo
Each additional word           0.50         1.00
3. Telex
- - - - (Rs) -
04/01/86    12/01/86
(a) Security Degosit
Deposit required for application
of new telex connection                              10 ,000    10,000
(b)  Installation Fee                                          300        800
(c)  Transfer Fee                                              300        600
(d)  (i)   Rental of teleprinter on TP circuits              3,600      4,500
(ii)  Rental for telex service with tele-
printer (within 5km of telex exchange
system) - annual charge.                          4,500       6,000
(iii) Where TP machine has been provided by
subscriber - annual charge.                        900        6,000
(iv)  Extra charge for every km in excess of 5 km.        450       1,500
(e)  Local call charges (per unit of 3 minutes)                1.0
(f) Long Distance: Rs. 1.00 charge for a unit period of:
Up to 200 kiloseters        60 seconds
201 to 600 kilometers       30 seconds
601 to 1,000 kilometers    20 seconds
Exceeding 1,000 kilometers 12 seconds



-70-                     ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
NINTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Return on Investments
The Program
1.        The DOT/MTNL investment program for the 7th plan period FY86-90
includes the Bank-financed project as an integral part, ongoing and other
works. The close relationship between project and non-project investments
makes any attempt at separation arbitrary. Consequently, the rate of
return calculation is made on the basis of the entire DOT/MTNL investment
program for FY86-90. The benefit period extends from 1986-2006, when on
average the equipment provided under the program is expected to have
completed Its useful life.
2.        Capital expenditures included in the calculations for the rate of
return include:
(a)   all expenditures FY86-90 excluding the carryover from the 6th
plan (estimated at 20% FY86 total expenditure);
(b)   expenditures in FY91 which are retained payments for goods
procured in FY90; and
(c)   expenditures beyond FY91 to replace short-lived equipment.
Preinvestment for future programs is not included. No residual values of
fixed assets have been taken into account as their net present value would
be negligible.
3.        Incremental operating costs and revenues are based on the
expected increase in DELs, connected telex lines, increased telegraph
facilities and expected traffic increasse due to the program. Operating
costs are net of depreciation, provision for bad debts and interest.
4.        It is assurad that with the program:
(a) the number of DELs would increase from 3.2 million in FY86 to
4.9 million by FY91;
(b) automatic telephone traffic per line increases by 3X in FY87,
7.5% in FY88, 10% in FY89 through FY91; trunk call traffic
increases by 3% p.a. in FY87-91; telex traffic by 3% p.a. in
FY87-88, 5% in FY89-91 and reman constant thereafter; and
(c)   total staff numbers would increase from 345,000 in FY86 to
387,000 in FY90 and remain constant thereafter.



_71-                         ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 3
It is assumed that without the program:
(a)   the number of DELs and telex connections would remain constant at
the mid FY86 level;
(b)   traffic per line would remain at the FY86 level in FY87-88 and
decreasing by 5% p.a. in FY89-91 and remain constant thereafter;
and
(c)   staff numbers would remain constant as at the end FY86 level.
5.        The program's incremental cost and benefit streams are summarized
below. All revenues and costs have been deflated at 6% p.a. to bring them
to their comparable 1986 price levels.
Incremental Financial Costs and Benefits of the Program
(Rs million, constant 1985 prices)
Investment         Operating
Year         Costs              Costs           Benefits      Net Benefits
1986           7,134                 0                  0         (7,134)
1987           9,806               86              1 764          (9,128)
1988          13,121              305              2,682         (10,744)
1989          12,189              703              5,529          (7,363)
1990          11,37)            1,303              8,497          (4,185)
1991           1,500            1,761             11,310           8,049
1992-
2006            500             1,761            11,310           9,049
The internal financial rate of return for the above net benefit stream is
15%.
6.        This calculation understates the benefits to be derived from the
investment program. It does not account for consumer surplus or indirect
and external benefits due to the improved telecommunications system. A
portion of the consumer surplus was estimated by assuming that new
consumers are similar to the average existing consumer and that existing
and new subscribers will be willing to pay for telecommunications services
at the same rate in real terms as they pay today. Based on these
assumptions, adjusting for taxes and duties and applying a standard
conversion factor of 0.8 to local costs and revenues, the stream of
economic costs and benefits is shown below.



-72 -                        AMEX 16
Page 3 of 3
Incremental Economic Costs and Benef its of the ProAra.
(Rs million, constant 1985 prices)
Investment       Operating
Year         Costs            Costs           Benefits        Net Benefits
1986         5,686                0                 0             (5,686)
1987         7,838               71               611            (7,298)
1998         9,819              250             2,273             (7,796)
1989         9,572              577             4,961             (4,187)
1990         9,515            1,069             8,075             (5,187)
1991         1,238            1,444            11,396              8,714
1992-          422            1,494            11,396              9,530
2006
The internal economic rate of return for the above net benefit stream is
201.
7.        A sensitivity analysis was conducted on the economic rate of
return with the following results:
Seneitivity Analysis on En
Component                                                   ERR
(a)  Base Case                                 -              20%
(b)  Program Costs                          +202              18%
(c)  Operating Costs                        +202              19%
(d)  Benefits                               -202               15%
(e)  Coubination b,c,d                                        12%
(f)  Program Benefits delayed 2 years                          10%



- 73 -
ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 1
INDIA
NIV'LH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PRJECT
Selected Documents Available in Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector
Al.  (a) Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited - Draft - March 20, 1986
(b) Summary, March 18, 1986
(c) Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association
(d) Report on Workshop on 'Mission-Better Telecommunications' 2/20/86
(e) Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited - Comments and clarifications
on World Bank Report, 10/20/86
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Bl. Project Brief, February 4, 1985
B2.  BTOR and Issues Paper, May 31, 1985 Updated February 27, 1986
B3. Decision Memorandum, July 26, 1984
B4. Aide Memoire - Bank Mission, December 7, 1984
B5. Aide Memoire - Bank Mission, May 4, 1985
B6. Aide Memoire - Bank Mission, November 22, 1985
B7. Aide Memoire - Bank Mission, February 14, 1986
C. Selected Working _pers and Tables
Cl. Economic Rate of Return - details
C2. Evaluation of Program
C3. Project Cost Details



700                             P      opJKOTD4 To &s           \        8                                                                       9;
_____                                               AMkITSAR ' /
/r 2LUDHtNA.  SWAA
PAKISTAN                          /_,8 A                                               / 
J                    I MUZAFFARNAGAR        '
E'.  I     MOtRADABAD.
NEW DELHI                           .-N-                      \      
)_ d8~~~~2~1KANR 'im          '          .AR IIt/                                                 6p~
\AGAR  HAHJARANPUR d-. B-TAf
( -" ' , AWAORI                                    0GAYA N          PTAKUR~~{    - t     'iBHUTAN
g t - , _ _ v x, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' RMAU
S   r -  , .t   UDAlrUX  t            /      ;                  /                        -ANGLADESH
-'* CHMTARGARH I            /       I               f                                    (    \  \ 'K   A   BH
\x / ,~~~~~~~~~~OB,AGgNSUTARA 0//zXSK 
-./-SiENDRANAGAR-~~----- rATiZZ                     r_-BHOA                 ABLU                                  RANHIX              UD> 
oul~~~~~~~~0
;  ,c~~~~~~~~-.-                                                                   ND  oINTHR TELECOMMUNIaIlO   PROJECTi
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COXA, MIROAVEAND>o  ;  t KOTIA  \I__  SYSTEMS-
\  _. ' UR~~~~~IMATO                                                                        hB*s    _ 0B           fl= d
10.~~~~~~~~~  5;^I                           TRICIII    8A //iwhcMA                 \AGPI?A                                                    CICM!.e
^  AHMEDNAGAR   g          oO                                       /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ED
* IDHRAD - L-  
........ 0                                                                         zr,?0   29     3~ih
. ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ IU~W 6X    .60I   26                                                                  26 .
aAt    iEGAI,;CNTDAtWDA,
,.la,..t~~~~~~~                      \\         1l.0      NTAWI               .
IPU  --V                VI0UPUR4/,R
BLAUME      < 
ZZa\^         f          \,)         9                                     :HT3Q
! '-) o oo 200 io wo ioDL
t~~~~~~~~(    R    X
1) E     NA I_
F~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VAO _._bwve_ b_                        ,o'                                                                   % t ..
iR    _ R _ > > _ # _ #                             '      ,                  ,'ea                                                                  c  " ,     f W. Ba



