Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
L 3 L/Co- 
Report No. 8019-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
NOVEMBER 8, 1989
Country Department II
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                     Peso (Mex$)
US$1.00                           2616 Pesos (as of 10/30189)*
Daily Minimum Wage                8306 Pesos (as of 10/30/89)
(National Average)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ACF                             Average Cost of Funds to the Banking System
BANOBRAS                        National Development Bank for Public Works
CETES                           Mexican Government Treasury bill rate
DMW                             Daily Minimum Wage
FONHAPO               =         Low Income Housing Fund
FOVI                  -         Housing Fund For Commercial Banks
FOVISSTE              =         Housing Fund for State Service Workers
GOM                             Government of Mexico
INFONAVIT                       Housing Fund for Workers
ISSFAMfFOVIMI                   Social Security Institute at Armed Services
NGOs                  =         Non-government organizations
PRONASOL              =         National Program of Solidarity
SEDUE                           Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology
SHCP                  =         Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit
SPP                  =          Secretariat of Planning and Budgetary
* The exchange rate against the US dollar is currently sliding at a rate
of MEX$1 per day.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
SECOND LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY., .............................,.,   i-ill
I.       THE HOUSING SECTOR ..........................................      1
A.  Housing Demand and Supply ...............................      1
B. Non-Government Organizations.                                  4
C. The Construction Industry.                                     4
D. The Housing Finance System.                                    5
E.  Institutional Sources of Housing Finance.                     5
F. FONHPO.                                                        7
G. Sector Issues .11
H.  Experience with Past Bank Lending .13
I. Government Strategy .14
J.  Bank Strategy and Rationale for Involvement .16
II. THE PROJECT .17
A.  Background ..............................................    17
B.    Objectives ............  +.................................. . . 17
B. Objectives.17
C.  Project Description ......................   . .....    17
D. Project Costs .19
E. Financing Plan .20
F.  Onlending and Legal Arrangements .21
III.  IMPLEMENTATION ASPECTS .21
A. Implementation of Subprojects .21
B. Criteria for Subproject Selection .23
C.  Implementation of Institutional Development.
Program and Special Studies .24
D. Targeting of Project Investments and Monitoring
of FONHAPO Programs .25
E. Project Reporting.                                            25
F.  Annual Assesment of FONHAPO's Program.                       25
G. Accounting and Auditing .26
H.  Procurement ....................    26
I. Disbursements .28
This report is based on an appraisal mission which visited Mexico in March
1989. The mission was comprised of Messrs. Thomas Zearley, Sr. Financial
Analyst (Task Hanager), Gian Carlo Guarda, Urban Advisor, and Ms. Tova Maria
Solo, Consultant. Mr. S. Ramachandran (LATTF) contributed to the writing of
the report, and Ms. Frances Tate assisted in its preparation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IV.      FINANCIA ASPECTS .     ......................................    29
A.  FONHAPO Onlending Policies and Capital Recovery   . .         29
B. Subborrower Loan Collections              ..                   32
C.  FONHAPO Financial Prospects .......................... -      32
V.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION                      . . .                      33
A.  Project Benefits ........................................    33
B. Environmental Impact ....................................    34
C. Urban Poverty Impact ....................................    34
D. Risks and Safeguards ....................................    35
VI.      AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS           .      .         35
A. During Negotiations                   ..                       35
B.  Effectiveness ...........................................    37
TABLES
Table 1   Major Housing Finance Institutions ........................       6
Table 2    Estimated Project Costs ...................................    20
Table 3    Financing Plan ............................................    20
Table 4    Procurement Arrangements ..................................    27
Figures
Figure 1 FONHAPO's Loan Terms .31
ANNEXES
Annex 1   Distribution of Household Incomes in Mexico ...............    38
Annex 2    Estimated Yearly Housing Demand in Mexico .................    39
Annex 3    Number of Huusing Units Completed and Tot-al
Investments By Type of Housing Finance Institution ........    40
Annex 4   FONHAPO Organizational Chart ..............................    41
Annex 5    FONHAPO Procedures and Operations .........................    42
Arnex 6    FONHAPO Financial Statements 1985-88 ......................    45
Annex 7   Estimated Number and Costs of Housing Units
to be Financed by FONHAPO Under the Proposed Project ......    47
Annex 8    Description of Special Investment Programs ................    48
Annex 9    Plan of Action for Institutional Stengthening
of FONHAPO ................................................    51
Annex 10   Preparation of Special Studies .53
Annex 11   Breakdown of Estimated Project Costs-By Tyle .59
Annex ?  Project Monitoring Indicators .60
Annex 13   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .61
Annex 14   FONHAPO's Proposed Onlending Terms .62
Annex 15   Description of Annual Survey of Collection Performance of
FONHAPO Subborrowers .63
Annex 16   FONHAPO Financial Projections .64
Annex 17 Economic Analysis of Project .68



MEXICO
SECOND LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
Loan and Project Surmary
Borrower:      Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C.
(BANOBRAS)
Guarantor:     United Mexican States
Executing
Agency:        Fondo Nacional de Habitaciones Populares (FONHAPO)
Amount:        US$350 million equivalent
Termst         Repayable over 17 years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Relending      BANOBRAS would onlend the Bank loan proceeds in pesos to
Terms:         FONHAPO at the Mexican Government Treasury bill rate
(CETES). FONHAPO would relend the proceeds to e'igible
subborrowers (i.e., states, municipalities, social and
cooperative organizations and authorized banking
institutions, etc.) on terms and conditions which vary with
the housing loan amount provided to final beneficiaries
(heads of households earning less than 2.5 times the legal
minimum wage). Under FONHAPO relending terms, monthly
payments and the loan amount are indexed to the minimum
wage, and upfront lump-sum subsidies are provided to
beneficiaries, the amount of which varies depending on the
loan amount and family income. In addition, beneficiaries
would be charged an interest rate of 3Z p.a. on the loan
balance net of the lump-sum subsidy. To cover
administrative costs, subborrowers charge a one percentage
point fee on the FONHAPO loan amount. The Government will
bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
Project        The main objectives are to: (i) increase the availability
Objectives:    of housing credit for low-income families; (ii) improve
FONHAPO's level of cost recovery and redirect its subsidies
to the poorest groups; (iii) improve the cost efficiency of
housing solutions; (iv) further streamline the
administrative procedures of FONHAPO and its subborrowers;
and (v) contribute to the improved planning and development
of urban areas.



- il -
Proiect        The loan would finance a slice of FONHAPO's 1989-94
Description:   conventional lending program in starter dwellings, serviced
lots and home improvement credits (822 of total project
costs). It would also finance two special investment
programs for land tenure and urban upgrading in rapidly-
expanding nortLarn border cities and in unregulated
settlements in Mexico City and other urban centers (132 of
total costs). Altogether, the project would provide new or
improved housing for about 250,000 families. In addition,
the project would support institutional strengthening for
FONHAPO and its subborrowers and studies on building codes
and administrative procedures, informal settlements, and
savings mobilization among low-income families (5Z of total
costs).
Project        The project would expand the credit available for the
Benefits:      largest and poorest segment of the housing market and would
improve FONHAPO's cost recovery, thereby gradually
increasing its own contribution toward new investment
financing. It would also enable FONHAPO to initiate
significant land tenure programs and expand credit for home
improvements and basic services. Finally, the project would
provide employment in construction and improve sanitary and
environmental conditions of low income families.
Project        The major risk, which '.nvolved possible political
Riskss         resistance to highe. levels of cost recovery and the
retargetting of FONHAPO subsidies, has already been
successfully ad.ressed as the new Administration has agreed
to implement revised onlending terms for FONHAPO. There
would also be the risk that ex post subsidies provided by
FONHAPO would be higher than anticipated if future
adjustments in the minimum wage do no keep pace with
inflation. But, as real wages in Mexico are expected to
increase, following nearly six years of continuous decline,
this risk is small.



- iii -
Estimated Project Costs:         Local          Foreign            Total
- _____________US$ millions-------
I. FONHAPO Credits
(a) Conventional Programs   416.1             69.6             485.7
(b) Special Programs           65.4           13.7              79.1
II. Other Costs
(a) Technical Assistance        6.4            0.0               6.4
and Studies
(b) Project Administration   23.8              0.0              23.8
PROJECT BASE COSTS            511.7           83.3             595.0
Price Contingencies            93.0           12.0             105.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST            604.7           95.3              700.0
Financing Plan-                   Local         Foreign            Total
-------------US$ millions------------
Bank                          254.7           95.3              350.0
Government                    140.0            0.0              140.0
FONHAPO                       175.0            0.0              175.0
Subborrowers/Beneficiaries   35.0              0.0               35.0
TOTAL                       604.7           95.3             700.0
Estimated Disbursements:                 Bank Fiscal Year
1990a/ 1991  1992    1993   1994    1995
(US$ millions)
Annual                    39.4   48.1   70.0   105.0   70.0   17.5
Cumulative                39.4   87.5  157.5   262.5  332.5  350.0
Rate of Return: About 14Z
_/ Retroactive financing of US$35 million to be provided for all project
expenditures incurred after February 15, 1989.



MEXICO
SECOND LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
I.   THE HOUSING SECTOR
A. Housing Demand and Supply
1.01     Demographic, Urban Trends and Income Distribution.  Mexico is
experiencing a population boom. While the country's birth rate has
gradually declined from a peak of 3.4% in 1960 to 2.7% in 1980, and has
remained virtually unchanged s'ace then, the rate of infant mortality has
declined substantially and the~ average life expectancy has been extended.
As a result, total population hts jumped from 50.6 million in 1970 to 82
million in 1988, and is expected to top 100 million by the year 2000.
Mexico's population is very young. Today, 59Z of the population is less
than 24 years of age. And, although a large portion of the population
still lives in dispersed rural areas, the urban population has grown
rapidly and is increasingly concenttated in a few large metropolitan areas.
The proportion of the population living in urban centers of more than 2,500
people, has increased from 51% in 1960 to 71% in 1988. About 27% of the
population lives in Mexico's three main metropolitan areas (Mexico City,
Guadalajara and Monterrey), which continue to draw migrants from other
areas of the country. Moreover, the past decade has seen local population
booms accompanying rapid economic growth in certain cities, in particular
the cities along the United States border, the international tourist areas,
and urban centers in the petroleum belt. These trends combine to increase
the pressure on the existing housing stock.
1.02     Current information on income distribution in Mexico is not
readily available. Results of the latest survey of household income, for
1984, are presented in Annex 1. It shows that over 30% of households earned
less than one minimum wage (about US$100 per month, in March 1989 prices)
and about 75Z of famllies earned less than three minimum sa'aries
(US$300/month). Undoubtedly, at present a larger proportion of the
population falls into these lower-income brackets, as real wages in Mexico
have declined measurably since 1984.
1.03     Demand.  Mexico's housing deficit is substantial.  The Government
of Mexico (GOM) estimates that 6 million units, or a 37% increase to the
existing housing stock, would be required to alleviate the present over-
crowding. 1 Between 1989-94, nearly 590,000 units per year would be
required to prevent Mexico's housing conditions from deteriorating (Annex
2). New household formations account for about 48% of this need. The
remaining 52% reflects the need to replace substandard housing. Demand for
housing is accentuated at the low-income end of the market, and will
continue to be in the foreseeable future. Government projections indicate
1/ Overcrowded units are defined as those with more than 2.5 perbons per
room. The housing deficit is determined by the number of such units.



-2-
that during the 1989-94 period, about three-fourths of the newly-formed
families will earn less than two minimum wages, or the equivalent of US$200
per month. Historically, families in this income group have not had access
to formal sector financing for housing, except through programs offered by
the public housing agencies (para. 1.18).
1.04     While the scarcity of credit underlies the housing problem in
Mexico, the netuie of the lhousing deficit varies throughout the country.
In general, 'ew families are without some form of shelter, instead the need
for housing appears ilt the following forms:
- Inner cities of the older metropolitan areas are characterized
by over-crowded and deteriorated tenements, sorely in need of
rehabilitation. The absence of financing for home improvement or for
resale has led to the owners' virtual abandonment of many properties. GOM
efforts, begun in the early 1980s, to expand credit for the rehabilitation
and sale of apartments to residents and to promote investment in rental
properties represent promising starts toward solving inner city housing
problems and will be continued by the current Administration.
- At the same time, the fast-growing metropolitan fringe areas are
experiencing difficulties increasing their limits to accommodate new
families. Some larger cities have dealt successfully with the demand by
acquiring and selling lots, planned in an orderly fashion but with no
initial services to families who build on their own. Programs such as
these, which emphasize land tenure regularization, self-help construction,
and the gradual provision of services, deserve furtlher support of, and
promotion by, both local and federal authorities.
- Several urban areas, such as the northern frontier cities and
Mexico City, have experienced sudden, explosive growth and now must contend
with the problem of large irregular settlements. (For the purposes of this
report, irregular settlements refer to spontaneous neighborhoods, located
near or within metropolitan areas, built on land which has not been
registered or titled, with neither the benefit of formal sector financing,
nor the blessing of local permits, nor the guidelines of the legal codes
and regulations, nor, in the majority of cases, full access to basic
services.) In time, most such settlements become legalized and endowed
with public services, but neighborhoods of some degree of 'irregularity" or
other, are very common. Furthermore the majority of 'irregular'
settlements are not registered on the property tax rolls. Some 500,000
households in Mexico City alone live in settlements currently classified as
irregular', and 602 of the housing in the capital is estimated to have
been 'irregular' originally. Service installation can cost up to twice as
much in these communities as it does in 'planned" or orderly neighborhoods.
Therefore, it is important to stem the further proliferation of irregular
conmunities and, among the more promising ways to do this, are several
programs now being developed by federal and local government authorities
which focus on land tenure rights and the provision of basic services for
poor neighborhoods (para. 1.35).
- Outside of the major cities, housing presents a totally
different problem. In small towns and rural areas, peasants often have
land and electrical energy, but have virtually no access to financing to



-3-
build homes or to upgrade their existing ones with basic services like
water supply and sanitation. Recently, the GOM created a small,
specialized fund to support housing in rural areas. This could be a step
in the right direction, but time will be needed to evaluate the program's
effectiveness, principally in terms of cost recovery, credit collections
and administrative efficiency.
1.05     The main form of tenure is ownership), accounting for about 672 of
all housing units in 1980, up from 54? in 1960. This trend reflects both
the strong desires of Mexicans to own their own home and the Government's
efforts to satisfy that desire. It also reflects the reluctance by the
private sector to invest in rental properties as a result mainly of
unfavorable fiscal policies which have tended to reduce investment yields
and to dimlnish Investors' confidence.  Recently, the Government lhas begun
to recognize that rental housing may represent a solution, particularly for
low income families. In an effort to increase the supply of rental
housing, the GOM took steps, beginning in 1987, to promote investor-owned
rental housing by creating new lines of credit, and offering fiscal
incentives to investors such as accelerated depreciation atnd tax credits.
Furthermore, as part of a recently-approved Bank loan (para. 1.43), the
Government will prepare a study of the rental market including a review of
incentives required to stimulate more private investment in rental housing.
Rent control legislation is not a major problem in Mexico's housing sector.
The last re.it control decree dates back to the late 1940s, before the
expansior. of major cities, and is limited to legislation governing
"pockets" of downtown areas.
1.06     §upj4Z.  Statistics on housing construction are incomplete.
However, estimates Indicate that between 1983-87 the total annual housing
construction in Mexico grew steadily, reaching 580,000 units in 1987, or
about equal to the incremental demand in that year.   During the 1983-87
period, the formal sector produced about half of the new homes, relying on
credit from the housing finance system (para. 1.11) and private,
independent sources. Since the early 1980s, independently-financed home
construction has declined significantly, as the economic crisis reduced
real wages and constricted credit. In. response, the housing finance system
moved to take up the slack, increasing its share of total home construction
to over 40Z in 1987, up from 26Z lti 1982.
1.07     About half of all new housing between 1983-87 was supplied by the
informal sector; individuals themselves and private builders, operating
outside the regulated financial markets and without legal permits.
Although the informal sector generally offers inexpensive and flexible
housing solutions, tailored to meet the individual needs and financial
constraints of low-income families, such units are deficient by most
standards (i.e., located on illegallv-occupied land, in violation of
established land-use regulations and building codes, end without basic
services). Generally, residents of these dwellings are unable to obtair,
bank loans to upgrade their properties because the land and existing homes
they occupy can not serve as acceptable collateral. The Government's
strategy for reducing the percentage of substandard housing has focused on
increasing the availability of credit offered by public housing agencies
(para. 1.18) for the provision of infrastructure, legalization of land
tenure and for home Improvements. This strategy is sound, but its
implementation could be hindered if public agencies are unable to obtain
necessary resources to meet credit demands.



-4-
B. Non-Government Organizations
1.08     Social interest groups have a history of developing low-income
housing on their own in Mexico. Their role has increased significantly
over the past several years as GOM initiatives have extended credit to
housing cooperatives, credit unions, and tra(te cooperatives (fishermen,
farmers and laborers) through public hoAsing agencies (para. 1.18). In
1987, the public housing institutions assisted close to 100 such NGOs
develop housing programs, which benefitted 18,000 low-income families.
While in most cases the NGOs contract out project design and construction
to private builders, as sub-borrowers, they tend to offer their
beneficiary-members a more direct role in project preparation and execution
than their public sector counterparts. Although NGOs usually take a little
longer than public organizations to complete their projects, their
construction costs tend to be lower. Furthermore, NGOs generally operate
in conjunction with commercial banks, which perform collection and credit
rating services. As a result, the NGO-commercial bank relationship serves
to stimulate savings among the beneficiary families, often bringing them a
first experience with banking, and offering the banks a new
depositor/borrower base. GOM, through the public housing agencies, intends
to continue to offer both credit and technical assistance to NGOs to help
them address the housing needs of their beneficiaries.
C. The Construction Industry
1.09     Hexico's construction industry is highly developed, with the
capacity to execute works efficiently and at relatively low costs. The
construction industry represents a major contributor to the nation's
economy, accounting for 4.72 of GDP in 1987. Over 60? of gross capital
formation and about 7Z of the formal sector jobs depend on the Mexican
construction industry. The National Chamber of Commerce reports over
13,000 affiliate firms, spread throughout the country, although nearly half
of the firms are concentrated in the three major metropolitan areas.
Housing represents about 15? of the construction industry's annual output
and has a higher labor component (40Z) than any other sector, except for
construction services. Typically, housing construction is carried out by
the 10,000 or so smaller firms and by unregistered (informal) contractors,
which supply about half of the housing in Hexico.
1.10     The construction industry suffered a severe setback during the
economic crisis of 1982-83 when an estimated 900,000 workers were laid off.
Since then the industry has remained depressed and an estimated additional
65,000 workers have lost their jobs. GOM policy to limit new major
infrastructure projects during the past administration has had a
significant impact on the construction industry, which depends heavily on
the public sector for contracts. As part of its plan.to reactivate the
economy, the new Administration will focus attention on the housing
construction sector, as a prime employment generator. By doing this, the
GOM would also address an important social issue as the bulk of the
employment to be provided would go to lower-income, less-skilled laborers.



D. The Housing Finance System
1.11     Introduction. The Hexican system for extending housing credit is
segmented according to the different authorities which offer home finance
programs, each with its own operational norms, financial arrangements and
particular beneficiaries. Thtree institutional groups manage the major
housing credit programs: a) financial agents, mainly nationalized
commercial banks whose own funding is complemented by resouces from a trust
fund (FOVI) managed by the Central Bank of Mexico (para. 1.15); b) three
major payroll contribution funds whilch are quasi-public institutions and
are administered by a tri-partite council with representatives of the
Government, the employers' associations and the workers' union (para.
1.17); and c) public housing agencies which are supported by Federal and
State budgot transfers such as the local, State Housing Institutes and
Regiotial Housing Funds. The Fondo Nacional de Habitaciones Populares
(FONHAPO), which was created by the Government to finance and promote low-
income housing programs, is the largest of the public housing agencies
(para. 1.18).
1.12     Over the 1983-88 period, the housing finance system financed about
250,000 units per year reaching a peak of almost 300,000 units in 1985
(Annex 3). The corresponding investmpnt, measured in current prices, was
US$10.1 billion equivalent. The banking system accounted for 512 of this
investment total, the payroll funds 392 and the public housing agencies
financed the remaining 102. Financing from the public housing agencies,
which is directed mainly at low-cost housing solutions, produced a
disproportionally large share of the total units completed by the regulated
housing sector during 1983-88. The public agencies financed 342 of all
units completed during this period, while the commercial banks accounted
for 31? and the payroll funds for the remaining 35X.
1.13     Overall housing sector activities are coordinated by the
Secretariat for Urban Development and Ecology (SEDUE) which has been
empowered by the 1983 Federal Housing Law to (i) develop and administer
housing policies; (ii) coordinate the housing programs of the public
agencies, other than the payroll funds; and (iii) participate in the
formulation of the public agencies' investment programs. While the public
sector, through SEDUE and the regulated housing finance institutions, serve
as the primary organizers and suppliers of home finance, housing
construction is carried out almost entirely through the private sector.
E.   Institutional Sources of Housing Finance
1.14     The key features of the three main groups of institutions
providing housing finance are presented in Table 1 and discussed in the
following paragraphs.



-6-
TABLE 1. MAJOR HOUSING FINANCE INSTITUTIONS
Commercial      Payroll Contri-
Key Features                     Banks/FOVI       bution Funds        FONHAPO
Lending in 1988 (US$Mn)          $1,220            $970                $126
1988-Lending Share (Z)             50               34                   5
1988-Tot.Units Financed (Z)        39               31                  22
Main Types of Housing            Finished         Finished            Starter Houses,
Solutions Financed               Houses          Houses               Serviced Lots
& Home Imprv.
1988 Ave. Unit Cost (US$)        $12,000         $11,260              $1,840
Principal Source                 Own Resources  Payroll Tax             Federal
of Funds                         & FOVI Funds                         Gov't Transfers
Annual Lending Rates             Average Cost   Minimum Wage          Minimum Wage
of Funds        Adjustment          Adjustment
Primary Target Group             Salaried        Salaried             Non-Salaried
(Monthly Min.Wage Multiples)   (Up to 12)        (Up to 5)            (Up to 2.5)
Commercial Banks
1.15     In addition to making mortgage loans at commercial terms, the
banks were required, until recently, to allocate a percentage of their
total lending for "social interest' housing loanis. As part of the
financial sector reforms instituted by GOM in April 1989, commercial banks
will no longer be required to lend for housing or any other designated
activity (para. 1.47). The Central Bank of Mexico, through its trust fund,
the Fondo de Operacion y Financiamiento Bancario a la Vivienda (FOVI),
provides commercial banks with additional resources for housing. FOVI
makes credit availalble to the banks to finance housing for families with
incomes between 2 and 12 minimum wages. FOVI financing supports primarily
new, finished housing units, constructed using standard designs. FOVI
regulations permit the financing of investor-owned rental housing as well
as home improvements. New housing projects financed with FOVI funds are
initiated mostly by private developers who build and sell houses in the
market at their own risk. The construction is typically carried out by the
developers or subcontracted. In recent years, the vast majority of
beneficiaries of FOVI financing have been young, middle-class couples with
two children or fewer.
1.16     Since 1984, commercial banks have offered mortgage loans with a
variable interest rate that is linked to their average cost of funds (ACF).
However, until recently, Central Bank regulations required that home loan
interest rates remain below the ACF, thus causing the commercial banks to



-7-
forgo substantial revenues on their mortgage portfolios and to subsidize
homebuyers. In March 1988, the Central Bank moved to eliminate subsidies,
changing its regulations to allow batiks to achieve full cost recovery on
mortgage loans. The Bank's ongoing loan to FOVI (para. 1.43) is supporting
changes necessary in each one of the 32 Mexican states in order for the
March 1988 Central Bank regulations to become fully effective.
Payroll Contribution Funds
1.17     Three separate payroll contribution funds constitute the second
major system providing housing finances INFONAVIT for the private secto:,
FOVISSTE for the public sector, and ISSFAM/FOVIMI for the military. These
funds are financed mainly by employers who make compulsory contributions
equal to 52 of their wage bills. Like the commercial banks, the payroll
funds finance new, standard housing units, aimed at the co.itributors
earning less than 5 minimum wages. The funds typically carry out
contracting and supervision of housing projects on their own. The largest
housing fund is the "Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda para los Trabajadoresl
(INFONAVIT) which receives contributions from about 5.2 million accredited
workers and has made some 761,000 housing loans since its inception in
1972. Because of a highly subsidized 4% fixed interest rate on its loans,
until recently cost recovery had been extremely low. However a new system
of INFONAVIT mortgage loan terms, was implemented in 1987, which indexes
the loan and monthly payments to the minimum wage. Cost recovery has thus
risen to around 702. The Government's intention to encourage similar
changes for the other major payroll contribution fund, FOVISSTE, is laid
out in the Housing Policy letter prepared in conjunction with the Bank's
Loan to FOVI (para. 1.43).
The Public Housing Agencies
1.18     The third and smallest housing finance system consists of a group
of housing agencies at the federal and local levels funded by budgetary
contributions or managed autonomously as part of larger programs providing
housing for the residents of Mexico City, and for the petroleum and
electricity cor7irations. As mentioned previously, FONHAPO is the most
important agenc) among this group. FONHAPO is the executing agency for the
subject Loan as well as the executing agent for Loan 2612-ME (para. 1.41).
FONHAPO deals with the largest and poorest segment of the market by
channelling credit, on a wholesale basis, to eligible sub-borrowers (para.
1.25), which supervise and subcontract housing construction. FONHAPO
financing is targetted to non-salaried heads of households earning less
than 2.5 times the minimum wage (or the equivalent of US$250 per month, as
of March 1989). Provided below is a description of FONHAPO's history and
organization, its sub-borrowers and eligible beneficiaries, its past
lending performance and financial structure. A descrjption of FONHAPO's
subproject cycle, onlending terms and levels of subsidies and cost recovery
are presented in subsequent chapters.
F. FONHAPO
1.19     Brief History.  FONHAPO is a public trust fund administered by the
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos 'BAffOBRAS), the National Bank
for Works and Public Services. From 1940 through 1980, FONHAPO was a
division of BANOBRAS. In mid-1981, FONHAPO's status was changed to a



-8-
public trust fund with the authority to finance: (1) land reserves; (2)
sites and services; (3) progressive (starter) construction dwellings; (4)
home upgrading; (5) finished houses; and (6) production and distribution of
materials to assist in self-help construction. FONHAPO remains technically
under the control of the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP,
the Trustor or "fideicomitente'), administered by BANOBRAS (the Trustee or
"fiduciaria") while its general policies and areas of work are defined by
SEDUE which also establishes the yearly budgetary allocations for FONRAPO,
in consultation with the Secretariat of Planning and Budgeting (SPP). At
present FONHAPO relies on continued appropriations from the Government, as
well as on its own funds from the repayment of previous loans, to finance
its credit programs.
1.20     Organization of FONHAPO.  The Fund has a Board of Directors
("Comite Tectico y de Distribucion de Fondos") which is chaired by the
Secretary of SEDUE and includes representatives of other concerned
Secretariats (SHCP and SPP), of the banking sector (BANOBRAS and FOVI-Banco
de Mexico), as well as the Federal Controller, a Secretary and FONHAPO's
Director General. Internally three Departments (Gerencias) report to the
Director General. These are the Credit Department, the Planning
Department, and the Financial Department. In addition, the Director
General's office monitors the activities of FONHAPO's ten regional
delegations through its Regional Coordination Division. The central office
manages several special programs within Mexico City and the State of
Mexico, besides monitoring the programs in the regions. (An organizational
chart of FONHAPO is contained in Annex 4).
1.21     At present, FONHAPO's Central Office employs a staff of 590
persons. It supervises and complements the work of the regional offices,
which develop and monitor projects, with a total permanent staff of about
500. Although there have been major changes in FONHAPO's top management
since the new Administration took office in December 1988, the agency has
retained its core technical staff and has recruited a group of well-
qualified managers to replace those who have left.
1.22     Since 1984, FONHAPO has gradually decentralized its operations by
transferring additional responsibilities for program preparation,
evaluation and supervision to its regional offices. It has also developed
a computer network which allows the regional offices to communicate
directly with the information base maintained at the Central Office.
Further decentralization of FONHAPO's operations particularly in the areas
of loan preparation, approval and collection are recommended to improve its
efficiency. These improvements will be supported through the institutional
strengthening component of the subject project (para. 2.06).
1.23     To control loan processing and operations, FONHAPO has developed a
set of operations manuals which, while adequate, will be revised and
streamlined as part of the subject project (para. 2.06). Annex 5 describes
the Statutory Objectives, Sources of Financing, Rules and Operations, and
Terms of Financing for FONHAPO. As FONHAPO will revise its onlending terms
under the proposed project (para. 4.04), some of the above-mentioned
descriptions will have to be modified. This was discussed and agreed to
with FONHAPO during loan negotiations.



-9-
1.24     FONHAPO has kept thorough and accurate records or its programs.
FONHAPO maintains its own monitoring and evaluation unit within the
Planning Department and bases its internal planning and financial
projections on the demand reported from the Regional Delegations and from
evaluations of previous implementation results. Available evidence
indicates strong demand for FONHAPO financing. As of mid-1989, FONHAPO had
a pipeline of pending subborrower credit requests for the financing of
about 140,000 new or improved housing units, whose aggregate cost would
exceeds US$335 million equivalent (in 1989 prices). Of this total amount,
about 65Z is for the construction of starter homes, 19% for home
improvements and 162 for serviced lots.
1.25     FONHAPO Sub-borrowers and Eligible Beneficiaries.  FONHAPO
channels its credits through sub-borrowers, which are responsible for the
implementation of their housing projects, for their allocation to a pre-
identified group or beneficiaries, for recovery of the debt service, and
for repayment to FONHAPO. FONHAPO reviews the socio-economic studies and
credit studies of the final beneficiaries, but deals directly only with the
sub-borrower. FONHAPO's sub-borrowers are: i) federal public sector
entities, whose schemes and budgets have been approved by the federal
government; ii) 31 state and approximately 2400 municipal governments, the
Federal District, decentralized agencies and parastatal or paramunicipal
entities; iii) authorized banking and financing institutions; iv)
cooperative housing associations; and v) legally constituted groups
implementing programs consistent with the norms of FONHAPO. In order to
cover administrative costs, sub-borrowers normally charge the final
beneficiaries one percentage point of the amount loaned. This fee
adequately covers sub-borrower's costs, as FONHAPO provides the technical
assistance and extension services.
1.26     Beneficiaries of FONHAPO's credits are preferably, but not
necessarily, non-wage workers (generally workers in independent service
occupations whose housing needs are not met by other programs). They also
must a) be heads of household who receive incomes no greater than 2.5 times
the minimum legal wage (about US$250 per month in March 1989); b) purchase
the home for residence; and c) not own other real estate property. Sub-
borrowers are required to submit an analysis of potential beneficiaries.
FONHAPO may reject selectively or totally the application of the sub-
borrower if the beneficiaries do not conform to the criteria specified
above.
1.27     FONHAPO Performance to Date.  Since its inception in mid-1981,
FONHAPO has rapidly expanded its operations, with a total 1,400 loans to
subborrowers approved as of year-end 1988. During 1988, it invested the
equivalent of US$126 million (at the average yearly exchange rate) through
its conventional programs.  Of this total, 21% was to finance serviced
lots, 342 for starter dwellings and 45Z for home improvements. In terms of
units financed, 61,000 were completed in 1988 (compared with 30,000 units
in 1985), and about 47,000 units were started, to be completed in 1989.
1.28     In addition to its conventional operations, FONHAPO successfully
managed a major part of the Government's earthquake reconstruction program
for Mexico City. During the period 1985-88, FONHAPO and the GOM financed
over 55,000 low-income housing solutions related to the earthquake
reconstruction efforts, costing a total of US$280 million equivalent. The



- 10 _
bulk of this financing was for the construction of multiple-family
dwellings and home upgradinig.
1.29     The geographic distribution of FONHAPO's subprojects are wide with
some in each of Mexico's 31 states and the Federal District. About 562 of
FONHAPO's credits go to middle-sized cities, 182 to the major metropolitan
areas (Mexico City, Guadalajara and Monterrey), and 26Z to small towns in
rural areas. This loan distribution is consistent with overall GOM policies
aimed at decentralizing investments toward medium- and small-size urban
centers and rural areas.
1.30     FONHAPO's annual program evaluation for 1987 shows that the median
income of FONHAPO beneficiaries is about 1.5 times the minimum wage (about
US$150/month). Beneficiary income, however, varies with the type of
housing financed. The majority of the beneficiaries of home improvement
loans and serviced lot programs, with median monthly income levels of 1.2
and 1.3 times the minimum wage, respectively (US$120 and US$130), are well
below the national median. This represents a substantial improvement in
FONHAPO's targetting relative to the 1985 evaluation of FONHAPO, when the
majority of beneficiaries earned above the national median income. Roughly
half of FONHAPO's beneficiaries are salaried workers with fixed contracts,
another 20? work as day-laborers or on short-term contracts, and 30? are
self-employed. About 37Z of FONHAPO loans are currently going to families
headed by single women. The average age of FONHAPO beneficiaries is
currently 36 years and the average family size is 5.5 persons. Additional
information on FONHAPO's past lending activities including the profile of
its beneficiaries and the effectiveness of its p)rograms in reaching low-
income groups is contained in its 1987 Program Evaluation Report, a copy of
which is in the Bank's Project Files.
1.31     Financial Structure, Loan Portfolio and Funds Flow.  Financial
results for FONHAPO during the period 1985-88 are in Annex 6. As of
December 31, 1988, FONHAPO had the equivalent of US$286 million of total
assets. Of this amount, about US$223 million equivalent or 782 were in the
form of houaing credits to subborrowers. The remaining assets on FONHAPO's
books at year-end 1988 (22? of the total) were mainly cash and bank
deposits and advance payments to subborrowers. FONHAPO's assets are
supported almost entirely by equity (both transfers from the Government and
loan repayments). At year-end 1988, FONHAPO's equity equalled 972 of total
assets. Delinquencies in FONHAPO's housing loan portfolio are moderate, as
the total volume of housing credits past due by more than four months or in
foreclosure (i.e. under litigation to collect) equalled about 6? of total
credits outstanding as of December 31, 1988. To reduce its credit risks,
FONHAPO requires all subborrowers to provide collateral guarantees on
credits they receive (para. 3.05). Also, as a preventive measure to help
avoid a build-up of arrears, FONHAPO has agreed, in cpnnection with the
project, to survey annually a selected group of its sub-borrowers to
determine if they are experiencing loan collection problems and if so,
FONHAPO will offer them technical assistance and establish with them
specific targets for improving overtime their collection performance (para.
4.09).
1.32     From 1986 to 1988, FONHAPO's sources of funds for its conventional
operations were US$100 million equivalent from government transfers; US$95
million equivalent from subborrower loan repayments; and US$110 million



- 11 -
from other sources (mainly disbursements from IBRD loans). These three
sources totalled US$305 million equivalent and were used almost exclusively
for housing credits. As a percentage of total funding sources, repayments
from FONHAPO's loan portfolio have increased over time, reaching 42Z in
1988. FONHAPO's administrative costs have remained relatively stable since
1985, averaging about 5? of total annual investments, which is reasonable
for an institution of this type.
G. Sector Issues
1.33     While in recent years the GOM has made progress in removing
constraints which have restricted the supply of low-income housing, a
number of issues remain and are sunmarized below.
1.34     Uneven Distribution of Resources.  Hlistorically the commercial
banks and the payroll funds have concentrated their programs on regularly
employed wage-earners with incomes above 2 minimum salaries (US$200 per
month in March 1989). As a result, a very small share of the formal or
regulated sector housing financing has been directed to the largest and
poorest segment of the population. In 1988, for example, less than 5 of
total formal sector financing for housing was channelled to the more than
half (57Z) of the cotutry's families earning less than 2 minimum wages.
GOM has begun to increase the availability of housing credit fur low-income
families, principally through the expansion of FONHAPO. The project will
further support GOM efforts to achieve a better balance in the distribution
of public sector resources for housing by expanding both the size and scope
of the FONHAPO programs.
1.35     Reliance on Standard Housing Solutions.  With few exceptions,
Hexico's financing institutions make loans strictly frr completed homes, of
a staudard design. Even the most economic of these solutions costs more
than what 702 of the Mexican population can afford. Furthermore, a large
percentage of the population require stmething other than a finished house
(para. 1.04). FONHAPO has looked for better solutions, through credit
programs for the construction of serviced lots and progressive housing
units which encourage self-help labor by beneficiaries to lower their
housing costs, and for home improvement loans which upgrade existing
dwellings and provide basic services to poor neighborhoods. The project
would expand financing for the nonconventional types of housing programs
being carried out by PONHAPO and would promote further self-help
construction activities for lower income groups.
1.36     Concentration of Financing on New Construction.  Mexico's housing
finance institutions lend almost exclusively for new construction. The
paucity of financing for the purchase of existing dwellings adversely
affects the hulusing market in several ways. First, it eliminates the
possibility of any "trickle down" effect which would permit lower-income
families to benefit from increases in the housing stock for middle- and
upper-income homebuyers. Second, it reduces incentives for maintaining and
improving existing real estate. And, third, it explains why families
insist on large lots, which will accommodate a life-time of construction,
as they will not find it easy to sell their homes to move elsewhere.
Recently, FONHAPO opened an experimental line of credit for urban tenement
dwellers in Mexico City to purchase and to rehabilitate their flats.
Initial results of this program have been encouraging, and FONHAPO is
planning on expanding its scope and size in the future.



- 12 -
1.37     Financial Services and Savings Mobilization in Poor Neighborhoods.
Mexican banks still generally limit their services to a small segment of
the population at the higher and middle end of the income scale,
discouraging poorer families from either saving with or borrowing from
them. The situation benefits neither the families in question, nor the
banks. In connection with the Bank's loan to FOVI (para. 1.43), the
Central Bank together with the Mexican Association of Banks is carrying out
a study of existing disincentives to savings and the identification of
savings schemes which build upon the special motivation of households to
save for housing. Also, in conjunction with its lending to social interest
groups, FUNHAPO has recently begun to assist commercial banks in
establishing, in low-income neighborhoods, offices which offer limited
services, mainly deposit taking and mortgage collections, in support of
home purchases. As part of the project, FONHAPO will evaluate the results
of this initiative and carry out a study of additional ways to mobilize
savings from and expand financial services to lower-income families (para.
2.07).
1.38     Supply of Urban Land.  Despite the rapid growth of Mexico's urban
population, many cities have not expanded their zoning boundaries to offer
new residential land for two reasons. First, urban planning policies set
city limits according to the capacity of the public service departments,
thus freezing the legal perimeter until infrastructure is installed,
regardless of the effective demand for land. Second, the lands which
surround metropolitan areas are often subject to 'ejidal" (agricultural) or
other rights. Laws governing such lands go back to the Mexican Revolution,
when the state leased land to peasants for farming. Where cities have
grown, the "ejidall peasants, on the outskirts, have taken up urban
activities and have abandoned farming. Nonetheless, neither the "ejidall
lessees, nor the state can sell the land without compensation and, in many
cases, expropriation, which might require several years of complex legal
actions. The land-locked status of Mexican cities means that land within
the city limits becomes prohibitively expensive, and poor families often
have little choice but to settle in "irregular" neighborhoods, outside the
legally-established residential zones. As part of the proposed project,
FONHAPO will support local efforts to develop working plans for enlarging
city limits to accommodate growing populations. Also, in the early 1980's
the GOM initiated a program to recover "ejidal" land, and other federal
reserves on the urban periphery. To date, the Government has transferred
to some 40 municipalities 20,000 hectares of public lands, of which about
40t will be available for FONHAPO projects. The land reserves could
resolve the needs of approximately 50Z of the families in FONHAPO's target
population over the next five years. The transfer of land reserves will be
continued by the present administration.
1.39     Building Codes.  Certain building codes and urban design standards
are often set too high and limit the possibility of reducing the cost of
low-income housing. Also, complex administrative procedures involved in
the obtaining of-building permits, in registering and finalizing mortgages,
and in passing deeds add considerable time and expense to housing programs.
The fact that these requirements vary by state complicates matters further.
Recent GOM housing policy statements have already requested state and local
governments to simplify and reduce, when appropriate, both housing codes
and real estate administrative procedures, particularly with regard to low-



- 13 -
income housing. The project will support GOM policy by including a review
by FONHAPO of existing building codes, regulations and legal processes
which affect its programs in each of the Mexican states and will recommend
modifications which would ease the develol1ment of low-income housing
solutions and reduce administrative time and costs, whiile ensuring that
building standards take adequate account of the seismic and hurricane risks
in each of the states (para. 2.07).
1.40     Provision of Public Services.  During the past decade, public
services have failed to keep pace with population growth. Piped water and
sewerage service coverage levels have actually fallen recently in urban
areas, particularly for lower-income families. Recognizing this, the new
Administration, with Bank support, plans to increase investments in water
supply, sewerage systems, and electrical services, particularly in poor
neighborhoods. The GOM initiative will be complemented by FONHAPO programs
which offer financing for on-site service installation and by the project's
two special investment programs wlhich will finance infrastructure
improvements in irregular communities (para. 2.05).
H. Experience with Past Bank Lending
1.41     Bank lending specifically directed to the housing sector began in
1985 with Loan 2612-ME (US$150 million) designed to expand publi, housing
investment for the poorest and largest segment of the population and to
strengthen FONHAPO during its critical start-up phase. Results under Loan
2612-ME have been good. In total, Loan 2612-ME will help finance 150,000
housing solutions (versus the appraisal estimate of 142,300), benefitting
an estimated 750,000 persons. All Loan proceeds will be disbursed by end
1989 and the project will be completed about 3 years ahead of the appraisal
schedule, due mainly to the stronger than anticipated demand for FONHAPO
financing and to FONHAPO's ability to meet that demand.
1.42     An important component of Loan 2612-HE was the housing finance
study which was carried out by the Banco de Mexico during 1986 and provides
an analysis of the entire housing finance system and its performance. The
study contributed to recent improvements in the financial terms and in the
consequent level of cost recovery of FONHAPO, the commercial banks and the
largest payroll fund, INFONAVIT. The study also provided an important
input to the Government's formulation of the Housing Policy Statement
issued In 1987.
1.43     A second loan of US$300 million (Loan 2947-ME) to finance a
housing finance project was approved in June 1988. The main objectives of
the project is to support a housing finance system designed to achieve full
cost recovery, a key step toward the ultimate goal of making it feasible
for commercial banks to resume voluntary lending for tousing. The loan
will finance a portion of the 1988-93 lending of FOVI, through the
commercial banks, targeted mainly at middle-income families. It will also
finance the test-marketing of a new lower-price house which, if successful,
would allow reaching poorer beneficiaries. Included in the project are two
studies, related to savings mobilization and investment in rental
properties. In connection with the Loan, the GOM furnished the Bank with a
Letter on Housing Sector Policies expressing its intentions in the areas of
cost recovery, the role of the public sector, the coordination of public
housing programs, the promotion of rental housing and the mobilization of
savings by households and institutions.



- 14 -
1.44     The Bank has also assisted the Mexican housing sector through Loan
2665-ME (US$400 million Earthquake Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Loan,
approved March 1986) which contains a US$263.8 million housing component
that was executed successfully by FONHAPO (US$177 million plus US$82
million reallocated from Loan 1990-ME) and FOVI (US$50 million). The Loan
is almost fully disbursed and the project is expected to be completed in
late 1989. As this loan responded to a natural disaster, it was not a
suitable vehicle to reform housing sector policies. Nevertheless, the loan
helped to (i) design more suitable seismic-resistant low-income housing for
dense urban areas; and (ii) regularize land tenure in certain areas of
Mexico City. Many of these important contributions will be replicated and
expanded within the context of the subject project.
I. Government Strategy
1.45     Social Programs.  Mexico's economy has not grown since the 1982
crisis. Since then, public investment declined from 10 of GDP in 1982 to
below 4% in 1988, reducing budgetary allocations in the social sectors from
202 of total public expenditures to 132 currently. The combined effect of
wage restraints and highi inflation brought about a drop in real wages of
over 402 between 1981 and 1988, which, together with shrinking job
opportunities caused by stagnation, aggravated the country's social
problems. To alleviate the rising cost of adjustment and to help eradicate
poverty, the present Administration after taking office in December 1988
launched the Program Nacional de Solidaridad (PRONASOL) headed by the
President and integrated by Secretaries dealing with poverty alleviation
issues. A key objective of this program is to ensure that those programs
which are effectively targetted to the poor will have first priority in the
allocation of budgetary resources. Also, this program seeks to redesign
and expand ongoing social investments in the public sector. Emphasis is
placed on new delivery mechanisms designed to reach the truly needy, on
cost effectiveness and improved cost recovery to stretch resources under
the prevailing austerity, and on institutional streamlining where added
benefits can be obtained from better organization, technical training and
improved skills. Action plans are being drawn up for nutrition, health
care, education, and vocational training, and the ongoing program for low-
income housing is to be expanded to address poverty issues more effectively
in the 3sexenio" 1989-94.
1.46     Housing.  Starting in 1983, GOM began reforming public housing
policies to reach a larger segment of the needy population by: (i)
promoting more cost efficient housing solutions; (ii) allocating more
resources to, and improving cost recovery on, housing finance; and (iii)
creating and promoting FONHAPO with the specific mandate to finance
construction of low-cost housing types for lower-income households. In
order to demonstrate the GOM's high social priority of facilitating access
to housing for all Mexican families, the right to housing was incorporated
in the Mexican Constitution in 1983. The same year, a Federal Housing Law
was passed, clarifying the GOM's strategic role in the sector. GOM
continued to introduce system improvements principally related to
institutional strengthening and cost recovery. In its Housing Policy
Statement of February 1987 and its Housing Program for 1988 the GOM
reformulated and published its housing policies and objectives setting out



- 15 _
principally a strategy of (i) further improving cost recovery on housing
finance, (ii) providing incentives to investors for rental solutions, (iii)
invigorating urban development and improving existing housing, (iv)
transferring to local authorities federal lands for housing development,
(v) promoting saving from households and institutions, and (vi) simplifying
administrative procedures. While both the 1987 housing statement and the
1988 housing program covered the main areas of housing policy, the GOM
included additional policy improvements and clarification of future policy
directions in the housing policy statement agreed to with the Bank in
connection with the FOVI Ltan (para. 1.43).  These improvements and
clarifications relate to the role of the public sector in housing, the
coordination of public sector programs, cost recovery objectives and
limitations on the increase of subsidies, savings mobilization intentions
and increased pronotion of investor-owned rental properties.
1.47     In April 1989, the GOM announced a number of major reforms for the
financial sector, designed to ensure that credit, and hence investments,
are put to their best use. The reforms included the elimination of
interest rate controls and of forced lending requirements for commercial
banks. These measures are expected to improve resource mobilization and
allocation but could result in lower lending levels for housing until the
stabilization process is consolidated and real rates of interest drop from
their presently very high levels, which make long-term loans unfeasible.
1.48     Proposed Role and Medium-Term Program of FONHAPO.  The
Administration has assigned high priority to addressing Mexico's housing
shortages through inter-alia a significant increase in the role of FONHAPO
in meeting the housing needs of the poor. This priority is reflected in
FONHAPO's own Medium-Term Program for the period 1989-94 which is based on
the ambitious goal of meeting 50% of the incremental housing needs arising
from the growth of FONHAPO's target population (those families with heads
of households earning 2.5 multiples of the minimum wage or less) during
that period. FONHAPO's Medium-Term Program establishes a construction
target of 660,000 new or improved housing units during 1989-94, at a total
investment cost of US$1,625 million equivalent (in constant 1989 prices).
The realization of these goals would mean that during 1989-94 FONHAPO would
have to more than double both the number of units financed and total
investments over those levels achieved during the past "sexenion. It would
also imply that FONHAPO would reduce substantially unit construction costs,
mainly by shifting its lending toward least-cost housing solutions (i.e.,
serviced lots and home improvements). Because of the rapid growth assigned
to the FONHAPO program, the agency would, as expected, require substantial
provision of budgetary resources during the initial years of its investment
program. However, FONHAPO would need to achieve an improved rate of
capital recovery so as to ensure the volume of budgetary resources required
to sustain the projected level of operations. Furthermore, FONHAPO would
require institutional improvements and modifications, including greater
decentralization of operations, in order to maintain the present level of
efficiency during a period of rapid growth. The subject project, which is
discussed in detail in the next chapter, would finance a 432 share of
PONHAPO's Medium-Term Program, as well as support improvements in FONHAPO's
cost recovery, the targetting of its subsidies and investments and its
institutional development.



- 16 -
J. Bank Strategy and Rationale for Involvement
1.49     The thrust of the Bank's lending strategy for Mexico is to assist
the Government in stabilizing and restructuring the economy to obtain
sustained growth, and to alleviate the cost posed by the adjustment process
on the poorest segments of the population. In June 1989, the Bank approved
three major adjustment loans which support wide-ranging macro-economic
reforms and policies recently initiated by the Government, and several new
or follow-up adjustment operations are currently being prepared. The Bank
is also assisting the Govertunent to design new programs and projects to
ameloriate the impact of the adjustment process on lower income groups.
Key social sectors and activities whiclh have been singled out for possible
Bank financing are primary health services in poorer states, rural
development, water and sanitation. nutrition, and primary education.
Because of its direct impact on family welfare and its political and
economic importance within Mexico, housing particularly for the lower
income groups, has been given high priority among the sectors to be
supported by the Bank.
1.50     Bank strategy in the housing sector is to support, through a
series of loans, the GOM's policies and reforms that expand the efficient
supply of low- and middle-income housing. Improvements In cost recovery,
the better targetting of subsidies to the most needy, the further
streamlining of administrative and legal procedures, and the mobilization
of resources for housing are needed. As a first step in implementing this
strategy, the Bank assisted the GOM in increasing the availability of
financing for the poorer segment of the housing market and in improving
cost recovery, through the execution of the first FONHAPO project. The
housing finance study carried out under this project by the Central Bank
(para. 1.42) served as the main vehicle for a broader dialogue on housing
finance. This first operation was followed by a loan to FOVI which has as
its main objective the achievement of full cost recovery for commercial
bank lending for middle-income housing. Full cost recovery is important if
banks are to earn a sufficient return on housing loans, thereby providing
an incentive to resume voluntary lending for housing. The financial sector
reforms of GOM in April 1989, supported by the Bank's Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan, have removed all mandatory lending requirements and
interest rate controls on commercial banks.
1.51     In parallel with the Bank strategy to support middle-income
housing through FOVI, it is important to expand the financing for low-
income housing through raising FONHAPO's cost recovery, targetting
subsidies and promoting least-cost housing solutions. To continue
supporting Mexico's development of its housing finance institutions and
programs and to facilitate a broad policy dialogue, both the ongoing loan
to FOVI and the proposed one to FONHAPO include the preparation of special
studies and action programs which address key sector issues involving
resource mobilization, investment in rental properties, building codes and
administrative procedures, and irregular settlements and the regularization
of land tenure which constrain the supply of affordable housing in Mexico.
Future Batk loans could support further reforms in the housing sector as
identified in connection with these programs and studies. Finally, the
Bank has recently begun to prepare a separate housing operation for Mexico
City which would upgrade slums and reform the city's housing finance
agency.



_ 17 -
1.52     Continued Bank involvement in the sector is important to
strengthen sector institutions, reform sector policies and alleviate
poverty. Continued Bank funding for FONRAPO and improved cost recovery
will enable FONHAPO to increase the availability of financing for low-
income housing at a time when budlgetary allocations are expected to be low
because of competing needs for investments in lnfrastructure to support
private sector led growtlh in a context of fiscal discipline.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Background
2.01     The project was identified in April 1988, during the supervision
of Loan 2612-ME, and appraised in March 1989. A post-appraisal mission
took place in June 1989. Negotiations were held in Washington during
October 11 to 13, 1989, with a Mexican team headed by Mr. Alberto L6pez
Vargas of BANOBRAS.
B. Objectives
2.02     The main project objectives are to: (a) increase the availability
of housing credit for low-income families; (b) further improve FONHAPO's
level of cost recovery and redirect its subsidies to the poorest groups;
(c) improve the cost efficiency of housing solutions; (d) streamline the
administrative procedures of FONHAPO and its borrowers; and (e) contribute
to the improved planning and development of urban areas.
C. Project Description
2.03     The project would be a major share (para. 1.48) of FONHAPO's
i989-94 credit programs for the construction of low-income housing. The
project will support the execution of two investment componentss one which
will cover a portion of FONHAPO's conventional credit program in serviced
lots, home improvements and starter dwellings (822 of total project costs),
and another which will finance two special FONHAPO credit programs for
progressive urban expansion and for urban regularization and upgrading (132
of total project costs). Together, the two investment components would
provide new or improved housing for about 250,000 low-income families.
Both investment cumponents would support sub-projects for infrastructure
works: earthworks, drainage, roads, sewerage, water, and electricity
networks and domestic connections on new and occupied sites, construction
of starter dwellings, and improvements of existing dwellings. Costs
involved in land transfers and legalization of tenure would be considered
as integral parts of the project costs but would not De the object of
disbursement of Loan proceeds. The project will also finance an
institution strengthening program for FONHAPO and its subborrowers as well
as project administration costs and the preparation of special studies (52
of total project costs). A more detailed description of the project
follows, with a summary of the number and types of housing units to be
financed under the project provided in Annex 1.
2.04     FONHAPO's Conventional Investment Program.  This project component
will finance a slice of FONHAPO's 1989-94 conventional lending program,



- 18 -
which consists in a mixture of serviced lots, loans for home construction
or improvements, and starter housing units, to benefit about 190.000
families. This component is sufficiently flexible so that FONHAPO can
modify its lending program in consultation with the Bank on a yearly basis
to respond to changes in housing demand and supply among the lower-income
population (para. 3.15).
2.05     Special Investment Programs.  The component will finaiize two
separate FONHAPO investment programs, to be executed over the period
1989-93. These two programs have been selected for special allocation of
FONHAPO financing because of the innovative focus and strategy, aimed at
two low-income groups which generally are left out of formal sector housing
programs; the irregular settlements and the informal construction sector,
through phased urban expansion and through urban regularization and
upgrading. To qualify for FONHAPO financing under the two special
investment programs, subborrowers and their respective local government
authorities must meet criteria aimed at helping to promote more orderly
urban development. Although FONHAPO has previously financed similar
programs under its conventional operations, it has not done so on a
significant scale and in pre-selected geographic areas. Because of their
importance and size, both special investment programs will be closely
monitored and evaluated by FOI4HAPO and promoted in FONHAPO's conventional
programs. At negotiations agreement was reached that by December 31, 1991,
the Bank and FONHAPO would jointly review the results of the special
investment programs and that, by Hay 31, 1992, FONHAPO would submit an
action plan including a timetable for implementation to incorporate the
lessons learned from these experience isnto its conventional lending
-perations, to the satisfaction of the Bank, and by January 1, 1993 start
to implement the action plan (para. 6.01 (a) (i)). A brief description of
each special investment program is provided below, with more details
contained in Annex 8.
(i)   Progressive Urban Expansion.  Under this program FONHAPO would
target about US$45 million or FONHAPO financing to fast-growing
cities, primarily located along the Mexico/US border, which have
already developed and implemented working plans to expand the
zoning limits to offer land for settlement of low-income families.
Once subborrowers and local authorities have complied with
established criteria (para. 3.10), FONHAPO would finance the
acquisition of lots, the installation of basic infrastructure and
communities services and for self-help home construction. An
estimated 37,000 families would benefit directly from FONHAPO
loans under this project component.
(ii)   Urban Regularization and Upgrading.  This program would direct
about US$45 million of FONHAPO financing to residents of large
irregular neighborhoods in Mexico City and oiher cities yet-to-be
selected for (a) legalization of land tenure; (b) installation of
public services; and (c) home improvements and construction
credits. To qualify for FONHAPO support, local authorities and
subborrowers would be required to meet certain criteria (para.
3.10), Including the presentation of a study of the municipality's
irregular settlements, a medium-term plan to legalize a



. 19 -
significant percentage of such settlements and a guarantee to
provide primary infrastructure (e.g. main roads, drainage, water
and electricity transmission and distribution networks) in those
settlements for which FONHAPO would finance the secondary
infrastructure (e.g. streets, domestic connections for water
supply, electricity and sanitation services). Local authorities
would also have to tax properties in all regularized settlements.
This program is expected to upgrade services and improve housing
for some 23,000 families directly, but would also legalized tenure
even for families who do not borrow from FONHAPO.
2.06     Institutional Development Program.  This project component would
support institutional strengthening for FONHAPO and its subborrowers
through the development and execution of the following: (a) a program for
further delegating to FONHAPO regional offices responsibilities for credit
preparation and supervision; (b) a review of FONHAPO's administrative
procedures and the preparation of revised and st.eamlined procedures and
operating manuals: and (c) a program for staff and subborrower training.
At negotiations, the Bank confirmed with FONHAPO the terms of reference and
the timetable for execution of this program (Annex 9).
2.07     Studies.  FONHAPO would carry out three studies designed to deepen
understanding of important sector issues which constrain the efficient
supply of low-income housing and which affect FONHAPO's ability to respond
to the needs of its target group. The preparation of -the studies would
also enhance the sector dialogue between the GOM and the Bank. The studies
would cover the following areas: (a) states' and municipalities' building
codes and administrative procedures, with the aim of lowering costs
associated with the construction and purchasing of low-income housing
through simplifications and improvements in regulations and procedures; (b)
informal settlements, in order to better understand the housing needs of
their residents and how FONHAPO's programs can be reshaped in the future to
address these needs; and (c) savings mobilization among low-income families
and ways to expand the provision of financial services in poor
neighborhoods. Terms of reference for each study along with an
implementation schedule (Annex 10 and para. 3.12) were agreed to with
FONHAPO at negotiations.
D. Project Costs
2.08     The estimated total cost for the share of FONHAPO's 1989-94
program which the Bank would help finance would be US$700.0 million
equivalent, including US$95.3 million (14Z) in foreign costs. The base
cost, expressed in June 1989 prices, would be US$595.0 million, including
taxes and duties (estimated at US$40 million). Above estimates include the
costs of FONHAPO's conventional credit program and the two special
investment programs, which amount to US$485.7 million and US$79.1 million,
respectively, as well as project administration costs (US$23.8 million) and
those related to technical assistance for FONHAPO and its subborrowers and
the preparation of studies (US$6.4 million). Project cost estimates were
prepared by FONHAPO staff, based on experience during the last half of 1988
for the conventional credit and special investment programs, and manpower
estimates for project administration, technical assistance and studies. As



- 20 -
the physical targets for the proposed project (number of housing units and
home improvement credits, see Annex 7) are not rigid, no physical
contingencies have been included. However, to safeguard the scope of the
project against the effects of inflation, price contingencies have been
included. Price contingencies assumet (i) the exchange rate of the Mexican
peso versus the US dollar will be periodically adjusted for the difference
in internal and external inflation; (li) a six-year project execution
period; and (iii) a projected intertational inflation rate of 5.32 p.a. for
1989-90, and 4.1Z p.a. thereafter. A summary of project costs is presented
in Table 2, and details are given in Annex 11.
TABLE 2 : ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
(In US$ millions)
Project Component               Local        Foreign          Total
I.   FONHAPO Credits
(a) Conventional Programs       416.1         69.6            485.7
(b) Special Programs             65.4         13.7             79.1
II.  Other Costs
(a) Technical Assistance          6.4          0.0              6.4
and Studies
(b) Project Administration       23.8          0.0             23.8
PROJECT BASE COST               511.7         83.3            595.0
Price Contingencies              93.0         12.0            105.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST              604.7         95.3            700.0
E. Financing Plan
2.09     The proposed Bank loan of US$350.0 million equivalent would
finance 532 of project costs net of taxes or the estimated foreign exchange
component plus 36X of local costs (Table 3). Local cost financing is
recommended in view of the serious fiscal constraints of the Government,
the high social and institutional impact of the proposed project and the
significant direct employment and multiplier effects of the construction
activities at a time when the GOM is making efforts to get the economy back
on a path of sustained growth. The balance of project costs (US$350
million) would be financed by the Government through annual budgetary
transfers to FONHAPO (202), by FONHAPO through internally generated
resources (252), and by sub-borrowers and beneficiaries (52).
TABLE 3 : FINANCING PLAN
(in US$ millions)
Source                        Local           Foreign         Total      z
Bank                          254.7            95.3           350.0      50
Government                    140.0             0.0           140.0      20
FONHAPO                       175.0             0.0           175.0      25
Subborrowers/Beneficiaries    35.0              0.0            35.0       5
TOTAL                         604.7            95.3           700.0      100



- 21 -
F. Onlending and Legal Arrangements
2.10     The Borrower of the Loan will be BANOBRAS, a development bank and
financial agent of the Government, who will act as administrator of the
Loan. The executing agency will be FONHAPO. The onlending arrangements
for the Bank loan proceeds will be as follows: BANOBRAS, the Government
and FONHAPO would enter into contractual arrangements foL the transferring
of the loan proceeds. BANOBRAS would onlend Bank funds to FONHAPO under
terms and conditions which would include that: (a) such funds would be
denominated and payable in pesos; (b) the interest rate charged on the
funds would be equal to the Mexican Government Treasury bill rate (CETES);
and (c) principal amounts withdrawn and outstanding would be repaid semi-
annually in accordance with the amortization schedule of the Bank loan. As
part of such contractual arrangements, the Government would provide to
FONHAPO, by means of specific annual budgetary allocations, funds to cover
(i) the difference, if any, between the CETES rate and the interest rate
charged by FONHAPO on its subloans to subborrowers, and (ii) financial
intermediation and operating cost of FONHAPO. Such budgetary allocations
would be made in accordance with the Government's Regulations Governing the
.Use of Loans from International Financial Institutions to Development Banks
and Trust Funds ("lormatividad') of November 18, 1988. In addition, the
Government would also provide to BANOBRAS funds required by BANOBRAS to pay
to the Bank principal and interest and other charges due on the Bank loan.
At negotiations, agreement was reached with BANOBRAS, the Government and
FONHAPO on the above arrangements (para. 6.01 (a) (ii) and 6.02 (b)). A
condition of loan effectiveness would be the conclusion of the above-
mentioned contractual arrangements (para. 6.02 (a)). Agreement was also
obtained at negotiations by which the Government undertakes to provide the
required counterpart funds, including funds to cover the lump-sum subsidies
provided by FONHAPO to beneficiaries (para. 4.04), through annual budgetary
allocations to FONHAPO.
2.11     In July 1989, the GOM informed the Bank that it plans to review
BANOBRAS's and FONHAPO's operations as part of an overall study of Mexican
development banks and trnst funds, to be completed by November 1989 as a
condition of the Bank's recently-approved Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
(para. 1.49). While the GOM indicated that it was not then contemplating
any major changes in the roles and definition of the two agencies, some
modifications to their operations could result from the above-mentioned
study. A condition of default under the proposed low-income housing
project would be any change, without Bank agreement, to BANOBRAS's or
FONHAPO's bylaws which would materially and adversely affect their ability
to carry out the project (para. 6.03).
III. IMPLEMENTATION ASPECTS
A. Implementation of Subprojects
3.01     FONHAPO would be responsible for overall project coordination and
would channel funds to subborrowers who would execute sub-projects
according to economical design standards. FONHAPO would, through its
regional offices, supervise the physical progress and proper execution of
subprojects financed and provide technical assistance, as necessary, to
subborrowers for the implementation of subprojects and the carrying out of
their obligations under subloan agreements. A summary of FONHAPO's sub±oan
implementatioa cycle for serviced lots, progressive housing uni's and



- 22 _
neighborhood upgrading, is provided below, with more detailed information
contained in the project files. In the case of certain types of home
improvement subprojects, FONHAPO subborrowers would execute them through
beneficiaries and relend needed funds for the purchase of civil works and
goods which the beneficiaries are expected to procure on the basis of
shopping for the lowest price.
3.02     Subproject Appraisal. Once FONHAPO has identified viable
subprojects, it assists the prospective subborrower with the preparation of
technical, financial, legal and social subproject documents. On completion
of all such documents, the subproject, formalized through a subloan
agreement, is submitted to FONHAPO's Loan Committee for approval.
Subprojects under the project, including those to be financed under the two
special investment programs, would be selected on the basis of PONHAPO's
general appraisal criteria in addition to the criteria described in para.
3.10.
3.03     Supervision of Works.  As mentioned previously, FONHAPO's regional
offices are responsible for supervising the execution of subprojects, which
are generally carried out by private contractors. Representatives from
these offices periodically visit each subproject and review the
construction progress in tenrs of the expected disbursement profile. This
information is reported to the Central Office in a standard format, which
permits close monitoring of the progress and authorization of advance
payments (para. 3.05).
3.04     Implementation Schedule.  Experience indicates that the
implementation period of FONHAPO's subprojects is satisfactory, averaging
twenty-seven months for serviced lots, fifteen months for improvement
credits and twenty-nine months for progressive development units. The
times mentioned include loan preparation, which is slightly longer than the
construction period. FONHAPO's reports on physical progress indicate that
execution delays may take up to (20Z) of contracted construction time, but
the majority of subprojects are completed within the scheduled time period.
3.05     Disbursements and Guarantees.  Once FONRAPO has approved a
subloan, it advances (up to 402 of the credit amount) to the subborrower
who must secure the credit by providing collateral guarantees. Subloan
guarantees may take the form of a real collateral, or of a guarantee
("aval") by the State Government, which authorizes the Federal Government
(SHCP) to retain the subloan amount from the State's entitlement to a share
of federally collected taxes, in case of subborrower default. In addition,
the subborrower must provide a mortgage guarantee as well as pledge and
trust guarantees. The remainder of the subloatn is disbursed as work
progresses and after FONRAPO staff, supervising the subproject, certifies
it.
3.06     Works Completion and Final Disbursement.  When subproject
construction is finished, FONHAPO inspects it and, if satisfied that the
construction is complete, disburses the loan balance. The grace period
thus expires and the subborrower begins servicing the loan.
3.07     Allocation to Final Beneficiaries.  FONHAPO subloans become
effective only after the subproject facilities have been built and a
specified group of buyers take legal possession of the premises. FONHAPO



- 23 -
controls the allocation to the ultimate beneficiaries, ensuring that the
subborrower and beneficiaries comply with the socio-economic requirements
of the FONHAPO programs and have the capacity to repay the subloan.
3.08     Collection of Payments.  The subborrowers recover subproject costs
from the final beneficiaries through mortgage schemes, which include
recuperation of FONHAPO's subloan as well as other investment and
administrative costs borne by the subborrower. FONHAPO collects from
subborrowers a downpayment, whtch is due once 85Z of subproject
construction has been completed, and monthly interest and amortization
payments during the life of the subloan. A description of the terms and
conditions of FONHAPO subloan is in Chapter IV of this report. As part of
its technical assistance, FONHAPO's staff advises the sub-borrowers in
setting out repayment schemes and collection program. In this regard,
FONHAPO offers its subborrowers a standard, computer-based collection
system, along with manuals for organizing field collection offices and
collection records.
3.09     Monitoring and Evaluation.  FONHAPO's evaluation and monitoring
unit reports directly to senior management. This unit prepares an annual
report, based on stratified samples of subprojects and beneficiary
household, which assesses the impact of FONHAPO's programs. These reports
generally cover the following: (i) a statement of the evaluation criteria
used in the survey, including critical comments on particular aspects of
the process; (ii) the main findings of field visits and interviews, and a
performance review of specific lines of credit and sub-projects; (iii) the
evaluation of the impact of FONHAPO's lending program in specific areas of
the country; and (iv) the overall evaluation of FONHAPO's operations,
products and impact. As part of the project, this report will be expanded
to include a survey of sub-borrower collection performance (para. 4.09).
B. Criteria for Subproject Selection
3.10     Selection of subprojects for Bank financing would be based on
considerations of unit costs and affordability by the chosen target group,
according to FONHAPO's general credit conditions, which are satisfactory.
In addition, agreement was reached at negotiations that FONHAPO would meet
the following additional criteria (para. 6.01 (a) (iii)).
a)   The selection of a particular city for particilpation in the
special investment program for urban expansion (para. 2.05 (i))
should depend on the subborrowers' presentation of evidence to
FONHAPO that local government authorities have (i) developed and
begun implementation of a plan which provides for future expansion
of the city's geographic boundaries in accordance with current and
projected population growth rates over the next five years; (ii)
provided adequate guarantees that primary infrastructure for basic
public services would be installed in a timely manner in
settlements where FONHAPO would finance secondary infrastructure;
and (iii) developed and initiated measures required to incorporate
all newly-legalized properties onto the city's property tax
register.
b)   Similarly, with regard to the special investment program for urban
regularization and upgrading (para. 2.05 (ii)), the selection of a
particular city will depend upon the subborrowers' presentation of



- 24 -
evidence that (i) relevant governmental authorities have completed
a study which describes the number, location and needs of existing
irregular settlements in that city's neighborhoods; (ii) a plan to
legalize tenure over the next five years in a significant
percentage of properties currently classified as irregular in that
city's neighborhoods has been developed; and (iii) complied with
items (ii) and (iii) in paragraph a) above.
c)   In order to keep the Bank's supervision and disbursement
activities manageable, the minimum number of housing units for
each subproject, should be as follows: 250 units for sites and
services, 150 units for progressive housing and 150 units for home
improvements. These minimum number of housing units are
consistent with criteria followed under Loan 2612-ME.
C. Implementation of Institutional Development Program and Special Studies
3.11     Institutional Development.  The institutional strengthening of
FONHAPO and its subborrowers and the streamlining of FONHAPO's
administrative and operational procedures, supported under the project
(para. 2.06), are important to the successful execution of the project.
Assurances were obtained from FONHAPO at negotiations that it would carry
out the institutional development component in accordance with a Plan of
Action and timetable shown in Annex 9. At negotiations, assurances were
also obtained that FONHAPO would maintain staff sufficient in number and
with appropriate skills and experience to carry out the project in an
expeditious manner (para. 6.01 (a) (iv)).
3.12     Studies.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that FONHAPO
would prepare and discuss with the Bank, during the execution of the
project, three special studies under terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank and in accordance with a time table provided in a letter to the Bank
dated October 13, 1989 (para. 6.01 (a) (v)). Summarized below is the
agreed plan for carrying out each of the three studies, with additional
details provided in Annex 10.
(a)   by December 31, 1990, complete a study on building codes and
administrative procedures. The study results including a proposed
plan for disseminating to and discussing the study's
recommendations with appropriate federal, state and local
government agencies involved with the construction and sale of
low-income housing and for incorporating the relevant
recommendations into FONHAPO's operating procedures, would be
discussed with the Bank by March 31, 1991 and subsequently
appropriate action would be implemented;
(b)   by December 31, 1990, prepare a study of irregular settlements.
The study results including a proposed plan for modifying
FONUAPO's ongoing programs and policies, to take into account the
study's recommendations, would be discussed with the Bank by June
30, 1991 and subsequently appropriate action would be implemented.
FONHAPO would then continue annually to collect information on and
develop recommendations for improving the effectiveness of its
programs aimed at irregular settlements. This information and the
related recommendations would be summarized in FONHAPO's annual
program evaluation reports (para. 3.15), which will be reviewed
annually by the Bank during project execution; ald



_ 25 -
(c)   by March 30, 1991, prepare a study on resource mobilization among
low-income families. By June 30. 1991, this study including a
proposal for implementation would be reviewed with the Bank and
appropriate action implemented thereafter.
D. Targetting of Project Investments and Monitoring of FONHAPO Programs
3.13     While FONHAPO has recently improved the targetting of its credit
programs to reach families further down the income scale, there is still
room for improvement.  According to FONHAPO's 1987 evaluation report, over
502 of its beneficiaries were earning 1.5 times the minimum wage (the
equivalent of US$150, as of March 1989) or more (para. 1.30). One of the
major objectives of the project is to expand the availability of credit for
the poorest segment of the housing market. In order to achieve this, and
to expand the coverage of its financing, FONHAPO has agreed to target 702
of total investments financed under the project over the 1989-94 period to
families with heads of households earning up to one minimum wage (US$100
per month), through the financing of credits of 1600 minimum daily wages
(US$5,280 equivalent) or less. An analysis of recent FONHAPO subloans has
shown that a credit of 1,600 minimum daily wages would cover the
construction costs of a basic starter dwelling of about 40 square meters on
a serviced lot. This agreement on the targetting of project investments
was confirmed at negotiations and Included in the loan documents as a
monitoring indicator (para. 6.01 (a) (vi)). This target, as well as other
key monitoring indicators for the project are presented in Annex 12. As
part of the Annual Assessment of FONHAPO's Program (para. 3.15), the
monitoring indicators will be reviewed and updated annually.
E. Project Reporting
3.14     FONHAPO would submit annual progress reports to the Bank by March
31 of each year for the previous calendar year. Progress reports would not
only compare past achievements with appraisal projections, but also would
provide a critical assessment of problems and issues arising during project
execution. They would propose adjustments and remedial actions in case of
unsatisfactory progress. The format of progress reports would generally
follow the one developed for Loan 2612-ME, but would be updated as
necessary. FONHAPO would submit a completion report to the Bank no later
than six months after the closing date of the loan. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that progress reports and a completion report
satisfactory to the Bank would be submitted (para. 6.01 (a) (vii)).
F. Annual Assessment of FONHAPO's Program
3.15     Based on the March Progress reports, the Bank and FONHAPO would
conduct by no later than May 31 of each year a formal joint assessment of
progress made in carrying out its credit program and in implementing the
Project. The annual reviews would provide a forum to critically assess the
project and other issues such as: FONHAPO's past investment performance
and the programming of future investments, particularly with regard to the
targetting of credits to the poorest beneficiaries; the progress made in
executing both FONHAPO's conventional programs as well as the special
investment programs; the preparation of studies; institutional development
of FONHAPO and its subborrowers; FONHAPO's past and projected levels of



- 26 _
capital recovery; and the status of FONHAPO's and of its subborrowers' loan
collections. The discussion and analysis of problems identified in the
past would lead to remedial action satisfactory to the Bank. At
negotiations, the Bank obtained assurances that FONHAPO would prepare and
execute the action plans agreed to during the Annual Program assessment to
the satisfaction of the Bank (para. 6.01 (a) (viii)).
G. Accounting and Auditing
3.16     FONHAPO's accounts have been adequately maintained and regularly
audited by a firm of independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. FONHAPO
would continue to have its accounts audited by independent auditors
satisfactory to the Bank and the auditor's report would be forwarded to the
Bank no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Similarly, the Special Account and the statements of expenditure (para.
3.20) would be audited by independent auditors, which should also be
acceptable to the Bank, and their report would be submitted to the Bank not
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year. At negotiations,
these c'mmitments were confirmed (para. 6.01 (a) (ix)).
H. Procurement
3.17     FONHAPO's subborrowers would be responsible, under FONHAPO's
supervision, for procurement of civil works for serviced lots, progressive
housing units and neighborhood upgrading. In general, the size of
subprojects and the distribution of subprojects all over the country would
result in civil works contracts not exceeding US$2.5 million. Therefore,
with the possible exception of a few large contracts for housing
subprojects in geographic areas bordering the United States, foreign
contractors are not expected to be attracted to participate in the bidding
for civil works, but they would not be precluded from participation. Civil
works contracts larger than US$2.5 million equivalent would be procured by
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in agreement with Bank Guidelines
for Procurement (1985). Civil works contracts less than US$2.5 million
equivalent would be procured through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB)
procedures acceptable to the Bank. At negotiations, agreement was reached
that, for all those subprojects which would be partially financed with
proceeds from the proposed loan, FONHAPO and subborrowers would follow the
standard procurement procedures described in FONHAPO's model procurement
documents ("La Gula de Concursos de Obras de Creditos FONHAPO, "La Gula de
Concursos Para Adquisici6n de Hateriales de Creditos FONHAPO", and "Modelo
de Paquete Tecnico del Concurso de Obra de Credito FONHAPO"), which have
been reviewed and were found acceptable by the Bank (para. 6.01 (a) (x)).
3.18     Civil works contracts not exceeding a total aggregate amount of
US$30 million equivalent (or 8.6X of the loan amount), may be executed on
the basis of force account procedures. The force account procedures would
be used only in those situations where works are small and scattered or in
remote locations where mobilization costs would be unreasonably high or
where there is evidence that no contractor is interested in carrying out
the works. The project would also finance about US$80 million equivalent,
or about 112 of total project costs, in civil works and goods for home
improvements. In such cases, subborrowers would execute subprojects for
home improvements through beneficiaries who would be responsible for



- 27 -
procuring works and goods on the basis of local shopping for the lowest
price. Subborrowers would be required to retain relevant documentation for
review by FONHAPO. In carrying out such subprojects through beneficiaries,
subborrowers would nut provide funds in excess of US$3,000 equivalent for
home improvements to individual beneficiaries.
Table 4 : PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS a/
(US$ Millions of June 1989)
Procurement Method
Project Element               ICB         LCB         Other     N/A      Total
1.  Land                      --          --          --        110.0    110.0
(0.0)    (0.0)
2.  Studies & Design          --          --          --          9.0      9.0
(0.0)    (0.0)
3.  Civil Works For            30.0        405.5       30.0 bI  --       465.5
Serviced lots,            (19.5)      (260.5)    (20.0)             (300.0)
Progressing Housing
Units and Neighborhood
Upgrading
4. Civil works and Goods
for Home Improvement      --          --          80.0 cl  --         80.0
(50.0)             (50.0)
5.  Technical Assist.         --          --          --          7.5      7.5
& Studies d/                                            (0.0)    (0.0)
6.  Project Admin.            --          --          --         28.0     28.0
______      ______      ______     (0.0)    (0.0)
Totals                         30.0       405.5       110.0     154.5    700.0
(19.5)     (260.5)     (70.0)      (0.0)  (350.0)
al IBRD share in parenthesis.
bl Force account to be used for civil works.
c/ Civil works contracting and purchasing of goods and materials by
individual beneficiaries, through local shopping procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
dl Technical assistance and studies carried out under terms of reference
satisfactory to Bank.
NOTE: The N.A. refers to costs which will be financed entirely by
FONHAPO and to categories for which the Bank will not disburse
against.



- 28 -
3.19     FONHAPO would review all procurement procedures, documents, bid
evaluations and contract awards to ensure that the agreed procurement
process is properly carried out by each sub-borrower. In addition, all ICB
documents, bid evaluations and contract award proposal would be subject to
prior review by the Bank. All civil works to be carried out by
subborrowers through force account would be subject to prior approval by
the Bank. The Bank would review LCB and force account procurement on an
ex-post basis, during project supervision on a selective basis. If such
reviews revealed that agreed procurement procedures had not been followed,
then no expenditures for such items would be financed out of the proceeds
of the loan, and the Bank would cancel the corresponding loan amount.
I. Disbursements
3.20     Bank loan proceeds would be disbursed for 65X of the subloan
amounts lent by FONHAPO to subborrowers for expenditures on civil works and
goods. Disbursement.s would be made against statement of expenditures
adequately identifying the relevant subproject and contract. No Bank
disbursement will be made against the purchase of land, or external
infrastructure, nor against the local costs shared between FONHAPO and the
subborrowers. Also, no disbursements would be made for professional
services, technical assistance and administrative costs associated with the
project, as they will be carried out and paid for by FONHAPO mainly using
its own staff. To accelerate disbursements, a Special Account would be
opened in the Central Bank, with an initial deposit of US$25 million, which
represents an estimated four months of expenditures under the loan. The
Special Account would be operated in accordance with terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. BANOBRAS would disburse from the Special Account
against requests submitted by FONHAPO and would subsequently forward
withdrawal applications to the Bank for replenishment of the Special
Account. Statements of expenditure will be utilized in regard of
expenditures each not exceeding $500,000. It is proposed that the Bank
would finance expenditures made by FONHAPO after February 15, 1989 (9
months prior to the expected date of loan signature), as eligible for
retroactive financing of 10 loan amount (US$35 million equivalent),
provided that such disbursements were made in accordance with the criteria
and procedures stipulated in the Loan Agreement. Such financing is needed
to allow FONHAPO to fund identified project-related expenditures arising
while the proposed loan is being processed.
3.21     The project is expected to be completed, including commitment of
Bank loan funds, by December 31, 1994 and the loan to be closed by June 30,
1995. Disbursement of the Bank loan is expected to take six years,
reflecting IBRD standard disbursement profiles for loans to Mexico. The
estimated disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 13.^



- 29 .
IV. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A.  FONHAPO Onlending Policies and Capital Recovery
4.01     Background.  In 1985, FONHAPO made loans denominated in pesos but
limited monthly payments to a fraction of the monthly minimum wage. The
peso loans carried an interest rate between 9-15 during its first year,
rising by a factor of 1.1 every year thereafter. These interest rates.
however, were unrelated to market rates and were substantially below the
prevailing inflation rate, thus resulting in low cost recovery. At
negotiations for Loan 2612-ME, FONHAPO agreed that cost recovery1 would
not fall below 502 on its new loans. The subsequent inflation rate. which
was beyond FONHAPO's control, determined cost recovery. Mexico's rate of
inflation rose sharply. reaching over 1002 by end-1986, and FONHAPO decided
to abandon the nominal interest rate onlending scheme.
4.02     Lending Policies Since January 1987.  In January 1987, FONHAPO
adopted its present mortgage indexation scheme.  The daily minimum wage
(DMW)2 is used to both index the monthly payments and the loan amount.3
To make the loans affordable, beneficiaries' monthly payments are set as a
fixed percentage of the monthly minimum wage, with the maximum amount never
exceeding 25Z of the head of household's monthly income at the time the
loan was made. Loan maturities range from 7 to 8 years. Borrowers are
required to make a downpayment which varies from 10-152 of the loaned
amount.
4.03     The loans are accompanied by upfront lump-sum subsidies which vary
inversely with loan size (as a proxy for family income) thereby giving
somewhat larger subsidies to the poorer groups who live in less costly
houses and so borrow less. The upfront subsidies are provided to
beneficiaries as a lump-sum reduction in the loaned amount and are
calculated to ensure that low-income beneficiaries are not required to pay
in excess of 25Z of their monthly income to service the PONHAPO loan. To
stimulate the prompt payment by beneficiaries of their monthly obligations,
1/  Defined as the percentage of the loaned principal amount that is paid off
over time by the discounted stream of payments made to FONHAPO by the
subborrower. The discount factor used is the rate of inflation.
2/  The daily minimum wage is revised periodically by the Government to reflect
labor market conditions. It therefore acts more as a wage index for
unskilled labor than as a rigid floor price.
3/  For accounting and reporting purposes, FONHAPO keeps its loan accounts in
pesos. The peso loan amount is obtained by multiplying the units of the
minimum wage lent (currently ranging from 250 DNWs to 2,000 DMWs) by the
prevailing daily minimum wage. The schedule of monthly payments is
similiarly set in pesos, with the proviso that the monthly peso payments and
the loan balances would be changed by the same percentage as any subsequent
minimum wage changes. For administrative reasons, the peso amounts are
adjusted some two months after minim-Am wages change.



- 30 -
a portion of the lump-sum subsidy (about a quarter of the total subsidy) is
not granted until all the required monthly payments have been made. If the
payments are not made promptly, the beneficiary must pay all the remaining
loan amount over time, beyond the end of the original loan maturity.4
4.04     Proposed Onlending Policies.  Under the proposed project, FONHAPO
would change the terms of its existing lending scheme to reduce and better
target its subsidies. In addition, greater transparency will be soughtt
the hidden subsidy currently provided through a zero real rate of interest
will be replaced by an explicit up-front subsidy. This will result in a
much better measure than at present of the total subsidies that are being
provided through FONHAPO.  Under the proposed changes, FONHAPO would (1)
lower subsidies for all loans and eliminate them entirely for its largest
loans; and (2) explicitly incorporate a 32 annual interest rate on the
wage-indexed loans (net of the upfront lump-sum subsidies provided by
FONHAPO). The proposed policies would continue to denominate the loan
amount in multiples of the DHW, ranging from 250 DMWs to 2500 DMWs (or the
equivalent of US$825 - US$8,250, as of March 1989). To ensure that FONHAPO
loans remain affordable for low-income families, the proposed changes would
reduce beneficiaries' downpayments somewhat (to 5-10) and extend the term
of the repayments to a maximum of about 14 years. The entire amount of the
lump-sum subsidy would be retained until the end of the loan term, to
encourage the prompt payment by beneficiaries. Monthly payments of
beneficiaries would continue to be calculated as a fixed percentage of the
minimum monthly wage, with the maximum payment being held at 25% of the
head of household's monthly wage. Details of the proposed credit terms are
presented in Annex 14. At negotiations, agreement was obtained that
FONHAPO would adopt the proposed credit terms as a condition of loan
effectiveness (para. 6.02 (b)).
4.05     Analysis of Subsidies and Cost Recovery.  Figure 1 below shows the
level of subsidies, measured in terms of the minimum wage, of FONHAPO's
existing and proposed onlending terms. As can be seen, the proposed
onlending policies would imply a measurable reduction in FONHAPO's
subsidies for all loan amounts. This reduction is particularly pronounced
for the higher loan amounts (loans above 1400 DMWs, to families whose head
of household earns more than the minimum wage). Indeed, under the proposed
onlending terms, those who borrow 2150 DMWs or more (with a monthly income
double the minimum wage) would expect to receive no subsidy, but instead
pay a "premium" to FONHAPO. The proposed terms would, thus, improve the
targetting of FONHAPO's subsidies, ensuring that they go to the most needy.
4/ If more than 902 of monthly payments were made within 30 days of the due
date, the beneficiary retains the entire lump-sum subsidy. If 80-902 of
monthly payments were made within 30 days of the due date, the beneficiary
loses about half of the lump-sum subsidy portion that was retained.   Should
the beneficiary fail to pay more than 80Z of the monthly payments within the
30-day deadline, then the beneficiary must pay back the entire lump-sum
subsidy that had been retained (with the exception of the amount initially
granted).



- 31 -
Figure 1: FONHAPO's Loan Terms
Ex-ante Lump Sum Subsidies
Percent of Loan Amount
40..                                       |-  p nop Ied
so 
20
-10.,..,**;..
250      1000     1500     2000      2600
Loan Amounts (in dmw)
4.06     The proposed onlending terms may entail different ex post
subsidies than envisioned according to the relative behavior of inflation
and of minimum wages. FONHRAPO's mortgage instrument, being indexed to the
minimum wage, would bear real interest rates higher than 32 if the minimum
wage rises faster than the inflation rate. Conversely, if minimum wages do
not rise as rapidly, the ex post real interest rates would be lower.
However. such a case is not expected as the minimum wage is expected to
rise in real terms, after declining nearly continuously over the past six
years, and with the prospects of declining inflation rates.   The proposed
indexation scheme may be assimilated to an insurance feature attached to
the loan, whereby FONHAPO guarantees the affordability of payments by
linking them to the behavior of wages rather than of prices. The insurance
carries a premium since in the long run minimum wages are expected to
outpace prices.
4.07     In view of the above, cost recovery cannot be established ex ante.
Even if there were no ex ante explicit subsidies and the  wage insurance
feature of the FONHAPO scheme were correctly priced and all borrowers paid
exactly as promised, actual cost recovery would depend on the relative
behavior of wages and the rate of inflation. Wages in Mexico have risen
far slower than the inflation rate for the past several years. Ex post
cost recovery on FONHAPO loans, therefore, has been low (but still above
the covenanted level for Loan 2612-HE).
_i4



- 32 -
4.08     For illustrative purposes, ex ante cost recovery for FONHAPO's
loans under the proposed onlending terms have been calculated
conservatively, assuming that (i) the minimum wage will rise at the same
rate as inflation during the life of the loans, and (ii) the distribution
of FONHAPO's future loan portfolio would be such that at least 702 of its
lending would be directed to housing units which cost 1600 DMWs or less,
which is consistent with the loan targetting agreement to be reached with
the Bank under the proposed project (para. 3.13). These calculations show
that the expected cost recovery for individual FONHAPO loans would vary
from 642 for a 250 DHW loan (US$850 equivalent) to 802 for a 1600 DMW loan
(US$5,280 equivalent) to 1102 for a 2500 PMW loan (US$8,500 equivalent),
and that overall cost recovery on FONHAPO's loan portfolio would be
expected to reach about 70?.
B. Subborrower Loan Collections
4.09     As FONHAPO channels its loans through subborrowers, who in turn
lend to and collect payments from final beneficiaries (para. 3.08), FONHAPO
does not currently monitor the repayment performance of final
beneficiaries. Although preliminary evidence indicates that at present
subborrowers are not experiencing collection problems on their FONHAPO
subloan portfolios, there is concern that such a problem could emerge over
time and thus cause subborrowers to have difficulties servicing their debt
to FONHAPO. Therefore, FONHAPO has agreed that it would carry out a survey
of the loan collection performance of a selected sample of subborrowers and
forward the results to the Bank by March 31 of each year (para. 6.01 (a)
(xi)). For those subborrowers with collection problems, FONHAPO would
develop with them a plan of action for reducing arrears on sub-loans. This
plan of action would include the provision by FONHAPO of technical
assistance and the establishment of annual collection performance targets.
(For details of the sample of subborrowers to be surveyed annually by
FONHAPO and the type of technical assistance to be offered, see Annex 15).
Should the subborrowers fail to meet the conditions agreed to in the action
plans, FONHAPO would agree to refrain from providing them with new loans.
These agreements were confirmed by the Bank at negotiations (para. 6.01 (a)
(xi)). Also, during project execution, Bank supervision would provide for
periodic joint review with FONHAPO to assess the adequacy of technical
assistance being offered to subborrowers to improve loan collections and to
verify that subborrowers, with collection problems, are being required to
meet collection targets to qualify for new FONHAPO loans.
C. FONHAPO Financial Prospects
4.10     FONHAPO has prepared projections of its total sources and
applications of funds for the period 1989-94 (Annex 16), based on the
ambitious production and investment goals (of 660,000 housing units and
US$1,625 million equivalent of new loans, respectively) contained in its
Medium-Term Program (para. 1.48). In making these projections, FONHAPO
assumed that, during 1989-94, the annual rate of inflation would remain
constant at 33? (which was the projected 1989 inflation rate at appraisal)
and that the minimum wage will remain constant in real terms. These are
conservative assumptions, as inflation has already fallen substantially
below these levels. The Bank's medium-term assessment is for inflation in
Mexico to drop to about 15? per year and for real wages to start to grow



- 33 -
gradually. FONHAPO*s projections also take into account the a8reement
reached under the proposed project that 702 of its future financing would
be targetted to loan amounts of 1600 DHWs or less (para. 3.13). The
projections, show that during 1989-94 FONHAPO would generate internally
(from programmed repayments on outstanding and new credits, and from
subborrower downpayments) funds totalling US$562 million equivalent, or 352
of the financing needed to carry out the Medium-Term Program. The
remaining required funding for this program (US$1,063 million equivalent,
or 65S of the total) is expected to come from Government transfers (US$435
million), Loan 2612-H4E (US$49 million), the proposed Bank loan (US$350
million) and other yet-to-be identified sources (US$229 million).
4.11     In light of the uncertainty on the actual size of future
Government transfers (as well as the avsilability of funding from yet-to-be
identified sources), it is proposed that the Bank-financed project be
limited to an US$700 million slice of FONHAPO's Medium-Term Program. The
financing plan for the project calls for funding of US$210 million from
FONHAPO's internal cash generation (including beneficiaries' downpayments),
US$140 million from Government transfers, and US$350 million from the Bank
loan. As FONHAPO's projections reveal, cash flows from its internal cash
generation during the period 1989-94 are expected to be more than
sufficient to meet the total counterpart funding levels (both that of
FONUHAP0's and the Government's) contemplated in the project financing plan.
Indeed, should Government transfers during 1989-94 be less than expected,
FONHAPO could rely on funds from its internal generation to support
project-related investments.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A.   Project Benefits
5.01     The project would expand the credit available for the poorest
segment of the housing market, benefitting an estimated 250,000 families
through a mixture of loans for serviced lots, home improvements and starter
dwellings. It would also improve FONHAPO's cost recovery, thereby
gradually increasing its own contribution toward financing new investments.
By supporting the execution of two special investment programs which
promote in selected cities efforts to establish and regularize land tenure
rights and to provide basic services in poor urban areas, the project would
assist local governments and community groups in addressing their housing
problems and in better organizing urban development. Further, by requiring
that PONHAPO monitor closely the results of these special investment
programs, the project would provide the opportunity to determine if such
programs are replicable in FONHAPO's noLmal programs and on an expanded
basis, throughout Mexico.
5.02     Social benefits would be provided by the sharper targetting of
subsidies under the project and employment creation. The project, through
the revision of FONHAPO's loan terms, would establish a sliding-scale
subsidy scheme which directs the largest level of explicit subsidy (362 of
the loaned amount) to those families whose heads of household are earning
up to the 10th income percentile and which gradually reduces to zero
subsidies (or charges a premium") for the rest of FONHAPO's
beneficiaries. In contrast, under the present terms, subsidies of between



- 34 _
45? and 352 of the loaned amounts are provided to all FONHAPO
beneficiaries. The project is also expected to provide about 250,000
person-years of employment which would, for the most part, benefit the
lower-earning segment of the work force. The combined effect of the better
targeted subsidies and the creation of employment could be expected to
result in a more equitable distribution of income. Finally, as noted
earlier (para 1.30)t a substantial number of the beneficiaries of FONHAPO's
loans are households headed by women, many of whom are non-salaried and
wotuld otherwise not have access to commercial credit. Hence, an important
additional social betnefit would be the bettering of the condition of women.
5.03     The internal economic rate of return (IERR) for the project has
been computed by discounting the stream of benefits, estimated by the
units' rental value, against the economic cost of constructing the units
For this purpose, 1988 cost and rents have been used for two typical units
financed by FONHAPO: a one bedroom starter dwelling; and a home
improvement credit used to build an additional bedroom. The rates of
return are estimated to be 102 for the starter dwelling and about 16% for
the home improvement credit. Overall, the project is estimated to have an
IERR of 142. Sensitivity analysis shows that even under the most adverse
scenario (where benefits would be 15? lower and costs would be 15? higher)
the overall rate of return would be about 10?. Shadow pricing of labor
would increase these rates by about one to two percentage points, bringing
the combined project IERR up to about 16?. The assignment of a monetary
value to the valuable externalities associated with the project, which are
discussed in paras. 5.04-5.05 below would further increase the rate of
return of the project. Details on the assumptions and computation of the
economic rates of return are presented Annex 17.
B. Environmental Impact
5.04     The proposed project would improve the environment in the project
areas. First, the project would ease the congestion in the present living
quarters of the future beneficiaries of the project houses. Second, all
new homes constructed under the project would meet new building code
standards which take natural hazard risks into account, thus making the new
homes safer than older ones. Third, the project would provide all new
starter houses with piped water supply and a t7aste i:ater solution (i.e.
septic system or sewerage connection) which would improve the present
unsanitary conditions. In the cases of the two special investment programs
for urban expansion and urban regularization, which finance mainly tenure
security and home upgrading, they would stem the growth of irregular
settlements on unsafe or unaccessible land, and guarantee that future
public service installations are feasible. All FONHAPO-financed housing
developments will require assurances from local planning and public service
authorities that the project sites are slated for public service
installations within a reasonable time frame.
C. Urban Poverty Impact
5.05     The project beneficiaries will be limited to those families whose
heads of household earns up to an equivalent of about US$3,000 per year in
prices of March 1989, corresponding to the 65th income percentile of the
population. Monthly mortgage payments are limited to 25? of the monthly



- 35 -
income of the head of household of the beneficiary group. For a basic
three-room starter dwelling costing US$4,620 (1400 DMWs) the mortgage
payment would amount to US$25 or 25 of the monthly head of household
income. The very lowest income households, with heads of family earning .5
times the minimum salary (10th income percentile), would only qualify for
financing for a serviced lot or a home improvement credit. The estimated
monthly payment for a serviced lot payable over 9 years with a 362 up front
lump sum subsidy would amount to TUS$15 or 25Z of the head of household's
income. This share is realistic in view of the prolonged recession in
Mexico that has eroded the real wages of the population for which the
FONHAPO programs are intended. In addition, it would allow for a margin to
pay for the eventual construction of or purchase of the materials for a
starter dwelling as well as for public services such as electricity, water
supply and sewerage, municipal taxes and transportation costs.
D.   Risks and Safeguards
5.06     The project does not present major technical risks, and FONHAPO's
very good performance under Loan 2612-ME (para. 1.41) would suggest that
other risks are not too significant. The main risk which involved possible
resistance to higher levels of cost recovery and the retargetting of
FONHAPO subsidies has already been successfully addressed, as the new
Administration has agreed to implement the revised FONHAPO onlending terms
before loan effectiveness. Among the other possible project risks ares a
continuation in the gap between inflation rates and adjustments in the
minimum wage, the availability of sufficient counterpart funds, and
problems in the payment recovery from sub-borrowers and final
beneficiaries. Project design and condit:onality has taken these factors
into account, so as to contain the project risks to acceptable levels.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A.   During Negotiations
6.01     During negotiations, assurances were reached on the followings
(a)      From FONHAPO to:
(i)   by December 31, 1991, carry out jointly with the Bank a review of
the results of the two special investment programs and, by May 31,
1992, submit a plan of action including a timetable for
implementation to incorporate the lessons learned from these
programs into FONHAPO's conventional lending programs, to the
satisfaction of the Bank, and, by January 1, 1993, start to
implement the plan (para. 2.05);
(ii)   enter into contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, for
onlending Bank loan proceeds (para. 2.10);



- 36 -
(iii)   require subborrowers to meet eligibility criteria for FONHAPO
financing, satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.10);
(iv)   carry out an institutional development program in accordance with
plan of action and timetable satisfactory to Bank and maintain
staff in sufficient numbers and with appropriate skills and
experience to execute the project in a expeditious manner (para.
3.11);
(v)   carry out studies on building codes and administrative procedures,
on irregular settlements, and on resource mobilization among poor
families under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and in
accordance witlh a timetable agreed to with the Bank (para. 3.12);
(vi)   to target not less than 70X of total investments financed under
the project to families with heads of household earnings one
minimum wage or less (para 3.13);
(vii)   prepare and submit to the Bank annual progress reports and a
completion report not later than six months after the closing date
(para. 3.14);
(viii)   carry out jointly with the Bank, by no later than May 30 of each
year. ani atnual review of its credit program and the Project and
execute to the satisfaction of the Bank plans of actions agreed
during the annual program review (para. 3.15);
(ix)   have its financial statements and project-related accounts audited
annually by external auditors, satisfactory to the Bank and
forward the results to the Bank not later than by June 30 of each
year (para. 3.16);
(x)   follow standard procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 3.17); and
(xi)   carry out a survey of subborrower collection performance, and
forward the results to the Bank by March 31 of each year. For
those subborrowers with collection problems, FONHAPO would
establish a plan of action which includes annual collection
targets together with the provision of technical assistance to
assist such subborrowers in improving their collections to
acceptable levels. Should the subborrowers fail to meet the
collection targets, FONHAPO would agree to refrain from providing
them with new loans (para. 4.09).
(b)   From the Federal Governmentt
(1)   enter into contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, for
the onlending of Bank loan proceeds (para. 2.10); and
(ii)   timely provision of counterpart funds to execute the project
(para. 2.10).



-37-
(c)   From BANOBRAS:
enter into contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, for
tlhe onlendinig of Bank loan proceeds (para. 2.10).
B. Effectiveness
6.02     The following would be the conditions of effectiveness for the
proposed Bank loan:
(a)   conclusion of contractual arrangements between BANOBRAS, the
Government, and FONHAPO for the onlending of proposed loan
proceeds (para. 2.10); and
(b)   adoption by FONHAPO of revised onlending terms for subloans which
are satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.04);
6.03     A condition of default would be any change to BANOBRAS or
FONHAPO's bylaws which would materially and adversely affect their ability
to carry out the project (para. 2.11).
6.04     With the above conditions, the proposed project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$350 million equivalent to BANOBRAS, repayable in 17
years, including a five-year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
November 8, 1989



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
MEXICO
SECOND LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
Distribution of Household Incomes in Mexico
By Multiples of Monthly Minimum Salaries
(As of first trimester of 1984)
Multiples of Monthly                   Percentage of          Cumulative
Minimum Wage                     Total Households        Percentages
0.00 to 0.50                               10.95                 10.95
0.51 to 1.00                               20.54                 31.49
1.01 to 1.50                               13.45                 44.94
1.51 to 2.00                               12.15                 57.09
2.01 to 3.00                               17.41                 74.50
3.01 to 4.00                                9.65                 84.15
Above  4.01                               15.85                100.00
100.00
Sources  Instituto Nacional de Estadistica, Geografia
e Informacion, Encuesta Nacional de Ingresos -
Gastos de Hogares, 1984.



MEXICO
SECOND LOW-INCOM HOUSING PROJECT
Estimated Yearly Housing Demand in Mexico
By Income Levels .f Families Roquiring Housing
(Figures are in thousands)
Number of Families Requiring Housing
Nature of Demand                 By Income Levels (Multiples of Min. Wage)
Totel        Fami ly         Replac.mnts/
Year           Demand        Formations      Improvements           0-0.6        0.6-1.0    1.0-2.6    over 2.5
1988           604.4          296.0             808.4               258.6         161.6     128.8       70.5
1989           599.9          291.6             808.4               258.2         148.8     123.1       70.0
1990           696.8          280.9             80o.4               258.4         147.6      122.1      69.4
1991           690.4          282.0             808.4               265.1         148.1     120.1       67.4
1992           684.8          278.4             ao8.4               254.9         148.9     119.8       88.5
1998           S81.4          272.9             808.4               264.8        142.0      118.        656.9
1994          651.8           272.9             808.4               256.8        141.8      118.4       66.8
199 - 94 Average
Tot I Deoand                  S88.9
Family Formtlons              280.4
Replacement/Iaprov.mnts       808.4
Source: SEDUE, based on COWAPO populstion projetion 1988-1994.



MEXICO
Second Low Income Housins Proiect
Number of Housing Units Completed and Total Investments
By Type of Houstng Finance Institution
Total in-
Number of Units Completed    Total    As    vestment                      As
units   X of US2 mi lons    U of
Instution                   198B      19U4       1906      19S8      1967      1988     1908-8B  total    19B3-88       totea
Commrcial banks/FOVI       66,216   72,681   88,1t   64,988   90,300  107,000           49,99   31.5      6,173        51.2
Payroll funds:             688,61    81,717    97,90   94,94   89,483    88,024        617,989  84.7    S,996         38.6
FOVXSSSTE                13,018    14,404    22,681    15,878     8,929   17,908       92,872    6.2      586         5.8
INFONAVIT                65,246   67,151    74,77    79,000    80,162   87,088    428,874   28.4    8,294            32.6
ISSFAM/FOVIMI               589       162       462       618       872         -       2,198    0.1      116         0.2
Public Agencies:           18.282   126,807   106,B88    8,8       88,858   84O          0,484   8.8       9s8         10.2
FONHAPO  1/               7,487   27,002    80,686   58,898    60,162   61,004        246,068  18.4       470         4.7
State Housing Agencies     N.A.   74,561    61,082    17,680    20,710    16,000      188,988   12.7      124         1.2
Others                    6,796    24,044    17,801     6,888     7,984     2,501      70,483    4.7      842         4.8
Total                188.829  280.00S   296.671  288.348   8,1    276.629   1.492.401  100.0   10.106            100.0
Source: SEDUE.
1/ Figures refer only to units financed under FONHAPO'"s conventional investment program.



-ANNEX 4
I~~~~~~R
I1hX1
It!



- 42 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
SECOND LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
FONNAPO Procedures and Operations
1. FONHAPO's Statutory Objectives are specified below: 1
(i) to finance the following schemes envisaged in the National Housing
Program: (a) land reserves; (2) sites and services; (3) progressive
construction dwellings; (4) home and neighborhood upgrading;
(ii) to finance housing projects of agencies of the federal, state and
municipal governments, and of cooperative associations and organizations
legally constituted to build low-income housing;
(iii) to finance the purchase and construction of rental dwellings and
residential estates;
(iv) to request, receive and purchase land of any type of tenure; to sell
such land in order to obtain resources for financing low-income housing and
to constitute FONHAPO's own land reserves for its purposes;
(v) to promote, support and develop mechanisms which lower the cost of
housing construction inputs;
(vi) to make loans for the acquisition, construction or upgrading of low-
income housing;
(vil) to make loans for the supply of building materials, supporting low-
income housing construction;
(viii) to discount, re-discount or give out to be re-discounted credit
titles corresponding to operations consistent with the Fund's objectives;
(ix) to guarantee the amortization and the payment of interests on titles
or certificates which may be issued through other credit institutions in
order to obtain resources to implement the Fund's objectives;
(x) to obtain loans in national currency from whatever credit source in
accordance with the relevant legislation, ensuring that the interest rate
and other charges on its active lending operations shall cover the payments
due on its passive lending operations;
(xi) to promote and participate in research, technical or other activities,
related to the provision of low-income housing;
(xii) to support other activities of information, support, advice, study
and promotion for the provision of low-income housing;
1/ Reglas de Operacion y Politicas de Administracion Crediticia FONIIAPO,
1987.



- 43 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 4
(xiii) to promote in general the improvement of the residential conditions
of population groups with lesser Incomes.
2. The sources of FONHAPO's financing are listed below:
(i) the active patrimony of tthe pre-existing Fondo de Habitaciones
Populares, according to the audited statements of December 31, 1980.
(ii) the contributions of whatever type by the Federal Government,
Federative Entities (the States and the D.F.), Municipalities and other
public or private institutions;
(iii) the resources generated by direct investments of the Fund;
(iv) the income obtained from the transferred equity capital;
(v) whatever other contribution and fixed or movable assets which the Fund
may acquire under whatever legal title.
3. FONHAPO's rules of operation include the following:
(i) ensure the consistency of its lending programs with policies of
national/regional development and with local demographic, economic and
social characteristics, giving priority to sub-projects located in areas or
centers specified by the Government;
(ii) require sub-borrowers to supply appropriate social, legal, technical
and financial justification for each sub-loan application and demand a
study specifying the characteristics of the final beneficiaries;
(iii) review the marketing studies and financial projections prepared by
sub-borrowers to ensure the economic feasibility of the planned operations:
(iv) ensure that sub-projects meet appropriate architectural and planning
standards and minimize the cost of housing units;
(v) require updating of sub-projects' investment costs, adjusting prices to
one month prior to sub-loan signature, and include price escalation in the
loan amount so as to minimize need for later complements;
(vi) achieve the best possible combination of local contributions and
FONHAPO financing;
(vii) supply technical assistance and management advice to sub-borrowers
for the preparation and processing of their projects, and supervise works,
providing consultants selected from a roster and financing if necessary for
these purposes;
(viii) require full documentation of disbursement of sub-loan proceeds and
request auditing of expenditures for works, supplies and services;
(ix) review and approve sub-loan applications through a Technical Committee
for the Distribution of Funds on the basis of standardized procedures and
documentations;



- 44 -
ANNEX 5
rage 3 of 4
4. Terms and Conditions for FONHAPO credits (As agreed to at Negotations
and to be implemented as a condition of loan effectiveness):
(i) Cost-Sharing- Sub-borrowers must make a direct contribution to the cost
of the investment, either in cash or in kind (e.g. land, infrastructure,
labor, materials, etc.); in practice FONHAPO finances from 85 to 95 per
cent of total investment costs, depending on the line of credit, and/or
characteristics of thie sub-borrower;
(ii) Sub-loan Amount- Established in proportion to the cost of the
solutions to be financed, expressed in multiples of the daily minimum wage
established by law in the geographical zone where the sub-project is
located at the time of the signing of the sub-loan agreement; the maximum
individual loan amount is the equivalent of 2,500 minimum daily wages (in
March, 1989 this cost ceiling represented the equivalent of US$8,250);
(iii) Down-Payment- All FONHAPO's sub-loans require down payments of 5 or
10 percent of the principal amounts, depending on the amount loaned, which
is deposited at the beginning of the financing period, one month after
certification of works completion;
(iv) Lump-Sum Subsidies - Beneficiaries will be eligible to receive lump-
sum subsidies in the form of a reduction in the principal amount of the
subloan, the amount of such subsidies to be determined in accordance with
FONHAPO Statement of Policy.
(v) Monthly Payments- Established as a fixed proportion of the applicable
minimum wage at the time of each payment (end of each month) and increased
overtime as the minimum wage is adjusted to inflation; the percentage is
established by FONBAPO in function of the costs of the units;
(vi) Interest Rates - The annual interest rate to be payable on the
outstanding principal amount of each subloan, less the lump-sum subsidy
(see (iv) above), will be 3? over the adjustment in the minimum wage.
(vii) Amortization of Principal Amount- Calculated in terms of minimum
daily wages.
(viii) Maturity- Loan periods are fixed, depending on the amount loaned;
the maximum loan period is fourteen years.
(ix) Loan Insurance- There are two types of mandatory loan insurance
covering 75? of the outstanding principle amount: one on the amortization
of the loan, and one against exceptional events;
(x) Collateral- A sub-loan must be secured by a guarantee from the
Government of the State in which the sub-projects are located or by other
securities to the satisfaction of FONHAPO;
(xi) Penalties for Arrears- A clharge of 52 per month is levied on delayed
payments; FONHAPO reserves the right to foreclose sub-loans after a 90 days
delay; borrowers who maintain timely payments for a given period are
offered an option of reducing payment amounts for an extended amortization
period.



- 45 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
Second Low-Income Housing Project
FONHAPO
Summary Balance Sheet al
(US$'O00 equivalent) bl
Assets                             1985        1986        1987      1988
Cash & Short Term Invest.          19,068      19,131      9,384    14,055
Loan Portfolio:
Mortgage Credits                106,574    124,430    127,015   167,612
Special Credits cl                7,885       3,816     65,568    55,238
sub total                       185,459    128,246    192,583   222,850
Advances to Subborrowers           33,349      61,862     32,977    45,811
Other Assets                       10,595      13,505      1,601      3,348
Total Assets                 177,471    222,745    236,545   286,064
Liabilities
Short term Obligations              7,056       6,492      2,713      5,447
Account Payable & Other            11,055       1,779      8,713      2,283
Total Liabilities              18,111       8,271     11,426      7,730
Equity                            159,360    214,473    225,119   278,334
Total Liabilities &  Equity      177,471    222,744    236,545   286,064
a/  Audited financial results for 1985-87; preliminary results for 1988 (to be
updated for buff cover).
b/  For converting from pesos to US$ equivalent the following year-end exchange
rates were useds 1985 - 1/371.5; 1986 - 1/923.5; 1987 - 1/2209.7; and 1988 -
1/2341.
cl Mainly credits for earthquake reconstruction programs.



- 46 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
MEXICO
SECOND LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
FONHAPO
Income and Expense Statement
(US$ 0009 equivalent)
Thru December 31,
1985          1986         1987        1988
Income
Interest earned on credits              14,217       9,418      15,645       9,666
Interest earned on other inv.            4,663      (1,149)     (6,056)      5,070
Other income                             2,435       1,836       2,097       4,430
Total Income                         21,315     10,105       11,686      19,166
Expenses
Salaries                                 5,522       4,388       5,061       9,054
Administrative Costs                     1,011       1,019        1,396      2,349
Other Costs                              2,195         993       1,004       1,550
Total Expenses                        8,728      6,400        7,461      12,953
Net Income                          12,587      3,705        4,225       6,213
Notet For additional information, see page 1 of this annex.



Maco
SECONI LOW-1COUE HOWSIG PROECT
Estmasted Numb.r and Coat of Housing Units/Credits to
be Financed  by FWNAPO Unr the Proposd Projoct
No. of Unite/   X of                                                   Tot I Cost
Credits To be    Total      Av. Cost    Av. Cost-       Tot.I Cost-   alIl;ons of       lof
Financed by      By     Multiple of       US1  /        multiples         US$           To"al
Progrm       Program    Mlin. Vage   (Jww 1989)      of miln  ag    (Jun  1909)   Inve atmt
Conventlonel Investmet Proora             190,000         701          96n        3,010         181,556,556       571.5         6B1
Servicd Lots/flHo _    rovesente         95,000        8s6           444        1,400         42,160,000        182.9          20s
Serviced Lots/Homs Improvmonts/
Starter Dwell lg                       6o0,000        241        1,160        8,05          09,60,000         219.3         3ax
Starter wellitngs                        35,000         141        1,9W0        0,265         00,61,0oo         219.          8so
S1eial nvesta_nt Programs                   0,000         241          470        1,S00         20,71,480          90.0          14x
Urban Expansion                          37,000         15s          an         1,210          14,285,700        45.0           7X
Urban Reg;ularization                    23,000          9           021        1,057         14,265,700         45.0           75
TOTALS                              250,000        los                                                    664.5          1o0g
!/ Asume  a nation-wide avrge monthly minimum wage of Pass* 7,760 as of June 169.
/ Assumed an  xexange rate of 1 US# * 2,404 Mexican peos.
/ The aJsrlty of unit/eredite to be financed under special program  *ill be for hom  lmproent nnd  serviced lots.



- 48 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
SECOND LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
Description of Special Investment Programs
To be Executed Under the Project
Introduction
1.        Two investment programs have been singled out for special
allocation of FONHAPO financing because of their innovative focus and
strategy, aimed at reaching two groups which are generally excluded from
formal sector housing programs: the residents of irregular settlements, In
the case of regularization and upgrading, and the informal housing sector
in the case of urban expansion through progressive urbanization. Although
FONHAPO has financed similar programs under its conventional operations, it
has not done so on a significant scale in conjunction with planned urban
development. Considering the high potential impact which urban expansion
and regularization programs could have, in terms of stimulating orderly and
efficient growth patterns, and enhancing local revenue generation, FONHAPO
has designed these special programs on a large scale,-in strategically
important geographical areas, to be subject to a careful follow-up,
evaluation, and subsequetnt promotion of the positive aspects of these
programs in FONHAPO's conventional operations.
Urban Expansion Through Progressive Urbanization
2.       Objectives - To assist local authorities in managing effective
city planning and orderly urban development, to stimulate individual
investment in home construction, to extend the possibility of hlome
ownership through legalized land tenure to low-income families and to
increase the property tax revenue generation potential of local
governments.
3.       General Description - FONHAPO will finance the installation of
public services by stages, in conjunction with large-scale land sales
programs designed to meet effective demand for housing, in rapidly growing,
low-income neighborhoods. The same financing terms and contracting
requirements would apply here as in FONHAPO's conventional programs.
As part of its annual evaluation report, FONHAPO will develop a system for
monitoring and evaluating urban expansion programs, taking into account
the overall population growth and spread of regular and irregular
settlements, the legal and administrative requirements, and the effects on
progressive housing and on urban planning.
4.       Estimated Costs - Total FONHAPO financing for this program would
be approximately US$45 million, and would benefit close to 37,000 families,
at an average estimated amount of US$1,220 per loan (in March, 1989
prices). These programs would at the same time, look for ways to reduce
average costs to benefit greater numbers of families.



- 49 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
5.       Eligibility Criteria -  The progra'u would be implemented in the
faster- growing cities with an active and capable private sector informal
construction industry, such as Tijuana, Ciudad Juarez, Mexicali, Nuevo
Laredo, Reynosa y Matamoros. Sub-borrowers could come from the private,
public or social sectors, but must present the following evidence that the
city where the project is to be carried out complies with program
requirements:
(a) An urban development plan which provides for future expansion
of city limits in accordance with current and projected
population growth rates over the mid-term. (Simply put, a
city growing at 5Z per year should present a plan to double
its geographic area by the year 2,000.).
(b)   A guarantee that primary infrastructure for water supply,
drainage, sanitary sewerage and electricity would be
installed in a timely manner in settlements where PONHAPO
would finance secondary infrastructure.
6.            Time Frame -  FONHAPO will identify and approve specific sub-
projects as they are presented by interested sub-borrowers which comply
with the selection criteria described previously. Execution should begin
within the first year of project initiation and the funds for urban
expansion projects should be committed within the first two years of
project execution. By December 31, 1991, FONHAPO will carry out jointly
with the Bank a review of the progress and impact of the urban expansion
programs. Consequently, by December 31, 1992 FONHAPO will incorporate the
lessons learned and recommendations from this review into its conventional
operations to the satisfaction of the Bank.
Regularization and Upgrading
7.            Objective - To support the consolidation and upgrading of
irregular settlements, to stimulate individual investment in home
construction, to extend the possibility of home ownership through legalized
land tenure to newly forming families and the growing lower-income urban
population, and to generate revenue for municipal development.
8.            Description -  Irregular settlements are defined as those
which lack adequate public services and/or are characterized by illegal
tenure situation. FONHAPO would finance the installation of public services
in conjunction with a large-scale program of legalization and titling of
irregular settlements in preselected cities.   The same financing terms and
contracting requirements would apply here as in FONHAPO's conventional
programs. As part of its annual evaluation program, pONHAPO will also
develop a system for monitoring and evaluating the regularization and
upgrading programs, taking into account the overall population growth and
spread of regular and irregular settlements, the legal and administrative
requirements, and the effects on progressive housing and on urban planning.
Evaluations of the regularization and upgrading programs will form part of
the general study of irregular settlements which is described in Annex 9.



- 50 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
9.            Costs - Total FONHAPO financing for this program would be
approximately US$45 million, and would benefit close to 23,000 families, at
an average cost per family of US$1,960 equivalent (in dollars of March,
1989).   Even so, these programs would look for ways to reduce average
costs to benefit greater numbers of families.
10.           Selection Criteria - The program would be implemented in
cities where local governments have expressed an interest in resolving the
problems of irregular settlements and which comply with the following
requirementss
(a)    Presentation of a study which describes the number,
location, and needs of existing irregular settlements.
(b)    Implementation of a working plan to legalize tenure in
a significant percentage of properties currently
classified as irregular, over next five years, and to
incorporate them into the municipal property tax
rolls.
(c)    Satisfactory guarantees that primary infrastructure
for water supply, drainage, sanitary sewerage and
electicity would be installed and financed for the
settlements where FONHAPO would finance secondary
infrastructure.
11.           Time Frame -  FONHAPO will identify and approve specific sub-
projects as they are presented by interested sub-borrowers. Execution
should begin within the first year of project initiation and the funds for
urban regularization projects should be committed within the first two
years of project execution. By December 31, 1991, FONHAPO will carryout
jointly with the Bank a review of the progress and impact of the urban
regularization and upgradiag programs. Consequently, by December 31, 1992,
FONHAPO will incorporate the lesson learned from and the recommendation of
this review into its conventional operations, to the satisfaction of the
Bank.



- 51 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
SECOND LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
Plan of Action for the Institutional Strengthening of FONHAPO
Introduction
1.       The project will support institutional strengthening for FONHAPO
and its borrowers through the development and execution of the following:
(a) a program for furthler decentralizing to FONHAPO regional offices
responsibilities fcc credit preparation and supervision: (b) a review of
FONHAPO's administrative procedures and the preparation of revised and
streamlined procedures manuals; and (c) a program of staff and borrower
technical assistance. The objectives, action programs and timetable for
each of the institutional strengthening components are presented below:
Institutional Decentralization
2.       Background and Obiectives.  One of FONHAPO's goals for the next
five years involves reducing the concentration of resources and decision-
making powers, while promoting a more balanced development of the agency's
offices throughout the country. To this end, FONHAPO will carry out a
program designed to help redress the tendencies to centralize both economic
activities and services in the country's capital, and restore decision-
making powers to localities where the services are needed, and should be
extended with equal quality throughout the country.
3.       Actions to be Taken.  FONHAPO would reassign a series of functions
from the central office to the regional delegations. The regional
delegations would take greater responsibility for credit operations,
managing the receipt and approvals of requests for financing, supervising
the bidding and assignation of construction contracts, compiling documents
and files, overseeing the physical and financial progress of works and
verifying the proper investment and use of disbursements from FONHAPO's
central office. At the close of each loan program, the regional delegation
should compile the necessary documentation: technical, legal, social and
financial, and present it to the central office for final credit closing.
The central office will concentrate on administrative and normative
functions; supervision, control and evaluation.
4.       Time Table.  FONHAPO would revise its operations manuals to
delineate proposed decentralized responsibilities by December 31, 1990.
Training programs and reassignments are expected to be carried within the
first year of project initiation. Final implementation of decentralization
would require an additional six months so that the program should be
operational by not later than December 31, 1991.
Technical Assistance Program for FONHAPO and Borrowers
5.       FONaAPO's central office will continue to provide technical
assistance to the regional offices, to the sub-borrowers and to the final
beneficiaries, through a series of seminars and forums at local and at
national level, training and workshops and through publications and other
forms of communication. The technical assistance program will be carried



- 52 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
out by FONHAPO's in-house training departments. Training and seminars will
promote interchange and review of FONHAPO's experience, as well as that of
other agencies and NGO's in the field of low-income housing. It will also
cover items such as urban expansion, regularization and upgrading, the
results of the various studies undertaken, urban saturation,
densification, alternative technologies, etc.
By no later than June 30, 1990, FONHAPO wlll develop and forward to the
Bank, for review and comment, a program of in-hiouse technical assistance.
Subsequently, FONHAPO will take actions necessary to implement the
programs.
Procedures Manual
6.       FONHAPO has elaborated a series of manuals, defining in detail the
procedures to be followed in credit operations. Draft manuals have been
reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory. They have yet to be adjusted
in accordance with the proposed decentralization program. The following
procedural manuals have been developed to date and will be circulated among
the regional delegations:
(a) Procedural Manual for Studying and Approving Project
Feasibility
(b) Procedural Manual for Contracting
(c) Procedural Manual for Executing a Project
(d) Procedural Manual for Ajudication and Closure of a Project
(e) Procedural Manual for Determining Upper and Lower Loan Limits
(f) Procedural Manual for Monitoring and Evaluating Projects.
7.       FONHAPO should submit final copies of the procedural manuals to
the Bank for approval and comment by not later than June 30, 1991. By
December 31, 1991, after taking into account the Bank's comments, FONHAPO
will put into effect the revised manauls.



- 53 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 6
MEXICO
SECOND-LOW INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
Preparation of Special Studies
1.       Introduction.  In accordance with project objectives directed
toward supporting reforms in the housing sector, enhancing the housing
policy dialogue, and improving planning and development of urban areas,
FONHAPO will prepare three special studies in accordance with the
objectives, actions and timetables described below. In principle the
studies are to be carried out by FONHAPO's own staff, with support from
outside consultants where deemed necessary.
Study of Building Codes, Design Standards and Administrative Procedures
2.       Background.  Standards applied in certain building codes in Mexico
limit the possibilities of reducing housing costs for low-income families.
For example, codes with stringent urban planning and infrastructure
requirements add unnecessary costs to low-income housing. Similarly, state
laws prohibiting the legal occupancy of peripheral and unserviced lands
despite growing demand for residential homesites cause land prices to
increase.   Finally, the complicated and lengthy administrative processes
involved in obtaining building permits. in registering and finalizing
mortgages and property titles, add considerable time to FONHAPO operations.
The fact that these requirements vary from state to state complicates
matters further.
3.       Objectives.  The underlying objective of this study is to identify
specific ways to modify and to revise existing codes and regulations which
add cost and time to the construction and purchase of low-income housing
and to recommend ways to get such revisions and modifications accepted into
law.
4.       General Description.  The study will focus on two themes: (i)
construction codes and urban design standards, and; (ii) the administrative
procedures associated with property purchase, transfer, titling and
registering not only in the case of 'irregular" properties, but in that of
normal transactions as well. Related procedures, such as those involved
with zoning changes, building licenses and residence permits would also be
included in the second theme. In both cases the study will focus on
identifying specific ways to reduce added costs and eliminate obstacles
which affect low-income housing projects adversely as a result of the
codes, standards and administrative processes.
5.       Methodology.  The study will gather together proposals for and
'success stories" of ways to simplify administrative procedures and
building codes throughout Mexico for the benefit of low-income housing
projects.  The study would begT  by reviewing relevant writings and
publications, and would continue by compiling suggestions and case studies
from FONHAPO's regional delegates, from its sub-borrowers and its



- 54 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 6
beneficiaries, as well as from professional and trade associations involved
in construction and real estate. FONHAPO would host various workshops and
seminars to promote exchanges of experiences and "brain-storminga.
Proposals would be analyzed and evaluated according to their potential
impact, in terms of the savings they could effect in time and money. Key
proposals would then be identified, and a series of recommended changes
drawn up, which would then be analyzed in terms of the steps required for
their implementation.
6. Stages of the Study:
(a) Development of a general description of the steps currently
required in each administrative procedure associated with
FONHAPO projects, taking a general case and quantifying the
least time required, the minimum expenditures implied (both
direct and indirect) and the number of persons and agencies
involved.
(b) Review of relevant literature and documentation.
xc) Review of recent experiences relating to modifications and
simplifications in codes, standards and procedures.
(d) Programming and execution of work sessions for brain-storming
and colloquia, and requests for specific suggestions from each
of FONHAPO's regional offices and sub-borrowers.
(e) Evaluation of proposals, elaboration of recommendations.
(f) Identification of steps to be taken for recommendations to be
implemented.
tg) Promotion of recommendations via: a general report, forums and
round table discussions, project beneficiaries and sub-
borrowers, associated professional associations and interest
groups.
Actions and Timetable
7.       By September 30, 1991, FONHAPO will complete the study on building
codes and administrative procedures. The study results including a
proposed plan for disseminating to and discussing the study's
recommendations with appropriate federal, state and local government
agencies involved with the construction and sale of low-income housing and
for incorporating the relevant recommendations into FONHAPO's operating
procedures, would be discussed with the Bank by December 31, 1991 and
subsequently FONHAPO will take appropriate action.
Irregular Settlements Study
8.       Background.  As part of the proposed project, FONHAPO plans to
increase its program emplhasis on informal construction and irregular
settlements through two special investment programs; one for progressive
urban expansion, and the other for urban regularization and upgrading.



- 55 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 6
These programs differ from FONHAPO's traditional focus because: a) they
directly support the informal, self-help process by which the vast majority
of low-income families resolve their housing problems; b) they focus on
access to legalized land, not on increasing the housing stock through the
formal sector; c) the sub projects are developed for specific localities
rather than for a group of pre-selected beneficiaries, and; d) they
concentrate specifically on residents of irregular settlements. This study
aims to obtain information in a systematic manner that will help FONHAPO to
better design and evaluate housing programs for the residents of irregular
settlements.
9.       Objectives.  Study in a systematic manner and in parallel with the
execution of the two special investment programs to be supported by the
project, the housing and related needs of residents of irregular
settlements and develop recommendations that will allow FONHAPO to better
address these needs through its ongoing lending programr.
10.      Description.  Irregular settlements are defined as those  which
lack adequate public services and/or are characterized by illegal tenure.
One part of the study would focus on quantitative aspects of irregular
settlements; estimating the residents, area, and growth rates of irregular
settlements in Mexican cities, in absolute terms, as a percentage of
overall residential areas, and as related to the housing deficit. The
study would also encompass a qualitative section, which would detect
tendencies in irregular settlements with respect to, inter alia: housing
and land costs and forms of payment and of financing, land use, housing
use, savings a-.d debt capacity, locational preferences, lot and house sizes
and characteristics. costs and forms of payments for house construction,
increases in real estate values, and returns on housing investments, and
the effect of regularization and urban upgrading projects on the former.
The study would, thus, lead to specific recommendations for ways of
stimulating individual investment in housing and X construction, of
increasing productivity of the informal construction industry, and of
increasing densities and optimizing use of existing infrastructure.
11.      Hethodology.  For the part of the study which relates to
quantitative data, FONHAPO would apply baseline studies in the nine cities
where it has regional offices. Once irregular settlements have been
categorized in these cities, a first reference would determine the area,
density, population and characteristics of the irregular settlements in
each city. The base information would be updated every six months,
permitting calculations of rates of growth, rates of regularization, etc.
The part of the study which relates to qualitative aspects of irregular
settlements would be carried out in conjunction with FONHAPO's
regularization and upgrading projects. According to FONHAPO's normal
practices, a base-line socio-economic study would be done in each
neighborhoods which is subject to FONHAPO financing, and a posterior study
would compare situations before and after the upgrading and regularization
project, and detect multiplier effects as well. At the same time, FONHAPO
would carry out base-line and posterior studies of similar, irregular
settlements which are not subject to FONHAPO projects, as control groups.
FONHAPO has already developed workable questionnaires and applied base-line
studies in five of the nine cities where it has regional offices. The
questionnaires should be slightly enlarged to gather information about lot



- 56 -
ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 6
and dwelling unit sizes, costs, (rental, purchase, and financing systems)
as well as contracting systems used in construction. The questionnaires
should also be developed to permit measurement of changes over time, and
extrapolation to estimate the situation at national levels.
12.      Actions and Timetable.  Prior to the end of the 18 months of
project execution FONHAPO would complete the analysis of information
gathered from the first round of surveys in the 9 designated cities and in
selected irregular settlements in Mexico and Jalapa (see above). By
September 30, 1990, FONHAPO will prepare a study of irregular settlements.
The study results, including a proposed plan for modifying FONHAPO's
ongoing programs and policies, to take into account the study's
recommendations, will be discussed with the bank by December 31, 1991 and
subsequently FONHAPO will take appropriate action to implement the
recommendations.
Study on Savings Mobilization
13.      General Objectives.  The study will provide better understanding
about savings patterns and the need for financial services among low-income
families, with the aim of mobilizing additional resources for housing
finance by identifying effective ways to encourage low-income families to
save and financial institutions to provide banking services to the same
population groups.
14.      Description - The study would cover two general areas: an
investigation into the savings rates and capacities among low-income groups
which constitute FONHAPO beneficiarv groups, arl a review of the financial
agencies and institutions to determine costs, bottlenecks and problems
associated with offering financial services to low-income populations.
The study would seek answers to the following specific questions:
(a) What are average monthly savings, highs and low limits, as a
function of family income, and possibilities for increasing
savings capacity ?
(b) What forms of saving are used by low-income families ? (E.G.
investments in real estate, home furnishings, businesses,
family enterprises etc.)
(c) Where do low-income families turn for financing 7 (E.G. loan
sharks, pawn shops, family supports, lay-away and financing
plans from local enterprises)
(d) What reasons do low-income families have for niot using banks
and formal sector financial institutions 7
(e) What reasons do banks have for not offering services to low-
income populations 7
(f) Can successful past experiences of offering financial services
to low-income groups, including those of FONHAPO and of other
financial and cooperative institutions, be replicated on a
large scale 7



- 57 -
ANNEX 10
Page 5 of 6
15.      Methodology - Several sub-studies would be carried out
simultaneously, as follows:
(a) Case Studies - The independent experiences of cooperatives,
credit unions, together with other "success storiese of
savings mobilization, would be reviewed, and analyzed to
determine achievements, costs, benefits and large scale
replicability.
(b) Review of Literature and Documentation- The experiences,
proposals and observations which appear in writings on the
subject of savings mobilization and banking services among
low-income families, would be reviewed and analyzed.
(c) Several pilot programs would be initiated and monitored as
follows
i)    Five sub-projects in Mexico D.F. will be identified
(these should cover a representative range of FONHAPO
project types and income levels.)
ii)   In each case a savings-for-down-payment program will be
established in conjunction with a local banking
institution. Standard amounts for monthly or weekly
deposit will be fixed, but incentives, i.e. commercial
interest rates, will be offered for any additional
savings deposits.
iii)  Follow-up studies will determine: the costs and
utilities affecting the bank in question, compliance
from the beneficiaries, and response to the possibility
of savings.
iv)   On completion of the down payment savings period, both
commercial banks and the beneficiaries will be
interviewed to determine what possibilities (and
advantages) would exist to continue the savings program.
If bank and beneficiaries agree to continue the savings
program, then the follow-up will, like wise continue for
a determined period.
v)    As a follow-up activity, FONHAPO will prepare a general
evaluation of the pilot programs, to analyze results, to
review and to refine the methodologies and set out
guidelines for repeating the programs ini other cities.
The first pilot programs would be applied only in social
groups or private sector groups. The analysis of the
program would also recommend ways to replicate it in
public sector credits.



- 58 -
ANNEX 10
Page 6 of 6
vi)   Similar pilot programs and follow-up studies would then
be carried out in other cities outside the capital.
vii) On completion of the first round of savings programs at
national level, a final evaluation of the pilot savings
programs should be carried out, with analysis geared
toward making specific recommendations for improving the
savings program model and incorporating it into all
FONHAPO projects.
(d) Socio-Economic Studies- As part of its normal programming,
PONHAPO sub-borrowers interview future beneficiaries to
determine their income levels, housing situations, etc.
FONRAPO will ask that a certain number of sub-borrowers
include new questions to determine savings rates and savings
capacities, according to methodologies currently used by
experts in the field.
16.      Actions and Timetable -  By September 30, 1991, FONHAPO will
prepare a study on resource mobilization among low-income families. By
December 31, 1991, FONHAPO will review this study including a proposal for
implementation with the Bank and then take appropriate action thereafter to
implement the study's recommendations.



mco
SECOND LO-IDICCE HOUSIN  PROECt
Breakdown of Estimated Project
Costs-By Type if bJ
(IS  mi II ons)
Stdies                                                         Share of Total   Amount F,nancod      Amount
&           Land         Infae-                    Total     Eligiblo for     By Bank lobn       Finnnked
Design      Acquisition    structure      Building   Cost    Bank Financing c/        (65X)        By FOHUAPO
Conventional Investments         7.8           6t.6         278.4         202.9    675.0          481.8             312.6           262.2
Ssrviced Lots                   1.2           19.7          61.5           0.0    102.4           61.S              58.0            49.4
Hom  Improvements               1.4           26.2          67.7          80.4    114.7           63.1              S7.8            57.4
Starter DOsllinp                4.7           41.6         189.2          172.5    857.9         811.7             202.6           155.8
Special Investments              2.5           24.0          50.4          18.0      90.0          63.8              41.2            48.9
Urban Expension                 1.1            9.8          84.0           0        45.0          84.0              22.1            22.9
Urban Regularization            1.4           14.2          16.8           18.1     45.0          29.4              19.1            26.9
Other Costs dl                                                                       85.0           0.0               0.0            86.0
Projet Admin.                                                                       28.0           0.0               0.0            28.0
Stud;es A Technical
Assstance                                                                          ?0            0.0               0.0             70
TOTAL                         9.6          110.6         826.6         215.9    700.0           44.7             854.0 */        84.0 S.
of Costs are broken down in accordancs with the variou line, of credit provided by FONAPO.
/ Cost estimtes are based on past FONAWPO exprerince for each of the investment prorm.
Bo ank financing would be limited to 655 of costs of construction of lnfrastrueturo and buildings.
f Other costs are estimted to equal 5% of total project costs.
/ Bank loan amount would be US8400 million.
Figures my not dd duo to rounding.



- 60 -                             ANN4X 12
Low.DlOIE "OUSII1 PROJECT
PROJECT NIiTRIOtO IIDICATO"S
1990       1991        102        1008       1994
1. Totel lIveatn
A. No. Sublem/Unlts FInaned       197/"2,024  8491/65,20   877/08,602  877/56,632 877/56,532
9. Volume of Subloans Fitnnced     271,249.9    4,458.7    806,865.4  S66,865.4  66,80.4
(Nx)
2. Dltribution of Inveetsntt
(s of Total)
A. By Typo of VUilt
Stater r ame7                    70.83       74.61       74.6      74.634      74.6X
Servied Lot                      13.71       18.3U       18.8x     18.81       18.81
ome Improw.                      16.05       12M13       12.1X      12.1x      12.11
3. By Subloa Site
Value M100 x W                  80.051      80.0        80.01     80.01       80.0
Volvo (1o00 x W                  7o.03       70.01       7M        70.OX       70.01
C. By Type of Subborroowr
Public                           60.0        e 60.001    60.0     60.015      60.01
Soaiel/Private                   40.03       40.015      40.05     40.051      40.01
0. By Gotgraphic Arz
Major Citle                     15.03       15.05       15.01     1S6OX       15.1O
Mod. Si" Cltlet                  003 60 e0.01           6O.O       60.05       SO.o0
Oher                             25.03       2S.01       26.01     2S.0%       25.OX
8. Expwcted Subloan Cost Recovery
A. Subloen of 50 x  .W.               70.01       70.00       70.05     70.05       70.01
O. Subloan of 1600 a H.W.             60.01       60.01X      60.05     6 N         60.01
C. Subloan of 2000 x N..             100.05      100.01      100.05    100.01      100.01
4.  Funding Sources (s X of Total)
A. FONHAPO Internal Generation        2S.ex       25.05       25.OX     2S OX       2".Ox
O. Governm_t Transfers                26.0X       26.05       26.01     26.05       26.0%
C. DDS 60.3                                       50.01       50.0%     60.0        50.0%
0. Othr
E. TOTAL                             100.01      100.0      100.OX    100.0X      100.0%
5. Staff ( umbere)
A. In headquarters                   50          5689       569        s"          goo
B. In regional officee               497         497         497       497         497
C. TOtal                           1,0686      1,06        1,0       1,066       1,086
0. Admnistrative Coeta/                S.O5        5.X         5.SOX     5.0%        6.0O
InvetmAnta Ratlo (M)
6. Maximum percentag  of FONHAPO           2.5         2.5        2.5        2.5         2.5
Credits Delinquent by ) 4 months



- 61 -
ANNEX 13
MEXICO
Second Low-Income Housing Proiect
Estimated schedule of Disbursements
Bank Fiscal            Disbursements         Cumulative
Year and              Each Quarter         Disbursements        X of
Quarter Ending         (USS million)        (USS million)        Total
FY90
December   31. 1989         17.5                 17.5                5.00
March      30, 1990          8.8                 26.3                7.50
June       30, 1990         13.1                 39.4              11.25
FY91
September  30, 1990          8.7                 48.1              13.75
December   31, 1990         13.2                 61.3              17.50
March      30, 1991         13.1                  74.4              21.25
June       30, 1991         13.1                 87.5              25.00
FY92
September  30, 1991         17.5                105.0              30.00
December   31, 1991         17.5                122.5              35.00
March      30, 1992         17.5                 140.0              40.00
June       30, 1992         17.5                157.5              45.00
FY93
September  30, 1992         26.3                183.8              52.50
December   31, 1992         26.2                210.0              60.00
March      30, 1993         26.3                236.3               67.50
June       30, 1993         26.2                262.5              75.00
FY94
September  30, 1993         17.5                280.0              80.00
December   31, 1993         17.5                297.5              85.00
March      30, 1994         17.5                315.0               90.00
June       30, 1994         17.5                332.5              95.00
PY95
September  30, 1994          8.8                341.3              97.50
December   31, 1194          8.7                350.0             100.00



- 62 -
MEXICO                             AUNEX 14
SECOND LOV-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
Proposed FONMAPO Onlending Terms
Lump Sum
Loan        Down-        Monthly      Loan      Loan           Lump Sum       Subsidy as
Amount     Payment       Payments    Term      Recovery a/    Subsidy b/   of Loan Amount
(in DHW8)  (in DVWs)    (in DHMWs)   (Mos.)   (in DMW8)         (in DHMs)        (S)
250       12.5           4.50         34         160               90         36?
500       25.0           4.50         72         322              178         362
550       27.5           4.50         80         354              196         362
600       30.0           4.50         90         393              207         34?
650       32.5           4.50        100         431              219         34?
700       35.0           4.50        110         468              232         33Z
750       37.5           4.50        120         505              245         33?
8oo       40.0           4.50        130         540              260         322
8S0       42.5           4.50        140         575              275         322
900       45.0           4.50        150         609              291         32?
950       47.5           4.80        151         652              298         31?
1000       50.0           5.10        152         696              304         30?
1050       52.5           5.40        152         736              314         30?
1100       55.0           5.70        152         777              323         29?
1150       57.5           6.00        152         817              333         292
1200       60.0           6.30        156         875              325         27?
1250       62.5           6.60        156         916              334         27?
1300       65.0           6.90        158         967              333         26?
1350       67.5           7.20        158        1009              341         252
1400       70.0           7.50        158        1050              350         252
1450      145.0           8.10        143        1120              330         231
1500      150.0           8.70        128        1167              333         22?
1550      155.0           9.30        134        1215              335         22?
1600      160.0           9.90        134        1289              311         19?
1650      165.0          10.50        134        1362              288         17?
1700      170.0          11.10        134        1436              264         16?
1750      175.0          11.70        134        1509              241         142
1800      180.0          12.30        134        1583              217         122
1850      185.0          12.90        132        1637              213         11S
1900      190.0          13.50        132        1710              190         10?
1950      195.0          14.10        132        1783              167          92
2000      200.0          14.70        132        1855              145          72
2050      205.0          15.10        136        1948              102          5?
2100      210.0          15.50        140        2044               56          32
2150      215.0          15.90        150        2207              -57         -3?
2200      220.0          16.30        152        2284              -84         -4?
2250      225.0          16.70        154        2363             -113         -5?
2300      230.0          17.10        156        2442             -142         -6?
2350      235.0          17.50        160        2586             -196         -8?
2400      240.0          17.90        160        2604             -204         -9?
2450      245.0          18.30        162        2686             -236        -10?
2500      250.0          18.70        162        2745             -245        -10?
a/  Includes a 32 rate of interest per year.
bl  Defined as the loaned principal amount that is paid off over time by the
discounted stream of payments (downpayment plus monthly payments) made to FONHAPO
by the subborrower. The discount rate used is 3? per year.
cl Difference between loan amount and loan recovery.



- 63 -
ANNEX 15
MEXICO
SECOND LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
Description of Annual Survey of Collection
Performance uf FONHA_O Subborrowers
1.       As part of FONHAPO's annual program evaluation, each of FONHAPO's
nine regional offices will carry out a sample survey of sub-borrowers'
experiences in recovering loan repayments from final beneficiaries. Each
sample group should include, at least, the five largest borrowers, as well
as a representative sample of new borrowers in each region. For each sub-
borrower surveyed, FONHAPO would determine, at least, the total volume and
number of outstanding loans, the number and volume of loans written off, of
loans currently unpaid for a period of over four months, of over six months
and of over twelve months.
2.       This information will help FONHAPO to estimate the late payments
and loan recovery problems experienced by sub-borrowers, and to identify
those with serious exposure problems in time to offer technical assistance
for improving collection levels. FONHAPO will also set goals (in terms of
both volume and number of loans) for sub-borrowers with loan collection
problems. If sub-borrowers do not meet goals, and improve their cost
recovery levels within a given time period, they will become ineligible for
future FONHAPO loans.
.



- 64 -                ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
SECOND LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
FON ADO Financial Projection
1.       FONHAPO has prepared projections of its total sources and applications of
funds for the period 1989-94, based on the production and investment goals (of
660,000 housing units and US$1,625 million of equivalent of new loans,
respectively) contained in its Medium-Term Program. These projections, which are
provided in the attachments, indicate that during 1989-94 FONHAPO would generate
internally (from programmed repayments on outstanding and new credits, and from
subborrower downpayments) funds totalling US$562 million equivalent, or 35Z of the
financing needed to carry out the Medium-term Program. The remaining required
funding for this program (US$1,063 million equivalent, or 65Z of the total) would
come from Government transfers (US$435 million), Loan 2612-ME (US$49 million), the
proposed Bank loan (US$350 million) and other yet-to-be identified sources (US$229
million).
2.       In making the projections, FONHAPO has assumed that, during 1989-94, the
annual rate of inflation would remain constant at 33X (which was the projected
1989 inflation rate at appraisal in March 1989) and that the minimum wage will not
fall in real terms. FONHAPO's projections also take into account the agreement to
be reached under the proposed project that 70? of its future financing will be
targetted to loan amounts of 1600 DMWs or less. Furthermore, it was assumed that
the Government would relend Bank loan proceeds in pesos to FONHAPO at the Mexican
Government Treasury bill rate (CETES), but that FONHAPO would be provided with
Government transfers to cover its debt service costs on the Bank loan and project
counterpart funds. Presented below are other key assumptions which underlie the
flow of funds projections.
a.  Total Sources
(i)   FONHAPO internal generation - details are provided in
page 3 of this annex.
(ii)   Government transfers - annual contributions are expected
to begin at US$63.6 million in 1989 and then fluctuate
between US$73 million and US$83 million from 1990-1994.
(iii)   Loan 2612-ME-reflects expected remaining loan balance to
be dibursed in 1989.
(iv)   Proposed Bank loan - equivalent to US$350 million.
(v)   Other - Additional funding required, from yet-to-be
identified sources, to allow FONHAPO to meet production
and investment targets in Medium-term Program.
b.   Total Applications
(i)   Credits contracted in 1988 - Loan already approved by
PONHAPO and to be disbursed in 1989.



- 65-
ANIEX 16
Page 2 of 4
(ii) Credits to be contracted 1989-94 - New loans to be
approved and disbursed by FONHAPO.
(iii) Operating Cost - projected to increase gradually from
US$7.4 million in 1989 to $11.6 million in 1992, and to
remain at that level through 1994.
(iv)   Other - miscellaneous expenses which are expected to
decline gradually over time.



mElco
SECOND LOW INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
Proiection of FONHAPO Sources and ApDlication of Funds 1989-94
(In US$ 000)
Year                         1989         1990        1991         1992         1993          1994      TOTAL 89-94
TOTAL SOURCES                     193,942      249,408     289,537      298,012       297,559      297,242      1,625,700
FONHAPO Internal Generation        65,965       65,371      81.644       98,796       118,108      132,353        562,239
Government Transfers               53,572       73,054      81,171       73,054        73,054       81,171        435,077
Loan 2612-HE                       48,661            0            0           0             0             0        48,661
Proposed Bank Loan                 10,088       72,849      86,657       89,726        89,726          954        350,000
Other                              15,656       38,133      40,063       36,436        16,670       82,765        229,723
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                193,942      249,408     289,537      298,012       297,559      297,242      1,625,700
Credits contacted in 1988          63,786            0            0           0             0             0        63.786
Credits to be Contracted in '89  118,355        78,904            0           0             0            0        197,260
Credits to be Contracted in '90         0      157,808     105,205            0             0            0        263,013
Credits to be Contracted in '91         0            0     170,958      113,972             0            0        284,931
Credits to be Contracted in '92         0                         0     170,958       113,972             0       284.931
Credits to be Contracted in '93         0            0            0           0      170, 958      113,972        284,931
Credits to be Contracted in '94         0            0            0           0             0      170,958        170,958
Operating Costs                     7,396        9,611      11,213       11,569        11,569       11,569         62,930
Other                               4,405        3,083       2,158        1,511         1,057           740        12,957
o I
o a%



MEXICO
SECOND LOW INCOME SOUSING PROJECT
Proiections of FONHAPO Internal Cash Generation 1989-94
(In US$ '000s)
Year                            1989        1990         1991         1992         1993          1994       TOTAL 89-94
CONVENTIONAL INVESTMENT PROGRAM   46,670        47,765       64,905       82,070       101,383      115,628        458,422
CREDITS WITH FIXED PAYMENTS          1,689       1,476        1,290        1,128           986           862         7,433
Credit contracted in 1981               80           70          61           53            47            41           354
Credit contracted in 1982              574          502         439          383           335           293         2.528
Credit contracted in 1983 & *84    1,034            904         790          690           603           527         4.550
CREDITS WITH VARIABLE INT. RATES  21,132        16,251       12,084        9,137         9,137        4,568         72,311
Credit contracted in 1984            6,101       1,220            0            0             0             0         7,321    >
Credit contracted in 1985            5,894       5,894        2,947            0             0             0        14,735      '
Credit contracted in 1986            9,137       9,137        9,137        9,137         9,137        4,568         50,254
CREDITS IN MULT. OF MIN. WAGE       23,848      30,036       51,530       71,805        91,259      110,197        378,677
Credit contracted in 1987           12,623      12,623       12,623       12,623        12,623       23,623         75,742
Credit contracted in 1988           11,224       6,209        6,209        6,209         6,209        6,209         42,272
Credit contracted in 1989                0      11,203       17,758       13,110        13,110       13,110         68,294
Credit contracted in 1990                0            0      14,938       23,678        17,481       17,481         73,578
Credit contracted in 1991                0            0           0       16,182        25,651       18,937         60,772
Credit contracted in 1992                0            0           0            0        16,182       25,651         41,834
Credit contracted in 1993                0            0           0            0             0       16,182         16,182
SPECIAL PROGRAMS a/                 14,695      14,696       14,696       14,696        14,696       14,696         88,177
OTHER INCOME                         4,598       2,910        2,043        2,029         2,029        2,029         15,639
TOTAL INTERNAL CASH GENERATION    65,964        65,371       81,644       98,795      118,108       132,353        562,239
Figures say not add due to rounding.
8/ Mainly credits for earthquake reconstruction programs.



- 68 -
ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
SECOND LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Project
Introduction
1.       The internal economic rate of return (IERR) of the project has
been calculated for two of the typical types of subprojects financed by
FONHAPO: the starter dwelling with one bedroom and the upgrading of an
existing dwelling. In both cases, the economic benefits have been measured
by the imputed rents for a comparable house in Mexico, based on information
provided by FONHAPO. The imputed rent for the starter dwelling has been
estimated at the equivalent of US$42/month. For the upgrading of an
existing dwelling, it was assumed thit the credit would be used to add one
bedroom. The related incremental benefit would then be the increase in
imputed monthly rent, or US$14/month.
2.       The costs for each typical subproject has been estimated net of
taxes and other non-economic items such as financial transfer charges. For
the starter dwelling, the costs include the price of land and all
infrastructure and building construction (including al cost of labor and
materials) required to turn over a finished unit to a beneficiary. For the
home upgrading, all super structure costs were included. For both
subprojects, an annual allowance for maintenance of 1X of the nonland costs
have been added to maintain the units durirg their assumed 25 year life.
Results of Analysis
3.       The IERas resulting from discounting the costs and benefits over
25 years are 102 for the starter dwelling and 15.6Z for the home upgrading.
Assuming a suhpn-3ject distribution of 1:4 of starter dwellings to home
-Pgrading units for the project as a whole, the overall IERR of the project
is 14.4Z.
4.       Additional analysis has been applied to test the sensitivity of
the IERR to adverse changes in the cost/benefit assumptions. Under the
most extreme case tested, in which costs were to rise by 152 and benefits
were to drop by 152, the overall IERR of the ptoject would fall to 102. A
summary of the IERR analysis is provided in the attachment to this annex.
5.       For the purpose of the analysis above, the cost of labor was not
shadow priced. tsing a shadow price of 80Z of the prevailing wage rate, to
reflect the fact that construction requires mostly unskilled labor and in
that sector there is a high rate of upemployment, which is unlikely to
disappear in the next few years, the rate of return increases by one to two
percentage points, i.e. the overall IERR would be about 16Z. Also, had
some monetary value been assigned to the valuable externalities associated
with the project (e.g., environmental and poverty alleviation benefits) the
IERRs would increase further.



- 69 -
ANNEX 17
Cage 2 of 2
1EXICO
SECOND LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
Internal Economic Rate of Return Calculations
(Prices in USS as of March 1989)
Years                Sensitivity Analysis
1     2-25
1. Starter Dwelling
Costs
Land and Urbanization       1000            Benefits Down 152, Cost Unchanged IERR - 7.62
Construction                3620            Benefits Unchanged, Costs up 152 IERR - 7.92
Haintenance                   -     36      Benefits Down 15S, Costs up 152 IERR - 5.72
Benefits
Imputed Rent                  -     S10
IERR - 10.02
2. Home Upgrading
Costs
Construction               1000             Benefits Down 152, Cost Unchanged IERR - 12.82
Maintenance                  -       10    Benefits Unchanged, Costs up 152 IERR   13.22
Benefits Down 152, Costs up 152 ZERR = 10.72
Benefits
Imputed Rent                 -      170
IERR - 15.62



