Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8625
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 801-TA)
HAY 8, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Southern Afria Department
Africa Regional Office
lhis docment bss a resteded dIsrbtion and may be used by e  old y in te peromne of
teir ogiciai duies Its contes may not oltherwise be disdosed  wt  Wodd Bank autdhzation.



CURRENCSDYt 
US$ 1.00 = Tsh               8.30                  (1978) 1
8.30                 (1979)
8.20                 (1980)
8.30                 (1981)
9.28                 (1982)
11.14                 (1983)
15.29                 (1984)
17.47                 (1985)
32.70                 (1986)
64.26                 (1987)
95.00 est.           (1988)
130.00 est.          (1989) 2
CATA         :Cashewnut Authority of Tanzania
CNSL         :Cashewnut Shell Liquid
CPIPP        :Cashew Production Improvement Pllot Project
GOT          :Government of Tanzania
MALD         :Ministry of Agriculture and Uvestock Development
MDB          :Marketing Development Bureau
NBC          :National Bank of Commerce
NCIP         :National Cashewnut Improvement Project
PCR          :Project Competion Report
PPMB         :Projct Prepartion and Monitoring Bureau
RMEA         :World Bank Regional Office for Eastern Africa
SAR          :Staff AOpraisal Report
TCMB         :Tannia Cashew Marketing Board
FL YEAR
Government of Tanzania          :1 July - 30 June
CATAITCMB                        :1 October - 30 September
1/ Assumption in SAR of 1 May 1978.
2/ As per May 1989.



FO OMCIAL US ONLY
THE WORtL SANK
WashinUton. DC. 20433
UA.
O0t* of Vy"WtaCmW&i
0owaiw fVibJStmn
May 8, 1990
MIEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DTRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Tanzania Second
Cashewnut Development Proiect (Credit 801-TA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Tanzania - Second Cashevaut Development
Project (Credit 801-TA)" prepared by the FAOICP Investment Center and the
Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by the
Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Yves Rovani
by Ram K. Chopra
Attachment
This document has a restrited distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofcial dutis. Its contents may not othems be disclosed without World Bank autodiaon.



FOR OMCI4L USE ONLY
PROJECT C0ONPLETION REPORT
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
SECOND CASNEWNUT DEVELOPHENS PROJECT
(CREDIT 801-TA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PRE ACE    ....   ..*   ...................... 
EVALUATION SUMMARY .................**....******.............   1
PART I    -  PROJECT REVIEW PROK BAN'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity ..................................   6
Background             ..............                       6
Project Objectives & Description ......................   8
Project Design and Organization .......................   9
Project Implementation ................................  11
Project Results  ......................................  12
Project Sustainability ................................  15
Bank Performance    ..........               .             16
Borrowr Performance ..................................  16
Project Relationship and Lessons Learned ..............  17
Consulting Services ....     .                             17
Project Documentation and Data ........................  18
PART It   - PROJECT REVIEW PROM BORROVER'S PERSPECTIVE
Original Project ....................19
Project Design .................................... 19
Project Performance ..................................  20
The Project Impact and Sustainability                      21
Cashewnut Production Improvemont Pilot Project (CPIPP)  22
The Project Design                                         22
Project Performance ...................................  22
The bmpact and Sustainability of the Project               23
World Bank Performance .................  24
The Performance of Borrower (Government and CATA)          24
The Lesson Learnt ......................................  24
Adequacy and Accuracy of the Factual Information
Contained in Part III  .                         25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not othcrwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART III  -  TABLES - STATISTICAL INFORNATION
1  - Related BDnk Credits/Loans ......................  26
2  - Project Tltable  ........................ .......  27
3  - Estimated and Actual Disbursements per Year ..... 28
4  - Actual and Estimated Disbursemsuts.per Category..  29
5  - Actual and Estimated Project Cost ...............  30
6  - Direct Benefits ................................. 31
7  - Compliance vith Major Covenaots   ............... 33
8  - Use of Bank Resources for Supervision ............  35
9  -   stimated Marketed Annual Cashewnut Production... 36
10  -  Factory Proceasing Capacities & Days of Production 37
11  - Production at Likombe and Kibaha (1988/89) ...... 38
12  -  CPIPP Staffing *       .................................  39
13  - CPIPP Training Activities .......................  40
14  -  Consultants funded by CPIPP ..................... 41
15  -  Sumary of CPIPP Studies, Surveys & Publications. 42
16  -  TCNB Sumary Balance Sheets (1977189) ........... 45
17  -  TCMB Sumaary Profit/Loss Accounts (1977/89) ..... 47
MAP - IBRD #13096R- REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA, SECOND CASREW DEVMLOIMENT
PROJECT (1977)



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UNITED REpUBLIC OF TANWIA
SECOND CASEWRNUT DEVELOYMENS PROJECT
(CREDIT 801-TA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second
Cashewnut Development Project in Tanzania, for which Credit 801-TA in the
amount of USS 27.5 million was approved on May 16, 1978. By January 1985,
an amount of USS 3.0 million was cancelled and the balance of US$ 3.5
million used for a redesigned Cashewnut Production Improvement Pilot
Project (CPIPP). The reduced credit was almost completely disbursed
(98.3X) while the last disbursement date was on December 29, 1989.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agriculture Operations
Division of Southern Africa Department (Preface and Evaluation Summary),
the FAO/CP Investment Center (Parts I and III), and the Borrower (who
prepared Part II after receiving Parts I and III). The Cashewnut Authority
of Tanzania (CATA) prepared an initial PCR dated May 5, 1985 at the end of
the factory construction phase of the project. Another PCR, covering the
Cashew Production Improvement Pilot Project (CPIPP) was prepared in August
1989 by the pilot project staff.
Preparation of the PCR was started in June 1989, and is based on
the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit Agreement; the initial
PCR from CATA; project progress reports; supervision reports;
correspondence between IDA and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORS
NITSED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
SECOND CASEMWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 801 - TA)
EVALUATIONSIOMRARY
Backaround - Protect Orinin
1.        Cashewnut is the most important cash crop in Southern Tanzania,
generating important foreign exchange earnings from exports. Production
increased impressively during the 1960's and the early 1970's from an
estimated 74,000 t in 1965 to 145,000 t in 1973 (Part I, table 1). The
most important factors contributing to this development were adequate
extension support, attractive prices and relatively satisfactory marketing
arrangements. Cashewnuts were largely exported as raw nuts as the domestic
processing capacity was limited to around 20,000 t p.a. (Part I, para 3).
2.        During the late 1960's, the Government of Tanzania (GOT), in
pursuance of the exploitation of the marked price differential between raw
nuts and processed kernels which existed at that time, sought further ways
to expand its domestic processing capacity (Part I, para 3). In 1974 the
World Bank Group approved a loan of US$ 21 million (Loan 1014 TA) to
finance the expansion of the Tanzania cashewnut processing capacity by
40,000 tons p.a. (Part I, para 4).   Physical implementation of the project
was generally satisfactory (Part I, para 5) and the five factories became
operational between October 1978 and June 1981. In 1976, GOT prepared a
follow-up proposal to increase its domestic processing capacity by a
further 30,000 t p.a.s the main consideration being that the GOT had
embarked on an ambitious planting program which sought to nearly double
cashewnut production by 1992. In 1978, the Bank approved a credit of
US$27.5 million for the Second Cashewnut Development Project (SCDP).
Proiect Obiectives and Descriltion
3.        The SCDP was expected to increase cashewnut processing capacity
by an additional 30,000 tons annually, through the establishment of three
more factories in Mtwara, Ribaha and Newala, under management of the
Cashewnut Authority of Tanzania (CATA). This expanded processing capacity
would increase Tanzania's foreign exchange earnings and the local value
added utilizing local raw materials. Specifically, the project would
provide financing for: (a) construction, installation and equipping of
three cashewnut processing factories each with a 10,000 tons p.a. raw nuts
processing capacity; (b) the expansion of port storage facilities of
cashewnut shell liquid (CNSL) by 750 tons and the procurement of vehicles
and truck tankers to transport CNSL; as well as: (c) the construction of
staff houses for two factories; (d) strengthening cashewnut research; (e) a
study to determine occupational health hazards in cashewnut industry and to



-2-
formulate monitoring criteria; and (f) TA for project implementation and
strengthening CATA's financial and technical management (Part I, para 8).
4.        The total project cost was estimated at US$ 36.3 million over a
6 year implementation period. The project was financed by an IDA Credit of
US$ 27.5 million (76Z); GOT provided the local cost (US$ 6.6 million); and
the National Bank of Commerce provided the balance for CATA's working
capital requirements (US$ 2.2 million) (Part S, para 9).
Pro1ect ImDlementation
5.        The main objective of the project - to establish three factories
with a combined processing capacity of 30,000 t p.a. - was fully achieved
without time and/or cost overruns. Yet, the project cannot be considered
as having been successful, due to a dramatic decline in cashewnut
production which occurred since 1973/74, and which has prevented the
factories from being operational anywhere near their capacity. In fact,
production declined from 145,000 t to a mere 44,000 t (302) in 1982 and to
around 20,000 t (142) in 1986 (Part I, para 12). Consequently, the
factories only operated at 451 of capacity up to 1985/86, when processing
ceased altogether. The Phase I factories had already ceased processing by
that time and were 'moth balled". Processing was resumed in 1987/88 in two
of the three Phase II factories. At present, processing is around 52 of
overall capacity.
6.        The causes for the dramatic decline in cashewnut production are
multifold and interrelated. First, the villagization policy, which started
in 1974, and which sought to concentrate a previously scattered rural
population in villages, caused an immediate drop in production. After the
re-settlement, many farmers lived -4o far from their plots to allow rejular
harvesting, and for a considerable period, movements outside the villages
were restricted (Part I, para 12). The effects of this policy were
aggravated as the marketing arrangements and producer prices deteriorated.
7.        These causes would, most probably, have led to a significant
decrease in production, but the decline should have levelled off after the
initial period, especially as GOT had embarked in a planting program around
the newly formed villages. The fact that the decline was not halted, was
due to the emergence and spread of powdery mildew (Oidium anacardii) which
affects the young leaves, flowers and young nuts, causing complete loss of
production (Part I, para 13).
8.        Alt_ough the appearance of powdery mildew only became evident
after the project became effective, production had already decreased to
nearly half of the 1973174 peak production (Part I, para 14) at the time of
appraisal (1978). The SAR failed to recognize this decline, nor did it
include a risk analysis showing the impact of significantly lower
production on the financial viability.
9.        A related issue was that the price relationship between raw nuts
and processed kernels had changed after appraisal in favor of exporting raw
nuts (Part I, para 24), rendering domestic processing of raw nuts in
Tanzania at best only marginally economically viable.



Cashewnut Productior ZmDrovement Pilot Pro1ect (CPItP)
10.       Towards the end of the original credit closing date of December
31, 1984, an estimated US$ 6.6 million remained undisbursed. In order to
assist GOT in its attempts to counter the declining cashewnut production,
the Bank agreed to use about half of the undisbursed funds to grant a
three-year extension to allow the implementation of a pilot project aimed
at determining and testing the reasons for the decline of production and
how the trend could be reversed 1/.
11.       CPIPP had four main componentst (l)Crop Development and
Extension, which sought to train staff, develop production packages and
assist farmers in adopting these packages; (2) Monitoring and Evaluation;
(3) Research 2/, particularly in vegetative propagation and pathology; and
(4) strengthening MALD's organizational and management capacity in the
cashewnut subsector (Part I, para 21).
12.       CPIPP developed improved production packages.  These included
thinning densely planted cashew groves, applying sulphur dust to control
powdery mildew and intercropping. The application of these packages were
inhibited however by practical, technical and environmental problems of
applying sulphur and lack of appropriate inputs for annual crops. CPIPP
carried out a substantial training program of 6,730 mandays, principally of
extension staff. This enabled a T&V system to be successfully established,
reaching 85 clusters of 3 to 4 villages or about 6,300 farmers; in excess
of the originally planned 36 clusters. A M&E unit was established and
covered all aspects of the cashewnut sector providing information and
directing attention to its needs. CPIPP supported research at Naliendele,
Agricultural Research Institute, conducted applied research and established
a good relationship between Extension and Research. The applied research
component covered farming systems, tree densities, selection of trees
tolerant to powdery mildew, vegetative propagation and application of
sulphur to control it. Three comprehensive Progress Reports were produced
and, in addition, some further 40 reports and papers, containing much
factual information (Part III, table 15).
13.       Actual credit used amounted to US$ 21.4 million for the
construction phase of 3 processing factories and about US$ 3.1 million for
the CPIPP pilot project, which in total is about 892 of the original credit
of USS 27.5 million or 98Z of the 1985 revised credit amount of US$ 24.5
million.
11   The three year extension was granted on the condition of an annual
review. Subsequently, the project was granted another 1.5 year
extension up to June 30, 1989, to allow the full three growing
seasons to be covered as had originally been intended, but which a
slow start had prevented.
21   Originally, this component was not included as it was to be
implemented under an Italian bilateral program, which however did not
materialize.



- 4 -
14.       The successful implementation of the pilot project, which
benefitted from the full support of GOT and a flexible approach, both in
design and execution, by the Bank, has led to the formulation of a follow-
up Cashew Improvement Program focussing entirely on cashew research and
development support, under the Cashew and Coconut Treecrops Project (CCTP).
The CCTP project was approved in June 1989.
Results
15.       The main objective of establishing additional cashewnut
processing capacity of 30,000 ton p.a. was fully achieved (Part I, para
22). However, due to the perennial decline in cashewnut production (from
145,000 ton in 1974 to 24,000 ton in 1988), which prevented acceptable
levels of utilization of the new processing facilities, the original
project cannot be considered a success (Part I, para 23).
16.       The consolidated financial results of CATA/Tanzania Cashew
Marketing Board (TCMB) were positive due to the trading profit on the
export of raw nuts and domestic sales and exports of factory processed
kernels being a fraction only of the total sales turnover. The policy to
promote raw nut exports rather than maximize local processing, induced by
the relative comparative price advantage of raw nuts has benefitted the
financial performance of TCMB. Yet, the financial performance of TCMB
remains fragile, especially when seen in the light of the depreciation
policy based on historic cost and the high debt servicing obligations,
which TCMB will have to honer in a macro-economic environment of high
currency depreciation and domestic inflation (Part I, para 24).
17.       The CPIPP pilot project was highly successful in achieving its
main objectives; i.e. to determine and test several hypotheses which had
led to the decline in cashew nut production and which could lead to the
reversal of this trend (Part I, para 26). Powdery mildew (Oidium
anacardii) was identified as the main cause of the decline, affecting
cashew trees at all ages, except in a few incidental cases where trees have.
been identified as being tolerant to the disease. As a result several
technical extension packages could be designed and successfully tested.
i8.       A reliable vegetative propagation method for tolerant trees uas
developed by CPIPP and the Agricultural Research Institute at Naliendele.
Sustainabilitv
19.       Due to the dramatic decline of the cashewnut production (Part I,
para 12), it is not sustainable to maintain all existing 12 processing
factories and GOT should find alternative uses for 7 or 8 of the factories.
The economic upkeep and operation of 4 or 5 strategically located factories
would only be possible if these factories are more efficiently run by or
with the assistance of the private sector. Additionally a more integrated
planning and management system should be put in place for nut processing
and raw nut production development in the immdiate areas, through
production assistance to farmers and/or estates and through more attractive



direct payments (based on F.O.B. world market raw nut prices) in order to
guarantee sufficient and regular factory supplies.
20.       Raw nut production can only be improved and eventually sustained
if Tanzania, with assistance from donors, continues to support proper
Cashew Research and Extension as started under the CPIPP and followed up
under the proposed Cashew and Coconut Treecrops Project.
Findings and Lessons Learned
21.       The decision for expanding the cashewnut processing facilities
with additional capacity in Phase II should have been based on a solid
understanding of the whole cashew nut industry, including the production
and consumption trends of the raw materials to be processed (Part I, para
43 and Part II, para 6.1). However, in the early years of the first Cashew
Development Project (Ln. 1014-TA) supervision was mainly concerned with the
construction of project facilities and the staffing problems of CATA.
Supervision was mainly carried out by non-agriculturists not understanding
tecbnical problems or flagging them on time. Only in October 1978, after
the Phase II May 1978 appraisal, was the problem of declining yields and
the negative affect of villagization on production raised with the
Tanzanian authorities. But the Bank did not pursue for any specific action
nor did it redesign Phase IT on the basis of Phase I performance and
declining yields. These aspects have been highlighted in paras 7.27 to
7.30 of the Project Performance Audit Report of the Phase I Cashew
Development Project dated June 29, 1984.
22.       A better inter action with and involvement of local field staff
and Government officials at the time of preparation and appraisal would
have led to a better understanding of the actual situation and would have
led to a differently designed follow up Phase II project (Part I, para 43
and Part II para 6.2).
23.       Once it was clear that the assumptions for the Phase II project
were wrong (too optimistic view of raw cashewnut production projections),
the project should have been immediately cancelled or redesigned, which was
only done in 1985 after construction of 3 more factories. Project designs
should be flexible and adjustable to changing circumstances at all times
(Part II, para 6.4).



- 6 -
PROJECT C-GMPLETION REPORT
WIMTED REPUBLIC OF TAN
SECOND CASINUT DVOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 801-TA)
PART I
PROJECT REVEV FROM BANS   RSPECTr
1. Prjt IdnitY
1.     Prolect name    :Second Cashewnut Development Project
Credit No     :Cr 801-TA
RVP Unit      :AF6AG
Counltry       :Tanzania
Sector         :Agriculture
2. Agriculture is the largest sector in the Tanzanian economy, providing 40-50% of GNP.
about 80%a ot export earnings and over 80%a of employment. The main cash crops are
coffee, cotton, sisal, tobacco, tea, cashewnut, pyrethrum and cloves. Cashewnut is the main
cash crop of southern Tanzania and is also grown to a lesser extent in the Coast and Tanga
regions. Cashewnut is predominantly grown by smallholders, estimated at 280,000 tarn
families on some 400,000 ha with 32 millon trees, in sole or mixed crop production
systems. 2' Large-scale private plantations are restricted to about 2,000 ha in the Lindi and
Mtwara regions. Cashewnut production, like other cash crops, increased substantially between
the mid-sixties and mid-seventies, mostly as a result or a combination of an effective
extension service, the availability of appropriate agro-technologies and attractive producer
prices.
3. Nuts were yeneraly exported raw, prumanly to India, for further processing. By the mid-
1960's, processing capacity in Tanzania was limited to nine manual processing units witni a
target capacity of 1,000 ton per unit p.a. as compared to an estimated annual raw nut
production of around 120,000 ton. By 19W8869 GOT had embarked on the construction of Iwo
processing faclites TANITA 1 (1965) and Mtwara (1968), with a capacity of around 20,000
ton p.a., so that the total gross processing capacity was estimated at around 27,000 ton of
raw nuts p.a. The manual units were all operatng at a loss, however, and were closed by
the early 1970's, while the total effective operating capacity of the two mechanized mills was
estimated at around 17,000 ton p.a. In pursuance of the expoitation of the marked prie
J/ This PCR is based on an FAOWIB Cooperative Programme mission which visited Tanzania
in June 1989. Previously, the Tanzania Cashewrut Marketing Board (TCMB) had prepared, in
cooperation with the Project Preparation and Monitoring Bweau (PPMB), a PCR covering the
factory establishment period, i.e. up to end 1984 (Report dated 5 May 1985).
2/ For a full descnption of the cashewnut sub-sector, including statistical data, production
systems, processng and marketing systems, see the Staff Appraisal Report on the Cashew
and Coconut Treecrops Project, No. 7681-TA, 1989.



difHerential between the exported raw nut and kernel prices, GOT sought ways to expand its
domestic processing capacty. To this purpose. GOT, assisted by the Regional World Bank
Office in Eastem Afnca (RMEA), prepared a project proposal in 1972,73 to expand its
processing capacity by around 50,000 ton p.a. and presented this to the World Bank for
financing.
4. In 1974 the Board approved a loan for US$ 21.0 million (Loan 1014-TA) to finance the
expansion of the Tanzanian cashewnut processing capacity by 40.000 tons (Table 10 of Part
fil). The project included construction, installation and equipping of five new cashewnut
processing factories, cashewnut shell liqutd (CNSL) 1' storage facilities at the port of Mtwara
IM provision of technical assistance. The project also provided for five road maintenance
units, extension services, a research and training programme, staff housing, rural water supply
facilities, communty education centers and professional services
5. Overall physical execution of the first phase project, in particular with regard to
construction and equipping of the factories and other cvil works, was satisfactory, althougth
some cost and bme overruns were encountered ?,. Technical assistance and traning aspects
of the project were only party implemented, while key staff recruitment remained a problem
throughout the implementation period. The small research programme was not implemented
since GOT preferred to use an Itatian Government grant and TA to implement a two-year
breeding, FFst and disease control research programme, which, however, became operational
only in 1979. The project had envisaged engaging 537 trained extension staff. In practice,
elven senior positions were filled with qualified staff, but of the 344 extension assistants
recruited only 32 had pnor training m agriculture. Subsequently, most extension staff became
involved primarily in procurement of raw cashew nuts on behalf of the Cashewnut Authority of
Tanzania (CATA).
6. A dramabc deine of raw nut production (see paras 12-15) prevented advantage being
taken of the processing facilities. Shortage of raw materials caused four of the mills to be
closed between 1982 and 1983, while the Newala I mill has never operated. At present, all
Phase I mills are mothballed and the possibility of these mills being re-activated in the medium term
future should be consKired unlikely (see para 31).
7. CATA was established in 1973 as A statutory authority, under the Ministry of Agriculture,
desgnated to coordinate all aspects of producton, research, processing and marketing of
cashewnuts. CATA was replaced in 1985 by the Tanzania Cashewnut Marketing Board
(TCMB) with a more imitd mandate, ocussing on the marketing and processing aspects of
the indwustry. TCMB is the offcial buyer of nuts from the Cooperative Unions and the sole
export marketi  agent. The Minustry of Agriculture (MALD) took on Fte r nsi ity for the
producOtio  aspects of cashewnut industry, icling research and extension services. GOT
envisages that uktimately all proemet at farmate Wvel should be handled by Primary
Cooperatve Sucieties, while the Cooperabve Unions would mnage the factories and TCMB
would handle nut and kernel exports. The possible future role of private parties in the
purchase of raw nuts, processing and exports is under active review.
1/ CNSL Is a cheivcal by-product of cashewnut processig (about 7-10% of the raw nut
volume) and used rnostly in paints and lubricants.
Z For more tinfoation regrdg the imentation of Loan 1014 TA see Project
Performance AAdit Report No. 5197, dated 29 June 1984.



- 3 -
amo -s t9Saan   _ u
8. In 1976, GOT prepared a follow-up project proposal, to further expand the domestic
processing capaciy. The main consideration was that, as GOT had embarked on an
ambitious planting programme, which was expected to lead to an additional raw nut
production of at least 100,000 ton p.a. by 1992, it wished to reap the benefits of increased
domestic value added through domestic processing. (See Chapter 4). This Second Cashewnut
Development Project (SCOP) would increase cashewnut processing capacity by an additional
30.000 tons annuafly (Table 10 of Part ll), through the establishment of three new factones.
Specificaly, the project would provide financing for
(a)    construction, installation and equipping of three cashewnut processing factories each
with a 10,000 tons p.a. raw nuts processing capacity, including water supply
facilities;
(b)    expansion of port storage facilities of cashewnut shell liquid (CNSL) by 750 tons and
the procuremealt of truck tankers to transport CNSL and vehicles; as well as:
(c)    construction of staff houses for two factories;
(d)    strengthen cashewnut research;
(e)    carrying out a study to determine occupational health hazards in cashewnut industry
and to tormulate monitoring criteria; and
(f)    provd. TA for project implementation and strengthen CATA's financial and technical
management.
9. The total ptolect cost was esttmated at US$ 36.3 million over a 6-year implementation
period, with a foreign exchange component of 79YO. The costs per component are
summarized below.
s01 E_ Prq c
*i@ of
m                      LEQsreign                 IQ       base cost
...... Million  US$  .........  %
Factory Devel.&
Kibeba                1.3          6.1          7.4        25
Newala II             1.4          6.6          8.0        27
Mtwara                 2           iQ           u          X
Sub-total:           5.2          18.7        23.9        80
Vehicles and Tankers    0.0          0.1          0.1         1
Prot. Services          2A           ffi          iQ         2Q
Total Base cost:     5.6          24.4        30.0        100
Phys.cont.         0.4          1.6          2.0         7
Price cont.        DA             7          Li          Z
Total project cost:  6.4          27.7       34.1 Cl      114
note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
aI Wuding civil works, processing equipment and water supply.
ti Of which supervision of construction US$1.5 milon and Agricultural research
US$ I.0.
Cl Excluding US$ 2.2 nullion working capital.
ce  Table 23 of Staff Appraisal Report.



-9-
10. The project would be financed by an IDA Credit of USS 27.5 million (76%); GOT would
provide the local cost (US$ 6.6 million); and the National Bank of Commerce would provide
the balance for CATA working capital requirements (USS 2.2 million).
4. P c Desiu M d (W        M
11. The initial preparation of the project was carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture with
some assistance of RMEA in the context of the First Cashewnut Developrmient Project in
1977. I/ Project design of this follow-up (or second phase) project focussed, as did the first
project, entirely on increasing the national cashewnut processing capacity. Indeed, annual
marketed raw cashewnut production had increased from between 70-80.000 ton in the mid-
sixties to 145,000 in 1973174, which seemed to justify further expansion of the domestic
processing capacity. In addition. GOT had embarked on a large scale plantation programme
(see below) which sought to increase production by an estimated 100,000 ton p.a. by 1992.
12. Contrary to expectRt;ons however, produc&on had statted to decline significantly by 1975
as shown below.
&PW Meted Production Raw Caedwm* 1JW&198
SWemd ZMs 1/
i   6    mazz 3iz~ im uAm  m    i    i           19 8 i6
'000 ton      74  110  126  145   84   68   42   44   48   21   24
index Z/      51   76   87  100   58   47   29   31   33   14   17
.. ....... ...... .... . .... 
1! Source: Table 9 of Part ll.
21 Peak production 1973/74 taken as 100.
A number of reasons were advanced for this declie 2t, including adverse climatic conditions
in the main producng areas, increasing age of the bearing trees and GOT's villagization
policy which started in 1974. Undoubtedly, the latter policy, which sought to concentrate a
pevously scattered rural population in villages, had a serious impact on cashew production
as s isevided by the sharp drop in production between 1974 and 1976 (Table 9 of Part
Ill). After Xt viaazon many farmers hved too far from their fomer cashew plots to allow
regular harvesting, while moreover, for a considerae period of time, movements outside the
vilages were restricted. Yet, if villegization had been the main factor responsbe tor the
1/ The GOT proposal caled for a development programme ol five factories with a combined
capacity of 55,000 ton p.a. This was reduced by the appraisal mission to 3 factories/30,000
ton p.a.
2' For a brief description of the causes of cashewnut decline in Tanania see: 'Suggestions
for Production Improvement', CPIPP Supervision report by J.G.Ohler, Cashewnut Specilist.
dated February 1987.



- 1e -
production decltie, the declining production trend should have started to level off atter the
inital period. This was not the case however. Moreover, GOT expected that this negative
development would be compensated for by the increased production resulting from the large
scale replanting programme, which had been initiated around the villages. Although estimates
of the extent of successful new plantings vary wvdely, they do not appear to have had a
significant impact on overall production.
13. The single most important factor responsible for the dramatic decline in cashew
production appears to have been the occurrence of Powdery Mildew (Oidium anacardii). The
disease, also known in some other producing countries, was first reported in Tanzania in the
1960s and has ntow affected virtually the entire cashew stand in the country. The theory is
advanced that a combination of increased age of the trees and the villagization pohlcy - which
caused maiiy cashew stands to be virtually abandoned - contnbuted to the emergence of the
disease in ns rather virulent form. 1/
14. At the tme of appraisal (1977). production had already declined dramaticaMy to levels
around half ot those achieved in 1973174, to the extent that the existng and planned
processing capaciy was already adequate to process the national crop. Furthermore, the
continued emphasis on expanding processing capacity, rather than supporting production
should be quened. With the benefit of hindsight, the SAR appears far too optimistic about
future production levels, especially those expected to be achieved as a result of the GOT
planting programnme.
16. The falure to acknowledge the dramaabc decline in production of raw nuts must be
submitted as the single most aenous design flaw of the project. AMough at the time of
appraisal the decline in production was probably not as evident as appears today, the SAR
did not go beyond stating that production, at worst, could stagnate at around 120,000 ton
p.a. 2/, while the potentially disastrous financial and economic results of a shortfall in raw nut
production were not even mentioned in the risk analysis. Yet, at the time of appraisal (the
1977/78 season). production had already decreased to around 68,000 ton, or only 47% of the
peak production year of 1973J74 and a mere 57% of the so-called average production level
of 120,000 ton p.a. quoted in the SAR. Moreover, the Basic Economic Report of December
1977, prepared by the Bank, had indicated that by 1975'76, output had fallen to around
1/ The symptoms of the disease are usually triggered by some days of high humidity, such
as normally occur in the middle of the dry season. Trees ful of flowers and young nuts may
be covered by the fungus within one week. affecting all flowers and young nuts and causing
in those cases total loss of production. On older nuts, the shell may be affected and
although the kernel usually remains undamaged, water may penetrate the nut later during the
humidifying process and influence the color of the kernel, thereby reducing its value. Control
of the disease can be achieved by dusbtng or spraying with sulphur and probably also with
other, mnore specitic fungicides. Yet, it is found that large-scale spraying is impractical due to
the scale of the operations required and the amounts of water required during the dry
season, while the tinancial viability of chemical control is, in many cases, highly dubious. As a
result, it is at present generaly agreed, that viable control can only be acheved by
substitutn  existmg trees with tolerant varieties. Thus requires an extensive programme of
reseach, the selecton and multiplication of disease tolerant varieties and assistance to
farmers. The Cashewnut and Coconut Tree Crop Project, which is expected to become
effective in January 1990,  seeks to assist GOT in this effort
Z Paras 2.06. 2.10, 2.13 of the SAR.



- 11 -
80,000 ton, while a 1977 GOT report 1' quoted similar figures without being overly optimistic
about the future production trends. In view of the fact that at that time the existing and
pinned castewnut processing capacity in Tanzania averaged already around 83,000 ton p.a.
a more careful review of production trends and the achievements of the GOT planting
programme would most ikely have led to proceeding with the project with less celenty.
16. Another point that should be raised was the sngular focus on agro-processing. The
design lacked any form of production support, incuding cashew research, to ensure that the
raw materials would continue to be fonhcoming. At the tine of appraisal, such support was
considered adequately covered by the ongoing Government planting programme and the
bilateral research assistance which was under negotiabon at that bme W. Even although the
performance of GOT planting programme was sgnfilcantly lower than could reasonably have
been expected, a small monionng component would probably have allowed a much more
timely waring of the disastrous situation in the sector, which in turn would have allowed a
more prompt action to remedy the situation.
S>. P h_l
17. The implementation of the factory construction component was timely and without cost
overruns (See also pars 22 and Chapter 11). Contrary to experiences with the Phase I
project, procurement for Phase II factories was carried out by ICB prior to credit negotiations
and the costs used in determining project costs. Advance contracts were signed and major
retroactive finaning allowed to permit factory buildings to be constructed in time for the
delivery of the equipment.
18. The proposed CNSL storage capacity of 750 ton at the port of Mtwara was not
implemented, as GOT considered that in view of the declining production, no such storage
was required. This decision was further supported by a declining international market for
CNSL.
i9. The SAR had proided tor the carrying out of a study to determine the occupational
hazards in the cashew processing industry and to formulate cnterie for monitoring such
hazards. It had been agreed dunng negotiations that this study would have been undertaken
by december 1979. The study waz never undertaken, however, because GOT was of the
opiion that the occation     hazards of, especially CNSL, were well-known, while In addition
the hazards were minunized due to the fully automated processes used in the eight plants
constructed under the two Bank assisted projects.
1/ Price Policy Rommendations for the 1978'79 Agriculural Price Review, Annex 5
Cashewntts. MDB, Dar es Sala, August 1977.
Z See also paras 2.29 and 2.31 of the SAR.



- 12 -
CadbwflUt OO   kmvo t  O P-BXAc (CPUE) Owo:
20. Early 1985, the Bank proposed to GOT to extent the closing date of the Credit and to
use around halt of the remaining funds 1/ to implement a pilot project which would tocus on
understanding and alieviating some of the cashew production constraints which were
experienced in the industry. The proposal was based largely on a project proposal which had
been prepared by MALD in the previous year. This National Cashew Improvement Project
(NCIP) included a large-scale investment programme in order to reverse the dramatic
reduction in production. GOT agreed, however, with the Bank, that the causes of this
reduction were multifold and not yet all clearly understood. It was therefore agreed that it
would be more prudent to start with a pilot project, which would seek to determine and test
several hypotheses of the causes of the decline in cashew production and to reverse this
trend, before embarking on such a large-scale investment progrdnmne. The Cashewnut
Production Improvement Pilot Project (CPIPP) would provide a model for the rehabilitation of
the cashew sub-sector as proposed under NCIP. These objectives would be achieved
primarily by strengthening MALD's managemnent, cashewnut research, monitoring and
evaluation, crop development and extension support, traning. surveys and studies and
technical assistance.
21. Follow-up preparation of the Pilot Project was carried out in Washington, assisted by two
saff of MALD and PPMB. The Development Credit Agreement was formally amended, but it
was considered practical to leave the design as flexible as possible Z.. Summarizing, the
components of the pilot project included:
(1)  GM Dseogment and Extension by financing extension support and seed
nurseries in each of up to 36 village clusters;
(2)    a     of fied extension staff in all aspects of cashewnut production;
(3)  Monigoi  and Ewkm   by a unit to be established in Mwtara;
(4)  TeclM  ssMc   d &&Ift;
(5)             a      _         strengthened by establishing a Cashewnut Section
in MALD, headed by a Cashewnut Coordinator. Similarly, a Cashewnut
Develpment Centre would be established in Mtwara.
The piot projesu did not include a sesearch component as it was agreed that the ongoing
blateral assistance m the field of cashewnut research in Naliendele would sufficently cover
the requirements. Ourig the implementation of the project a research component was
introduced however (see para 27). The cost of the ahove items was estimated to amount up
to a maxunum ot US$ 3.1 milion over a three year implementation period.
6. BM&aot Res
22. The main objective of the project, to establish three cashew factories with a combined
processing capaity of 30,000 ton p.a., was fully achieved (Tables 6 and 11 of Part ll).
Technicaly, the factones perform satisfactorily, more or less as projected at the time of
1/ By January 1985 around US$ 6.1 million remained undisbursed. It was decided to cancel
USS 3.0 milion from the origal credit, while the remaining USS 3.1 million would be used
for the redesigned pilot project.
2/ Proposet in a letter to the Principal Secretary of the Ministry of Fnance, dated April 1985.



- 13 -
appraisal and much better than any of the Phase I factories, partly due to their improved
din as wel as to the continued presence of the manufacturers' engineers which allowed
an adequate training of TCMB staff. In 1987188, kerne out-tum was 22-23% of raw nut
intake as compared to an SAR estimate of 24%o 1/; the percentage of whole kenels is
around 52ete (estmated at 50%L at time of appraisal); while the CNSL out-tum of 7100%
compares favourably with the orginal estimate of 7%.
23. Due to the perennial dedine in cashewnut producfion which has prevented acceptable
lvels of utilization of the additional processing facilities, the original project can not be
considered a success. As shown in the table below, capacity utilization of the 10,000 ton p.a.
factories was highly unsatisfactory. In the initial years of operaton, utilization was around 30-
40% Production then ceased enlirely between 1984 and 1986 and at present, only very
small quwWes are processed. The only two factoies presently in operation, Kibaha and
likombe, operating at less then 10%/e of their capacity, operate at a loss.
KwM  P,oducto  Gbem and 1o/nbe I
zam  uA=  =i  oz  VA~ am~ u" Au OR
.......................... ton .
Kibaha    0   4292  3180  2906  4111    470 0    0   431
Likombe  1415  4573  3753  2027  4233    n/a  0    0   679
11 Newala II factory was closed in April 1982 after 116 days of production.
Source: TCMB; for furher information see Table 10 of Part l1l.
24. The consolidated financial results of TCMB present a more positive picture, entirely due
to the trading profi on the export of raw nuts (Tables 16 and 17 of Part ll); domestic sales
and exports of processed kemels only ben a fraction of the total sales turnover &I. The
policy to promote raw nut exports rather than maxmze domestic kernel production, induced
by the reatve comparative price advantage of raw nuts, has benefitted the financial
performance of TCMB. The cumulative loss of Tsh 466 million in 19W85, changed into a
cunulaive profit of Tsh 78 million in 1986/87. Yet, the financial performance of TCMB
remains fragie, especially when seen in the light of the depreciabon polky based on historic
cost and thhigh debt servicing obligabons which the Board wdl hae to honour in a
macro-econoic enviro nient ot high currency depreciation and domesbc inflation.
25. At the end ot the original 6-year proiect implementation period (31 Decemnber 1984), the
total project cost was estimated at Tsh 225.0 million, as compared to an SAR estimate of
11 This should be considered very satisfactory given the high percentage of raw nut intake
affected by mildew.
! In 1987/88, total sales of kerels amounted to 1,012 ton as compared to raw nut exports
of 14,635 ton. Dunng the previous two years. no kernels were Sold. In 1981/82, kernel
exports had sti been 10,625 ton compared to raw nut exports of 15,326 ton.



- 14 -
Tsh 283.5 million (Table 5 ot Part l1l) 1; IDA had disbursed an estimate USS 21.4 million at
31 January 1985. or only 78</o of the SAR estimate of US$ 27.5 million (Table 3 of Part IUl).
The main causes for the underspending were the timely fashion in which the main
component, factory construction, was implemented; and, more imponanly, the tact that the
CNSL storage was not reaized; fewer houses were constructed and tewer vehicles purchased
than onginally estimated; some major sub-components of the TA category were not
implemented; and the category 'unaDocated' remained undisbursed.
26. The Pilot proect was highly successtul in achieving its main objectives; i.e. to determine
and test several lhypotheses which had led to the decline in cashew production and which
could lead to the reversal of this trend.
27. The research component was small but appropriate, to the extent that it provided some
complementary and essential inputs requwed to render the existing resources, which were
partialy provdd under a number of multi-lateral and bilateral assistance programmes.
effective. During the project penod. more than 100 productive trees with some degree of
tolerance to Mldew were identfied and recorded. Also, a successful budding and grafting
technique was developed - something that had previously been considered not viable in
Tanzanjia This has greatly enlarging the scope of propagating tolerant varieties in Tanzania
within a relativelV short Period using vegetative propagation techniques. These resnarch
results, obtned in a st.. I period of time, enabled the inception of the development of
improved production packages.
28. The Crop dwvelopment and Extension cornponent succeeded in establishing a close
relbonstip between extension and research. Seventy five extension clusters 2' were formed;
more than double the panned number. Each was staffed with a Vllage Extension Agent and
supported by a Subject Matter Speciaist. Staff was provided with transport and an intense
staf training programme was developed (see Table 13 of Part l1l). At the basis of the
extesion message are six cashewnut production packages, which were developed on the
basis of the research results obtaed at Naiende and verified in field trials. The packages
differ depending on the farmng system zones and include interplanwt  wit food crops.
29. The field testng of sulphur dusting under biatwal assistance was extended. In 1988
finance was provided for inpjts and machimry required for sulphur dusting. Their provision
was organized including the estabshment of an applbcation servce to be managed by the
Vilage Cooperative Societies of the 346 ton of sulphur dust and 280 motor blowers imported
for the 1988 dusting season, 113 ton and 267 units were actually distributed (see also para
34).
30. The develupTwn of a package of information to be communicated to the farmers,
especially that on thinning over-dense trees and that on how, when and where best to apply
sulphur profitably in the control of Midew. was one of the key elemn  to the successful
introduction of tue T&V system. Other major factors were the effective training and monitoring
1/ There is some doubt as to the accuracy of the project cost estimates as supervision
reports draw the attention in several instances to the inadequacy of project accounting in
particular with respect to GOT contribution.
2/ A cluster is a group of 3 to 5 villages in each of which around 20 farmers are selected
for training under the T&V system.



- 15 -
and evaluation of the performance of extension staff, of appropriateness of the extension
package, and of the farmers' response to it.
7. Pt'ojct 9uai.~j
0La BM   PlwllM
31. At the time of appraisal, the economics of cashew processing supported GOT's policy to
promote domestic processing. This changed during the early 1980s. Recent information  1
seoms to confirn that domestic processing is stil at best only marginaly attractve. A number
of other constraints such as shortage of packaging materials, spare parts and frequent power
cuts, further impose the need to question the economic viability of domestic cashew
processing in Tanzania and thus the future of the processing minls. Even if it were assumed.
however, that the larger part of raw nuts would be processed ocally and that domestic
processing of raw nuts would tnple to around 60,000 ton between now and the year 2000 as
a result of present and pwanned development efforts, it is reported 1/ that a maximum of a
mere 3-4 factones would be required to adequately process this supply. The remaining
factories should be declared redundant and alternative uses could be found for them. The
remainng factories could be put on a care and maintenance basis and be availble for use
at short notice at some time in the future. The retenton of this capacity would effectively put
a floor price under the raw nuts exports in the event of unforeseen negative developments in
the world market raw nut prices.
32. Notwithstanding the notable success of the Pilot project, a number of issues will require
addressing, partly through the successful implmentabon of the follow-up Cashewnut and
Coconut Tree Crop Project, if the cashew industry is to be put back on the right footing.
Cashew research has established that tolerant material i avaae and that .vegetative
propagation is practical. Contiued confirmation of this tolance will be required, especially otl
farmws' fields. Good studies are available on the techniques and viabiy of sulphur dusting.
It stiUl appears necessary however, to intensify this research whereby in partcuar the
financial, loistca and enviontal problems associated with its widespread use should be
incuded. This should be camed out side by side with continued farm systems research as
initialize by the piot project. Confirmation of the tecnMcal feasibility and financal
attractiveness of producion packages. as proposed to brmrers, wi continue to be needed
through an apphed research effort whereby the researchxndson link as established by the
pilot pct should be further strengtened to ensure the essential farmer feedback to
research.
33. The extension system itself, based on the T&V stem appears well established in the
project area. The procedures for staff training and support are well deveoped and an
expansion of the system shoud not pose undue problems. In the past. procurement problems
have seriously affected proect perfornance, in particular as far as the establishment of
demonstration plots and the provision of inputs to famers are concerned. Moreover, extension
staff training should pay more attention to heightening the awareness of staff at all levels to
the costs and benefits that are associated to chemical control of Mildew in particular and to
the financal side of farm systems as perceved by the farmer in general.
1 See for example 'Cashew Marketing and processing in Tanzania', I.Duncan, 21 March
1989, Mimeographed.



- 15 -
34. Although the pilot prOect facilitated the provision of certain inputs and tools on credit, no
fully satistactory arrangements have been found as yet for their distribution and cost recovery.
The weak managerial and financial basis of the Vilage Cooperative Societies, is particularly
alarmng in this respect.
35. Finally, there is no doubt that a recovery of the cashew industry will only take place in
an environment where famers will be able to market their produce without excessive
difficulties and at attractive pnces. In absence of such an environment, farmers will be
insufficently induced to invest in replacing their trees nor wil they be persuaded to adopt
improved management practices.
S. ak PBsr*
36. The Bank's involvement during preparation, appraisal and the early stages of
mplementation !ws been quite intensive. RMEA in Nairobi effectively supported GOT with
proect preparation as well as with ensuring that the tendering for the factory construction
phase, initiated betore Credit Effectiveness, was conducted effectively and timely. The Bank
should, however, be held responsible for the major design ftw which impeded successful
project implmentation. At the timne of appraisal, the Bank did not adequately appreciate the
acuteness ot the decline in raw nut production, but rather based the new project on the
projection of an - at the time of appraisal - outdated production trend. Given the experience
of the first project and the presence of Bank-appointed staff in the agricultural sector, the
celerity with which the follow-up project was pursued, is difficult to appreciate.
37. Bank supervision reports cornmenced to repott on the deteriorating production trends trom
the time of the Phase It Credit Effectiveness date. Although the issues was raised with GOT
on a regula basis, no specific atons were requested, most probably due to the poor
understanding at the Bank of the underlying causes of the declining production. On the
positive side, the willingness to extend the project and to finance out of the undisbursed
funds a Pilot proiect to arnve at such an understanding and the flexible approach shown by
the Bank regarding its impementation, should be recognized. In this respect. particularly
notceable are (1) the acceptance of the fact that at east a three-year extension would be
required for the pilot project to be successful; (2) the continuous and tangible supervision
support during tlh piot projectfs implementation; and (3) the flxible approach regawding
procurement procedures which assisted in creating a constructive environment to promote
implementation.
9. r MM
38. Borrower performance should be considered as generally satisfactory. Procurement and
tendering procedures for the factory construction phase were timely concluded with the aid of
an outside consultant. GOT support to the piot project, both regarding its preparation and
implementation was generally reported as posifive.
39. Project covenants were   ally adhered to (See Table 7 of Part Ill), with the exception
of the carrying out of an environmental hazard study (See also para 19). Procurement
problems continued to seriously hamper CPIPP implementation, as is the case wih most
other (multdaterally financed) projects. Procedures are complex, apparently not always fully
understood, nor always followed. This frequently results in long delays in the amval of items
essential for project impbmentation and consequent financial and economic loss, as well as
deception of projet staff and project beneficianes.



- 17 -
40. Although stoll hampered by a shortage of skilled and experienced staff, TCMB's
pefomace was generally better than duing the first phase project This improvement was
nminly due to the improved financial management and staff training as well as to the policy
decision to limit the parastatal's role, limiting its responsibiity to mostly raw nut and kemel
trading and processing.
1. BM       P   _igf  and Lg"   Lamod
41. The relationship between the Borrower and the Bank was basically sound throughout the
project's  plmentation. Disagreement on a number of issues, mostly relating to the wider
economic environment of cashewnut production and processing, in particular regarding raw nut
and processed kerel marketing and pricng arrangements, as well as to a range of
mangenal and financial issues relating TCMB, continued to characterize the Borrower-Bank
relationship.
42. Coopewatin between the Borrower and the Bank regarding the preparation are4 inception
of a project was a model of how to enhance a sound understanding of the scope of the
pilot project by both the Bank and the Bonrower. Ths has greatly contributed to the
successful implementation of the project, and has furermore faciftated the sound preparation
of the follow-up Tree Crop Project.
43. Generally speaking, the following lessons could be earned from the implementation of the
Second Cashewnut Development Project:
(a)   Expansion of agro-processng facilities should be based on a solid understanding
of the production and consumption trends of the raw mrials to be processed.
(bj  Continued support and training is essental when relatively sophisticated
equipment are being introduced in an envronrment were such technical expertise
is scare. Manufacturers' support may be more approprite than other expatriate
staff TA in such cases where the circumstances wil frequently lead to delays in
recruimen of internaional staff.
(c) Intense contacts with manufacturers, including arriving at cost estimates by pre-
effectiveness ICS procedures. causes cost estimates to be realistic and
mimiz  possible time overruns.
(d)  Experiece with the CPIPP has shown that intensive supervision, especially of
the type that includes a soid appreciation of the tchnical issues, promotes
project impementation and may improve the chances of the project achieving its
objectves.
(e)  Efort to invole, 'o tOe extent possible, locat staff in project preparation,
benefits the Borrower's - and possibly also the B3ank's - understanding of the
projct's objectives and the means with which these goals are to be achieved.
44T he factory construction programme greatly berefted from the services of a consultant
emploed under te irst phase constuction programm  and whose services were maintained
durming the second phase. This, in combnation with the emplomt of a firm to assist in the



- 11 -
tendering procedures prior to effectiveness, caused the iendering and the factory Construction
phase to be implemented without delays. The project design fuither ensured the availability of
manufacturers' technical services for training and the operations of the factories, which greatly
benefitted the subsequent effective operations of the factories.
45. Following the failure of the Phase I project to substantialy improve CATATCMB's
financial performance, the Phase It project included the appointment of a qualified financial
director as a condition of effectiveness and the continuing satisfactory staffing of ttiat post
was made the subject of a covenant. lthough the post was not always staffed, the
implementation of these conddionis improved TCMB's financial management.
46. During project implementabon the SAR was generally perceived as useful as far as the
factory construction phase was concerned. The Legal Agreements were generally adequate.
although some of the covenants did not always facilitate the Bortower-Bank relationship nor
always ease project implementation.
47. Data on physical project implementation was satisfactory both regarding the tactory
constructon phase and the pilot project. The first is reflected in the relatively detailed PCR,
covering the factory construction phase, prepared by GOT with the assistance of the PPMB
in 1985. and the second, notwithstanding the relative lack of detail in the pilot project re-
design, is mostly due to the effective M&E component of the pilot project, which ensured
comprehensive monitoring of the project in adddion to collecting useful data on a wide range
of sectoral issues.



- 19 -
PROJECT REVIEW FROM 30UiROW7 L' S PMER CTMi
1. ORIGrNAL PROJECT
Proiect Deuign
1.        The project objectives and its components are highlighted in
Part I of the Project Completion Report. This section reviews the scope,
comprehensiveness and linkages in the project design and to what extent the
latter explains the performance of the Second Cashewnut Development
Project.
2.        The project design was not comprehensive enough to take into
consideration all the factors necessary and backward linkages to ensure for
the full utilization of the ambitious factory processing program. The
project design did not include a concrete strategy for increasing cashewnut
production. There was no conscious strategy and program for
Research/Extension linkages and extension was not included as a component
in the project. The exclusion of extension in the project design was a
serious oversight of the Staff Appraisal Report, bearing in mind the
ineffective extension program in the First Cashewnut Development Project
(1974 - 1978) whereby only 344 extension assistants of the 537 planned were
recruited, only thirty two of the 344 extension assistants had training in
basic agriculture whilst eleven of them held senior positions in CATA. In
fact, most of the recruited extension personnel were not involved in
extension but procurement. The latter was a clear indication that CATA was
unable to implement a concrete extension program. Because extension was
not included as a component, it is not surprising that the delayed Italian
Research Program had very little effect on cashewnut production and in view
of the little attention to Research/Exteusion linkages in the project
design.
3.        The project estimates of smallholder cashewnut production were
exaggerated and overly optimistic. The optimism is perhaps explainable
because in the early 19708 there was likelihood that during the
independence struggle in Mozambique cashewauts might have found their way
to Southern Tanzania. On the other hand, the short-term effects of the
establishment of Ujamaa Villages may have led to reduction in cashewnut
production as peasants were resettled away from their original cashewnut
trees. Also, the negative price policy in early 19708 may have had a
negative impact on the peasants to maintain or/and expand cashewnut
production.
4.        The overly optimistic estimates of cashewaut production in the
staff appraisal report are a reflection of inadequate project
identification.
5.        Furthermore, the then existing CATA production program and the
subsequent five-year cashewnut production program (1980181 - 1983/84) were



- 20 -
very optimistic. The program projected an unprecedented increase in
cashewnut production from 110,000 tons in 1976J77 to 160.000 tons in
1984/85 to increase to 200,000 tons in 1991/92. The latter increase in
cashew production was to be realized from the CATA's ambitious estate
program which would also involve more than 700 villages. CATA also
anticipated an increase in smallholder production through distributing
inputs and information drives. However, there was no concrete
comprehensive strategy for support to and development of cashewnut
production. The CATA endeavors to increase cashewnut production did not
succeed. Despite optimism created by CATA and the World Bank, CATA was not
able to develop the planned 25,000 ha nor was it able to prepare a planned
feasibility study of a 50,000 ha estates of cashew trees.
6.        The ambitious plans for cashewnut production are a reflection of
how little is known about the cashewnut sector. CATA's obsession to start
and increase cashewnut production from estates is also a reflection of
CATA's disregard of the production potentials of peasant farmers. It is
unfortunate that both the World Bank and the Ministry of Agriculture were
not quick to realize that CATA was not strong enough as an organization to
develop and manage the cashewnut sector.
7.        The project design was also overly optimistic concerning factory
capacity utilization, due possibly to inadequate project identification and
overly optimistic expectations of CATA's performance to increase
production. The planners for factories to operate at 752 in the first year
of production and to rise to 952 in third and subsequent years of
production. However, most of the factories operated at only between 10-20
percent of capacity and soon most were closed down - the Nachingwea and
kasasi factories operated only for three months while Newala I never
operated at all. Two factories (Mtwara and Kibaha) within the project, are
still operating while Newala II production ceased in April 1982.
8.        The Second Cashewnut Development Project design was not flexible
enough to accommodate strategies to increase production. The World Bank,
although in a number of supervision missions (e.g., the March 1979 Mission)
raising concern over the decline of cashewnut production, did not take
steps quickly enough to either support Government/CATA production proposals
or reduce the number of factories under construction and concentrate on
rehabilitating the existing ones. At best, the World Bank and the
Government should have redesigned the project to accommodate measures,
besides the price increases in the 1970s, to increase peasant farmer
cashewnut production to fill the gap between cashew production and the
factory processing capacity levels caused by the continuous decline of
cashewnut production.
2.  PROJEC? PERT OEMANCR
9.        The construction of factories and procurement of equipments was
performed timely and satisfactorily. Part I of the PCR correctly reflects
that good arrangements for and timely construction works and procurement of
equipments did not lead to cost overruns. CATA made a good and timely
decision to continue to use the consultant it had employed to supervise the
construction activities for the first project - the decision insured the
smooth, efficient and successful construction programs. The choice of
experienced contractors for civil works for all projects ensured good
progress for the civil works which led to timely completion of the project.



- 21 -
10.       However, the project performance for the other project
components was not satisfactory. The training program was partially
implemented and CATA failed to exploit the provisions for training in the
project by failing to prepare a comprehensive training program. Some of
the training which took place was inadequate and had little impact on
institutional strengthening of CATA and cashewnut industry in general. For
instance, the short course training of factory managers in U.K. (two
months) was too short for the requirements of their training. The piece
meal training for CATA staff and failure to utilize the 1 millicn US$
earmarked for research to train Naliendele researchers, further explains
tLe apparent inability of CATA to manage the cashewnut industry and provide
adequate support for its development.
11.       Few houses were built and there were no health hazard studies on
the consequer.ces of constructing Cashew Nut Shell Liquid (CNSL) storage
facilities. While the decision not to construct the CNSL facilities is
understandable following the decreased market demand of CNSL on
international market, the dismissal of the health study and reasons given
A.or not doing so were not convincing in a situation where funds were not a
constraint. CATA also did not procure all vehicles earmarked for the
project, although later the World Bank was requested to make adjustments to
allow procurement of small vehicles instead of (CNSL) tankers. However,
the refusal of World Bank to honor CATA's request for the procurement of
lorries to procure cashewnuts from farmers is a reflection of the
inflexibility of World Bank and failure to link factory processing to
production and marketing aspects of the cashewnut industry.
Disbursement
12.       The inability to implement all the project components in a
timely manner led to failure to utilize all the funds (foreign) earmarked
for the project. More than 7 million US dollars remained unutilized at
project completion in 1983184 and the Government of Tanzania lost
altogether 3 million US dollars which were cancelled and were not
transferred to the Cashewnut Production Improvement Pilot Project (CPIPP)
(see Part III Table 3 on page 20).
3. THE PROJECT IMPACT AND ITS SUSTAINABILITY
13.       The project created excessive processing capacity which largely
remains unutilized. Most of the factories remain closed and there is no
immediate likelihood of bringing them under full capacity utilization in
view of the unlikely rapid increase of cashewnut production from current
programs - the decline of cashewnut production to about 30,000 tons a year
is very low and it will take a long time to increase the output to SAR
estimate average of 120,000 tons which would have been optimal to utilize
the factories at acceptable capacity level. Besides, the high price for
raw nuts relative to processed nuts will encourage the export of most of
the raw cashewnuts resulting from increased production.
14.       Therefore, the sustainability of the processing cashewnut
subsector is questionable in the immediate future. The factories will
continue to be a burden to Tanzania's economy because of maintenance costs
and because of the already increased high opportunity cost of establishing



- 22 -
those factories. It is almost impossible to find an alternative use for
most of those factories in the immediate future.
15.       The failure of the project design to include and encourage
peasant production right from the beginning and CATA's ineffective
cashevnut production programs, finally put the impact and sustainability of
the project in jeopardy.
16.       The expected impact of the project on cashewnut producers
through increased benefits from cashewnut pricing made possible by
increased CATA benefits from increased value added has not been forthcoming
because of the shortfall in cashew production and its steady decline
throughout the 1980s.
17.       The project effect on employment has also been not forthcoming
because of the existing excess capacity of the factories (unutilized). The
failure of CATA to fully take advantage of the training provided in the
project and its failure to utilize the management information system
provided by the consultants has left CATA unable to manage the cashewnut
industry and to keep clean accounts.
18.       The overall impact of the project has been poor, the factories
have been left unutilized, and the project has been unsuccessful in
increasing cashewnut production and to provide this production to the
factories as raw materials. The project has also been unable to develop
the institutional capacity for efficient management and development of the
cashewnut industry. The inability to put the factories under full use has
made both the actual FIRR & EIRR negative, reflecting wasted investment in
the cashewnut industry and at the national level.
4. CASHEWNUT PRODUCTION IMPROVEMENT PILOT PROJECT (CPIPP)
The Proiect Design
19.       The project design was comprehensive enough and flexible to
allow for smooth implementation of the project. The project design did not
at first include research but later, during project implementation, the
research component was introduced.
20.       The World Bank encouragement to adapt a "pilot project" in view
of many unknown production constraints which existed was a positive
strategy. The inclusion of research and extension in the project was also
a positive move to tackle basic issues and constraints at the core of the
decline of cashewnut production. The decision also made it possible to
have researchlextension linkage in the project to deal directly with farm-
level constraints to help farmers to increase their capacity to increase
cashewnut production.
Proiect Performance
21.       The general performance of CPIPP has been satisfactory,
particularly in the field of research, extension and research/ extension
linkage. As Part I points out (page 11), research was able to identify 100
productive trees, tolerant to Mildew disease and the latter together with
the successful budding and grafting technique enabled the inception of the
development of improved production packages.



- 23 -
22.       The extension system finally managed to develop six cashewnut
production packages developed as a result of the achievements in research
at Naliendele. Extension managed also to organize and train farmers on how
to apply sulphur. The control of Mildew disease has been contained in
areas where the sulphur dust has been sprayed. However, the health hazards
of application of sulphur have yet to be verified - a farming systems
research approach to smallholder production should be emphasized in the
upcoming cashewnut improvement program in order to show the net effect
emanating from the various approaches to solving his production
constraints. The health hazards of sulphur will need to be verified with a
study within the framework of farming systems research.
23.       Despite some achievements in monitoring and evaluation, the
pilot project placed more emphasis on evaluation and less on establishing a
formal and systematic monitoring of the extension system and the farmer.
The pilot project did not adequately involve and train local staff in
monitoring and evaluation. During the implementation of the (follow-tip)
Cashewnut Improvement Program (CIP), a formal system for monitoring of the
beneficiary farmer and the T and V extension system will need to be taken
seriously.
5. THE IMPACT AND SUSTAINABILITY OF THE PROJECT
24.       The impact of the project on both research and extension has
been impressive, as Part I of PCR suggests and sections 1.2.1. and 1.2.2.
of Part II reveal. There has been also impressive effect of sulphur in
controlling the Mildew disease.  The sustainability of the project has been
made possible by its achievements in research and extension which have made
it possible to go forward with a fully-fledged follow-up Cashewnut
Improvement Program (CIP). The research and agronomy aspects of the pilot
project will be continued under the new project and funding for these
aspects is assured from both the British Overseas Development
Administration (ODA) and the World Bank respectively. The Government of
Tanzania will provide local costs to ensure smooth implementation of these
project aspects and the whole project.
25.       In order for the project to be viable and profitable to the
farmers, the researchlextension/linkage established by the project will
have to be continued and strengthened by the new project. The latter has
been well emphasized in Part I.
26.       Part I of the report points out correctly the need to intensify
staff training to make the T and V system staff responsive to farmers'
costs and benefits especially with respect to the chemical control of
Mildew disease. In view of the non-availability of safer chemicals or
other means to control Mildew disease, sulphur will continue to be used in
the immediate future while efforts are taken to find safer alternatives.
The monitoring and study of its impact on humans and soils should be taken
seriously in the new project.
27.       The recruitment of efficient staff for the new project, input
availability, and continued cooperation between Naliendele research station
and the new project (CIP) will ensure the sustainability of the
achievements of the Pilot project.



- 24 -
6. WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE
28.       In case of the Original project the World Bank was fully
involved in the preparation and appraisal of the project. While the Bank
was actively involved in the mutual project implementation, the Bank's role
in subsequent years of the project implementation was moderate. The Bank
was unable, as pointed out in Part I and in Section 1.1. in Part II, to
respond positively to the unrested decline of cashewnut production and the
approval to and construction of the three factories went on unmolested.
29.       However, the World Bank agreement to extend the project in the
form of CPIPP was a positive move in the right direction. The Bank has
tully participated in making the performance of CPIPP a success and
frequent supervision missions monitored the project.
30.       The relationship between the Bank and the Tanzania Government
was sound in both project aspects of the Second Cashewnut Development
Project.  In case of the Original project, however, some differences in
respect to marketing, pricing arrangements and Tanzania Cashewnut Marketing
Board (TCMB) 's managerial and financial issues were noted and some were
sooner or later resolved.
7. THE PERFORMANCE OF BORROWER (GOVERNMENT AND CATA)
31.       The Government provided all necessary support and cooperation to
prepare and implement the Project. However in case of the Original
project, there was less effective involvement of local staff in the
appraisal of the project. Because of the latter and unavailability of a
comprehensive review program of the cashewnut subsector or industry, the
Government ended up supporting and approving the overly optimistic Staff
Appraisal Report and subsequent CATA's over estimated production estimates.
32.       The general performance of CATA was poor with exception in
construction of factories. CATA was unable to implement the rest of the
project components effectively and totally failed to manage and develop the
cashewnut industry. CATA did not whole comply to some important covenants
guiding the implementation of the project. For instance, the recruitment
of Financial Director and Chief Engineer was delayed for about four and six
years respectively, the failure to recruit Financial Director early in the
program and inability to retain him and subsequent local staff on the same
job may explain the continued weak financial management in CATA.
8. TUE LESSON LEARNT
33.       The implementation experience of the original project reflects
how inadequate project identification can be costly. There is need for
extensive project identification and a study of sectors and subsectors
concerned before full project preparation and appraisal. In-depth
investigation of commercial aspects of a project is imperative. The SAR
was very optimistic about the market for processed nuts, particularly given
that Tanzania was a new comer to the market.
34.       There is a need to emphasize effective involvement of local
staff in preparation and if possible appraisal. The borrower should have
the chance as early as possible to react to flaws in the project design.
The borrower country could first prepare a project preparation report



-25 -
(feasibility study) with some supervision from the Bank, if necessary. The
Bank could go on to prepare the appraisal report and the borrowing country
should have the report reviewed by senior and experienced local staff
before implementation of the Project.
35.       When starting agro-industry an integrated approach which takes
into account sources of raw materials and marketing of products should be
the guiding principle.
36.       Project designs should be flexible to take into account changing
assumptions and unplanned circumstances, in this respect, the Bank became
more flexible in CPIPP than in the original project and CIPP implementation
was more successful than the original project.
37.       The recruitment of qualified and efficient consultants and
contractors whom you already know for civil works and early arrangements
for component procurement can pay dividends.
38.       There is need to intensify the increase in cashewnut production
and to have a concrete program to achieve the latter. The implementation
of CIPP has shown that with conscious effort to understand the farmer and
linkage between research and extension, increased cashewnut production is
possible. Meanwhile, the use of sulphur has proved to increase cashewnut
yields but effort should be taken to study its health effects and to look
for alternative means to replace sulphur.
39.       Organizational and institutional factors are important in
ensuring satisfactory management and the lack of inefficient institutions
can jeopardize the success of a project.
9. ADEQUACY AND ACCURACY OF TEE FACTUAL INPORHATION CONTAINED IN PART III
40.       We confirm that the factual information in Part III of the
Project Completion Report is adequate and accurate.



- 26 -
Part III
Table 1
PART III
STATISTICAL INFOX1M&TIz
LoanKke                                      Ef _dw
First Cashewnutt    Construction of 5        26 Sept.   Completed in
Devlopment        processing lactones         1974      December 1981.
Project. 1!       to increase the                       Outcome was unsatis-
processing capacity                   factory, with a
(Loan 1014-TA)    by 40.000 tons of                     negative economic
(US$21 Milfton)    raw nuts annually.                    rate of return at
Total cost US$30 M.                   completion.
Cashew and        To achieve long ferm                  Appraised October 1988
Coconut Tree      growth by increasing                  Negoad May 1989
Crop Project.     production of cashew                  Expected to be
for export and coco-                 effective January 28, 1990
(Cr. 2050-TA      nut for domestic
(US$25.1 M) a     vegetable odl market.
In particular, the project
would: i) expand cashew
and coconut research
breeding and selection;
d) develop and operate 7
cashew development centers
and 3 coconut seed farms;
dii) train extension and
research staff; iv) manage
and coordinate production
packages; vi) strenen
input credit facilities.
1/ Se    ) P=  Poto,muce Audih Rnoma No. 5197. daed 29 eun  14.
2/ As pm SIM Appisa Rbpon No. 7661-TA d 30 by M t9a.



- 27 -
Paft 01
I~2
fta Ti
I_                        ekmd  da* te          Rd M     date 21   Actual date 31
Preparation                                                             1976  4
Appraisal                                                         June;July 1977 i
Loan committee review                                            3113-7 Appnl 1978
Credit negotiabons                                                10-17 Apnl 1978
Board approval                                                    16 May 1978
Credit signature                                                  14 June 1978
Credit effecbveness       June 1978                               2 Oct. 1978
Project completion        November 1984        31 Dec.1987       30 June 1989 i
Credit ctosing            December 1984        31 Dec.1987        30 June 1989
1/ AS Oer Apcaa estmates.
/ AS eer ,_dein ofd Jii     198S. d_W  he pOpW  ito a Cashewnu PBaduon
hi      m  PM  PrB*d (CPIPP).
g Esimad as p   ue 1989.
4/ Was pened by GOT wdh as_m            f WAE  as a f12ou  of the FMst Cashewr   u
,tv    _tmn  PBmj The onal mi             was  lOW   by q   okW n .m   isis b_
Sete mber 17  Md             I     1978 to ao   d d tl    aid ecOmic asO _s df
the gW"e
G( WA   a"pw  date  26  pri 1978.
U A finther 1.5 vr  xesion  as rang d over and abowe di aroal 3 year etension to
ow fa  01paMMt_        d the CPIPP. which was oin    desnd  to oea  ien ftd
gto  so seasns. Due to the moe gham VW  dey m th o  d ft  CPe W  tend
f 127 on         we eao   ht ben coved: hence td  fuher 1.6 ye  extension



- 28 -
part
Estiated and actual    br  year 1/
.   Estim ated          ........................   million  USs 
at appraisal
* Annual          4.6  10.4  7.6  2.0  1.4  1.2  0.3   0    0    0    0
* Cumulative      4.6  15.0  22.6 24.6 26.0 27.2 27.5 24.5 24.5 24.5 24.5
B. Actual
4.
- Annual          n'a  16.0  1.4  2.0  0.3  0.0  0.3  0.1  0.4  0.9  1.8
-* Cumulative     n!a  16.0  17.3  19.3  19.6 19.6 19.8 19.9 20.4 21.3  23.1
C. Actual cum.
aa.s  of ESt.     n:a  106   77   78   75   72   72   81   83   87   94
11 Yem ral to Wodd ark   n  Uk am   sy    (^Ji MM.
2/ Enated iinr             1978i79 roIr to adoMe pmet to cao        s and
3, USS &. min            Mg"d in 1985.
& kkdd                       CPIPP up to 30 Jne 199 ise dniburanomnt fkr loca
_anibi  LBSS 45dtOO  and &rign  eG=e  p_ywa B USS 77.900. inchido tumi
ds.ue    a d    tcornl _UnU



- 29 -
pan I"
Table 4
With-    Org.  With  Esp.  Tot.
SAR      After   drawn   CPIPP drawn  up-to  with
est.    real.    up-to    allot. up-to  6,89  draw.
CaIMQry: I                      2'  12/85 3'          4/89    41  CPIPP   ,
.......................  Million US. ...
1. Civil Wurkti      9,000    8,700    8,367    333    89      0     89   27
U1. Vehicles
& equipment       10.500   11.600   11,182    418   447   777   1224  293
Ill. TA                6,000    2,500    1,677    824   428           428   52
IV. Unallocated       am 2 000            001Z          a      A2  1.201 Q
Total         27.500   24,500   21,226    3274  1,872  1,229  3,101  95
1/ The Crei AaMMSn SW     ha DA wotld dIxbur  66% of QUM  I                     arid
10  at clatoie I ad iL
21t AMe  m  o1 mdso. LSS 3.0 nmon were ca ld ham the gal credt i.e. new
aret Mvam  USS24.S mWWo
2/ Agggrdi  to CATAJc4B PR. Baikm   Ibsm     data sSte tha  SWl99 mli
was dishgd by 31 Oece&  1966. The difeence is gg&a   due to tih   m  Mag
betwee  aNpIOat   and achia dIsbwsemnL
41        wdhdawal CPEPP bewen   D an  Jam          9. I a_ ei         M are
5/ TOW tag"Nece  wihdrawa at 30 June 1969 as % 0alocain
Dami  doe CmIPP  u. reibsment for beo             _as inc4ld as a catevg=.
f Mhs   ,de the two cate e  we ombine  ratbon                 exedi     was 50/60.



- 30 -
Parmf
Ackal and Esqnated Prq   Cost - Factory Esft-Sh_M=t Phj, 1
Actual as %
CategQrY              Aoora,sal Est 2     Actual ESD/        Apramsal Est
IDA  GOT Total   IDA  GOT Total   IDA  GOT Total
Million Tsh .
Civdl Works          74.7  39.6 114.3   69.5 42.1 111.6    93   106   98
Equipment and
Vehicles       87.2  4.4  91.6   91.7  6.0  97.7    105  136  107
TechAssistance       49.8  3.5  53.3   13.9  1.9  15.7    28   54   30
Unallocated          17.8  6.6  24.4      0    0    0       0    0    0
Total             229.4 54.1 283.5  175.0 50.0 225.0    76   92   79
Source: CATA'TCMB Proiect Completion Report, May 1985.
Esiated P&Me  Cost - Per FactoE , 2t
Ca1egory                  Newala II         Kibaha              Mtwara
.............. Milhon Tsh.
FumitureEqu.ipment         0.2                0.7                0.1
Motor vehicles              0                 1.1                0.2
Ladbudings                 36.8               37.1               35.3
Plant & Macinr             42A                                   4DA
Total                 79.4               69.3               76.0
Soum: Audited accounts TCMB 1987/88.
1/ hidud l     _      up to 31 JaM , IBM A  converions btween USS md Tsh at
th  dfIc  osga rat of LOd 1.00 = Tsh &30 as at Me pn of dail.
3? Augu_  _stiae soume frmn CATA(TCMB PCR dated Law 19a. which does not alwjy
egacly  t   ih  he do mnn  p        cost tdablb of fte SAF. As dead  SAR cost tables
wwr not i     d i do SMR it is not nab  to reoDe nhese mno dtlerne
3 For a sam         o7 the MM   gases of U_darnlg -      Mpa 25 gd Prt L.



- 31 -
LMS-
aaum
Ak Ouia Desian:
il Factory Canaciy:
Mtwara             ton p.a.    10,000       10,000             100
Newala n1          ton p.a.    10,000        10,000            100
Kibaha             ton p.a.    10,000        10,000            100
iiX Production at FO: Di
Mtwara              ton p.a.    9.500        4,233     679      45       7
Newala 112          ton p.a.    9.500             0       0      0       0
Kibaha             ton p.&.     9,500        4,111     431      43       5
iii) Recovery rate 1
Mtwara              % kernel      24         21       23        88      96
Newala It           of raw        24           nia    na        n'a     na
Kibaha              nut.          24          23      22        96      92
ivY Out-tum Kernel mixes t:
;Ulwara:
W320             % of           30             10    23        33      70
Other qual.      total          2Q             X     22       190    145
Subtotal       kemel          60            48    52        96      104
Other            out-tum rn                    52     M       104      2
Total                        100           100   100        100     100
W320             % of           30            27    29         90      97
Oher qua.        total          2Q                   22 i;            ii
Subtotal       kernel         50            60    52        120     104
Other            out-lum                      40 4Q    40      AO f
Total                        100            100   100       100     100
iv) Fancial rsults 3   FIRR           2         negative          Q!a
J/ Fsr a     i kdannmaon se  Tabbs 10 and  t of Pan IL
2/ Prd n cad in            1982 i uer 116 das al M on. mgot due to shtg  of
Ay R _ed ate (                         in at 1_78 va__s  is
bor hum ad 4% aftew t



- 32 -
Part 111
Tabbl
CPIPP re-desagn:
ii gdeajQin:
Village clusters   Total         36               85                236 i;
fl Training:                                         ;
iiii Monitonng and Evaluatigo
Evaluation and other Reports:     6               3-45               50-750 3.
l fl  adr    Ngl inhm     M  nole 3. T     13 d1 PBrt 
Pm Fag MI        a  Tabb 13 at Pan 11.
ym for addibo inco M M sse Table 15 d Part Ml.



- 33 -
PARt III
Table I
Page I
Comp lance with Malor-Coven&nts
Sectigns                0egrc;!aton                  Deadline                  Status
$or
coolon ce
Prolect Aoreement
2.02(a)           In  order  to  assist CATA                           Complied with.
with technical and manage-
ment services in operating
the project factories and
in training project factory
staff, CATA shall emoloy
qualified and experienced
experts.
2.02(b)           In order to assist CATA in                           Compiled with.
supervising the Project's
construction, CATA shall
employ experienced engin-
eering consultants.
2.02(c)            In order to assist CATA in          3016/78         A  study  for  the  design of
implementing a  management                          management information System
information system  and in                          was   carrfed    out.    TCMB
training CATA's  financial                          management feels that not all
and accounting staff. CATA                           recommandations   could    be
shall employ qualified and                          adopted  although  some  were
experienced experts.                                 resulting      in      somewhat
improved   financial  systems
and procedures.
2.04              Appointment  of   suitable                           Complied with.
qualified         Financial
Director for CATA.
4.30(a)and(b)    CATA   shall   have    its                            Mostly due  to  the  measures
accounts   and   financial                           taken  and  described  above.
statements for each fiscal                          accounts are now up  to  date
year audited and furnished                           and regularly audited.
to the Association as soon
as possible.
2.05              CATA shall submit  to  the                           CATA  has not notified IDA in
Association for its review                           a  systematic  way   on   the
and  approval  a  detailed                           trafning program.
description of a training
programm for the staff to
be employed In the Project
factories.



- 34 -
Table X
Page 2
Compliance with Maior-Covenants (cont'd)
5S*Cti2s               Cescr10 ton                  Sedle2tatus
4.02              CATA Shall  establish  and                         CATA   has   not   maintained
maintain      a    separate                        separate accounts exclusively
Project Accounts.                                  for the Project.
Oleveloaomnt
Credit Agreement
3.04              The Borrower shall continue                        The  Government has regularly
to   maintain   a   pricing                        reviewed producer prices. An
structure   for  cashewnuts                        active   policy  dialogue  is
based on, inter  alia.  the                        entertained between the  Sank
grading    of   such   nuts                        and    GOT    regarding   the
and closely relating  farm-                        cashewnut pricing structure,
gate      prices       (less
appropriate processing  and
marketing      costs)      to
appropriate world prices.
3.02              The  Borrower  shall  carry                        CATA management feels this is
out or cause to be  carried                        not required and as a result.
out.  a  stu1y to determine                        the  study   has   not   been
occupational 4ealth  hazard                        carried out.
In its cashewnut industry.



- 35                                     Part III
Table 8A
Us of Sank Resources for Sunerviaoin and PCR
V2.  fith     Q Ptof   #bdaJil SI eeleliz htmo ntctMence Tk*  of
UKz  pnrsong in field  Djre entA d    ttus-Tr*  problez
Supervision Nissions:
1.   9/78  1        9        fA              2        2   0
2.   4/79  1         8       FA              n/a    n/a  n1/
3.  12/79  2        14       FA, A           2         3   0
4.   6/80  2        14       FA, A           3         3   0, N
5.   2/81  1        11       FA              2         2   Ml 0
6.  10/81  2        10       FA, A           2         2   N, 0
7.   2/82  1 4
8.   6/82  2        16       FA. Eng         3         3   F.H.T.0
9.  12/82  2        15       A, E            3         3   F,N,T,O
10.   6/83  1         9       E               3        3   X,P,T,F
11.  10/83  1         7       A               3         3   W.P.T.F
12.  10/84  2         7       A. A            3        2   N,P,T,F
13.   2/85  2         7       A. E _/         n/a    n/a    n/a  k/
14.   7/85 2          7         ,             1         1
15.   2/86  2         9         ,             2         2
16.   6/86  1         7       A               2         2
17.  10/86  1         3       A               2         1
18.   1/87  2        15       A, A            2         1
19.   5/87  1         4       A               2         1
20.  11/87  2         8       A, A            2         1
21.   3/88  1        10       A               2         1
MLR 1hsaion
6/89  2       12        A. E
i/   FA x Financial Analyst; A a Agriculturalist; Eng = Engineer; E 
Economist.
Z/   %atjsj          1 a Problem free/minor probless; 2 * Moderate problems:
3 a Major problems.
Perorsane :   1 a Improving: 2 * Stationary; 3 * Deteriorating.
2/   F a Financial: N s  nanagomant: T   Technical: P a Political; 0 
Other.
4t  Visit to evaluate and discuss with GOT their proposls for a
Cashewnut Rehabilitation and Expansion Project.
5/   This Mission discussed the extension of the closing date and the
redesign of the project into * pilot project.
!/   Status and Trend no longer included in Supervision Mission Reports.
From 1985 onwards Status and trend parameters indicate 'Overall
status' and 'Development Ipact'.
Pact EU
Satwtesk bw Protl      SV  .
Financlal Uere
ACTIVITY    T7         70   79   O6    1   St2  eJ   84   85   80   87  s8    TOTAL
Preapprlesel   - 12.4  .2    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -              12.6
Appraisal     -  1.0 47.1    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    48.8
Nagotitlon    -   -  9.2    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -          0.2
Sup.rv1r10n    -   -   .6  5.7  0.9   4.0 16.0  5.2  90.  26.7 17.5 90.  7.7   118.0
Other        .6   -  2.1    -    -    -        -   .a    -    -    -   -    -        2.5
TOTAL Y YEAR .0 14.6 5094  5.7  9.5   4.0 16.9  5.4  9.5 66.7 17.5 9.8  7.7   186.6



- 36 -
PaMn
(1965/66-1987/88)
Year        1      / Pwm            d I neb               V             Pducfo 
('000 ton)                                 ('000 ton)
1965'66           74.3      51             1976.77           97.7       67
1966.767          84.2      58             1977,78           68.4       47
1967/68           73.8     51              1978/79           57.1       39
1969.'69         118.0     81              1979180           41.4       29
1969/70          110.3      76             198w81            57.0       39
197011           112.5      77             1981'82           44.3       31
1971/72          126.0      87             1982'83           32.6       22
1972i73          125.5      87             1983184           47.6       33
1973174          145.1     100             1984/85           32.5       22
1974J75          118.9      82             1985/86           20.5       14
1975S76           83.7      58             1986i87           16.4       11
1987/88 a/       24.0        17
1 Smy       M4U  - b4kbetng DOavpmntM EboaL. Arkuliew ir  CaNite   . Oar-Ps-
_im. l9BSfi;8lm  as p ined   the draft WeR of the Caidhrnut ad Cocmnut Treecrons
2 Feak F rM* bMdton year 1OS?374 a taken as 1p0.
wy       U   iat



- 37 -
PART III
Table 1C
Factorv Processing Capacities and Days of Production
Fctory       Rated      Operating   Date of    Fiscal    Cumulative .Remark  21
Capacity   Capacity    Test-run    Year         No. of  as
of Production IL/
Phase I
Lindi        10.000       8.600      Oct. 78    1978/79          301          Production ceased in June 1983
Ytama         5,000       4.300      Oct. 79    1979/80          358          Production ceased in June 1992
Nachingwea   5.000        4,300      Feb. 81    1980(81           95          Production ceased in June 1982
Masasi       10.000       8.600      Mar. 81    1980/81           91          Froduction ceased in June 1982
Newala 1    10.000        8.600      June 81    1980/81            -          Was never operated
Phase 11
Mtwara       10,000       8.600      June 81    1979/80          N/A          Operating
Newala 11   10.000        8.600      June 81    1980/81          116          Production ceased in April 1982
Kibaha       10.000       8.600      Oct. 80    1980/81          720          Operating
Other
Tanita 1    12.500       10,700         1965     1965/66         N/A          Production ceased in August 1983
Tanita 11   12.500       10,700         1978     1978/79         N/A          Production ceased in June 1982
Mtwara CC    8.000        6,800         1968      1968/69        N/A          Production ceased in June 1982
Tunduru      10.000       8.600           -           -                       Production ceased in June 1982
TOTAL       113.000      97.000           -           -           -
Source CATA Records.
.L/ The contract with the equipment suppliers from Phase It mentions that processing will be
carried out over a period of 270 working days/year in 2 daily shifts of eight hours each.
2/ Factory has not functioned since data specified.



- 38 -
Table I11
iA  Prcduc ] at Lkemband Kia  (19MS
Actual prod.           Est. production         Total Est.Prod.
Nov.'88-May'89        June'89-Sept.89  1           1988,89
Likombe     Kibaha    Likom         Kibaha    Likombe         Kibaha
Factory Days      157         98          64         64          221         162
Raw nuts (lOiu)    2,862     2,032       2,000      2,CO0       4,862       4,032
Kernels (ton)     638         389        450         450        1,088       839
CNSL (ton)        280         203        200         200         380        403
Cashew waste (t)   95         50          60          60         155         110
11 Due to the Wrated raw nut supply the Jue September estimates appear high to the
Mission.



- 39 -
PART III
Table 12
C.PIPP staf-fi-ng It
Position                   Establishment        Starting         Ending
month           month
Project Manager                    1              7/85            6/89
Planning and 2/
Eialuation Officer                 1             11/86            6/89
Cashew Agronomist /                1             11/86            6/89
Financial Specialist Z/ X/         1              9i87            2/88
6/88            6/89
Agronomists:                       3
- Training Coordinator (South)                    4/87            6/89
- CDC Coordinator                                 3/88            6/89
- Training Coordinator (North)                    4/88            6/89
11 Other support staff. 7 at 11/86, 15 at 12/87 and 21 at 12/88 to 6/89.
2/ Technical Assistance Staff.
I/ Time allocated between CPIPP and TCMB.



- 40 -
Table 13
CP1PP Trcaining Aevti,,tie
Xaar    t aPsnnl              Curs  Coantent              No a-A. AM        Mandays
96187  40 VEA, 6 S4S J/    Cashew production end              6     2-3       690
reclamiation activities
50 VEA, 6 SM!S.       Vegetative propagation          1       1         66
10 nurserymn
14 Farmers  ll        Cashew production end           1      5         170
reclamatiOn activities
87/88  SO VEA. 6 SMS.        Cashew produCtion and           12       1       792
10 Others  I/         reclemation activities
50 VEA. 6 SMS         Pre-season instruction          1       6        336
530 PCS I/ Staff    Operation of motorized                    1       530
dusters
100 PCS leaders       Orientation on strengthen-            2-3       250
ing input supply
88189  '5 VEA, 10 others   Cashew production and             12       1     1.020
Zi                    reclamation  ctivitites
27 SNS                Cashew production and          12       1        324
reclamation activities
75 VEA. 27 SNS        Pre-season instruction          1       6       612
10 VEA                Enumeration of field            1     2-3        25
investigations
12 VEA                Tree selection                  1     2-3         30
25 nurserymen         Vegetative propagation          1      IS        375
630 PCS staff         Operation of motori:ed                  1        630
dusters
200 PCS leaders       Ortentation Mn strengthen-             2-3       500
ing input supply
40 Regional, Coop.. Cashew workshop                           3        120
CR08 and AlI staff
6 AlI. 6 CPIPP        Use of computers                       20        260
& I TCM8 staff
6.730
I  VEA.  Village  Extension  Agents;  SNS. Subject Matter Specialists; PCS.
Primary Cooperative Society; ARl. Agricultural Research tnstitute.
2'  4  for  the  Teacher  Training  College.  Nachingwea  and  6  from  folk
Development Centres.
,1  Further farmer training was on  the  basis  of  18  farmers  *  25S  per
village, 3 to 4 villages per cluster:
86/87 36 clusters of 126 villages contacting approximately 2.835 farmers.
87/8S 50 clusters of 175 vilIa,-           .,, i*.j        I.m , I. I 3'  farmers.
88/89 O5 clusters of 280 villages contacting aoporoximately 6.300 farmers



- 41 -
PART III
Table 14
Consultants funded by CPIPP
Consultant            Work                                       Reporlinq Oat
Economist             CPIPP Baseline Survey                            9/87
Economist             Cashewnut Marketing
Domestic Marketing Study                       10/87
International Marketing St6dy                  10/87
Tanzania Cashewnut Marketing Study              6/88
Training Specialist  Preparation of Training and Support              11/88
Materials for Cashew Production
Improvement
Computer Specialist  Computer Training Course, 6/89
Dates of work not available to the mission.



- 42 -
PART-IIt
Table 15
Page 1
Summary of Studies, Survev5 or Publications Comnleted or in Preparation
under CPP November 1986 to June t982
Qgeneral
CPIPP Baseline Survey, Interim Report - May 1987
CPIPP Baseline Survey - September 1987
Progress Report to 31th December 1987
Interim Progress Report ,st January to 31st July 1988
Progress Report to 30th June 1989
Workshon Paners - November 1987
Cashew production systems in Southern Tanzania
Agricultural input supply for cashew production
Marketing and procurement of cashewnuts injTanzan i
The Powdery Mildew disease of cashew and control in Tanzania
Recent development of vegetative propagation of cashew (Anacardium
accidentale LJ.) by grafting in Tanzania
Reclamation of cashew groves, an integrated approach to increased tree and
plot yields
Extension services for cashew production improvement
Extgnsionw
Farmer and Extension Knowledge of Cashew Production Practices - March 1987
Extension Agent Use of Time for Demonstration and Training Activities - 1987
Training and Support Materials for Cashew Production Improvement - November
1988
A Study of the Effectiveness of Demonstrations Versus Farmer Groups to
Dessiminate Agricultural Information. Initiated in 1988, to be completed end
of 1989
A Review of Farmer Attendance at Training and the Number of Farmer Training
Sessions Completed per Month per Cluster. Reported in annual progress
reports



- 43 -
PART I I
Table 15
Page 2
Summary of Studies. Surveys Comoleted or in Pregaration under CPIPP
Novemper 1986 to June 1989 (cont'd)
Marketing
Cashew Procurement Survey - April 1987
Domestic Marketing Study, Interim Report - October 1987
International Marketing Study, Interim Report - October 1987
Cashew Marketing Study. Submitted June 1988
Farmgate Commodity Prices. Initiated in 1987 on weekly basis and ongoing
Farming/Cronoing Systems
Cashew Cropping Systems Survey - August to October 1987
Record of Crop. Field and Yield Details in Major Cashew Based Farming System
Zones - 1988
An Examination of Tree Yields at Various Tree Densities in the Major Farming
System Zones. Initiated in 1988. ongoing
Cashew Based Farming Systems Research and Development in South-East
Tanzania: an Overview of Activities and Results - in preparation.
Aaronomv and Disease Control
Verification Trials on Rehabilitation in Farmers Fields, Initiated in 1988
Field Observations on Control of Powdery Mildew Using Sulphur, in Farmers
Fields - 1987 and 1988
Vegetative Propagation Exploratory Trials - 1987 and 1988
Investigations to Examine Minimum Rates of Sulphur Dust Needed to Control
Oidium anacardii - 1987
Reduced Rates Trial - 1988
Reduced Rates and Shortened Intervals - 1988
Field Application Methods to Apply Sulphur - 1988
Joint Oidium and ,HelanaltJ Control Measures - 1988



- 44 -
PART III
Table 15
Page 3
Summary of Studies. Surveys Completed or in Preparation under CPIPP
November 1986 to June 1989 (cont'd)
Selection of Tolerant Trees
Reconnaissance Survey to Identify Trees Tolerant to Powdery Mildew in
Farmers Fields - 1987
Search for Tolerant Trees in the Major Farming System Zones - 19d8
Search for Tolerant Trees in the Major Farming System Zones - in progress
Varietal Improvement Trial for the Selection of Trees Tolerant to Powdery
Mildew. Initiated 1988 and in progress
Farmer Uptake and Resoonse
Farmer Use of Cashew Seed and Seedlings - 1987
Farmer Feedback on Chemical Disease Control for Cashewnut - 1987
Farmer Uptake of the Integrated Package and its Components in 1987/88 - 1988
Acricultural Inout Supplv
A Reconnaissance Survey of Input Availability at the Village Level in Major
Cashew Areas - 1987
Inventory of Cashew Input Use and Condition of Equipment - 1988
Notes on Cashew Input Supply - May 198'
Survey of Credit Needs among Cashew Growers. Designed and to be implemented
in 1989



- 45 -                                                   PART III
TabLe 16
Page 1
Summary Balance Sheet (1977-89)
FIIANCIAL VALUES (TSbs)NJLLIONS) 30.00.82  30.09.03  30.09.84  30.09.8S  30.09.94  30.09.07   30.09.80   30.09,89
Audited   Aaited   Audited   Audited   Audited    Audited   Akdited   Estiuste
FIXE  ASSETS:  COST                   574.1      57.3       590.1     691.2      956.9   1053.5    3,980.1   2,255.0
DEPRECIATiON           59.5       94.5     134.6      17b.5      206.3       245.7      320.1      255.0
NET FIlED ASSETS                    515.2      482.8     455.5      514.7      750.6       807.0    3,660.0   2,000.0
INVESTNEMTS                            56.0       45.6      45.1       40.6       47.5        47.5        22.3      22.3
CURRENT ASSETS:INVENTORIES             71.3       65.4      198.7      93.6       88.7       142.2       305.3     160.4
TRADE RECEIVABLES    154.4       232.3     188.6      130.3      126.4       167.1      556.6      500.0
BANK BALANCES         114.7       33.9     151.6       21.0      122.9       Ib8.7      300.6      300.0
OTHER RECIVAELES      141.2       10.4       12.1
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS         481.6      342.0      551.0      244.9     338.0       479.0    1,162.5      960.4
CURRENT LIABILITIES:
TRADE ACCOUNT PAYABLE        212.3      235.0      170.6      212.0     283.0       320.4       931.1  t 12.:
8ANX OVERDRAFT               254.5      298.2      552.0      299.7     249.3
OTHER ACOU   PAYABLE           78.5     124.2       38.9       45.8       76.6       69.4         0.0
-O!AL CURRENT L1ABILITIES          545.3     657.4      761.5      557.5      607.9       389.9      931.1      112.2
NET wORKING CAPITAL                   ia3.?.   1315.4)   i210.5'1 (!2. a)   t269.9)           88.2       2.31.4    248.:
TOTAL CAPITAL EMPLOYED                507.5      213.0     290.1      24J.7      528.2       943.5    3.913.7 9'   S.
==zsz: :z:::::  :::::s:.::::: ::sz:ss: s: = :   s:,:z:z::::: :::::::s:s: : :s:    s:   :   : :
SHARE CAPITAL                          93.8       9'.3      :'5.1     !10.2      161.2       .61.        161.2     Io1.Z
RESERVES                               57.5       17.5       57.5      33.5       53.2        53.2        76.4      3 ..
CUHL'LATlvt FFi.LQj                 t,I I108.Si   !8V. 7)   (387.3:   t4ab.5i   !?789.6      77.9        48.7      J .
T3TAL SHAREHOLDER5 EGUIlf            42.8    i1''.4j   i:14.-j       ;b         64.21      '9 .       28.3      :
LONG TERN LOANS                       235.3      22b.b      316.8     3 -.       411.        367.2    3,343.6   1,5:3.5
OTHERS                                229.4      118.8      188.0     183.6      290.9       284.0       293.9     28o.0
TOTAL CAPITAL SOURSES                 507.5      213.0     :90.1      242.7      528.2       943.5    3,913.7   2,270.5
KEY F16URES: lRATIOS)
NET F.ASSETS/SH. hOLDERS EQUITY        12.0      1(.6'       '2.1:      '1.",     ,4.e6        :          12.8
CuRRE.T ASSETS/CUR.LIABILIflES          0.9        0.5        0.7        0.4       0.b         1.:         1.2
TOTAL CAPITAL EMPLOYED/SIM.EO.         11.9       '1.'       !i.4;      S',5, (3.2;                       135.
'OtAL CAPiTAL EMPLOYEDL.T.LIA          2.2 ,       .9        u.i                  1.'         2.o         1          1.:
TOTAL 'A.ES:TSTAL CAPITAL ENP.          .6        1.1        1.7        1.a       1.!         I.i         0.5       1.1
t NET RESULT(YEAR)ISHP EQUITY        4553.3       1'         48.:      25.'      :47.9:      15b.2        13.7      ZI.S
% NET fiESULTOtEARuITOT CAP ENP       146.7)         4..35.71    % :.Di           14.9        48.4         1.0
SOURCE: TCmB.



- 46 -                                                   PART III
Table 16
Page 2
Summary BaLance Sheet (cont'd)
FINANICAL VALUES ITSbsNILLIONS)30.09.77 30.09.78 30.09.79 30.09.80 30.09.81
USZSU8UUU23UU32U2ZulsU SZss  3u                      SS
Audited  Audited  Audited  Auditetd  Audiled
FlIED ASStS:  COST                 130.2    178.7    336.2    409.7    500.8
OEPECIATION            1.7     10.4     14.7     23.7      58.7
NEt FIIED ASStS                   122.5    148.3    319.5    386.0    442.1
INVESTRENTS                          70.1     73.4      74.7     79.5     76.6
LUMEWT ASSEtSIINVENTORIES             5.9      5.2      11.4     43.9     55.5
TRADE RECEIVABLES    39.9      58.1     83.1     34.0      S8.7
BLAK BALANCES        56.4    100.4    164.1      63.9    147.7
OTHER RECIVABUES     36.1      3..1     78.8     71.4      51.7
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS        138.3    199.8    337.4    213.2    313.4
CURRENT LUABILITIES:
TRADE ACCOUNT PAYABLE        17.1     45.9     73.7      96.8    192.2
OAmK OVERDRAFT               85.1     69.9    190.8      59.5      0.0
OTHER ACCOUNT PAYABLE        24.5     24.5     52.4      29.4     31.8
TOTAL CURRENt LIABILITIES        12i.7    139.3    316.9    184.7    224.0
NET WORKINS CAPltAL                  11.e     c0.5      20.5     28.5     89.6
TOTAL CAPITAL EMPLOYED              204.2    302.2    41a.7    494.0    608.3
SHARE CAPITAL                        10.7       7.2 '    7.       7.       7.
RESERVES                             34.      57.       5?.7    tO.4      57.5
CUMULATIVE PROFlTI(L0SS              S.,     57.2      79.8     bq .0    128.3
TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS E5UITf           0.c    122.1    144.7    1  .6   193:.0
LONG TERN LOANS                     12.5    132.4    254.1    322.1    324.1
0tNERS                               25.!     47.7      17.9     35.3     91.2
TOTAL CAPITAL S0URSES               204.2    302.2    416.7    494.0   608.3
3S S2S:tS3_ 5.*#SanZSS* SS232Sm33:S S :::33:St5JSSSSSSS2 3ss:33s:*:S
KEY FIGURES: (RATIOS)
NET F.ASSETSISH. HOLDERS E0661TY      2.4       1.4      2.2      2.8      2.3
CURRENT ASSETS/CUR.LIABILIT!ES        1.1       1.4      1.1      1.2       1.4
TOTAL CAPITAL EMPLOYEDISHN.ED.        4.0       2.5      2.9      3.6      3.2
TOTAL CAPITAL EPLO'YED/L.T.L1A        1.6      ;         1.6     i15        1.9
TOTAL SAlESITOTAL CAPITAL E'.        ;.2      0.7       0.5      0.3      0.7
2 NET RESULTIYEAR)ISHO EQUITY         9.9     42.2      15.6     (7.91    30.8
I ET RESULT(YEAR)ITOT CAP EIP         9.9      17.0      5.4     t2.21     9.8
2Xtsa2:z.zm:a2u2,agu3z:z3::::533:3:2:3s:2:z$t:zgzS:::ssgtz2z::z:%s5z2z:*aS::



- 47 -                                              PART  17
Page 1
Sumary ProfitiLoss  Accounts (1977-89)
FINANCIAL ,I.UES ITSM)SILIONS) 30.09.2  30.09.3  30.09.84  30.09.85  30.09.6  30.09.87   $0.09.88   30.09.09
.,...       g    . " ..~~an s assimus  a            ._...saaeaS SumS,,8*s..umasasa.ueaesshaus.
Adited   Audtud   Audited   Audited   Audite        Audited    Audited   Budget
SALES - DESTIC                       147.7      39.7       8.2        6.9       0.8       11.7        l0.9      15.0
ENPORT                       139.5     I75.7     345.4     431.9      5t2.5    1.011.5    1,786.9   2,427.8
TOTAL SALES                  207.2     215.4     33.6      438.8      573.3    1,029.2    1,797.8  2,442.8
COST OF SALS. OPENING  STOCK          15.0      10.3       13.7     134.3      17.3        9.0        48.3     252.3
CASE  OF RAtITS              212.0     141.5     347.8     314.9      24.4       407.2      982.4   1,170.2
(CO-OPERAY IVE COST)
OTHER COSTS          220.4      120.6      79.0      74.8      34.9        30.8      161.5      144.5
CLOSING STOCK         10.3       13.7     136.3      17.3       9.0        53.4      252.3      12t.4
TOTAL COST OF SAES                   439.7     286.7     304.2     512.7      311.8      393.4       939.9   1.439.4
GOSS FROFITI(LDSS)                  11531.5)    171.3)    69.4      273.9)    241.5      635.8       857.9   1.003.2
SALES AllND NM TIN6 EXPENSES        21.2      23.0      30.9      30.7       11.8       24.6       36.7      179.7
ADNINISTRATIVE EXPENSES             28.0      47.5      74.2      110.3      78.4       54.4       117.3    204.6
FINANCIAL CHR6ES                    39.4      43.7      59.8      54.7       78.1       42.9       40.2       77.8
DEPRECIATION                        27.4      39.8      40.1      42.7       42.8       44.1       '8.1       75.0
TOTAL OVERHEADS                .    116.4      154.0    205.0       246.4     211.3      566.0       272.3     536.1
OTHER REVENUE                         11.6      25.4       30.9      14.1      23.3       1'.5        13.9       5.u
PC;!u' '05   BEFORE SUDEIDY          :56.:,   19:2   j:4.7;   i'84.2           it73.5    467.;       55-.5     4;.:
3UHtIr:'S- 3  SALES                           48..     102.5
ON OTHEkS                                                          5.0
NET FPI7!tLOSSi BEFORE APPR.        (2s..:?    151.:,    '4ZJ   '306.2i    78.5          46?.:      t9.5       44 .!
APFRPIATI0IS                                                                      1US)X
TAlATION                                                                                        4.b
OThER PtvEAR AOJSSTNENTS        19.5     123.9)    ;91.41   227.0                    0.0       110.1
NET PROF;T FOR THE YEAR             123.8'39     175.21   103'.i l79.5l  78.5            45c.S        ;9.1    24.l
tROUGHT FORWARD PROFITtlLOSS)      129.3    l108.5   8It3.7t    367.31   (446.5)    4379.7'        ??.8       49.'      '*
DOivcenai'ousloq FundIotners         0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0         i.o     1*6.:4  1345.u4
CUP. PPCGIT/ILOSSE) CO TO OtS       1108.5)   (21'8.7)   (387?.1   1464.5)   (386.01      77'.       8.-       :45.s
SALES WANTITIES(TONS.
NUS1TIC - kernels          10.625.0  (5.t2.o ,e.  e.d        *t470.0     10.0                  .i
EIPORT - Kernuls          C                                                                   9a2.    .i4I.
EI'ORT - Ramnut             15  .b.h0  1d.159.0   5.515.0  30.B70.u  18,116.0   17.121..   14.6 4.:  S.
TOTAL                       25.951.0  1549M.  3; S251.0  31,340.0  18,12e.0   17.,21.0 !I.4oh.!  11.754.
'Ei f FGuRES: i% to SALES)
GROSS PROFIT/fLOSSW              152.8)    133.1)     58.6    i16.8)       45.o       41.8       47.7       '1.1
NET PROFIT/fLOSS)                (82.5)    (81.3)    427.7,    418.0)      13.7       44.4        2.2       ?.
TOt4 OVERHEADS                    40.5      71.5      54.9       56.2      Zi.9       16.1        15.1      :1.;
..........  o... ................ ... ............ ........... ................... ................. .................................... .... _. ..
LNIT COSt PER K6 OF SALES
Processing Cost                                                                                2:6.3      357.6
.azu23aZ3:g3t::grSttau5282ztat3SlttttSS$ttttS3*3aa*28a3a8:S32a8az33::3:as3a:3::::
DIRECT COST                      54.9     15.0        9.4       1e.4      17.2       23.0       40.9      63.
OVEAD                             4.5       9.7       6.3        7.9      11.7        9.7        14.2     2?.
TOTAL                             1.4      27.7      15.8      24.2       28.9       32.7       63.0       87.v
..- .--..- -- .-.--.---.-.............-.-..--..---.--....--.-..-- _ ---.----- ..-..---.------
SOURtE: TCNB.



- 48 -
PART II I
ya- xtW
TabLe I?7
Page a
Smmr   Profit/Loss  AccoUnts  (contsd)
FSPlCIL VUES (T5hs)N1LLlON5130.09 n7 30.0j9.78 S0.09.t9 30.09.*030.09.81
Awdited Adited  Audited  Adited Aditd
SALES - OUStIC                    25.2    16.1    47.3    50.1 I    51.0
"PMT                      210.9  151.0   146.1    82.3   332.5
TOTAL SALES               236.1   197.1   213.4   132.4   447.5
COST OF SALES: PNIN6 STOCK         19.6     3.4      0.8      1.?    41.3
PUNAS OF RilS              80.1    59.5    88.8.   79.5   181.6
IRto-illE tilSO
GMO  COSTS          43.8    33.3    26.1    20.9    40.7
CLUSIS STOCK         3.4      0.8     1.2    41.3    15.8
TOTAL COST OF SALES               140.1    95.4   114.5    60.3   247.8
O5 WITILOSS)                       96.0   101.7    9.9    12.1   199.7
SALES AS EA TINS EPENSS          34.2    19.4    16.5    11.7    41.9
AIINIStATIVE EPESS               16.4   1.5    11.4    26.1    31.7
FINAIAL OMES                     15.8     7.4    21.4    32.2    32.0
DEPCIAIION                       3.7     2.7       .5      6.6      S.7
TOTAL O0     S             *       70.1    45.0    55.4    76.4   109.3
OTHER RE                            2.1     2.5      2.1    12.0:   42.2
PRO4, 1. tLas' IEEF Y -4S; 39.0    59.2    45.o    it.5'  :Z,           h
90651DIE8- Du SALES
ON OTHERB
All PFITILOSS) BEFOE WAR.          ^9.0    59.2    45.6    *4.5)  132.i
ARRlIATIONS                  17.8)   (7.71
TAJATION                                     (22.8)    0.0   164.3)
GINO Pi/A AOUSTIENTS          0.0.    0.0    (0.2)   14.3)   16.9)
NET "FIT FOR TI YEA                20.2    51.5    22.6   410.8:   59.4
"    lOUFNI flO  PROFT/LOSS)    14.51     5.7    57.2    79.9    48.9
kviSSd/Nssiaq Funeototers         0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
CUo. PIOFI1TIOSS) CIO TO 01S       5.7    57.2    79.8    49.0   3n.3;
88s8u*uass*8s1a8J3*zgsususul$tl sg:t$sau:33323uu:aaStsta:gsts3 :23233
SKLIS oITilltSil?ONS.
DOISTIC - kertels
ElPR % gernl9l
ElMto - ho"t
TOTAL
kfS FISURESS: t 10 SALES'
OmSS PROf IIILOSSI             40.7    51.4    46.3    54.S    44.4
NET PROFITI(LOSS)               8.6    26.1    10.6    (82)   153.3
TOIE OV AUS                    29.7    22.8    26.0    57.9    24.4
UNIT COST PER  K OF SALES
Pr.ocsloy Cost
DIRECT COSt
OVER__AD
TOTAL.
- - C . - - .---                    C     -~~~~~~~~~~........



IBRD 1309R
UGANDA    1----    -     LAKE                          KENYA                 _                         TANZANIA
5 <                              W A   D    /|FRICA'7  SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RWANOA            4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r                Y~~~~~~~ANZANIA1'~  .MTWA    Processing center,
-  AKE  ~    ~    ~   ~   ~ ~f        A                                         actrie CO)  sin capacities  in tons):
*                                           '  KEl .(12500)  Under construction or planned
Proposnd
2                                         *          A'                           BankorIDA financing
 .t\~~-   N t 5~ s/                                          NA                                 Ca ds Ihew C growing areas
101'                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31500 Average tonnage nf roe nuts purchased onnually by CAA
IuIl~ranoio BU      kI       N                                                     >during th  po1970/71-1976/7 by district
I         TA. M    MiB o
(~~~.         t3u~~~~ito      Ray                            nul                       aNilwMailwa
ISURUNDI                                                                      nduli                      Region bound,ers )
Dissrict  lvUndoriea
k -  1      SInternotional bud.ries
K                             T4nd4m48X,>: 1 X ,&JK  Njo 0        /                  5 N A t H | NeO WPEMBA
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ !                                              (5---            *110,000)
LAWI~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~SSLA
150  WOOSIIUMi  '  V tt W8/' G A)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1250
=7t  e     '/              vMbentt .               t5,500 X  o. t-               n (l9'} %~~~~~~~~00,500
W-dAvi#it~Z; MAILRAE                                             I r--- s,,__.MOZAMf3inQUE 0 
+ittot.i            et_    -                                   S}>-                                                                  Ael
Al,4O
CbA nyo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Af 95



