FILE COPY                                   Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2314-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 1, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       5        Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
US$ 1.00            x        TSh 8.30
TSh 1.0                      US$ 0.12
(As Tanzania Shilling is officially valued at a
fixed rate of 9.66 TSh to the SDR, the US Dollar/
Tanzania Shilling exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in this Report were made at US$ 1.00 to
TSh 8.30 which is close to the recent average exchange
rate.)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CATA         -      Cashevnut Authority of Tanzania
CcM          -      Chama Cha Mapinduzi
CNSL         -      Cashewnut Shell Liquid
EAC          -      East African Community
MDB          -      Marketing Development Bureau
MOA          -      Ministry of Agriculture
NBC          -      National Bank of Commerce
PMO          -      Prime Minister's Office
TANU         -      Tanganyika African National Union
FISCAL YEAR
Government - July 1st to June 30th
CATA       - October 1st to September 30th



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA: SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:                     United Republic of Tanzania
BENEFICIARY:                  Cashewnut Authority of Tanzania
AMOUNT:                       US$27.5 million equivalent
TERMS:                        Standard
RELENDING TERMS:              Fifty percent of the proceeds of the credit
(i.e. US$13.75 million equivalent) would be
relent to the Cashewnut Authority of Tanzania
(CATA) for 15 years including 5 years of grace,
with interest at 10 percent per annum. The
balance would be passed on by the Government to
CATA as equity.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:          The proposed project would increase Tanzania's
annual processing capacity from 73,000 tons to
103,000 tons of raw cashewnuts all produced by
smallholders, thereby increasing the local value
added and creating employment for about 3,000
persons. It would increase Tanzania's foreign
exchange earnings and contribute to raising producers
income. The project would fiiiance the construct-
tion and equipping of three factories with a total
processing capacity of 30,000 tons of raw nuts,
the expansion of cashewnut shell liquid storage
facilities, the construction of staff accommoda-
tions and water and power supply facilities. It
would also finance a cashewnut research program,
an occupational health hazards study, and the
provision of technical assistance for CATA. The
project faces commercial risks, typical of under-
takings of this nature, giventhe uncertainty of future
raw cashewnut and cashewnut kernels export prices.
However, it is considered unlikely that cashewnut
kernels prices would fall below a level which would
reduce the economic rate of return to an unaccept-
able level.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ESTIMATED
PROJECT COST :                                             US$ Million
Local     Foreign       Total
Civil Works and Water Supply            4.8         8.7         13.5
Equipment  and Vehicles                  .5       10.2          10.7
Technical Assistance                     .5         5.5          6.0
Base Cost Estimates                     5.8       24.4          30.2
Physical Contingencies                   .4         1.5          1.9
Price Contingencies                      .4         1.6          2.0
NET PROJECT COST                      6.6       27.5          34.1
Working Capital                      .9        1.3           2.2
TOTAL COST                          7.5       28.8         '36.3-
FINANCING PLAN:
US$ Million         %
IDA                       27.5             76
Government                 6.6             18
NBC                        2.2              6
3-6.3          100
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS:                                  US$ Million
FY79   FY8O.  FY81   FY82   FY83  -fY4   FY85
Annual          4.6   10.4    7.6    2.0    1.4    1.2    0.3
Cummulative    4.6   15.0   22.6   24.6   26.0   27.2   27.5
RATE OF RETURN:     16 percent
APPRAISAL REPORT: Report No. 1868-TA, dated April 26. 1978
Southern Agriculture Division
Eastern Africa Region
1/  As goods imported under the project would be free of taxes and duties,
the cost estimates include only negligible amounts of taxes, mainly sales
taxes on locally procured goods.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the United Republic of Tanzania for the equivalent of US$27.5
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a project for cashewnut
development in Tanzania. Fifty percent of the proceeds of the credit
(i.e., US$13.75 million equivalent) would be relent to the Cashewnut
Authority of Tanzania (CATA) for 15 years including 5 years of grace,
with interest at 10 percent per annum. The balance would be passed on by
the Government to CATA as equity.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.       A Basic Economic Mission visited Tanzania in August 1976.  The Basic
Economic Report was distributed in December 1977 (Report No. 1616-TA).
3.        Tanzania has experienced a degree of continuity and stability in
political structure, leadership and objectives which is unrivaled in Africa.
The TANU2/ party, under the leadership of President Nyerere, has been the
unifying force in Tanzania's political evolution since the early 1950s. For
the past decade, following the Arusha Declaration in early 1967, Tanzania has
pursued the objectives of social equality, self-reliance, the eradication of
poverty and economic and social transformation. The Government has emphasized
rural development, social ownership of the principal means of production, and
full participation of all regions and population groups in the development
process. Economic growth has been an important objective but the leadership
has been willing to forego short-term income gains for longer-term structural
change and more equitable distribution. In restructuring the political, eco-
aiumic anid social life of the country the leadership has introduced a series of
far-reaching institutional reforms: most large-scale units in manufacturing,
finance and wholesale trade have been nationalized; the Government has sharply
increased its share of revenue in GDP througlh progressive taxation; a signi-
ficant portion of public sector expenditure control has been delegated to the
regions and districts and a massive campaign of villagization has been ini-
tiated to bring the rural population together into viable long-term development
units.
1/ This section is essentially the same as that of the President's Report on
the Tobacco Handling Project dated May1,1978.
2/ TANU (the mainland political party) was merged with the Zanzibar political
party (the Afro-Shirazi Party) in February 1977. The new party is now
called Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM).



- 2-
4.        With per capita income of $180, Tanzania is classified as one
of the least developed countries as defined by the United Nations (country
data are provided in Annex I). Between 1967 and 1973 Tanzania's GDP at
factor cost was growing at an annual rate of 4.5 percent. With population
growing at 2.7 percent per year, per capita output was rising at only 1.8
percent per year on average. Domestic savings reached 18 percent of GDP
while gross investment was sustained at between 20 to 25 percent of GDP,
extremely high rates for a country at Tanzania's low level of per capita
income. However, the growth rate in GDP was not commensurate with the
magnitude of the investment effort, in part because of the high proportion
of investment which was directed into slow-gestation infrastructure and
social services projects but also because of sluggish growth in the agri-
cultural sector and stagnant or declining productivity in parastatal enter-
prises. During this period Tanzania's overall balance of payments situation
was generally satisfactory, despite the disappointing performance in the
export sector. The rapid growth in imports was more than comipensated by
increasing capital inflows, largely from bilateral sources on soft terms.
The overall balance of payments was in surplus in most years during 1969-73,
resulting in a modest buildup in net foreign exchange reserves to slightly
over $150 million at the end of 1973, the equivalent of almost four months
imports.
The Economic Crisis of 1974 and the Government's Response
5.        In 1974 Tanzania was suddenly confronted with a severe economic
crisis. Failure of rains in late 1973 and early 1974 caused a massive
decline in production and marketing of the major foodgrains and the Govern-
ment was compelled to import large quantities of grain. Tanzania's main
export crops were also affected by the drought, and the resultant declines
in export volumes prevented Tanzania from taking advantage of the commodity
price boom of 1974. These agricultural problems were compounded by the disloca-
tion resulting from the rapid expansion of the villagization program (para 2L).
On the import side, total cost of merchandise imports rose by over 50 percent
between 1973 and 1974, despite a slight decline in volume. As a result of
these factors the trade deficit widened from $158 million in 1973 to $340
million in 1974 while the overall balance of payments moved from a surplus
to a deficit of $140 million. This balance of payments gap was financed
largely through drawings from the IMF and a rapid depletion of reserves.
Net reserves fell to $60 million at the end of 1974, equivalent to only one
month's import requirements. Industrial production also stagnated in 1974
due to shortages of imported raw materials and interruptions in power and
water supplies. While production declined, domestic demand'increased rapidly
because of expansionary fiscal, monetary and wage policies. The imbalance
between domestic demand and supply, combined with the sharp escalation in
import prices, resulted in severe pressure on the domestic price level.
6.        Once the extent of the problems facing the country was realized,
the Government formulated a comprehensive package of policy actions to
bring the balance of payments under control while maintaining the pace of
its development effort. The principal elements of the package included a



-3-
reallocation of investment in favor of directly productive sectors, measures
to raise agricultural output, and constraints on wages and on public and
private consumption. Government budget allocations to agriculture and
industry were substantially increased; significant increases were approved
in agricultural producer prices; tight import controls were implemented;
indirect taxes on consumer goods increased; user charges for water and
electricity were raised and an extremely restrictive wage and salary policy
was followed. This package was reviewed with the Bank at the time of
appraisal and negotiation of the Program Loan in late 1974, and approval
of that Loan was based on the Bank's agreement with and support of the policy
package. Approval of the subsequent Program Credit in 1977 was based on
the Government's overall performance in implementing the agreed upon program.
Economic Performance since 1974
7.        The major macroeconomic indicators have generally improved since
1974, reflecting both improved weather conditions and the effects of
the policy measures introduced to deal with the crisis. Agricultural
production increased by 6.5 nernent in 1975 compared to a decline of 3.3
percent in 1974, while total GDP grew by 4.6 percent compared with
only 2.2 percent in 1974. This was despite the fact that during 1975
production of cotton and some other cash crops still suffered from
disorganization due to villagization. In 1976 some of the problems of villa-
gization were being rectified through "operation correction," and since rains were
once again favorable, agricultural production was generally good. Agricultural
production increased by about 4.5 percent in real terms in 1976, industrial product-
ion expanded 6.2 percent and GDP grew 5.2 percent. Preliminary estimates are
that agriculture and total production expanded by about 5 percent in 1977.
8.        The goods and services account of the balance of payments continued
to deteriorate in 1975 due to continuing production difficulties, declines
in some agricultural export prices and the continuing need to import food
for part of the year. The trade deficit increased from $340 million in
1974 to $400 million in 1975,      Even after allowing for a high level of
project-related capital inflows and-a huge increase in grant assistance and
concessional food aid, there was a residual deficit of almost $75 million.
Whereas the 1974 residual deficit was filled almost entirely through the
combination of DfF assistance and reserve depletion, the 1975 deficit was
met through foreign assistance from a variety of sources, including the $30
million Program Loan from the World Bank (para 6). In 1976 and 1977 the balance of
payments picture improved. The trade deficit declined due-to strong export
performance, especially for coffee and cotton, and to a slight fall in the
"value of imports occasioned by a greatly lessened need for foodgrain imports
and continuing tight restrictions on all other categories of imports. The
overall balance of payments surplus was about $35 million during 1976 and
continued in surplus throughout 1977. Gross foreign exchange reserves at the
end of 1977 amounted to US$280 million or about four months imports.
Because of the very concessional terms on which aid has been given to Tanzania
and the Government's refusal to use higher cost commercial loans and suppliers'
.credits, _the overall debt service ratio has remained low.  Including a notional



- 4 -
40 percent share of the debt of the East African Community Corporations, it
was less than 8 percent in 1977. While the favorable terms of much of Tanza-
nia's foreign assistance (particularly the increasing proportion of grants)
significantly reduce the debt service burden they also increase Bank exposure.
Debt servir-  payments to the Bank Group will be about 28.6 percent of Tanzania's
total debt service payments in 1977.  This is projected to rise to approximately
30 percent in 1980.
East African Community (EAC)
9.        The recent developments in the East African Community were outlined
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977.  Dr. Victor
Umbricht, thc independent mediator recently appointed by the Partner States,
visited East Africa in February and has begun work on the questions involved
in appraising the assets and liabilities of the EAC Corporations and making
recommendations on their allocations.  The de facto breakup of the Community
is expected to have some impact on Tanzania's budget as new national corpo-
rations take over the services formerly provided by the EAC Corporations.
Wlhile substantial initial investments are required (particularly in the
formation of the airways corporation and the rehabilitation of the railways),
the burden on the Government budget will hopefully be temporary as the new
corporations should become self financing. A major development related to
the EAC difficulties was the closure of the border with Kenya. Kenya was a
major trading partner of Tanzania and in the short run considerable adjust-
ments have had to be made in locating new suppliers for some items and
developing outlets for some manufactured goods and agricultural products.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA *
10.       Tanzania joined  the-Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.  Beginning with
an IDA credit for education in 1962, 30 IDA credits, 13 Bank loans and two
Third Window loans amounting to $506.0 million have so far been approved
for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 10 loans
totalling $244.8 million which have been extended for the development of
the common services and development bank operated regionally by Tanzania,
Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African Community.
The only IFC investments in Tanzania to date, totalling $4.7 million,
were made to the Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company
encountered financial difficulties and in 1969 IFC and other investors
sold their interest in the Company to the Government. A proposal for an IFC
investment in soap manufacturing is now under consideration. Annex II contains
summary statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Tanzania and the East
African Community organizations as of March 31, 1978 and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.
* This section is substantially the same as that of the President's Report
on the Tobacco Handling Project dated May 1, 1978.



- 5 -
11.       In keeping with Tanzania's overall development strategy, Bank
Group lending operations are increasingly focusing on the rural sector and
directly productive projects. Up to the end of FY72, 10 out of 14 loans
and credits made individually to Tanzania had been for infrastructure.
The overwhel1ing majority of the operations approved since then have been
for directly productive projects. Furthermore, a number of Bank Group
supported infrastructure projects have been closely linked with specific
activities. For example, the Urban Water Supply Project (Loan No. 1354-TA)
approved in December 1976, will support the recently approved Industrial
Complex in Morogoro (Loans No. 1385-T-TA and 1386-TA). Other directly
productive projects are supporting both the agricultural and industrial
sectors, including the Kigoma Integrated Rural Development Project (Credit
No. 508-TA), the National Maize Project (Credit No. 606-TA), Cashewnut
Development Project (Loan No. 1014-TA), the Fisheries Development Project
(Credit No. 652-TA), three Tanzanian Investment Bank Projects (Credit No.
460-TA and Loans No. 1172-TA and No. 1498-TA), and the Mwanza Textile
Project (Loan No. 1128-TA). The first Bank Group assisted project in the
forestry sector, the Sao Hill Forestry Project (Loan No. 1307-TA), was approved
in July 1976 and will provide the raw materials for Tanzania's first
paper and pulp plant, also under preparation for consideration by the Bank
Group for financing. A Second National Sites and Services Project
(Credit No. 732-TA) and a Trucking Industry Rehabilitation and Improvement
Project (Credit 743-TA) were recently approved by the Board. Three other
projects are scheduled for presentation to the Executive Directors before
the end of this fiscal year -- A Rural Development Project in Mwanza and
Shinyanga, a Tobacco Handling Project and the Morogoro Textile Project.
Projects which have been appraised include a Second Urban Water Supply for
Iringa and Moshi, a Tourism Project, a Fifth Highway Project and a Sixth
Education Project. A Rural Development Project in Mara, an Agricultural
Services Project, a Harbours Project and a line of Credit to the Tanzanian
Rural Development Bank are also under preparation.
12.       Although the comparatively high proportion of undisbursed loans
and credits, detailed in Annex II, is in large part a result of the
recent approval of many of these projects, it also reflects the fact
that overall project implementation has been slower than was projected.
It is clear in retrospect that both the Bank and Tanzania have been
optimistic regarding Tanzania's absorptive capacity. The causes of the
difficulties in implementation are varied. Some stem from the scarcity of
suitably trained and experienced manpower, some reflect the problems in
identifying agronomic input packages appropriate to the needs of smallholder
farmers while others result from the strains associated with attempting
a "frontal attack" on poverty. These problems have been compounded by
frequent and drastic administrative changes, which -- though potentially
the source of long-term benefits -- have certainly disrupted orderly
execution of projects and made parts of earlier project concepts obsolete.
In general, these difficulties have been most severe in agriculture, par-
ticularly in the smallholder rural sector. As our lending program has
increasingly concentrated on this sector, these problems have become
correspondingly more apparent and severe. By contrast, the "modern" sector
projects have tended to fare better. The Tanzania Investment Bank, Mwanza
Textile, Cashewnut Processing and Tobacco Processing Projects, for example,
are proceeding well.



13.      As the Bank's lending program has expanded, increasing attention has
been given to measures designed to improve project implementation. A course
was conducted in Dar es Salaam in 1973 on the Bank's procurement policies and
procedures with the relevant Government officials. A special project imple-
mentation unit was set up in the Ministry of Agriculture and nine Agricultural
Development Service staff have been assigned to Bank projects. The need to
establish a close and continuous working level dialogue between responsible
Tanzanian officials and Bank staff on following-up implementation problems was
one of the prime reasons for the expansion of the Resident Mission to two
professionals in October 1976. In February 1977 a regular Government/Bank
review of project implementation was established.  Discussions, chaired by the
Ministry of Finance and attended by Bank staff and officials from implementing
agencies, were held in Dar es Salaam on the entire Bank Group program. Steps
to strengthen this review procedure were taken in August 1977 when those
meetings were shifted to a monthly basis. The Government also agreed that
periodically these reviews will be conducted on an "in-depth" basis to discuss
in detail individual problem projects and problems which are affecting project
implementation across a number of sectors. As a result of these reviews a
number of positive developments have been noted. Most of the actions agreed
to during the reviews have been completed. In addition, the reviews have
significantly improved coordination and communication by providing an oppor-
tunity for project agencies to discuss their problems with all ministries
involved and with high level officials in the Ministry of Finance and Planning.
During the two in-depth reviews in October 1977 and January 1978 a series of
general implementation issues were discussed with senior Tanzanian officials
and follow-up actions or investigations agreed upon.
14.       The Government has also become increasingly conscious of implementation.
In addition to fully supporting the project implementation review system, the
the Ministry of Finance and Planning has now set up an internal unit to oversee
project performance. Furthermore, there have been more consistent responses
to Bank suggestions and a willingness to openly discuss project problems
raised by Bank staff. As a consequence, the project disbursement record has
i'.pro-ed som"""hat over the last two ycars and a recent analysis indicated
that the Tanzanian disbursement performance is about equal to the Bank-wide
average. However, it should be noted that significant potential for further
improvements exists as a wide range of serious long-term bottlenecks remain.
This is particularly true in the agriculture and rural development sector
where individual projects face a considerable number of constraints in trying
to increase the incomes of smallholders (the lack of proven technical
packages, a weak extension system, problems in input distribution and output
collection, etc.).
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General Background
15.       Agriculture and related activities constitute the largest single
sector in the Tanzanian economy. About 94 percent of the population lives
in rural areas, and 90 percent of the economically active population is



- 7 -
engaged in agriculture. Roughly 40 percent of GDP is derived from the
sector, of which about half constitutes subsistence production. in addition,
agricultural exports (processed and unprocessed) account for about 80 percent
of total exports. The major export commodities are coffee, cotton, tobacco,
sisal, cashewnut and tea.
16.       Most agricultural production is from smallholdings using family
labor. Large-scale agriculture is confined to a small number of private
estates and state farms producing sisal, coffee, tea, sugar, wheat, rice
and livestock. Estate production has diminished in importance since Inde-
pendence and the state farm program remains small. Tanzania's national
livestock herd, the second largest in Africa, is grazed extensively over
the 40 percent of the country which is free from tsetse fly infestation.
It is largely managed along traditional lines.
17.       Recent performance of the agricultural sector has been disappointing.
The long-term growth rate of agricultural output between 1967 and 1976 was
only 2.8 percent per annum -- about equal to population growth. Moreover,
food crop production has failed to keep pace with the expanding population
and Tanzania has become increasingly dependent on imports of maize, rice and
wheat. This deteriorating food balance position was seriously aggravated by
the poor drought-affected harvests of 1973 and 1974 which necessitated large
foodgrain imports. While real agricultural production increased by 6.5 percent
in 1975 and by a further 4.5 percent in 1976, these increases represent prima-
rily a recovery from the drought and only return agricultural expansion to its
long-term growth path. Concern with increasing the historical long-term growth
rate remains central to the Bank Group's investment strategy in Tanzania.
Agricultural Development Strategy
18.       The Government has undertaken a comprehensive program to support
the development of productive activities in the agricultural sector, in con-
junction with efforts to achieve balanced regional growth and more equitable
income distribution (para. 3). While there has been a major emphasis on im-
proving the availability of social services (particularly in health, water
supply and education), in the aftermath of the drought and the balance of
payments difficulties the Government has made increasing output the major
focus of its investments in rural areas. Specifically, it has placed consi-
derable attention on those crops which represent sources of foreign exchange
earnings. The proposed project fits into this strategy, and, although cashew-
nut generates only about 7 percent of current foreign exchange earnings from
agricultural exports, the potential for expansion of output and exports of
processed nuts is significant. In addition to according priority to the ex-
pansion of selected export crops, the Government has given greater emphasis
to its program of self-sufficiency in food production, assisted by an IDA
Credit of US$18.0 million for a National Maize Project (Credit No. 606-TA).



19.       Long-term support for the Government's focus on increasing produc-
tion was expected to be channeled through the National Agricultural Develop-
ment Program (NADP), a series of projects identified in the Agricultural
Sector Report (No. 541a-TA dated December 10, 1974). These projects were
expected to involve the development of "national" programs designed to con-
centrate and coordinate development efforts on the 40 or so agro-economic
zones of the highest potential. However, recent developments in the sector,
particularly in Bank-supported projects, have raised serious questions as to
the feasibility of this approach. While "national" projects oriented toward
production were expected to be consistent with Tanzania's decentralized
Government structure, this has not been achieved. The regions have not in
practice felt responsible for implementing "nationally" conceived and directed
programs. At the same time the regions have complained that many of the
central services which they require (e.g., research, input delivery and mar-
keting), and clearly accept as national responsibilities, are not being
effectively provided. As a result of these developments, a new Bank strategy
for agriculture has emerged. In order to ensure regional responsibility and
the development of locally appropriate technical packages (particularly those
required by the more intensive cultivation practices in the new villages), a
number of regional projects have been approved or are being prepared (para 11).
While these projects will focus on production efforts, we will not hesitate to
support regional infrastructure when its absence is constraining production.
At the same time, attempts to strengthen the ability of central ministries to
provide essential support services to the regional "production units" will be
made via national projects, e.g., in processing, marketing, and storage. The
proposed project fits into this latter category. With this revised and
consistent strategy, we expect that a basis will be established for improving
the disappointing growth rate in agriculture (para 17).
Rural Organization
20.       In order to improve the design and execution of development projects
and programs and to mobilize local resources, the Government, in 1972, adopted
a decentralized administrative structure. Regions (20 in all) and Districts
(80) were granted primary responsibility for the planning and implementation
of development activities within their jurisdictions, and were given a high
degree of administrative autonomy. The Prime Minister's Office provides over-
all policy direction, coordinates regional plans and budgets and assists
Regions as appropriate in preparing their development programs. While it is
clear that this decentralization of authority has improved communication
between the Government and the villages (as the civil service operating at
the district and regional levels are directly involved in integrated rural
development efforts) problems of manpower, and of ill-defined division of re-
sponsibility between the regions, central ministries and parastatals persist.
21.       In order to facilitate the provision of infrastructure and services
to the rural population and to encourage self-reliance, the grouping of farm
families into villages, villagization, is a key element of Government stra-
tegy. The acceleration of the Government's villagization program was given
high priority in 1973-74 and at present, over three-quarters of Tanzania's



- 9 -
rural population are contained in about 7,700 registered villages. These
registered villages, each containing 250 families or more, elect a Village
Council which exercises wide judicial and administrative powers over the
political, eculnomic and social development of the village. It is too early
to judge how effectively the villages will be able to meet their ambitious
goals. However, it has been established that more attention to village
siting and size is needed to overcome problems of overgrazing, soil deple-
tion, and of increased travel to water, firewood and fields.
Agricultural Services
22.       The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is responsible for the overall
planning and monitoring of the sector as well as coordinating agricultural
research, training of extension staff, pricing policy in the sector, seed
multiplication and supervision of agricultural parastatals. Agricultural
research is undertaken by a wide variety of government agencies and while
MOA has been given the responsibility of overall coordination, research
resources have not always been allocated in accordance with development
priorities. Agricultural extension services are provided by staff trained
by MOA, and are under the control of the Regional Administration.  The links
between research and extension are weak, and field staff are often poorly
trained and inadequately supervised. A major review of the extension system
has been under way in Tanzania for about two years, and IDA has agreed to
work with the Government on a survey of the needs in this area with the
intention of subsequently preparing a research and extension training com-
ponent in the proposed Agricultural Services Project (para.ll ).  Pricing
policy is an important tool of the Government in the agricultural sector.
Since 1974, Government has accorded greater recognition to the need to give
farmers production incentives; crop and livestock prices are now reviewed
annually and substantial producer price increases have been made in recent
years. A related issue which MOA is involved with is that of input pricing.
In recent years, Government has encouraged the use of inputs (in particular,
fertilizer) through subsidization. In 1974 fertilizer was distributed at no
charge; the subsidy is now 50 perdent. However, because of ensuing problems
(wastage, use on areas where inputs are uneconomical, etc.), greater atten-
tion is being paid by the Government to ensuring that inputs are distributed
for use only where their use is profitable. In the past Tanzania has suffered
from a shortage of good quality seed, and bilateral aid has been directed at
attempting to improve this situation. Consideration will be given to supple-
menting these efforts under the proposed Agricultural Services Project.
Agricultural Marketing Parastatals, which exist for major crops and livestock,
play a key role in agricultural marketing. The tendency has been for progres-
sive enlargement by Government of the role and scope of these institutions,
and this has, in many cases, placed a severe strain on their manpower resources.
Overall operational efficiency is low, with correspondingly high trading
margins. The Government is aware of the problems and is beginning to develop
a comprehensive program for addressing them.
The Cashewnut Industry
23.       After Mozambique, Tanzania is the world's second largest producer
of raw cashewnuts (about 120,000 tons annually) followed by India, Brazil and
Kenya.  Tanzania's exports of raw nuts in 1977 represented 30% of the world's
total. Cashewnuts rank fifth among Tanzania's export crops in earnings, and



- 10 -
accounted for export receipts of $25 million in 1975/1976. Cashewnut trees
grow in Southern Tanzania and along the Coast. Cashewnuts are produced almost
entirely by smallholders whose incomes are below the poverty line (per
capita incomes are below US$50). The marketed products of the cashew trees
are kernels and cashewnut shell liquid (CNSL). While the kernels are con-
sumed directly (as roasted and salted nuts, or in bakery products) the CNSL
is used commercially for paints, varnishes and friction materials. The
cashewnut kernels are exported to North America and Europe (para. 49), and
the CNSL is mainly exported to Japan and USA (para. 51).
24.       Presently, Tanzania has a processing capacity of about 26,000 tons
of raw cashewnuts (6,000 tons of kernels) per year and the remainder is pro-
cessed overseas, mainly in India. Additional processing capacity of 52,500
tons per year is under construction, of which 40,000 are being financed under
the first Cashewnut Development Project (Loan No. 1014-TA, para. 11). About
80 percent of existing domestic processing is mechanized. The remainder is
processed by hand at a financial loss due to low labor productivity and low
quality of production. In view of the poor record of hand processing, the
two existing hand processing units will be closed shortly and their workers
absorbed in the new mechanical processing factories.
25.       During the last 15 years, the production of raw cashewnut in Tanzania
has increased from 43,000 tons to an average of 120,000 tons annually. While
cashewnut production from existing trees and natural replacements is expected
to remain at the level of 120,000 tons per year, the Government and
CATA in 1977 initiated the implementation of a 150,000 ha plantation program
which is expected to be carried out during a five-year period. By 1982, the
plantation program would be completed and by 1992 at full development, the
new plantations are expected to produce about 100,000 tons of raw nuts annually,
increasing the country's production to 220,000 tons annually. About 700 vil-
lages would be involved in this program and about 150,000 smallholder families
in lower income rural areas would benefit. The Government's parallel efforts
to improve research and extension services would increase production and sub-
sequently the smallholder incomes.
26.       Prices paid to raw nut producers in Tanzania are established
annually after a review by CATA and the Marketing Development Bureau (MDB)
of MOA, and published before the harvest season after approval by MOA and
the Cabinet Economic Committee.  Presently, producer prices are computed on
the basis of export prices of raw nuts with net benefits passed on to
farmers directly. This producer price setting mechanism is satisfactory
and is in conformity with the agreement reached under the first Cashewnut
Development Project (Loan 1014-TA).
27.       Tanzania's strategy for the development of the cashewnut industry
is consistent with the Basic Industrial Strategy (BIS) adopted in 1974 *ith
its emphasis on the use of domestic resources and expansion of export-
oriented production. By expanding processing of domestic production, Tan-
zania is expected to increase local value added and hence export earnings.
Also, in conformity with the country's policy of fighting poverty and wide
distribution of development benefits, the proposed project would contribute to
increasina the income of the rural smallhol1ers who idominAtp ehRhtwnaii
production.



- 11 -
The Cashewnut Authority of Tanzania (CATA)
28.       CATA was established in 1973 as a statutory authority designed to
coordinate all aspects of production, research, processing and marketing of
cashewnuts. CATA has complete control over the cashewnut indusi.iy. The
Minister of Agriculture has direct responsibility for overseeing CATA's
activities, and appoints the Directors of the Board representing concerned
Government Ministries and Regions and Districts within which CATA is oper-
ating. Day-to-day control over CATA's activities rests with the full time
General Manager, who is appointed by the President. CATA is organized into
five functional Departments: Crop Development and Procurement, Marketing
and Planning, Finance, Manpower Development and Administration, and Factory
Operation and Development. CATA has also been entrusted with a few ancillary
activities such as the distribution of fertilizers in the Mtwara Region and
the operation of service stations in Mtwara. These activities have a marginal
impact on CATA's finances and management capabilities.
29.       Until now  CATA has been financed through Government grants and
loans, and by borrowing from financial institutions in Tanzania for invest-
ment expenditures and working capital. CATA's performance is satisfactory
in general. However, it is experiencing management problems due to lack of
specialist staff, particularly in the Finance Department. CATA's financial
reporting is weak and the audited accounts for the year ending September 30,
1976 are expected by mid-1978. CATA's management responsibilities will increase
once the factories now under construction become operational. Technical
assistance to strengthen CATA's technical and financial management would be
provided under the proposed project (para 40).
Previous Bank Group Projects and Experience
30.       A Bank loan of $21 million for the first Cashewnut Development
Project (Loan No. 1014-TA) was extended in May 1974. The project was designed
to increase the cashewnut processing capacity by 40,000 tons of raw nuts
annually. The project included construction, installation and equipping of
five new cashewnut processing factories, cashewnut shell liquid storage facil-
ities at the port of Mtwara and provision of technical assistance during the
first four years of the factories' operation. The project also provided for
five road maintenance units, extension services, research and training program,
construction of CATA's Headquarters and staff houses, rural water supply facil-
ities, community education centers and professional services. When bids for
civil works and equipment were received, the combined costs were about 30
percent above the appraisal estimate, with construction costs twice the
original estimate. To meet part of these additional costs, CATA obtained
two loans totalling $1.8 million from the Tanzania Investment Bank (a devel-
opment finance company supported by the Bank) and it was agreed to exclude
certain components (community education centers, rural water supplies and
road maintenance units) which would not have significant effect on the pro-
ject's financial and economic performance. The factories, by far the largest
component of the project's cost, are being satisfactorily completed slightly
behind the original implementation schedule. The producer price setting
mechanism is satisfactory and in conformity with the assurances received
at that time. Also, the training program provided for under the project
is now being prepared. However, the post of Finance Director provided
under the project has not been satisfactorily filled and CATA's financial



- 12 -
reporting is weak with poor accounting practices (para. 47). A consultant
study for the design of a management information system was completed in
December 1977, and its implementation is proposed for financing under the
second proiect. Preparation of the research program is about one year
behind schedule and the Government is now expected to use a grant from
the Italian Government to finance two years of the program.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       The project was prepared by the Government of Tanzania with the
assistance of the Regional Mission in East Africa as a follow-up to the
first cashewnut development project, and was appraised in June/July 1977.
The proposed credit would be the Bank Group's second investment in cashew-
nut processing in Tanzania; the first was a loan for $21 million (Loan No.
1014-TA) approved in 1974. A staff appraisal report entitled "Tanzania
Second Cashewnut Development Project" dated April 26 , 1978 is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in
Washington in April 1978 and the Tanzanian delegation was led by Dr.S.Madallali
Principal Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture. A credit and project summary
is at the front of this report and a supplementary project data sheet is in
Annex III to this report.
Project Objectives and Description
32.       The proposed project would increase cashewnut processing capacity
by 30,000 tons annually through the establishment of new factories. It
would increase Tanzania's foreign exchange earnings and the local value added
utilizing local raw materials. It also continues the Bank Group's efforts
at increasing CATA's ability to support development of Tanzania's cashewnut
subsector. Specifically, the project would include financing for:
(a) construction, installation and equipping of three
cashewnut processing factories each with the capacity
of processing 10,000 tons of raw nuts annually,
including water supply facilities;
(b) the expansion of port storage facilities of cashewnut
shell liquid (CNSL) by 750 tons and the procurement
of truck tankers to transport CNSL and vehicles;
(c) the construction of staff houses for two factories;
(d) strengthening cashewnut research program;
(e) a study to determine occupational health hazards
in cashewnut industry and to formulate monitoring
criteria; and
(f) technical assistance for project implementation and
strengthening CATA's financial and technical management.



- 13 -
Detailed Features
33.       Proc. -sing Factories.  The project would provide three factories,
each with a capacity to process 10,000 tons of raw nuts, in Kibaha (in the
Coast Region), Newala and Mtwara (in the Mtwara Region). The factories
would process cashewnuts produced in their respective areas. The total
mechanical processing capacity in Tanzania (103,000 tons) including the
existing factories (20,500 tons), the proposed factories (30,000 tons)and those
under construction (52,500 tons) will be 17,000 tons below the raw cashewnut
annual production of 120,000 tons, even if the new planting program (para.25)
is excluded. One further factcry with a capacity to process 10,000 tons of raw
nuts annually is planned.
34.       Provision has been made under the project to ensure the continued
adequacy of water supply and power facilities in the factories. Workers
would come from adjacent areas and neighboring villages close to the
factories. Housing would be provided under the project for Newala and
Kibaha factories' staff where no alternative housing is available (para 37).
CNSL Storage Facilities, Truck Tankers and Vehicles
35.       The cashewnut shell liquid (CNSL) is a by-product of cashewnut
processing and consists of the liquid between the hard outer shell and the
brittle inner shell protecting the kernel. While adequate storage facilities
are available for CNSL in Dar es Salaam, existing facilities in Mtwara would
not be enough to meet the CNSL production of the Southern Region. A storage
tank, pumps and piping would be provided under the project to expand the CNSL
storage facilities being built in Mtwara under the first project. The storage
tank would have a capacity of 750 tons allowing for an annual throughput of
about 3,000 tons. After completion, Mtwara would have a total annual through-
put of about 6,000 tons of CNSL which would cover the requirements of the
cashewnut processing industry in Southern Tanzania.
36.       In order to transport the CNSL from the factories to the port
storage facilities, the project would finance the procurement of about six
truck tankers. These tankers would transport almost all of Tanzania's
CNSL production of about 8,000 tons annually. At present, CNSL is trans-
ported in drums, which is dangerous and inefficient. The project would also
provide for improved transport of cashewnut kernels and packing material
between the three factories and the ports through financing of six 7-ton
lorries. Reduction of delays in kernels and packing material transport
would improve handling efficiency. Also, each of the project factories
would be provided with three vehicles.
Staff Housing
37.       The Kibaha and Newala factories would each be provided with 17
houses for the senior staff (seven) and for the skilled and semi-skilled
workers (ten). No houses would be built in Mtwara, as housing is already
available.



- 14 -
Research
38.       In Tanzania, the Mtwara Research and Training Institute (a multi-
disciplined research station run by the Ministry of Agriculture) is entrusted
with the cashewnut research. As no intensive research had taken place since
1968, under the first project the Bank had provided for carrying out
a cashewnut research program through provision of equipment and staff for
the Mtwara Research and Training Institute. However, due to delays in
recruiting the research staff, the research program is only now being
drafted, about one year behind schedule. Research so far has concentrated
on planting programs and seed production; however, the Government recognizes
the need for additional cashewnut research in the fields of variety selection,
breeding and pest and disease control to improve the overall quality of
cashewnuts. The Government expects to use a grant from the Italian
Government to finance a two year cashewnut research program. The proposed
project would finance the services of experts along with the necessary
research equipment to continue the efforts at establishing a satisfactory
research program.
Occupational Health Study
39.       A study to assist the Government to determine occupational health
hazards in Tanzania's cashewnut industry and to formulate criteria for
monitoring such hazards, would be carried out and financed under the project.
The recommendation of the study would be implemented, as appropriate, to mini-
mize the hazards for the workers in the factories and the surrounding environ-
ment.
4n.       Technical Assistance.  In order to strengthen CATA's capacity to
implement the project and to improve its technical and financial management,
funds would be provided for the employment of the following: a Finance
Director, a Chief Engineer, consultants to implement the Management Infor-
mation System designed under the first project and to train CATA's finance
and accounting staff and consultants for supervision of project construction.
In addition, the project would finance the technical and management services
provided to CATA by experts for the operation of the factories and the
training of factory personnel.
Project Costs and Financing
41.       The total cost of the project 1/ would be TSh301.8 million
(US$36.3 million), including about TShl8.3 million (US$2.2 million) working
capital requirements.  The foreign exchange component would amount to US$28.8
million or 79% of total costs. Details of project costs are included in
the credit and project summary. The proposed IDA Credit of US$27.5 million
would finance 76% of total project cost and would cover all of the foreign
exchange cost except the foreign exchange component of the working capital. The
Government would provide the local cost cuS$6,6 million) and the National Bank
1/ As goods imported under the project would be free of taxes and duties,
the cost estimates include negligible amounts of taxes, mainly sales
taxes on locally procured goods.



- 15 -
of Commerce (NBC) is expected to provide the working capital (US$2.2 million).
Fifty percent of the proceeds of the Credit (i.e. US$13.75 million equivalent)and
fifty percent of the funds to meet local cost would be relent to CATA for 15 years
including 5 years of grace at an annual interest rate of 10 percent under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.01(b)(i)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The balance of the Credit proceeds
and of the funds to meet local cost would be passed on by the Government to
CATA as equity. Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Govern-
ment and CATA is a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(a) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
42.       Contracts for civil works, processing equipment, vehicles and for
goods that can be bulked in amounts of US$100,000 or more financed under the
project would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. In evaluating bids domestic civil
works contractors would be allowed 7-1/2 percent preference. Orders for goods
less than US$100,000 would be procured following existing Government procedures
which are satisfactory. These procurement arrangements are set out in the
Schedule to the Project Agreement. All consultants and experts financed under
the project would be selected in accordance with Bank Group guidelines, and
employed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association.
43.       To avoid repeating the problem of cost overruns faced by the first
project, and as the type of equipment which would be purchased would determine
the processing coefficients and the economic and financial performance of the
project, bids for civil works and equipment were invited and evaluated by
CATA before Credit negotiations, following international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Notification was made to the
Executive Directors, through the Monthly Operational Summary. All bidders
were foreign contractors and suppliers. To avoid delays and cost
escalation on the civil works contracts (which bidders indicated would apply
if bid validity period were to be extended), the Government/CATA awarded
these contracts with a total value of $14 million to the lowest evaluated
bidders. About $9 million would be eligible for financing under the Credit.
The Government was advised that although there was no objection to the
advanced contracting there was no commitment by the Association to provide
the necessary financing. The bids for processing equipment for about US$11
million equivalent have been received and evaluated by CATA but no award has
yet been made.
44.       Disbursements from the credit would be on the basis of 100 percent
of the foreign expenditures on equipment, vehicles and technical assistance and
65 percent of total expenditure on civil works and water supply facilities.
It is recommended that retroactive financing for civil works contracts up
to an amount of $2.5 million incurred after April 15, 1978 be approved.
Project Implementation
45.       CATA would have overall responsibility for implementation of the
project. Construction of the factories would be carried out by contractors
under the supervision of a qualified and experienced engineering consultant
to be employed by CATA no later than June 30, 1978 (Section 2.02(b) of the



- 16 -
draft Project Agreement). This arrangement is satisfactory as it
has been successful under the first project. All project factories would
be fully owned and operated by CATA as self-accounting branches responsible
to CATA's Director of Factory Operations and Development. Factory operations
would be supervised and coordinated from CATA's headquarters in Mtwara by the
General Manager and his staff. The ability of CATA to manage the project
would be strengthened through the provision of technical assistance under the
project (para 40). On the technical and management side, CATA agreed to
employ no later than the beginning of equipment assembly and for a period of
four years thereafter, qualified and experienced technical and management
experts to assist in operating the project factories and in training project
factory staff (Section 2.02(a) of the draft Project Agreement). During
negotiations CATA agreed that, until June 30, 1983, CATA shall inform the
Association on any proposed appointments to the positions of Project Factory
Managers sufficiently in advance of such appointments so as to allow the
Association time to comment thereon (Section 3.03 of the draft Project
Agreement). Also to complement the training program provided under the first
Cashewnut Development Project (Loan 1014-TA), and to ensure adequate provision
for training of the project factories' staff, CATA shall by June 30, 1979,
submit to the Association for its review and approval a detailed description
of a training program for the staff to be employed in the project's factories
(Section 2.05 of the draft Project Agreement). To assist CATA in supervising
all engineering aspects of its activities, CATA shall no later than June 30,
1979 and until at least June 30, 1983, employ a qualified and experienced
Chief Enzineer (Section 2.02 (d) of the draft Project Agreement).
46.       Until the 1976/77 season, CATA employed 550 grading assistants
to undertake extension work at the village level and to inspect the quality
of raw nuts during the purchasing season. The grading assistants were
supervised by CATA's District Extension Officers who report to the Cashew
Development and Research Manager at CATA's headquarters. This system was
working satisfactorily. A major review of the agricultural extension system
(para 22) has resulted in the implementation of a new system based mainly on
village graders employed by the cashewnut producing villages. Many of CATA's
graders became village graders. As the future organization of extension
services and grading is not precisely known, and as the consequences of any
change especially on grading can only be assessed through experience, the
Government agreed that the new cashewnut grading system shall be reviewed
no later than June 30, 1980 and if such review indicates that the new
system is not satisfactory, CATA shall be authorized to follow the 1976/77
system or such other systems as shall be satisfactory to the Association
and CATA (Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Accounting, Auditing, Monitoring and Reporting
47.       CATA's financial reporting is weak, its accounting practices
are poor and its accounts are in arrears. Accounts for the year ending
September 30, 1976 are being audited. The post of Finance Director pro-
vided for under the first Cashewnut Development Project (Loan 1014-TA) has
not been filled satisfactorily. CATA's management recognizes this defi-
ciency and is taking the appropriate actions to improve the situation. It
is expected that with the reinforcement of CATA's financial management to
be undertaken under the proposed project (para 29) satisfactory performance
would be realized. The appointment by CATA of a qualified and experienced



- 17 -
Finance Director is a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(b)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement) and during negotiations CATA
agreed that until June 30, 1983 the position of Finance Director shall be
filled by a pt.son whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to
the Association (Section 2.04 of the draft Project Agreement). To ensure
proper control over the project's funds, a separate account relating to receipts
and payments under the project would be kept by CATA (Section 4.02 of the
draft Project Agreement). Accounts maintained by CATA would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association and within six months
of the end of each financial year CATA would submit the audited accounts
together with the auditor's report to the Association (Section 4.03 of
the draft Project Agreement). During negotiations CATA agreed to employ
no later than June 30, 1978, qualified and experienced experts to assist
CATA in implementing the Management Information System designed under the
first project (Loan 1014-TA) and in training CATA's financial and accounting
staff (Section 2.02(c) of the draft Project Agreement).
48.       CATA is consistently recording and analyzing the data related
to   its operations.  CATA would be responsible for monitoring all of the
proposed project's activities and for preparing periodic progress reports.
At the end of the disbursement period CATA would prepare and submit to the
Association a project completion report within three months from the Closing
Date (Section 2.07(d) of the draft Project Agreement).
Markets and Prices
49.       Most of the processed cashewnut kernels are sold in the international
market through dealers established in the importing countries. North America's
share of total imports is about 60 percent, Eastern Europe including the USSR
25 percent, Western Europe 10 percent, and the remaining 5 percent a number of
other countries. India is the main exporter of kernels, although her share of
the market declined from 95 percent in 1962 to about 65 percent at present,
because of the rise of Brazilian and Eastern African (mostly Mozambique)
exports. The trade in raw cashewnut is practically limited to exports from
East Africa to India. The export price of raw cashewnuts is negotiated each
year at tripartite meetings including India, Tanzania and Mozambique. The
outcome reflects a combination of the bargaining powers of the participants
and of the price level of kernels.
50.       In view of the limited information available on future world cashew
production, the uncertainty of raw nuts and kernels export prices is relatively
high. Sensitivity analyses based on a range of variations of prices of kernels
and raw nuts were carried out (para. 55) and show that the Project should
remain economical under foreseeable circumstances.
51.       The CNSL, a by-product of cashewnut processing is mainly exported
to Japan and USA for use in the automobile and paint industries. By 1984/85
Tanzania's export capacity of CNSL would reach about 8,000 tons. Other by-
products from the cashew fruit residues are under experimental research with
prospects of producing alcoholic and non alcoholic drinks which could satisfy
the local market in Tanzania. Sales value of CNSL represents about 3 percent



- 18 -
of total sales value. CNSL future prices are estimated at TSh 2,500.00 per
ton (US$300) f.o.b. Tanzania in 1978 prices. This is about the same, in
real terms, as in the past.
52.       At present, out of Tanzania's average production of 120,000 tons
raw nuts annually, 80,000 tons are exported to India. This represents about
half of India's total raw nut imports. The Government of India has, for
several years, been aware of the development of mechanical processing in
Africa and the intention of the African producing countries to process their
own production domestically. India's current plans provide for raising raw
nut production from about 110,000 tons to 260,000 tons annually in 10 years.
Project Benefits and Financial Results
53.       The main benefits of the project would be an increase of about
US$7.0 million equivalent annually in Tanzania's net foreign exchange
earnings by 1984 (in 1978 prices) when factories would have reached their
maximum capacity. As a result of exporting processed nuts rather than
unprocessed raw nuts, Tanzania would increase its local value added by about
TSh 650 per ton of raw nuts, and employment for about 3,000 workers would be
created, of which 2,000 would be women, at an average investment cost of
about $9,000 per job which is satisfactory. In addition, the project would
contribute to increasing producer prices, affecting all 400,000 smallholders
cashewnut producers. By 1984 when most of the crop would be processed in
Tanzania, producer prices would increase by about 40 percent (in constant
terms). To ensure that farmers receive the appropriate price for their raw
nuts, the Government agreed to continue to maintain a pricing structure for
cashewnuts by closely relating farm gate prices to appropriate world prices
(Section 3.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
54.       The project would have a positive effect on CATA's cash flow.  The
effect of the project on the Government cash flow would be negative during
the period 1978/79 to 1980/81. The cumulative cash flow would reach a deficit
of US$9 million equivalent in 1980/81 and would become positive starting from
the third year of the factories' operations in 1983/84.
55.       The project economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated at 16 percent.
In addition, the project is expected to yield a number of benefits whose value
cannot be quantified such as benefits derived out of development of industries
in new areas. However, the value of the ERR largely depends on assumptions
regarding relative bargaining powers of Tanzania and India in agreeing on
the export price of raw nuts (para. 49). Sensitivity analyses on the two
variables - export price of raw nuts and of cashew kernels - which are critical
in the calculation of the ERR, showed that the ERR would most likely be in
the 11 percent - 20 percent range. The ERR is moderately sensitive to other
factors. A variation of 10 percent in capital or in operating costs would
result in a change of the ERR of about 1 percentage point. A one year delay in
the completion of construction would reduce the ERR by 0.5 percentage point.
For each 10 percent decrease in the factories throughput during the entire
life of the project, the ERR would decrease by about 2 percentage points.



- 19 -
Risks
56.       The project faces technical, commercial and manageriEl risks typical
for this type of project. Technical risks regarding plant design and operations
and risks of substantial delays can be considered low as substantial experience
is being gained during the construction of the first project and as the project
provides for training of factory personnel by representatives of the equipment
manuifacturers or consultants. The commercial risks are considered relatively
high given the range of uncertainty of cashew kernels prices. However, it is
considered unlikely that cashew kernel prices would fall by 25 percent which
would reduce the economic rate of return to 10 percent. The managerial risks are
minimized through provision of technical and management services (para. 40)
under the project. As the three factories would be operated independently,
this would mitigate the risk of unsatisfactory factory management.
57.       The project would be implemented with due regard to the environment
and to occupational health. As health consequences of exposure to cashewnut
shell liquid and its fumes are not clearly perceived at present, during
negotiations the Government agreed to carry out, by December 31, 1979, a
study to determine occupational health hazards in its cashewnut industry and
to formulate criteria for monitoring such hazards and thereafter in consultation
with the Association to implement, as appropriate, the recommendations of such
study (Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The other
environmental and health aspects of the project have been reviewed and the
measures taken were found satisfactory.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Tanzania and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and CATA and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
59.       Features of particular interest in the draft Credit and Project
Agreements are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III. The
draft Development Credit Agreement includes the following additional conditions
of effectiveness:
(a) Completion of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government
and CATA (Section 5.01(a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement); and
(b) Appointment by CATA of a Finance Director (Section 5.01(b) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 1, 1978



- 21 -
ANNEX I
TAsLE 3A                              Page  .
TANZANIA           - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LANO AREA (THOU KM2)                                                            -------
TANZANIA                           REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      945.1                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.    508.3                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE          KENYA       KOREA REP. OF  MALAYSIA**
_- -- - - - -- - - - -- - -----_                          
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    60.0*/a 100.0*/a 180.0*/a              140-0*     280.0*      440.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_ _  _ __ _ -_ -- _ _     _ _ ------_  _----
POPULATION (MID-YP  MILLION)           9.6/a   12.9/a   15.1/a                11.2       32.2        10.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                      10.0      14.0       16.0               19.0      327.0        33.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       20.n      26.0       In.o              113.0     1371.0       185.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)        51.5      50.5       47.0               49.0       35.0        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)         27.1       23.0      20.1               17.0        11.4       12.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)      190.0   160-165/b       ..                            .         40.8/a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)      36.7      41.8  -   44.5               49.1        65.0        56.7 -
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..       3.2        3.2                3.4        2.6         2.6/a
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (M)
TOTAL                                2.3/a    3.0/a    2.7 /a               3.1         2.3         2.9
URBAN                                5.0       5.5       7.5/b               6.3        6.4         3.0
URBAN POPULATION ({ OF TOTAL)          4.6       5.5/b   7.3                   9.9       41.2        26.9
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      42.5 /a_ 44.4/b                        48.4        42.1       44  /a
15 TO 64 YEARS                       5.5 /a, b 53.0/b      -               48.0        54.5       52. 1/a
65 YEARS ANO OVER                    2 0 /ab  2.6fS        ..                3.6        3.4
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                   0. /a        0.,/b     .                1.1        0.8         0.g/a
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.1 /c,b 1.2/a,    ..                   1.1/a      1.4         1.6/a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)          ..         .         .,               66.1     4424.7       222.2/a
USERS ({ OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..         .4 *2.0                                            8.0/a
EMPLOYMENT
_  __ __  __ ---
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        4900.0/d s6oo.o/ab63oo.o/c              o100.0/b  10200.0      3600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)        96.0 /    91.0 /a   83.1                90-0/5     s0.4/a      49.5
UNEMPLOYED (x OF LABOR FORCE)           ..         ..      10 /d                ..        4.5 -       7.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC O BY-
HIGHEST  5X OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..      33.5         ..               20.2/C     17.1        28.3
HIGHEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..      63.3         ..               52.6/C     44.5       56.0
LOWEST  201 OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..       2.3         ..               3.9 /       7.1        3.5
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSDIOLDS             ..       7.6          -               1.7/        7 7       1112
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS            .          ..        ..                 ..       20.0
A OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS          ..        ..         ..                 ..        2.0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           21750.Oae 21570.0/a  20760.0/a,e        7830.0/d   2110.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       9240.0jef 4890.0/a  3130.0 /a          1470.00      2170.0/b      *-
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          570.07,  700.O          ..-            770.0      1900.0      270:;/a
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (x OF REQUIREMENTS)        69.0    88.0                          101.0       103.0      110 0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             42.0      43.0      41. L              71.0        65.o       49:0/b
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        22.0/j    23.0      20.0               29.0        19.0       20.0/b
DEATH RATE </THOU) AGES 1-4             ..         ..        ..                1.9         ..        4.4
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      24.0      35.0      57.0                64.0      104.0       89.0 /
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     2.0       3.0        3.0               9.0 /e    41.0        34.0 /a
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)            13.0      13.0       13.0               13.0       12.0       13.0 /a
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                    23.0        ..         ..               2.0 /e    16.0         3.0 /a
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)               17.0         ..      49.0/c             30.0       87.0       55.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)               1.8 /h       '        '-                '-         2.7        2.3/a
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (x)                       .d    *-O /c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                            3                                             _ 0
(x OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  ..         ..        ..                ..          .43.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (x)                    ..         ..        ..                 ..       30.0       30.0/a
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         2.0       11.0      16.0               48.0      126.0       41.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THDU POP)          3.0        3. 0      3.0                9 0        2.0       27.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          16.0/a    31.0/a    43.0/a              68.0      307.0      382.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)              0.1/e      0.1       0.1                0.5        3.5        4.0
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIOaNS ON REVERSE



- 22-                                                          _
lloru                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~P.B. 2
-lnle- oth-rtiae noted. dat  for 1960 refer to any year betwen 1959 and 1961, for 1970 bet--n  1969 -nd 1971 snd fot the Most Recent E.tioete abt.n*-
1973 nd 1976.
( t7RP p.e  capit. data are boed on World  ankl  Atsl  methodology (1976-76 betsi).
0*   alayie he  bee  enlected U  an objecti.' country bwause Its pQPUltitO  ise copatrble In al-e snd its economfc developeent is evarl steps
ah*ed of Tnrenti.
TANZANIA             1960   /1  ainlalnd Tanxente;    /b  1957, African population only;    Ic  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and ovwr to total
labor force.     /d  196TI     1   1962;    /f  laegitered, not 11 praoticteg to tCe country;    /I  1961-63;
/h  1958, Zanibat only.
1970    /I  M.nlat nd Tanoatia;    /k  1967;   /_  1965;    /d  As parcentag  of urban houeheolds.
MOST RECIEST ESUIAT        /a   iainland Tengia;    /b  1967-73;   I/  1972;    Id  Urban;   /I  Including  amistant edifcal
officers..
UfNYA                1970   /1  Ratin of population tadr 15 and 65  nd o_er to labor forc- ago 15-59 yaara;    /b  Labor forca age 15-59  -ara;
Ic  urbom;    /d  RAgistered, wt all precticing in the ceomntry;    /e  Total secondary fnclude  teacher trotting
at tha thtrd level.
VOKA1 RdIP _ L       1*71     aA. pIroento   of onplormnt;    lb   egiataered. at a11 pr-etlkloi  In the country;    /p  Water piped Iald..
MAlAYSIA             19711   Wa aet Neytl;    /b  Registered epplicnte for sork;    /I  1964-66;    Id  Ptped weer taid. only.
R1?, 'oprl 7. 1978
mnmln  or SOCIXL 7iCAlU
Land Are  (thru all2                                                                      PMoulation **r e-it  WerSo  - Populatton divided by .nuber of pretlclng
Total - Totl outface area c-pr.lfg load area   d tand  eare                                 nle  _  fe sl graduate   -          _tnura ltrand" or "-ertfitd" n-r.  n.d
Ajc. - most rant .ntinece of agricultural area uned te_erarily or Pee-                     anillary peraonel w1th traiDnin  Or .perianco.
nently r, IT.", p.-Cur. @_rket & kitchen garde   or to Ite fatly.                         IetO            :fltal bad - Populetlon divtded by nuvbr of hoepitl bode
nloc y  f o r  c r o p ,  psr .  ytt s  t  s _ r e n tl   a n d   * p ci al i n ed   h o- p it l   an d
GIP MIr c-It- tIUSS; - GnP per  apitta etimeta at current mreat PotC.                       rhbilitUtci    c  tev; *            clude enratag hG   e*nd eatablihaant fer
calculated by a_  cornion othed ae  7erd lnk  Atles (1973-75 beeas)                       Custodial  td prevetiv   care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 d .                                                                                   a t    f  s _         _ rm       - Computed fron energy
equitald_t et met fond eapplian availablE it cawtry Per capita par day;
Poulation nd vital tatatic,                                                                 avaIlable a*PpliSe  cpri. dmesti. productin, lportd lean ..porca, snd
papnlation (,id-year millin)   A. of July  int:  *if not *vatllbl*, ave,rg                  change I. stock; met applies eaclode Man I tfe, sed, qRanttilt     us.d
of two and-year ect tatan; I '60, 1970 _d 1975 date.                                      in food Processing end Iane  in dietribution; rqtairant wre  et_ netd
by  AO bosed  n phbytologicel nad  for o el activity ed helth cta-
pop.lacion densirv - par squats Me   - lid-peer population pot Squrer Iklmter arci  ami*ome tal t_p ratur, body migghit, age and Me dietrihution  of
(10 httre) of total are.                                                                 poulatin, dad allin  I tor fM te  t houwshold lae.
clation daneit, - Mar ares hI of atic, land - Ccopurtd as abos for                        -ar ceole * ly of rote4 frm Oar d                Protein 4cott of per copit.
agricultural land only.                                                                   Mat auply ec        par day;  met apy of fond is defined as  bo; requirn-
_ootet far Oal Motri-a  "tabliehe  by IUDA  eons ic RCroh  S.-ltea
Vttal tattatiac                                                                             provide far a eLab   *allen-. of 60 grin of total Protein per day, and
Crude birth rate Mar tbou_. &MeWr     - esel It- births per thoesn  of                      20 grr, of *eS_  _n  pulse protein, of uhch 10 gr-  should bh  atnal
aId-year population; ten-ynr ar ti c   eiverson             in 1960 _  1970,              protela; theme *teedard  ore lnrr than thoea  of 75 gr-  af total protetn
and five-er  r  g  ed    in 1973 for m   rect eitimte.                                   ed 23 gr o of animal protein me4   a  average for the rrld, propPned by coO
Cruda dea ta er thosrar ed. ana   -  Il deatb pr p i_hme    of sU-yst                       in thb  Third World Fond SPvey.
population.  ret-year atithoatia  varevs ening in 14940 ad 1970  Un fiv-                 e                          _     _ail Cod au7J - Proetaa aupply of food
ynar average ndIta i  17S fec mct recan_tat to.                                           dertive  *reo aIa     pes n grn  per day
Infant mertality rote (ltbou7 - ADnl d eacb  of tdfante  ide r m_ yer of a*r              Death  neto f/tWhu)l aeo   1-4 - Annual death. prr thuouad L.  S. groop 1-4
per thousaad liv  birth.7                                                                 yers  to cblUre  ts this nse group; sucaeted a  o  indicator of
Life cr teeny at birth (yra) - Average  _br ot yen of life reaining at                      _I_rrttt_.
birth    nually f     ar aoven  -di"      1960, 1970 _  197  for delap-
lIg tn.attriee.uUt
Crone rp=rodction rat. -  -aerag  nher of lIv  daughtera a oae  will ber                  AN Ivad_r-l7_nt rton - nr          Xr echool -     HnrelIst of  11 agS.  a  per-
nt htr nor_uI reproductiv  period If *h* *-p.tit.oe presoet age-apcifc                    tntags * p t         t     "ry nhool-a  ppItion;  -IludA  children agd t-1l -Or,
fortuitye races; eal ly I iveT year  vrsg     ndiag to 1960, 1970 an  1975                bet adjusted for diffre-t lactbh  of ritry  dtcatlon; for countrlen oth
. developing   tatia                                                                      universal education, nrol7_nt ay   t-ond 100% abc. am  ppil are blow
posulation ttrov, rat. Cl  - tetal - C     _un    -enl greot, ratat  of mid-year            or  _bw  th  offictil school 
popelatbon for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                             Wdlstd  arollaeet r-tlo - *        eonry school - CorPutd  e above;  cone:ry
Povolation oronti, rate r(l - uarben - Co_utd lIMo grontb rata of tote                      ecto   ruir  at least four par  of approd primry Imtructtio;
poUlatIon; differeat dfiitioin, of erb_ are _ y affet comparbility of                     PrvId" general, voCatiol or teether training leatructiona for pupil.
dau t  a=   otriee.                                                                       of 12 to 17 yrs of  ga; corspoda codreme ore Sgerally eclded.
Urbee aevulotion aC .f total) - Platte  f -van to ttoul population; different             vnar of nohoolie        dd   ft         second e      ) - Toal years of
dWfiitiin of urb arsn *   ny affcft emyarability of data am" eotrie.                        hoaln; t sfiatoay   l    vtonl tr                 tr   _y b  portielly or
e_mletely encluded.
Cttroaeturdr (prc_t) - Children (0-14 y.ar.), onkie&g-ye (15-   p-rs)                     Voe tioal enrollmtet aE of *        cr,  - Vocational intitutin   Include
a   retire  (65 Years aod    ra  pretd s   Of eid-yer pepltlon.                           tther proagm  ehb operte Independently or
Ae, depndany ratio -  atin of popultio   nder IS and 65 _d over to these                    deportantu of fmondry intsrtlotup                                  l*.
nf neon I) threugh 64.                                        Adult linarary ra~~~~~~~1te CE) - Literate adult  (able to roaad -rit.)n  pr
rcneL-c deenau  rtin - Latin of Population -Aa.r 11 and 65 and aser to                      netg   fttladult Population aged 15 y-ra andovr
the lbor force in ae a  roup of 1"-An   rf.
F_l, ela                       . t - accetors inla ". thenI - Csinlativoe   'r of ..c..por.  Kmi
of birttht-ontru  device.  aider a-pi.c" of ;ational f_tly plosest  progr                        t          7 lar re    urba) - Avg  nbor of Petrons per to   in occupied
a1000 Isapio. tiinmel   llong   in urban aeras; dual lng  .-nldo oro-pean-*.t
F-llo nlenin, -   e-a *E of mrrci w en  -    "r tog_U         of merrid win   f             otrutturme  _d uscaupiad porte.
c:hild-b.incg ag  (15-44 year) vhone birth-control devie.n to a11 arrid                 OI  torid    i                                   -pi withont niadO water    ot ted todvntina dc lta
cuoin oeaa age grup,                                                                   In marban amd towe ava  wihu    ieo   usd  ppdctrfolt
*- percentge  f a11 orcu.pld d tplltng
Coo ;.-vneo;                                               Aeceas to Olootrdoit, CE of all donl~~6Ilifte) - Convantlonol dwellin.  with
V    .b: le.,r for.e Lthou.aed) -  oonically acti- preOn, t_cludig na_d                     *n etrrtcty in living qu rtrs aa percet  of t.ovtal d   in   In  rbta
orce  ed untployd but antcudl   houdt       iv    etudnt,  tc.; d.finitcoi                rural armsu.
inoarcoea ro,at      a e   e arabla.                                                    levl       Inns conecd to electricity CE) - Cutpd an  bov  for nra)r
.b.r  rm  In attic-lt.re CE) - Agritc1lt.rl labor forte li  fasnor .  fer_try                dl. tin.a only.
hottitt  and fishing) as prrentage of total lIbor frce.
UnTPnloe  (7. of labor eon.) - liaplOyad are o    aauR ly defined an puram  vho            Cousention
are oletnd vIllnlb  to tao a             * lo, out ofalb ona * giv    day  r oaind out    adlor      r  fon   tha n-P) - All type  of retiv.r. for rdI r
of e  vS  end eketlng  vkrb for a epectf ad  .i-t  period not    ndin  em                  tIp    thouand cf Population;                       udseclues   Iia d    ra
cr01    e tot be ceprabl. bhn    coontrie- dtea to differ-nt defisitines                   fe coutrla and In yars we  rOetrttln ot radio  ace  ro    t affect;
,I oople4-e    ecoreof date'.eg. Z lOymnt offIce                        .-PI.              data fa       t  Teetyr  My Ot be c-Parable au-neat countr,e.  boltIhed
reaem-141 coreIme  htaen         P.....ger caore conprino atnror.caresating
lomdictribotio    - p5r-tag   ofprate loain              (hoth ih   t -hnd ktndl             ia. the  night perslona    oudes abul c             bo.r . and tlttr
rerrlrr/  by rthet  l  rt.oset 7111. P-ooa  lift, and pooro  011  of bc.n-                 vehic I...
h ld..                                                                                   Rc-StrtlirT (kbo/Yr _r cpal - P   uel cn e0Sption of Industrial, cmaroricl.
Public end private electricity In btlauett hour  per cepite  g"ea
ltti I1                                                   dtl n of land  _raht - Prcentage oland oned by aalrth-et lE  baed on pducto   dt-   ith-ut alion   for f 1 sa in  grI" brt llo-
ond P-re-.  liT of land o -r-.                                                             ti   for boperta ad onprtt  of *Iectrtt.
lemspnri,st (bc/"' =.--Pa) - Per c-pite amueal ttaiption  in, kilgrma
liatbad ii-iLtias,                                                                       aetimoued (to        'L. pcnduttI- pin  ant lpr-taof novaprio..
t~.Iocive on_ ale nla  - rpultlon dvided by a-r of preticotg
phyalciana qualified fron a meal thool at uanivraity lvel.



- 2 3--                                                ANNEXI
_.-
_ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
|     amt        1j,0'    tlX.*
ow                                          23642       2916       1802         118         7.        32629.9     2211.      432         2226.        S.          2.1         3. a      02.
L  aime h-a Tae        J, (W." c9                          .46.7      2J.          e.         2U.0         4.2       _ta.l     .102.1      ..             .          .                    .J.
J. 404 e.iSa  1m                               26.        23111.1    2 .         21144.8     29".1      30124.1     29.8       4863.1      51%6.4       4.8         3.3         3.6        4.9
4. t_.ts                                        .9 .        M.&       6621.0      743.1       169.?        J.1        31.1      1`98.4     111.3         3.4        4.6         3.5       n2.3
S.  _rts2a  *|1_ 293                            45.6       ae7.6       23?.?      iii..       214.8      294.?'      *t.3       141.3      104l.S T.?               3.9         4.6       16.3
.                                               0 -  4I . j t  .  439.2  2.1 *.2     .'s      "I32 1.2    3.. s      3.           44.4     "1.0         ':.1       4.4          3.3       4l.4
p*  _sr  GOV *T nij..                          21.2        313.        224.2       62.1      to.1        12.2        I".1       3.0         313.3                    . 
*. 2.2.1 s.m_s1_                               2216.6     SlNt1. 6.  1     2      263.4      1403.4     2*64.4         1.6     3414.414 tll .3.1                    4.1         4.?1.1  .7 
L.  tb_m_t                                      381.       219.6       23.        241.6 A     GL           4.2       83.6        63.5      1181.0        4.0        2.4         3.7       U1.1
IL   b64.q.1 84..i4                             *36.2       260.4      326.6       238.3     *"I,         314.6       263.6      84.8        946.       -e.4        -1.4         5 7       17.2
it.  minnie se-tp                                                      26.3        412.2      421.        432.)      419.2        3,         949.1      .0. .1   3.3 l    4.9              16.3
22      StCese  a 434992                        & I:    sil:                       34126.    3%.0        43211.2    41364.1     69424.1    2494.6
6. M
I t  .                                      P           Di4  U      UJ1          141  .   VU1 4.                  UI 4               .s     a*. ..6                         I.
*   hpils.e 1.24 6                                           9.2       411.6      32.3        26.4        11.8       3n.3        24.3        31A         3.4         2.3        3s
2. Noos.4m                                      41.6        44.0       44.2        88.?       416.        42.2S      48.8        48.1        41.2        2.     .6  1A .)
n  5ft 2st-6   - too)
1.  _4"S kg".. 1..                               6.1        I.J       USA 1. 3.2              12.        12.4        131.6      117.6       S.1 e a..                           4.4
2.  tn94 ftm  204..                             91.1       MA.9        2.?        1A.        14.3        131.3        44        1.3 e66.9                 *         6.1         7.1
3. 1... .    .4.T n  .                                      88.        M.U        its. )  1   I1 2.       41.8        9.-        6ky.1t .1   0.6          *
O.  _   9e3(t94S04 4.                                       M 11.      M 181.4   u13.6        32.1       W4.0        13.8       224.4       e61.6                   73          1.0
2fl.    _     6.65St  6416 (?36. 6661.693       1.1e       1.414 7.219
lon-Pe7S         1977_    t@11.1          '
3. 1_n ;
4. "a                                            2.          4.         4.4         4.1
2. &Vmt _ t21.1t7                                1.8        -4          1.2          .7i
4. &Vog.o    . .                                 ,.2 ...   16  S 2.  9.?  1.       24.6
4. _t.t g  h mulmul 4   . 641* 3/              12.3       3.6        S11.4       16.
8. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~26.                         21.?        69.8        VA.
8. 2U 88                                                     *.8        4.           . 4
2_3, loo."O8
3.2 _t                                                            1.6, a, *   w Z_  tt  * _   us  A  1 1
1.49.4hn      ue                              1          166       496         221         89           my1         "S1      414
6. 43~~~04 909.0414390          IS?        1431~~~~~~   W16       213         16          S"0         VAW       441
1. 43.,m.1  24~~~~~~~~~~Lqe  ~29                3O         1          934        "a         Say1        a           34111
6. 946m&38" el64 V" ttekIt                                                                               "
allws1 L"".                               a9         376        2           438        41           1
aeo.664k lorrtogi.                                    3          4          26          28         48
ut.296                                  M.24                 21.9        so          3111        p
6m0I0 9026400 *   .043650 of Gom U.Mook       m.IA
9044m   431t  Oe   .S3    43.4444m."r   .2



- 24 -
ANNEX I
. 
nU c COr PAnn A!D METE ML ASSISTANE
91 t11  US $)
ma    WI    Wi   WI    1979                                              _         _
A. E6IASY o! ULA.6C! o! PABEIM
SIP: &O J     POS                                       4              7                   7  .'       742.1       77.6        837.3      1402.9      22
.   2to (LOCI WI)                                        7r .0       rM 7.s        7.9       $2.8         M. S      106.3       1213.5      2036.1      341 2
3. Weavers balso"                                         -31_.1      -33U.l      -U2.4         9-t6       227.6       296.5      -347.2       633.7      -W4.3
4. PA Feet., 5.rv1.. Ia.                                    -4.6       -10.3        4.6        -21.1       -16.7       -21.0       -27.3       -75.3      * &3.6
3. N01 I aaeet taY.t. of AtOS                          -33.6       *16. I      -I.6        -16. 1      -13.7       -16.0       -22.1       -'5.3      -133.6
atne _t s blo It H & LT  1a.                     (4-.5)     (-11.1)     (.123)      (-13.1      (-17.6)     (-20.2)     (.27.71)   (-169)
2.  rtre;t  Matiet Lu.                                  (                      (           (           (           (           ( c                    (
. We,s _itttame  ('mt)                                   4.6        (5.6       (-5.6       (5.0        (.0         (..         (-.5.      (-10.0      (-10.0
4. e  M  *a tZ *ses.ve.zemct)                           (                      (           C           C           ( 
S. Owru    ....a.fe    (N.')                                26.1        21.0        77.9        94.9       110.4       129.4       147.9       235.6       342.5
6. ftlaw. esCorret                                        -*91.6    -.12.1         -46.1       -19.2     -13.1        -19.1       *lss.7      -473.4     .44.6
7. kiwvet Diec.t DM twot                                    34*3        27.3        32.3        20.0        26.0        24.0        26.0        35.0        33.0
lits e H    LT Loans
6. stob=          to 1                                     143.1       229.        116.6       213.6       167.2-      271.1       315.5       526.2       6.7
9.  _t    es";/-  .                                                   -1           1.         -24 s       -17.3       -28.2       -41.4       .51.0       101.5
e. not b           t /                                      IU          314.6       101.5     U1.          TW5          24 3.4      214.1       417.2      T17 2
0tbar HA LT L.a..
It.  Kglwsmeasts j                                           15.2        19.9        11.4         1.2         4.7         1.2         0.6         0.0         0.0
*s , iti  Uib8re_uv '    , 8. Iu                                                  2 -n    :I
U. gmof DSE as.w.. *                                         ".3         26.4        24.3       -MA          -90        -39.0       -20.3         0.0    *     .e
D. ot-ntem Ccaital umasse s                                  241          0.0       -16.9         0.0         6.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
16. OUI bmatAet. S....                                      -231.4      .54.0       -31.2         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          . o        e 
17.  @m_  in biget  _   (- * 3m,- .)                                     2 .7       -24.2      -165.6      -34.4       -34.3       -21.2        -33.5      -54.4
D. GaRA   ua  Lt s omemxs
1. 0655.1. Gat1 1.                                                     17.9        123.7
2.      I talI* e   a IT                                   260.4       I32.3      1u3.0
2.1  1o                                                 43.0        30.0        37.0
2.  1D                                                 41.2        30.0        32.0
3.3  0th., Ilttlati ral                                  2.1        16.0         3.0
2.4  uVwints                                           227.1        94.3       7U.3
of whch *eatally plam_  amma  i/                75.3         5.4
2.3  bppliUr-
2.6  liaaiaI Iutitut                                      -                     u 11.7
2.?  I.o. 
3.6  "It   .e.                                                        .
3. S&., H A Ilam  ('Am   v.ellable)ZI                        3.5         2.9         4.0
C. NDoRaW    ULM2W
1. gtra  914at .f total Co6.t3                                          6 $..5 *    71.3
S. Avssle interept (Percent)                                 2.2         3.3         3.3
3. *om. haitmity (Toe)                                      30          42          34
2 ooe. imaaIq  o punjeeted balnace of e"wea dtftiit (1977.mo0) _ 5ox1 Uk/M  IDA toms.
2sbiuast and repayw.t of taab1..l" feo  UC pweujegs of thlob bamino  Sh.a toea mustLal 40 porest.
Met Of 'D tMB" *sd -VAPMYMt by POWk..'.
la1_1.. OtA oewoelies.  .oaplo. bpplLe of Oi.s. Meat  I.es. esgseiat lepabli.@  v-o n e .
s...tran..eocsl 40 Poatl et laob  t. log "C #eJ,osao.
SA1N
hAeuay S. 1916



- 25-                                     ANNEX I
7De? hIS CREDIITWORTHINESS L/
_Actual
*4   1975   - 1976
A.    DIUM MD LONC TRiMl DEBT   .sbursed Only)
1.  Totel Debt Outatinding (DOD: tad of Pered)l/                   897.7       923.7       1030.7
2.  Including Undisbursed                                         15.4         13C5.6      1544.6
3.  Publie Debt Service                                             23.5        26.5         22;J
1.  Interest                                                  5.4         11.2         12.5
4. Otber   b4 LT Debt Service 2/                                     5.1         8.2         12.4
0.~~ MTIPL 
1. Debt Service lAtio                                                6.8         7.5          6.7
2.  Debt Service/CDP                                                 IA         1.4          1.5
3.  Public Debt Service/Cove.   at  evoeue                            .5          6.5         7.J
C. n
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                                  2.1         1.9          1.8
2.  Total Debt Servico/Total DOD                                     4.9         *.0          3.9
D.  DEEDPICY RATIOS FOR Y 6 LT DEsBT 1/
1. Grecr Disburtemente/Imports (icl. I37S)                         20.7         31.5         17.6
2. Pat Tranater/laports (incl. NF)                                  16.3        22.2         10.5
3. Nbt Tronsfer/Crose Diabureaenca                                    .9        89.8         83.3
.   ~~   1' 
I.  1331 Disbur.eatt/Cro.s Total Disbursements                      10.5        21.0         14.7
2.  Bank Group Diabursments/Croae Total Diebureem_to                14.0        26.1         36.8
3.  33U0 DOD/Total DOD                                              12.S        15.3         15.3
4.  lank Croup DOD/Total DOD                                        22.0        24.0         25.9
5.  133D Debt Service/Total Debt Service                            20.9        26.2         32.3
6.  la CGroup Debt Servico/Totel Debt Service                      23.1        28.2         34.7
Outetanding Dec. 31. 1976
Amomt       Percent
(08 4 sil1o1)
F.  IRL DET (Dirbureed Only)
1.  T3D                                                                         901            .9
2.  Mank Croup                                                                 106.9         11.9
:. Other t.iltilateral                                                          18.1          2.0
4.  Govermnts                                                                  655.8         71.8
of ititch Ccntral.ly Planned lconeleo 2/                                 292.5        32.0
5.  bzpplier.                                                                   22.2         2.4
8. Financial  titutiona                                                          8.2         0.9
7. loud.                                                                         3.4         0.4
S. public Debt n.e.i                                                             7.1         0.8
9. Total Public M 4 LT Debt                                                    913.8       100.0
10. Other H b LT Debt 1/                                                        116.9        12.8
11. Total Public Dcbt  cinl. Vndisbureed)                                      1414.0       154.7
12. Total h & LT Debt (incl. Undisburred) 1/                                   1544.6        169.0
i   Includes a notional 40 perceut share of loans to the LEAC
If   apresents a notional 40 percent abate of debt serviCe en loe  to the EAC.
t/  lncludes CMEA countries. f eple's Republic of OCina. Mortch  or". SociLiat Republic of Vietnae.
LAN, CPl-A
January 5. 1978



- 26 --                       ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF MARCH 31, 197R
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.        Year    Borrower            Purpose                      Bank/ TW   IDA!  Undisbursed
Four loans and thirteen credits fully disbursed                       70.2         90.8
586-TA     1969    Tanzania    Roads                                 7.0                  1.4
287-TA     1972    Tanzania    Smallholder Tea                                  10.8      2.0
371-TA     1973    Tanzania    Education                                        10.3      4.6
382-TA 2/  1973    Tanzania    Livestock                                        18.5      6.2
454-TA     1974    Tanzania    Cotton                                           17.5    13.3
460--TA    1974    Tanzania    Tanzania Investment Bank                          6.0      1.2
1014-TA     1974    Tanzania    Cashewnut                           21.0                   8.2
495-TA     1974    Tanzania    Sites and Services                                8.5      3.4
507-TA     1974    Tanzania    Highway Maintenance                              10.2      5.7
508-TA     1974    Tanzania    Rural Development                                10.0      7.0
1041-TA     1974    Tanzania    Sugar                                 9.0                  2.8
580-TA     1975    Tanzania    Dairy                                            10.0      7.7
1128-TA     1975    Tanzania    Textile                             15.0                   4.6
1172-TA     1975    TIB           Tanzania Investment Bank          15.0                   6.5
601-TA     1976    Tanzania    Technical Assistance                              6.0      5.5
606-TA     1976    Tanzania    National Maize Program                           18.0    14.4
607-TA     1976    Tanzania    Education                                        11.0      9.7
1306T--TA    1976    Tanzania    Power                                      30.0           26.3
1307-TA     1976    Tanzania    Forestry                              7.0                  6.2
652-TA     1976    Tanzania    Fisheries                                         9.0      8.8
658-TA     1976    Tanzania    Tobacco Processing                                8.0      5.3
1354-TA     1977    Tanzania    Urban Water Supply                  15.0                  14.7
13851-TA     1977    Tanzania    Morogoro Industrial Complex                11.5           10.9
1386-TA     1977    Tanzania    Morogoro Industrial Complex         11.5                  10.9
-/03-TA 3/  1977    Tanzania    Rural Development (Tabora)                       7.2      7.0
7.32-TA /   1977    Tanzania    Second Sites and Services                       12.0    12.0
743-TA 4/  1977    Tanzania    Trucking                                         15.0    15.0
-1498--TA 4/  1977    TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank          15.0                  15.0
TOTAL                                                  185.7  41.5 278.8   236.3
of which has been repaid'                              3.2   -     6.8
Total now outstanding                                  182.5  41.5 272.0
Amount sold                        0.1
of which has been repaid         0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA!/                       182.5  41.5  272.0
Total undisbursed                                       68.9  37.2  130.2  236.3
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.
2/   Includes Norwegian participation of $6.2 million of which $5.6 million has been disbursed.
'3/   Amount excludes Canadian participation of $4.8 million.
4/   Declared effective on April 3, 1978.



ANNEX II
- 27 -
B. STIMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF MARCH 31, 1978
US$ ?7illion
Loan                                                        Amount (less cancellations)
No.      Year    Borrower      Purpose                      Bankl/           Undisbursed
Five loans fuJ].y disbursed                                 93.4
638-EA   1969    EAHC          Harbours                     35.0                1.3
674-EA   1970    EARC          Railways                     42.4                3.8
865-EA   1972    EAHC          Harbours                     26.5                1.4
914-EA   1973    EAPTC         Teiecommunications           32.5                5.6
1204-EA   1976    EADB          Development Finance          15.0               11.3
Total                                       244.8               23.4
of which has been repaid                  42.5
Total now outstanding                      202.3
Amount sold                   24.4
of which has been repaid   24.4            0.0
Total now held by Bank                      202.3
Total undisbursed                            23.4               23.4
1/ Net of exchange adjustments.



- 28-                           ANNEX II
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION -
(As of March 31, 1978)
There are currently 27 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 287-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: $10.8 million
Credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - July 26,
1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
After initial serious management problems, the Tanzania Tea
Authority (TTA) has finally reached a satisfactory level of senior staffing
and this has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and an improvement in
the control over field activities. However, the position with regard to
field staff will continue to be closely watched. Because of weak extension
and farm practices in the past, about 1,600 ha of the 9,671 ha planted since
1971 must be infilled or rehabilitated, and yields have been lower than
anticipated. No additional planting has been carried out since June 1976
but effective rehabilitation and infilling has been achieved except in the
Bukoba area. Bank recommendations regarding crop yields, husbandry tech-
niques, field organization, TTA structure and extension activities are now
being implemented. Furthermore, market trends in tea have taken a favorable
turn. Progress on the project is expected to continue to improve. The -
closing date may require a further extension to allow sufficient time for
completion of the Mwakaleli factory.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project:
$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
This project was the subject of an in-depth review in November
1976. Since the review, significant progress has been made in alleviating
the financial problems of the meat processing parastatal (TPL), in correcting
some of the deficiencies in the livestock marketing parastatal (TLMC), and
adopting some of the decentralized management recommendations in the ranching
parastatal (NARCO). However, TPL needs to improve its overall efficiency,
and NARCO's financial situation is unsatisfactory. A financing proposal for
NARCO is currently being prepared for presentation to Treasury and the two
financing institutions (TRDB and NBC) in order to return NARCO to financial
viability. The village livestock development component continues to have
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress on projects in execution and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -                     ANNEX II
the same organizational problems evident during the review and the seriousness
of the situation has been recognized by the Prime Minister's Office. In
summary, significant progress has been made since the review but major problems
remain and ik-tquire continued attention.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: $17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project is much improved since the appointment in October
1977 of a new Project Manager. However, in view of the failure of the
crop technical packages to give economic responses, the project must
now be considered to be an infrastructure and adaptive research prc,ect
rather than an agricultural production project. A majc; objective is
now to develop a more soundly based and productive agricultural strategy.
The most significant progress has been in the trials program with about
50 well distributed and supervised trial sites. Recruitment of staff
has been more vigorously pursued since the Implementation Reviews began.
The major project problems remaining are: the lack of senior staff, the
shortage of extension staff, the inefficient use of tractors, and the
delay in producing accounts. The project will continue to be kept under
cl-ose review.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: $21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Construction of the five factories and ancillary facilities is
proceeding in accordance with the revised completion schedule which is about
nine months behind the appraisal estimate. Processing plant and machinery has
been delivered for two factories, and is under shipment for the remaining
three factories. The Cashewnut Authority (CATA) take over of the industry
and the consolidation of its activities are proceeding slowly. Its
management capabilities are limited. Therefore, while the Government's
consultants have effectively supervised construction and the project
includes provision of technical assistance for factory operation, the
development of CATA is important to future progress and is receiving close
attention.
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: $10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
The village infrastructure construction program has been retarded
by the reappearance of national shortages of key construction materials and
by problems relating to management of materials distribution within the region.



- 30 _                     ANNEX II
The level of credit repayment by farmers talking seasonal inputs from village
godowns stands at approximately 84%, despite poor yields of cotton (the main
cash crop) in many project villages during the past crop season.  Maize and
bean yields obtained in the past season were good and food crop purchases in
the region by the National Milling Corporation were more than double last
year's record levels. A good start has been made on the program oL A,,ri-
cultural Training and Trials Center and village trials for this season, and
a review of the project's technical strategy is undernway. A Joint-Mid-Term
Evaluation of the project is proposed for July-August 1978.
Credit Nc. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilomrsbero S:ir
Development Project: $9.0 million Credit and $9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 14, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The development of estate cane plantations has been completed.
Kilombero Sugar Company's (KSC) land development orn behalf of outgrowers
continues and is expected to exceed appraisal estimates due to lower than
expected cane yields. The inability of the transport system to supply cane
to both factories is a serious constraint to sugar production.  The operations
of the new management advisory agreement show some weaknesses, mainly because
Tanzanian senior staff could not be found to fill the line positions vacated
by expatriates. Draft accounts for FY77 are under preparation. After heary
losses in 1977, mostly due to difficulties in starting operations of the new
factory, KSC is expected to break-even in the following season.  The Sugar
Development Corporation has requested Finance to consider KSC's proposals as
to the debt-equity ratio under the project and the terms of the Government
loans. A decision on this matter is expected soon.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: $9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
With the change in TAFICO's management in August 1977, the project
appears to be progressing satisfactorily after the initial delav in imple-
mentation. All formalities with regard to the establishing of the commercial
centers both for the coastal fisheries and Lake Tangarnyika have been completed,
and steps have been initiated for the construction of boats and procuremenit
of engines and fishing gear.  In addition, four UjaTria villages have been
identifUed for investment under the Ujamaa Pilot Fisheries Program. It is
expected that active fishing operations in all cases should begin before the
end of 1978.



- 31 -                    ANNEX II
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: $18.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
Although the project has made some satisfactory progress with
regard to village participation, delivery of inputs, and concentration on
high potential maize regions, at its mid-term it is beset by a number of
problems which must be overcome if the project is to achieve its primary
objective. The project's extension services are seriously understaffed,
and the deficiencies of extension services and the Government's continued
indecision on its reorganization are constraints affecting project imple-
mentation. Motorcycles and landrovers delivered to the Regions have greatly
increased mobility of supervisory staff; however, other essential equipment
and aids will not be available before mid-1978 because of considerable pro-
curement and administrative delays. Farmers' contributions to the financing
of project inputs vary from Region to Region; in areas of high maize potential
about 80% of the inputs have been distributed in the agreed manner, but in
the remaining Regions contributions have ranged from 13% to 42%. A recent
decrease in the subsidy element from 75% to 50% for all inputs has doubled
the cost to the farmers of fertilizer. Many of the difficulties experienced
result from limited cooperation between the central ministry responsible
for the overall project and the regional authorities in charge of local
implementation. Proposals to improve project implementation by modifying
authority for input financing and by increasing regional responsibility for
assessing, ordering and distributing input requirements are under preparation.
Another problem is the tendency for villages to place undue emphasis on mono-
culture of maize production. A joint RMEA/Headquarters mission recently
reviewed the above difficulties and its recommendations have been submitted
to the Government for consideration.
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: $10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
Development of the parastatal dairy farms continues to be ahead
of schedule and the loan security/occupancy rights problems have been
resolved for most farms.  A shortage of suitable cattle and lack of milk
pasteurizing facilities at Mbeya are imminent problems. The Ujamaa component
proceeds slowly and the Tanzania Rural Development Bank is actively investi-
gating alternative means of assisting village milk production and consumption.
The foot and mouth disease control investigation has commenced.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: $7.0
million Loan of July 12, 1976,; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
The project, which is a five-year slice of the Government pulpwood
plantation program of about 65,000 ha of Pine and Eucalyptus provides for the
planting of almost 16,000 ha, as well as the maintenance of 10,000 ha of
existing plantations, the developing of infrastructure, research, training



- 32 -                         ANNEX II
and studies. The project got off to a slow start and w'th serious management
pro'iLerL,s.  The P'roject Manager and several section chiefs had to be replaced
in July 1977, and the key post of Roads/Mechanical Engineer is still unfilled.
The first year's plantings mostly failed and practically all targets are behind
schedule.  However, under new management the situation has improved considerably.
The nurseries are well stocked and maintained, and the current planting program
should be on schedule. The Engineer post is due to be filled shortly, and
the project should catch up with all arrears over the next year or two.
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: $8.0 million
Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
February 15, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The completion of improvements to the existing processing line is
expected by April 1978, one year behind schedule. The new processing line
is to be installed by October 1978 and commissioned in time for the 1979
season. After initial set-backs, construction of storage facilities in
Dar-es-Salaam and Morogoro is progressing satisfactorily.  TAT's and TTPC's
liquidity is strained. Government is now providing local counterpart funds
for the project, rather than having TAT and TTPC prefinance capital expend-
itures as foreseen in the Appraisal Report. This greatly facilitates project
implementation. TAT's Financial Department has been further strengthened by
the recruitment of three expatriate senior accountants. An internationally
reputable auditing firm will study TAT's financial system, recommend changes
and assist in implementing them. An expatriate financial advisor will be
engaged to assist the Tanzanian Financial Manager for a number of years.
TAT's audit reports for 1975 and 1976 are being finalized, while TTPC's audit
report for 1977 is under preparation. The Tobacco Sector Study will commence
in the second half of 1978.
Credit No. 703-TA/Credit No. 703-TA-5 - Tabora Rural
Development Project: $12.0 million Creditsi/ of May 11,
1977; Date of Effectiveness - November 11, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
The project became effective on November 11, 1977. Key staff
have been assigned.  Satisfactory progress is being made on construction of
staff housing and procurement of vehicles is in an advanced stage. The regional
authorities are actively engaged in preparing a detailed work program for
each component. Project implementation is on schedule.
1/   Credit: No. 703-CA-5 ($4.8 million) is financed under the special CIDA
arrangement; Credit No. 703-TA is an IDA Credit of $7.2 million.



- 33-                          ANNEX II
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: $10.3
million Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
July 2, 1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The project is being implemented with assistance from DANIDA.
Projected estimates of project cost overruns have been reduced within
manageable limits as a result of curtailments of the project (deletion of
three secondary schools) and more favorable than anticipated bids on civil
works. Civil works contracts have been awarded on all project institutions
and construction is proceeding on 12 of 15 sites. Substantial improvements
have been achieved in program planning for Community Education Centers (the
experimental self-help construction project item), and two of these centers
are now in operation. Recruitment of technical assistance specialists in
health included in the project has been slow but arrangements have now been
made with WHO to recruit these specialists. Disbursements are now 50% of
appraisal estimates, and implementation is, in general, proceeding satis-
factorily. It is likely that the closing date will require a postponement
of one year.
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: $11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
The project made a good start with respect to the Village Manage-
ment Technicians (VMT) Training Program. However, some problems have emerged
with respect to the utilization of the VMTs. Five Rural Training Centers
have been rehabilitated, instructional staff have been trained, and courses
have commenced.  Expansion of the capacity of 15 secondary schools is slightly
ahead of schedule. A contract has been signed with UNESCO to assist in
conducting a secondary school survey. Proposals for a survey of primary edu-
cation and a review of standards of accountancy training are being prepared.
Construction of housing is behind schedule, but total project costs are so
far within the original estimate and the project should be completed by the
closing date.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 265-TA - Third Highway Project:-/ $6.5
million Credit of August 6, 1971; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
The contract for the road construction component of this project
was signed in March 1974, two years later than scheduled and at a cost much
higher than estimated. The Bank reduced the primary road construction
1/ The Second Highway Project included Loan 586-TA which was for US$7.0
million. In 1975, surplus funds of US$1.9 million were allocated to
the Third Highway Project, and the Closing Date was extended to
December 31, 1978.



- 34 -                           ANNEX II
component from 200 km to 82 km and transferred US$1.9 million balance from
the completed Second Highway Project (Loan 586-TA) to meet the higher costs.
The AfDB made a loan of 4 million units of account (US$4.8 million equi-
valent) for the other 118 km. The 66 km of new construction on the primary
road is complete except for about 1/4 km of bridge approaches. Additional
investigatory work by the MOW on the remaining 16 km of existing sealed road
has confirmed the feasibility of undertaking minimum improvements and resealing
this section. The Mara betterment work has been completed and the Geita work
is scheduled for completion in mid-1978. Government has received the final
reports of the two preinvestment studies. Funds available under Credit 265-TA
have been fully disbursed, and only $1.4 million of the funds reallocated
from Loan 586-TA remain undisbursed.
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: $10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1979
Orders have been placed and deliveries are well advanced for
about US$6 million worth of equipment and bids for a further US$0.5 million
worth will be called shortly. A contract for 634 man-months of technical
assistance has been signed and 17 of the 31 experts have commenced their
duties in the country. Construction of road camps, deployment of equipment
and training of maintenance personnel are in hand. Maintenance work has
commenced on several trunk roads.
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project: $15 million Credit of
November 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
An initial supervision mission has just completed its discussions
with the Government on project start-up.  The Project Coordinat'r has been
appointed and this should assist in initiating project execution.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - National Sites and Services Project:
$8.5 million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
Construction of all the sites and service areas has been completed
and the sites handed over, and upgrading works are nearing completion.
Overall progress and standards of work have been satisfactory. The take-up
rate of housing loans was initially poor, but the Government has now approved
more flexible lending criteria that are within the reach of the target popu-
lation and the situation is expected to improve. Lack of qualified personnel,
and shortcomings in the organization structure of the implementing unit have
led to difficulties in management of the project. Organizational changes
agreed for the Second National Sites and Services Project are aimed at
addressing these problems and some progress has been made on filling crucial
vacancies.



-35                           ANNEX II
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services
Project: $12.0 million Credit of Novemlber 3, 1977; Date
of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 3, 198.2
This credit became effective on April 3, 1978.  Satisfactory progress
is being made on detailed design and engineering for the upgrading sites und
planning for the surveyed sites.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project:  $15.0 million
Loan of January 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2,
1977; Closing Date - June 30, 1981
The implementation of the institutional arrangements in connection
with the project, which includes mainly the establishment and operation of
an Urban Water Supply Fund within the MIinistry of Water, Energy and Minerals
and an Urban Water Supply Unit in Morogoro, has been delayed by as much as
a year. Out of three senior advisors to be provided under the project, only
one is on duty. Out of five main contracts needed to construct the works in
Morogoro, one is practically completed, two are being awarded and the bidding
documents for the last two contracts are being finalized. Nine-month delays
in the physical construction of the work in Morogoro resulted mainly from
MWEM's poor administrative capability and difficulties due to the Tanzania/
Kenya border closure. Project implementation is expected to improve signi-
ficantly when the technical and financial advisors funded under the project
report for duty.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-T-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II;
$30 million Loan bn Third Window Terms of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness - March 1, 1977; Closing Date -
December 31, 1981
All bids have been received and contracts awarded except for
engineering construction supervision (due to some tax problems which have
to be solved at the Government level). Consulting engineers are continuing
to perform their duties. The revised project cost prepared on the basis
of awarded contracts has shown that there would be a cost overrun of about
31% compared to the appraisal estimate. The revised total financing
requirement is US$117.2 million, of which US$78.7 million is in foreign
currency. The revised financing plan prepared on the basis of the loan
agreements (the agreement requires financing of 75% of civil works costs
which includes indirect foreign exchange costs) has shown that the total
foreign exchange gap of the IBRD/SIDA portion is IUS$14.1 million, of which
US$12.8 million is indirect foreign exchange costs, If additional financing
is not identified, it will he necessary for the l',ank to reduce the



- 36 -                            ANIIEX II
percentape disbursement against the civil works contracts (presently set
at 75%).  All three civil contractors have essentially completed their
mobilization into the sites and construction has started.
INDUSTRIAL SICTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
This Credit has been fully committed.
Loan 1No. 1172-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: $15.0
million Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness --
February 20, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This Loan is fully committed.
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: $15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - July 1, 1979
The project provides for expansion of an existing textile mill
and is designed to increase annual fabric production capacity by 20 million
linear meters. Project implementation performance has been acceptable.
According to present indications, the project is likely to be commissioned
July 1978, four months behind schedule. However, the revised project cost
is within the appraisal estimate. There has been a deterioration in the
operating performance of the existing Mwanza plant as well as some other
textile mills. The National Textile Corporation (TEXCO), the holding company
for state-owned textile mills, has agreed to institute immediately an action
program to improve the operating performance of existing mills.
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: $6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976;losing Date - June 30, 190_
In the recent past this project has gained momentum.  IUp to the
end of 1977, the TIB Loans Committee had approved a total of 31 proposals -
11 for the new project feasibility studies, 2 for capacity utilization
studies, 16 for overseas training programs for Tanzanians and 2 for locally
conducted training programs. This brings the total commitments made by
TIB under the credilt to about $2.6 million. The project lhas now broken
ground on all activities envisaged under it in the appraisal report.  The
first project leader left in July 1977 due to health reasons, but a new
leader is cxpected to arrive shortly.



- 37 -                             ANNEX II
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 13R6-TA - Morogoro Industrial
Complex: $11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and
$11.i million Bank Loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - July 6, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Engineering design and procurement are proceeding on schedule and
at this time there is no reason to anticipate any significant slippage in
the projected dates for factory start-up (second half of 1979) and full
capacity production in 1982. The water drawing rights for the project have
been established.
Loan No. 1498-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: $15.0
million Loan of December 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness -
April 3. 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
This Loan became effective on April 3, 1978.
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community.1/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 2,
1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports.  The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school building
1/ Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of separate
national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed balances for
each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29,
1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12, 1978, is given in this Annex.



- 38 -                         ANNEX II
and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berthls and
a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities and
a training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in Tanga.
Construction of all major project elements has been completed. Of the minor
project elements, only two are still under construction, namely the improve-
ment of lighterage facilities in Tanga and reconstruction of sheds in Mombasa.
Both are expected to be completed before mid-1978. Because of shortage of funds
under both loans, the following minor project elements have not been submitted
for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of the lighterage quay
and a training school for Dar es Salaam; and modernization of the lighterage
quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed contracts have been
awarded for these project elements with the exception of the modernization
of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput has increased
above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling productivity
sns imDroved with increasing throughput; however, port labor productivity
has stagnated in Mombasa where general. cargo throughput has declined con-
siderably. The ports of Kenya and Tanzania are now functioning completely
independently of each other. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours
Authority has been enacted, and a Kenya Port Authority is expected to be
established soon. Management of ports in both countries is competent.
Some $33.7 million of Loan 638-EA and $25.1 million of Loan 865-EA has
already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at
October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given below:
For Loan No. 638-EA                    (US$ million)
Kenya                                 0.7
Tanzania                              0.6
Total                            1.3
For 'Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                                 1.7
Tanzania                              0.3
Total                            2.0
The closing date for Loan No. 638-EA has passed. However, since
the amount allocated to and guaranteed by each partner state is clearly
identified under the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978
(referred to in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977-
R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 39 -                       ANNEX II
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30,
1970; Closing Date  - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative
and political problems within the Community. in November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to
be used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material.
All three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Railways
Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977
among the various countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya                    2.0
Tanzania                 3.8
Uganda                   1.9
Total                    7.7
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project: $32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment, and
training. All major works other than microwave and UHF/VHF system construction
have now been completed, despite initial delays caused by staffing and other
problems associated with the reallocation of the headquarters. Funds disbursed
to date total $26.9 million and a further amount of $0.6 million has been com-
mitted for cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and multiplex telex
A contract for the provision of the remaining microwve and associated multi-
plex equipment required for completion of the project is about to be awarded.
The remaining funds are expected to be used for these systems. Because of the
long lead time required for the microwave equipment, the project is expected to
be fully completed by mid-1979. The Closing Date has accordingly been postponed



- 40 -                   ANNEX II
to December 31, 1979. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at
October 1, 1977 among the countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya                    2.4
Tanzania                 3.5
Uganda                   0.1
Total                    6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank:  $15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
Over the last year, the environment within the Community has had a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, and there has been some deterioration
in the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio rising to
50% as of June 30, 1977. However, EADB has been able to retain nearly all
its staff who are both adequate in number and technically competent to continue
the operation of the institution and effect some recovery in the portfolio.
Some $3.7 million has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance
amounts to $3.3 million.



- 41 -                  ANNEX III
TANZANIA:  SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  Time taken to prepare                       12 months
(b)  Preparation by                              Government and RMEA
Wc)  Initial discussions with Bank               September 15, 1976
(d)  First Bank Mission                          May 20, 1977
(e)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission    June 24, 1977
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations          April 17, 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness               September 15, 1978
II-  Special Bank Implementation Actions:
Through agreement to advance contracting for civil works, the project
implementation would advance six months avoiding a 5 percent increase
in civil works contract prices and considerable savings and benefits
would be realized.
TII, Special Conditions;
(a) The completion of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the
Association between the Government and CATA (Condition of Effecti-
veness, para. 41);
(b) The appointment by CATA of a qualified and experienced Finance
Director (Condition of Effectiveness) and that CATA shall continue
to employ until June 30, 1983, a Finance Director with qualifica-
tions and experience satisfactory to the Association (para. 47);
(c) No later than the beginning of the assembly of equipment, employ
experts to provide four years technical and management services
for the operation of the factories and the training of factory
personnel (para. 45);
(d) CATA shall, by June 30, 1979, submit to the Association for its
review and approval a detailed description of a training program
for the staff to be employed in the project's factories (para 45);
(e) No later than June 30, 1979 and until at least June 30, 1983, CATA
shall employ a qualified and experienced Chief Engineer to assist
CATA in supervising all engineering aspects of its activities (para.45);
(f) No later than June 30, 1980, the new cashewnut grading system
followed during the 1977/78 season shall be reviewed and if such
review indicates that the new system is not satisfactory, CATA
shall be authorized to follow the 1976/77 system or such other
system as shall be satisfactory to the Association and CATA
(para. 46);



- 42 -
(g) The Government shall continue to maintain a pricing structure
for cashewnuts closely relating farm gate prices to appropriate
world prices (para. 53);
(h)  The carrying out by December 31, 1979, of a study to determine
occupational health hazards in Tanzania's cashewnut industry
and to formulate criteria for monitoring such hazards and
thereafter implementation of the study's recommendations(para.57).



IBRD 13096
4J Q A ~ ~ ~ N6Ai A Kf                     ;KE NYA                   ~Pb~~TNA  ~
B4krb a (A \A                                 N Z   N IAI M'W     A R
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0 R Iasd N   2  
4'A  . ,'  <*X4\                 /  9  8u(ima   M   A   R        0             6          lR t5OO)A Jf
L~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~LK 
3/500 0         t                 CAT8
|  1t Msenqe 0 ~Bi (am                             15wNsg
k,, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~B
ff '-a    ' '    'f Y.' 'S  faSX *gYS_ C, X e '0~~NAXINGEA *1~OO    **I,O
I l,,tt;i0-  bYA mba Boy                  ssoo]E           -i
\M, ',tA' LlPA W I   )  -               _ _         " '  >      i  ::  - ,



