Document of                 m      r         p  I  I
The World Banik    FILE  v   
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1868-TA
TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 26, 1978
This document has a restricted distributiun' and may be used' by recipient's only iF the perfo  ib ee of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discIosed WiAbutf Worhdi taifll autioiViatfin.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =          Tanzania Shilling (Tsh)
Tsh 1.0                            US$0.12
US$1.0                             Tsh 8.30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 hectare (ha)            =          10,000 m  = 2.46 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2             0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km ) =           0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)           =          2.20 pounds
1,000 kg = 1 metric ton  =           0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
MOA                  =           Ministry of Agriculture
CNSL                 =           Cashewnut Shell Liquid
CATA                 =           Cashewnut Authority of Tanzania
MDB                   =          Marketing Development Bureau
of the Ministry of Agriculture
CCM                  =           Chama Cha Mapinduzi
(Political Party)
NBC                  =           National Bank of Commerce
FISCAL YEAR
Government:    July 1 - June 30
CATA           October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE AGRICULTURAL, RURAL AND INDUSTRIAL  SECTORS  ..........                           I
A.    The Agricultural  and Rural Sector                    I.................. 
B.    The Industrial Sector  .......  ........................ . . .   .             8
II.    CASHEWNUT PRODUCTION,  PROCESSING AND RESEARCH  ....                    .......      10
A.    Cultivation,  Harvesting and Products of Cashew Tree.                         10
B.    Raw Cashewnut Production  in Tanzania  .                   ....... ........   11
General  ......... ...  6. .**......... ..........................           11
Cashewnut Producing Areas  ..........................                        12
Production of Existing Trees   .......................                        12
Plantation Program                  .................................         12
Raw Nuts Grading and Extension Services                     ............      13
Purchasing Arrangements and Transport  ....                   ..........      14
C.    Cashewnut Processing  .. .... ..... ...              ........... ..           14
Manual Cashewnut Processing  .... o...o  .........                            14
Principles of Cashewnut Processing                                .....      15
Processing Coefficients  ....                o    --.           -...   16
Mechanical Processing in Tanzania   ...... ..                ......           16
Do    Cashew Research  .  . ....... . ... .       ..... .      ..... ,.. .          17
III.    CASHEWNUT MARKETS AND PRICES  . ........ ...  .. ............ o..                     18
General                       ....... ,.-   .   ooo.                                18
Trade  in Cashewnut Kernels  ....... o..             .....................          19
Consumption ..60................................... ....            .......         20
Prices  ...........o.o......... ..o..                                               20
Trade  in Raw Cashewnuts  * *             ..................... ....... ..          21
Cashewnut Shell Liquid  (CNSL)                 ...........................          22
Producer Prices  ........... . .. .. . .. . .. .. . .. .  a * ........ ... .        22
IV.    THE CASHEWNUT AUTHORITY OF TANZANIA  ..o                        .......              22
Organization and Management  ...                             ......... ...          23
Financing  ........                                                                 23
Reports, Accounts and Audit  ...o                        .........                  23
Financial Prospects  .......            ..................      ........            23
Existing Factories  ...................... ... ..........                           24
Other CATA's Activities   ..              .................. ..  **......           24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                                                                                             Page No.
V.    THE FIRST CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  ....                                                       .............               25
A.        Summary   Project   Description   ...........                                ..        ...........                25
A.      Cashewnut   Production   ...........................                                                      25
B.  Staff Employment, Staff Training and Project
Preparation   ..................................                                                      25
C.  Rural Water Supply and Community Education
Centers   ......................................                                                      25
Project   Cost   ...................................                                                      26
Project   Construction   ...........................                                                      26
Research   ...........                        ............................                                27
Financial   Management   ...........................                                                      28
Monitoring   ..........                          ...........................                              28
Conclusion   .........                         ............................                               28
VI.        THE   PROJECT                    .......................                     ......................                          29
A.       General   Description   ................................                                                           29
B.       Detailed   Features   ..................................                                                           29
Factory   Sites   ......................................                                                          29
CNSL   Storage   Facilities   ............................                                                        31
CNSL   Tankers   and  Vehicles   ..........................                                                       31
Staff  Housing   ......................................                                                           31
Professional.  Services   ..............................                                                          31
Envirorment  and Occupational  Health  ....                                            ............               32
C.       Organization   and  Management   ........................                                                          33
Project   Construction   ...............................                                                          33
Factory   Operation   ..................................                                                          33
Monitoring   ..........................................                                                           33
D.       Accounts   and  Audits   ................................                                                          34
VII.    PROJECT COSTS,  FI]NANCING AND PROCUREMENT  ....                                                       ............              35
Capital Costs ............  35
Operating   Costs   .........................................                                                              36
Financing ............                                                                                                      36
Disbursements ............                                                                                                  36
Procurement ............                                                                                                   37
VIII.          FINANCIAL   EVALUATION   ....................................                                                               37
Basic Assumptions.37
Financial Projections.38
Farmers' Benefits.38
Government   Cash  Flow   ...............................                                                        39
Foreign   Exchange   Benefits   ..........................                                                       39



Table of Contents (Continued)                                         Page No.
IX.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION .....................................    39
A.   Summary Economic Benefits and Justification ........    39
B.  Basic  Assumptions   ..................................    40
C.   Sensivity Analysis .................................    40
D.   Uncertainties and Risks ............................    41
E.   External Effects of the Project ....      ................    42
X.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..........................    42
Annex 1:  Tables
1.  CATA Purchases of Raw Nuts,  1969/70 to 1976/77
2.   Rainfall and Cashewnut Growth Periods
3.   Cashewtree Plantation Program:  Allocation of Planted Areas
4.   Cashewtree Plantation Program:  Anticipated Yields
5.   Cashewtree Plantation Program:  Production
6.   Summary of Tanzania's Cashewnut Processing Capacity
7.   Supply of Raw Nuts and Processing Capacity
8.   Exports of Cashewnut Kernels from Processing Countries
9.   India's Margin on Raw Nut Processing
10.  Kernels 320 Wholes Prices CIF New York
11.   Raw Cashewnuts Production
12.   Price Relationship between Tanzanian Mix and 320 Wholes
13.   Projection of Kernel Prices
14.   Economic Cost of Raw Nuts to Factories
15.   Financial Cost of Raw Nuts to Factories
16.   Financial Cost of Exporting Raw Nuts
17.   Producer Prices for Cashewnuts
18.   CATA Income Statements
19.   CATA Balance Sheets
20.   Comparative Estimate of First Project's Costs
21.   Tankers Requirements for Transportation of CNSL
22.   Project Costs Summary
23.   Detailed Project Costs
24.   Cost of Professional Services
25.   Disbursement Schedule
26.   Projected Income Statements for a Typical Project Factory
27.   Consolidated Cash Flow Statements for the Project's Factories
28.   Cash Flow Statements for CATA
29.   Government Project Related Cash Flow
30.   Foreign Exchange Earnings and Expenditures
31.   Economic Rate of Return Calculation
32.   Economic and Financial Rates of Return Sensitivity Analysis



Table of Contents (Continued)
Annex 2: Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Charts:   The Cashewnut Authority of Tanzania
Implementation Schedule
MAP
This report is based on the Eindings of an appraisal mission which visited
Tanzania in June/July 1977, consisting of Messrs. F. M. Patorni, A. Wilson
(Bank) and J. Ohler (consultant). Mr. R. Lacroix (consultant) reviewed in
September/October 1977 the technical and economic aspects of the main cur-
rently available cashewnut processing methods. Mr. M. Coyaud (Bank) visited
the Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals in December 1977. Mr. P. Patel
(Bank) reviewed in January 1978 Government's proposals for the siting of one
factory in the Coast Region. Mr. F.M. Patorni (Bank) visited Tanzania in
February 1978 to update the appraisal report.



I. THE AGRICULTURAL, RURAL AND INDUSTRIAL SECTORS
A. AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR
Background
1.01      Tanzania has a total population of about 15.3 million (mid-1976),
which is increasing at an annual rate of about 2.7 percent. Average per
capita GNP for 1976 is estimated at US$180, and average per capita income in
the rural areas is put at about US$70. The real growth rate of GDP of the
economy averaged about 4.8 percent per annum over the period 1964-1975.
Roughly 40 percent of GDP is derived from agriculture and related activities
such as forestry with about half of this contribution coming from subsistence
production. About 94 percent of the Tanzania population lives in the rural
areas, and 90 perccent of the economically active population is engaged in
agriculture.
1.02      Most agricultural production is from smallholdings using family
labor. Large-scale agriculture is confined to a small number of private
estates and state farms producing sisal, coffee, tea sugar, wheat, rice and
livestock. Estate production has diminished in importance, and the state farm
program remains small. Tanzania's national livestock herd, with a cattle
population estimated at 10 million head, is grazed extensively over the 40
percent of the country which is free from tsetse fly infestation. It is
largely managed along traditional lines.
1.03      About 70 percent of Tanzania's foreign exchange earnings from mer-
chandise exports are accounted for by exports of unprocessed agricultural
commodities, and a further 7 percent comes from exports of processed farm
products. The major agricultural export commodities are cotton, coffee,
sisal, cashewnuts, tea and tobacco.
1.04      The recent performance of the agricultural sector as been sluggish.
Over the period 1967-1976, the average annual rate of growth of agricultural
production was 2.8 percent, only slightly greater than the rate of population
growth. From the late 1960's onward, food crop production failed to keep
pace with population growth and, as a result, Tanzania became increasingly
dependent on imports of maize, rice and wheat. The effects of this slow
growth were exacerbated in 1973 and 1974 by the effects of a severe drought
which resulted in poor harvests and the need for large imports of foodgrains.
In 1975 and 1976, agricultural production recovered from the effects of the
drought increasing in real terms by about 6.5 percent in 1975 and by a further
4.5 percent in 1976.
Agricultural and Rural Development Strategy
1.05      The Goverrment has undertaken a comprehensive program to support
the development of productive activities in the agricultural sector, in con-
junction with efforts to achieve balanced regional growth and more equitable



income distribution. Within these objectives, Government is paying particular
attention to achieving self-sufficiency in food production and to supporting
these crops which represent sources of foreign exchange earnings. Greater
emphasis is being placed on the production rather than the social aspects of
rural development projects. In addition, Government has made substantial
headway during the past decade in laying the foundations for a long-term
program of rural development. Beginning in 1970, the Government launched a
wide-ranging program to resettle the country's rural populations into villages.
In 1972, it decentralized government administration to the regional and
district levels in order to tailor development programs more closely to the
needs of the new villages (paras. 1.07-1.09). In 1975, it instituted the
Village and Ujamaa Villages Act, which laid down the legislative base and
procedures for the newly created villages (paras 1.10-1.12). With the estab-
lishment of new villages, the Government set ambitious targets to provide
essential social services. Under a Universal Primary Education Program
launched in 1974, close to 100 percent of all children of primary school age
were enrolled in primary sclaool by the end of 1977. A program of village
water supply was initiated in the same year with the objective of providing
the entire rural population with an accessible supply of potable water by 199:
so far, 36 percent of villages have water supply systems. A program has
recently been launched to provide the full rural population with access to
rudimentary health rare as soon as possible.
1.06      However, the rural populace has yet to experience the benefits of
the Government's overall strategy. Real rural per capita incomes actually
declined by 4 percent between 1969-1975 and represent only 43 percent of
average urban incomes. The Government's social programs still affect only
a small proportion of the total rural population. Although major institu-
tional reforms have been made, the institutional structure in the rural sector
is still in flux, and may require yet further change. In some respects (for
example, changes in the input delivery system), excessive institutional change
may have been partly responsible for the relatively poor performance of the
agricultural sector.
Rural Organization
1.07      In order to improve the quality of its programs and projects, to
speed their execution and to encourage the mobilization of local resources,
the Government, in 1972, adopted a decentralized administrative structure.
Regional and District authorities were granted primary responsibility for
the planning and implemental:ion of development activities within their
jurisdictions, and were given a high degree of administrative autonomy.
Tanzania is now divided in 21 Regions, containing a total of 80 Districts.
The political head of each Rtegion is the Regional Commissioner, who has
the rank of Cabinet Minister, and who is chairman of the Regional Develop-
ment Committee, and a member of the country's National Assembly and of the
National Executive Committee of Tanzania's only political party. Chama



Cha Mapinduzi 1/ (CCM). The political head at the District level is the
Area Commissioner, who is the CCM District Secretary and Chairman of the
District Development Council. All Regional and Area Commissioners are
directly appointed by the President of Tanzania.
1.08      The Regional civil service is headed by the Regional Development
Director (RDD), assisted by a Regional Planning Officer, and by the heads
of the twelve Regional functional departments of the central ministries. 2/
The head of each of these departments reports directly to the RDD, who, in
turn, is responsible to central Government through the Prime Minister's
Office (PMO). At the District level, the administration is headed by the
District Development Director (DDD), assisted by a District Planning Officer
and the heads of the District functional departments, which are the same as
those represented at the Regional level. The field-level staff of the central
ministries are answerable to the DDD through the heads of their functional
departments, but receive technical guidance from the functional staff at the
Regional level and, through them, fron the central ministries. All civil
servants within a Region are ultimately responsible to the RDD and, once
appointed to a Region, can only be transferred with the consent of the RDD.
1.09      This decentralization of government authority has served to improve
communications between the Government and the village and between the Party
cadre and the civil service. Villages, in principle, have more opportunity
to participate in the planning and implementation of the development programs
which affect their future. The Party is more aware of individual village
needs. The civil service operating at the district and regional levels has
a more integrated approach to rural development than was possible through
the central technical ministries. However, qualified manpower is insufficient
to fill the many positions demanded by a decentralized government structure.
Decentralization has not led to the anticipated levels of local participation
in the planning process, which remains dominated by the central ministries.
The division of responsibility between the central ministries, regional and
district authorities and parastatals remains poorly defined, and bureaucratic
tensions persist.
Villagization
1.10      Since independence, the grouping of dispersed farm families into
villages has been a key element of Government strategy for the rural areas,
in order to facilitate the provision of infrastructure and services to the
rural population, and to encourage self-reliance and a community approach to
rural development. During 1974, the emphasis shifted from creating additional
1/   Roughly translatable from the Swahili as "the Party of the Revolution".
2/   Education, Health, Lands, Industry, Commerce, Natural Resources, Live-
stock Development, Crop Development, Water, Public Works, Ujamaa and
Cooperatives, and Culture.



- 4 -
ujamaa 1/ villages (the ultimate goal of which was fully collectivized agri-
cultural production) to forming "planned" of "development" villages, which
place less stress on communal production, and more on "block farming" (in
which each farmer cultivates his own plot within an overall block of land
allocated to the village) and on individual holdings within the village
framework. At the same time, the pace of villagization was considerably
accelerated, not without some degree of disruption of production in some
areas. At the present time, there are about 7,700 registered villages,
containing over three-quarters of Tanzania s rural population.
1.11      The village is intended to act as the country's primary social,
economic and political unit. Basic social services, including health facili-
ties, classrooms and water supply systems, are to be located in each village.
Economic services, including provision of credit, supply of inputs, organiza-
tion of extension services and marketing of produce, are to be coordinated
at village level. Economic infrastructure, such as storage godowns, process-
ing equipment and small-scale industries, are to be village owned investments.
The villages' legal status has now been spelled out in the Villages and Ujamaa
Villages (Registration, Designation and Administration) Act of 1975. Each
village of 250 families or more is registered and elects, through a Village
Assembly, a Village Council. The Village Council has the power to allocate
land and control its use, owns heavy agricultural machinery and other capital
goods (except for livestock a,nd small farm tools which remain individual
property), can borrow and is required to establish a capital fund, a reserve
fund and a disposable fund.
1.12      It is too early to judge how effectively the villages will be able
to meet their ambitious goals. Early performance has been mixed, with vil-
lages in some regions demonstrating an impressive ability to mobilize local
support for the construction of social infrastructure (such as schools) or
productive infrastructure (such as village grain and input stores), whilst
other villages have shown little ability to effectively mobilize local re-
sources. Villagization has brought with it problems which are increasingly
being felt in Tanzania. In some areas of high population density, villagiza-
tion has led to overgrazing and depletion of soil fertility. In other areas,
there are substantial diseconomies in that villagers must now travel further
to cultivate fields, collect fuelwood and draw potable water. The Government
has already acted (through 'Operation Correction' in 1976) to rectify the most
serious cases of misallocation, but more attention to village siting and size
is needed to overcome many of the existing problems of village settlements.
Agricultural Marketing and Prices
Parastatals
1.13      In 1976, the District and Regional Cooperative Unions, which formerly
played an important role in agricultural marketing, were dissolved and their
functions transferred to other national, regional and district organizations,
1/   "Ujamaa" is a Swahili word meaning "familyhood".



the most prominent of which are the various parastatal crop authorities. At
present, there are separate parastatal institutions for coffee, cotton, sisal,
tea, tobacco, cashew-nuts, pyrethrum, sugar, livestock and dairy products and
foodgrains. Many of these parastatals have been established quite recently,
or have taken over the functions of predecessor organizations. The general
tendency has been for Government to enlarge the role and scope of these
organizations, placing a severe strain on their manpower resources.
1.14      The marketing system is usually characterized by lack of competi-
tion, high marketing costs, poor service and slow payments to farmers. Many
parastatals have been proven to be inefficient, with excessive overhead costs.
Overall operational efficiency has not improved over the past decade, and
may even have declined in some cases. These inefficiencies have resulted
in increased trading margins, which in turn lead to higher consumer prices
and/or lower producer prices. These problems have been exacerbated by the
changes outlined above. While some parastatals have performed creditably,
there is evidence of crops not being purchased and transported in a timely
fashion, of delayed payments and of further increases in marketing costs.
The Tanzanian Government is aware of these problems, and is taking steps
to remedy the situation, which include the review by Standing Committee on
Parastatal Organization (SCOPO) of the structure and managerial performance
of parastatals, and recent dismissals of staff in parastatals that were over
manned.
Pricing Policy
1.15      The control of producer and wholesale prices of major crops in
Tanzania is an important policy tool of Government. Almost all principal
export crops are controlled, as are major food products (with the exception
of such items as fruits, vegetables, eggs and fish). Responsibility for
making price recommendations rests with the Ministry of Agriculture, with
final decisions on pricing taken by the Economic Committee of Cabinet.
Prior to 1974, Government downplayed the use of price incentives to en-
courage increased production. Thus, for several years prior to 1974, most
producer prices were held fixed despite increases in input costs. Since
then, however, the Government has recognized the need to maintain farmer
incentives by providing remunerative returns. During 1974, very substan-
tial producer price increases were introduced and since then, producer
prices have been reviewed annually, with further price increases announced
to maintain farmers' production incentives.
1.16      Producer prices for a wide range of commodities, including maize,
wheat, rice, tobacco, cotton and cashew nuts, are set on a uniform national
(or 'pan-territorial') basis. The objective of this policy is to promote
the development of the more remote regions by nullifying the effects of
transport costs. This policy could have major disadvantages in the long-
run, since it is likely to lead to sub-optimal allocation of production
factors; this misallocation will be greater the more successful uniform
pricing is in stimulating production in areas in which, otherwise, pro-
duction would not be economic.



- 6 -
1.17      In recent years, Government has encouraged the use of inputs such
as fertilizer and improved seed, through the subsidization of these inputs.
Particularly in the case of fertilizer, distribution and use has often been
indiscriminate, with little regard being paid to whether the use of fertil-
izer on particular crops or particular soil types was agronomically and
economically desirable. Much greater attention is now being given by Gov-
ernment to ensuring that inputs, in particular fertilizer, are being dis-
tributed for use only where such use is profitable, in terms of increased
yields. In the case of fert:ilizer, which is priced on a pan-territorial
basis, the level of subsidy has been progressively reduced from 100 percent
of total cost in the 1973/74, and 1974/75 seasons, to 75 percent of cost in
1975/76 and 50 percent of cost in 1976/77 and 1977/78. However, at present
world fertilizer prices, the subsidized price of fertilizer, reflecting the
fact that the Tanzania Fertilizer Company (which produces the bulk of fer-
tilizer used in Tanzania) is a high-cost producer, and that the present
level of subsidy represents a subsidy to the factory, rather than to the
agricultural sector.
Agricultural Services
Research
1.18      Agricultural research in Tanzania is undertaken by a variety of
governmental agencies.  The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is responsible for
overall guidance of the national research effort, and operates a network of
crop and livestock research stations. Tanzania's research system has several
weaknesses. MOA has not been able to exercise effective control and, as a
result, priorities have not always been firmly established, the regional
emphasis has been unclear, and research resources have not been allocated in
accordance with development priorities. There is a need for greater focus
on improving knowledge about Tanzania's various agro-economic zones, and on
improving the farming systems in these zones through a greater emphasis on
field testing. The links beltween research and extension are weak, partly as a
result of the Regions being responsible for extension, while MOA is in charge
of research and training.
1.19      Agricultural research in Tanzania is increasingly becoming linked
with the various international agricultural research institutes under the
Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research (CGIAR), and is
receiving additional support comes from bilateral agencies. IDA is intending
to assist, as part of a proposed Agricultural Services Project, in strengthen-
ing the ability of the Tanzarnian research system to carry out field testing,
and in forgoing effective links with the agricultural extension services.
The Tanzanian research system also receives support under the Tabora Rural
Development Project (Cr 703-TA), and additional support would be provided
under the proposed Mwanza/Shinyanga Rural Development Project.



-7-
Extension
1.20      The agricultural extension service in Tanzania is staffed by about
100 graduates, 3,000 field officers, who have received some formal training,
and by about 3,500 field assistants, many of whom have received no formal
training. Of field level extension staff, about 54 percent are employed by
MOA but under the day-to-day control of the region, with the remaining 46
percent employed by various crop parastatals.
1.21      As the research base is weak, extension agents have few proven
technical packages to extend to the farmers. The training of field staff is
grossly inadequate, and refresher courses are infrequent. Field staff are
inadequately supervised, and receive limited logistic support. A review of
the extension system has been underway in Tanzania for about two years, with
MOA and the PMO holding differing views on how it should be reorganized.  In
order to assist in the development of an effective extension service, IDA has
proposed to carry out jointly with the Government an initial survey of the
needs of research and extension services in Tanzania, with the intention of
following through to the preparation of a research and extension training
component of a National Agricultural Services Project.
Credit
1.22      Long, medium and short-term agricultural credit is provided by the
Tanzanian Rural Development Bank (TRDB) which administers special funds on
behalf of the Government, and which has been supported by the Bank Group as
the major credit channel for those IDA funds disbursed for direct use by
farmers.  During the year ending 30th June 1977 (1976/77) TRDB made loans
totalling Tsh. 77 million, of which Tsh. 33 million (43 percent) went to
registered villages (mainly for seasonal inputs), and Tsh. 16 million (20
percent) went to parastatals, with the remainder split between cooperative
societies, producer associations and District Development Corporations.
Almost Tsh. 53 million (68 percent) of TRDB's lending in 1976/77 was for
short-term finance of seasonal crop inputs. The remainder was medium and
long-term credit, including Tsh. 15 million (19 percent) for livestock devel-
opment and Tsh. 5 million (7 percent) for rural transport, with smaller
amounts for small-scale industries, crop storage facilities, farm machinery
and fisheries development. TRDB at present charges interest rates of 8.5
percent on short-term financing, and 7.5-8.5 percent on medium- and long-term
credit. A project to further strengthen TRDB is currently being prepared with
IDA assistance.
Rural Transport Services
1.23      An adequate road transport system is needed to ensure the efficient
movement of crops to market centres and railheads, and to support timely
delivery of agricultural inputs to the farmers. Despite Government's efforts
to upgrade the road network, which have been concentrateu on recent years
on bitumenizing existing roads rather than building new ones, only about 10
percent of the 33,400 km of roads provide reliable, all weather service. The
remainder are, in general, little more than earth tracks impassable in the



- 8 -
.ainy season. The condition of the road network is generally poor, reflecting
the lack of adequate maintenance due to shortages of equipment and qualified
staff, institutional inefficiLencies and insufficient budgetary allocations.
Rural roads are in especially poor condition. Current government action to
address these problems includes the provision of staff training and equipment
under the IDA-assisted Highway Maintenance Project (Credit 507-TA) and the
Tabora Regional Development Project (Credit 703-TA) and the recently created
Betterment and Maintenance Units, which are upgrading selected secondary roads
in several regions.
B.. INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
1.24      At independence Tanzania had an extremely limited industrial sector
dominated by private firms. Three major features have characterized the
sector since that time: rapid expansion, an impressive diversification in
products produced, and a major shift in ownership from private to public
hands.  The contribution of manufacturing to GDP more than doubled by 1976
as the number of jobs in the industrial sector tripled. Furthermore, the
limited range of products produced in 1961 has been significantly expanded as
new plants producing a wide range of consumer goods and some intermediate and
capital goods were completed. Finally, following the Arusha Declaration in
1967, the Government systematically transferred the control and ownership of
the large private and foreign-owned industrial enterprises to publicly-owned
parastatals. By 1974, the public sector accounted for about 50 percent of
manufacturing value-added and employment. Presently, four ministries control
17 holding companies which have a total of 97 subsidiaries in various pro-
ductive sectors. It must, however, be noted that the private sector still
remains an important participant in industry (430 of 500 factories with over
10 employees are in private hands).
Performance and Problems
1.25      Aggregate manufacturing production grew rapidly between the mid-
sixties and the onset of the economic crisis in 1974. The average annual
real growth of the manufacturing sector was 7.8 percent between 1964-75
compared to an average growth rate of 4.8 percent for total GDP. However,
while this record of increasing output would seem to indicate satisfactory
industrial performance, a detailed analysis of Tanzania's record in the
manufacturing sector indicates that productivity has been low and output
has been far less than warranted by the level of investment.
1.26      The problems underlying the suboptimal performance in the sector
are many. At the macro level, the Government has not yet developed the
administrative capability to monitor and coordinate effectively the opera-
tions of the control systems which were instituted along with the increased
public ownership of manufacturing enterprises. Important components of this
control system include centra,lized decision-making on investments, detailed
allocations of foreign exchange through import licensing, an extensive regime
of price controls and rules of procedure operated by the National Pricing



- 9 -
Commission, and wage-setting by the permanent Labor Tribunal and the Govern-
ment. While the government feels these controls are needed to achieve its
development goals, their effect has largely been to insulate public enter-
prises from the discipline of market forces. At the micro level two addi-
tional sets of problems operate. First, performance indicators consistent
with the macro control systems and clear guidelines for evaluating perform-
ance are still lacking. Managers and workers, therefore, have few motivating
incentives in Tanzania. Second, there is a scarcity of trained managerial
personnel and skilled labor, and most enterprises have to live with periodic
shortages of other key inputs.
1.27      These issues have been raised in various Bank reports on the
Tanzanian industrial sector. The Government is well aware of them and con-
siderable discussions have taken place among Tanzanian economic and enter-
prise managers on possible solutions. The Bank Group has participated in
these discussions within the context of both general economic work and spe-
cific projects in the industrial sector. These issues were a particular focus
of the recent review of the Basic Economic Report in November 1977. While
decisions on any major macro policy changes dealing with the incentive system
for workers and managers, parastatal organizations and the price and import
control systems will take time because of their importance and breadth, at
the firm level a number of improvements have been made. These include staff
retrenchment in overmanned parastatals, an eight percent limit on allowable
increases in overhead costs of manufacturing firms which approach the National
Price Commission for price increases and the hiring of a foreign consultant
group to advise on operational/managerial improvements for the subsidiaries
and associate firms of the major industrial holding company, the National
Development Corporation (NDC). Specifically, as a result of the NDC sponsored
efficiency studies, its operating companies have been able to improve their
operations and correct problems in management, maintenance, inventory con-
trol, excess receivables, unbalanced process lines, and worker skills. This
approach could be repeated with success in additional parastatals.
Basic Industrial Strategy and the Third Five-Year Plan
1.28      Future development of the sector will be based on the Basic Indus-
trial Strategy (BIS) adopted in 1974 by the Government. The two main goals
of this strategy are structural transformation and self-reliance and its main
emphasis is on the use of domestic resources for domestic needs. This in-
volves giving top priority in investment allocations to industries supplying
(i) basic needs of food, shelter, health, education and transport, and (ii)
producer goods which contribute to production of a wide range of industrial
products. However, as it has emerged BIS will also permit expansion of
export-oriented production, especially that based on domestic raw materials
(for example cashew processing, sisal spinning, textile manufacture, and meat
and leather processing). A potential problem with the BIS is that attempts to
restructure the economy too quickly during this period of resource stringency
may ultimately frustrate both growth and structural change. A too rapid ex-
pansion of particular sectors may lead to excessive reliance on external
finance, know-how and markets, and the massive investment coordination re-
quired by the strategy may overburden the country's already weak planning



- 10 -
capacity. Moreover, effective implementation of the strategy will require
specific changes in the macro policy framework towards a protection and tariff
structure which does not discriminate against backward linkage import substi-
tution, discourage domestic production of capital goods, or confer high and
widely varying effective rates of protection to the production of consumer
goods.
1.29      Preliminary indications are that the Third Five-Year Plan under
preparation (FY77-81) envisages an investment program of about Tsh 23 billion,
of which about 21 percent will go to manufacturing. Projects with Bank group
support earmarked for development/implementation under the Plan are the indus-
trial estate at Morogoro, the cashewnut processing factories and the textile
mill expansion at Mwanza. In addition, NDC is presently implementing five
other major projects: a tannery, a bicycle plant, a farm implements factory,
a detergents factory, and a pharmaceutical plant. A pulp and paper mill
project and another textile plant are in advanced stages of preparation
for Bank Group financing.
II. CASHEW PRODUCTION, PROCESSING AND RESEARCH
A. Cultivation, HarvestinR and Products of the Cashew Tree
2.01      The cashew tree, Anacardium occidentale L., is a native of Brazil,
but was introduced by the Portuguese in the 1600's into Asia and Africa
to prevent soil erosion. The tree, which is an evergreen, naturally grows
up to 12 meters high and has a spread of 25 meters. It has an extensive
root system, which helps it to tolerate a wide range of moisture levels
and soil types, but prefers well-drained sandy loam or red soils, and an
annual rainfall between about 35 and 120 inches (990-3050 mm). Cashew trees
are most frequently found in coastal areas.
2.02      Most cashew trees start bearing fruit in the third or fourth year
and are likely to increase their yield up to about twenty years until room
and water and nutrient supply become limiting factors. They have a bearing
life of over 30 years depending on growing conditions. The average yields
of raw nuts of a mature tree under smallholder conditions is in the range of
7 to 11 kilos per annum but under favorable conditions yields may reach 15
to 20 kg. Where the trees are planted about 12 meters apart (70 trees per
ha), which is considered to be the most productive spacing for mature trees
in Tanzania, the average yield per hectare could be about 1,000 kg (i.e. 15
kg/tree) with large variations above or below this figure. However, cashew
trees in Tanzania are more closely planted and are often intermixed with
other trees either in small orchards or in the wild. This makes reference
to a national acreage under cashews meaningless.
2.03      The cashew tree flowers for 2 or 3 months and the fruit matures
about 2 months after the bloom. The raw cashewnut (the true fruit) forms
first at the end of the fruit stalk (peduncle). Subsequently, the fruit
stalk swells to form an 'apple' with the raw nut attached externally. Once



- 11 -
picked, this apple will keep for only 24 hours, but the raw nuts keep for
12 months or more, if they are dried to reduce the moisture content to 9
percent or below, packed in gunny bags and stored in proper conditions.
2.04      The raw cashewnut is 1.5 - 4.0 cm long and kidney shaped.  Its shell
is about 3 mm thick, having a soft, leathery outer skin and a thin hard inner
skin. Between the skins is a honeycomb structure, which contains a phenolic
material, called cashewnut shell liquid (CNSL). Inside the shell is the
kernel, wrapped in a thin brown skin, the testa, which contains tannin. The
constituent parts of a raw nut make up about the following proportions by
weight: the kernel is 25 to 30%, the shell liquid about 20 to 25%, the
testa about 2% and the shell the balance. These figures vary considerably
from year to year and region to region, and also between trees. Different
methods of extracting the kernels from the raw nuts are described in section
C below.
2.05      The marketed products of the cashew tree are kernels and CNSL.
Kernels are consumed directly, mainly as roasted and salted nuts, or in con-
fectionery and bakery products. CNSL is the only naturally occurring phenolic
material entering into world trade. Over 90% of all imports are used in fric-
tion materials. However, CNSL is of minor importance to the cashew processing
industry, as sales value represents only about 3% of total sales value. The
cashew apple can be used to manufacture jams, soft drinks and alcoholic
drinks. However, in the main producing areas of East Africa and India little
of the crop of apples is consumed. The testa is not exploited commercially.
B. Raw Cashewnut Production in Tanzania
General
2.06      Tanzania is the world's second cashewnut producer after Mozambique
and produces an average 120,000 tons of raw nuts annually which represents
about 30% of the total world's production of about 420,000 tons (Tables I
and 11). Cashewnut product is the fifth export crop of Tanzania after
coffee, cotton, tobacco and sisal, and accounted for about Tsh 210 million
(US$25 million) in 1975/76 i.e. about 7% of the value of total agricultural
exports of Tsh 3,000 million (US$360 million).
2.07      Raw cashewnuts are produced almost entirely by smallholders.  The
raw nuts collection starts at the end of the rainy season in June and ends in
November (Table 2). It is estimated that about 400,000 farm families live
in the cashew producing areas. Besides cashew trees, traditional food crops
(cassava, sorghum, millet, maize) are grown and almost completely consumed
by the growers. Cashew is the only significant source of cash and generates
about 90% of the annual family cash income of about Tsh 400 (US$50).



- 12 -
Cashewnut Producing Areas
2.08      Cashew trees producing areas are shown on the Map.  Soils vary from
sandy to red-sandy loams and red loams. The best cashew trees grow on the
well drained upland red soils. The average annual rainfall varies between
600 and 1,500 mm depending on the region, the heaviest rainfall being along
the coast. There are two weLl defined seasons, the dry season from mid-May
to mid-November and the rainy season from mid-November to mid-May. Total
rainfall and rainfall distribution in cashew growing areas vary considerably,
resulting in varying yields from year to year.
2.09      There is no direct relationship between production and acreage,
as trees are scattered over the producing areas, usually closely planted
and intermixed with other trees, crops or bush. The spread of trees has
been caused by planting as well as by seed thrown away by men and animals
after consuming the apple. No information is available on the contribution
to the spread of the trees made by purposeful plantings.
Production of Existing Trees
2.10      About 70% of the raw cashewnuts are produced in the Southern regions,
in the Districts of Mtwara, 1.indi, Newala, Nachingwea, Masasi, Songea, Tunduru
and Kilwa (see Map). The remaining 30% are produced in the North, mostly in
the Coast Region. Although annual production has varied from year to year
by about 10% under and up to 20% above an average of 120,000 tons in the
69/70 - 76/77 period, the percentage contribution of the regions to the total
production is about constant. CATA purchases of raw nuts during the period
69/70 - 76/77 are shown in Table 1. It is estimated that almost all produc-
tion is purchased by CATA, very small quantities being locally consumed.
2.11      The future production of existing cashew trees is estimated to
remain approximately at the current average of 120,000 tons annually. Pur-
chases by CATA in 75/76 and 76/77 were about 10% lower than this average,
mainly because adverse weather conditions affected both seasons. Table 2
shows the average monthly rainfall in the Southern cashew production areas
and the growth cycle of the cashewnut.
2.12      The Government's villagization program might also have had an ad-
verse effect on CATA's purchases in 74/75 and 75/76, since farmers were not
allowed to walk further than 5 miles away from their new villages in these
years, and could not collect the nuts at their old farms. This restriction
was abolished in July 1976.
Plantation Program
2.13      During the 1976/77 season, Government and CATA have initiated
the implementation of a 150,000 ha plantation program. About 8,200 ha were
planted during the 76/77 season and, acccording to Government's plans, the
program would be completed within two years by 1978/79. In the present report
a more conservative view was taken and it is assumed that the program would
be carried out during the 5-year period 1977/78 - 1981/82. The allocation of



- 13 -
planted areas by Districts, as currently planned by Government, is in Table 3.
About 700 villages would be involved in the program. Anticipated yields are
in Table 4. The development of the program's production is in Table 5. It is
expected that at full development in 1992 the new plantations would produce
about 100,000 tons of raw nuts annually, increasing the country's production
by over 80% from 120,000 tons to 220,000 tons annually. As will be noted
later (para 6.03), the processing facilities being financed under the Project
are required even without this planting program.
Raw Nuts Grading and Extension Services
2.14      At village level, two graders check the quality of the raw nuts
during the purchasing season. About 1,400 graders are currently employed by
the 700 cashewnut producing villages, and trained by CATA through seminars
held about twice a year. These graders are paid by the villages which re-
ceive from CATA a fee of Tsh 0.10/kg of raw nuts purchased. At division
level (about 5 divisions per district), CATA employs two extension assistants
per division, who control the graders' activities and assist in their training.
CATA also employs in each district an extension and procurement manager who
works in close collaboration with the extension staff of the Ministry of
Agriculture, and, for each region, a regional manager.
2.15      The grading system described above departs from the organizational
arrangements by which, until 1976/77, CATA was employing its own graders.
Some of the 550 former CATA graders would be employed by the villages, the
remainder would be employed in CATA's factories. As the consequences of the
replacement of CATA graders by village graders can only be assessed through
experience, no precise forecast of the future performance of graders can be
made at present. Grading could deteriorate substantially, as this actually
happened in 1972/73 when the now-defunct cooperative unions were made respon-
sible for grading: the overall percentage of undergrade raw nuts was about
40%, compared to an average of 20% during the 69/70 - 75/76 period. It can
reasonably be expected that CATA would wish to reappoint its own graders if
raw cashewnut quality deteriorated because of the above change in the grading
system. Assurances were obtained from the Government at credit negotiations
that the cashewnut grading system followed during the 1977/1978 season would
be reviewed no later than June 30, 1980, and if such review indicates that the
new system is not satisfactory, CATA would be authorized to follow the 1976/
1977 system or such other system satisfactory to the Association and CATA.
2.16      Extension services are provided by the Ministry of Agriculture and
are organized on a regional, district and village basis. There is one re-
gional agricultural officer per region, one district officer per district and
one extension officer per village, in charge of extension for both agriculture
and livestock. However, following Government's decision to appoint a village
manager for each village in Tanzania, a tight staffing situation of the ex-
tension services is likely to develop, because the majority of the village
managers have been recruited from the agriculture and livestock extension
service cadre. Raw cashewnut production, however, should not be very sensi-
tive to the quality of the extension services.



- 14 -
Purchasing Arrangements and Transport
2.17      During the purchasing season from October to February raw nuts are
purchased daily in each village by a team comprising a cashier, a village
representative and a grader. Procurement activities are conducted by twelve
CATA's District Procurement Centers (branches) under the supervision of CATA's
headquarters. Farmers are lpaid immediately on the basis of weight and grade
(prices are discussed in Chapter III). A levy of Tsh 60 per ton, about 6% of
the farmers' price, is also paid by CATA directly into each village's develop-
ment fund. The raw nuts are stored in 80 kg bags in the village store, until
they are collected by trucks and transported to CATA's main stores in Dar es
Salaam and Mtwara (for direct export), or to factories (for processing).
2.18      Raw nuts are transported by trucks belonging to Regional Transport
Companies, District Development Corporations and private owners, following
annual tenders invited by CATA for the transportation of the year's harvest.
Before 1976, Regional Cooperative Unions were also transporting a large
portion of the harvest. Since the dissolution of the Regional cooperative
Unions in 1976, CATA has been experiencing transport problems which resulted
in delays in transporting raw nuts from villages to the main storage in
Mtwara.
2.19      It is expected that transportation problems will be progressively
alleviated through the reorganization of the trucking industry and the
establishment of public transport companies, supported by IDA (Trucking
Industry Rehabilitation and Improvement Project, Cr. 743-TA). To alleviate
its transportation difficulties until the public transport companies operate
efficiently in about 1980, CATA lodged an application in early 1977 with
the State Motor Corporation for the purchase of a fleet of 70 lorries. The
actual allocation to CATA was 8 lorries for calendar year 1977, and CATA
is expected to receive further allocations for the following years until
all 70 lorries are obtained. CATA considers these arrangements satisfactory;
however the additional transport requirements of the processing project, being
additional to those above, are being provided under the Project (para 6.11).
C. Cashewnut Processing
Manual Cashewnut Processing
2.20      Traditionally, extraction of the kernel from the shell of the cashew-
nut has been a manual operation. The raw nut is roasted to make the shell
brittle and to loosen the kernel from the inside of the shell. Most of the
shell liquid is released and burnt when the raw nuts are roasted. The shell
is cracked with a hammer. Once the kernel is removed from the shell, it is
dried, the testa is peeled off and the kernel is graded and packed in 25 lb
tins, from which the air is replaced with carbon dioxide.



- 15 -
2.21      Manual processing is carried out mainly in India, which processes
by hand about 300,000 tons of raw nuts annually.  The financial and economic
viability of manual processing depends upon labor costs and efficiency.  In
Tanzania, nine manual processing units were established in rural areas since
1970 with a target processing capacity of 1,000 tons per unit.  All these
units have been operating at loss, and only two are still operating but are
expected to be closed shortly. These unsatisfactory results are due to low
labour productivity, low quality of production and high wages. Except for
this small (and declining) proportion of raw nuts processed manually, Tanzania
has traditionally exported most of its raw nuts to India. However, as de-
tailed below, Tanzania has embarked on a program for mechanical processing
within Tanzania.
Principles of Mechanical Cashewnut Processing
2.22      For a long time, the shape of the raw cashewnut and the brittleness
of the kernel defeated attempts at mechanized decortication. Some semi-
mechanized processes were introduced in the 1960's and have been used into
the 1970's but they still showed little labor saving over hand-shelling and
outturned a high proportion of broken kernels. Few fully mechanized systems
are commercially available at present, the most widely known being:
(i)  the Oltremare system (Italy), introduced in the mid-60's;
(ii)  the CASHCO system (Japan), introduced in 1970;
(iii)  the Sturtevant system (UK), first commercially manufactured
in 1970.
2.23      The mechanical processing of cashewnuts consists of the following
main steps:
a)   Sizing, required for accurate control of humidification
and heat treatment.
b)   Humidification, to provide moisture which in the heat
treatment will become steam and rupture the cellular
material and release the CNSL from the shell.
c)   Heat treatment, usually in a hot bath of CNSL.
d)   Shelling.  The methods of shelling differ with the
equipment utilized (see following paragraph). Kernels
are separated from the shell through series of pneumatic
and/or vibrating devices.
e)   Drying of kernels.
f)   Peeling (removal of the testa) which is carried out
manually or with mechanical aids.



- 16 -
g)   Sorting and grading.  There are about 20 grades of
kernels, depending on whether the kernel is broken or
not, how it is broken, its size and color. This is
done by hand and/or mechanical and electronic devices.
h)   Packing of kernels, in 25 lb tins in an atmosphere of
carbon dioxyde to prevent future deterioraiation of the
contents.
2.24      Three main processies are commercially available.  The main difference
between the three commercially available processes noted in para 2.22 is at
the shelling stage of the process. The Oltremare process uses opposed blades
between which the nuts are conveyed and cut open by a linear movement of the
blades. The CASHCO process uases rotary blades. Under these two processes,
the raw nut is levered open, after cutting by the blades. In the Sturtevant
process, the roasted nuts are projected against fixed metal plates, thereby
breaking the shell and releasing the kernel. The processes also differ by
their labor requirements, preconditioning techniques and other engineering
aspects.
Processing Coefficients
2.25      Processing coefficLents vary according to the type of equipment
utilized, the skill of the operators and the quality of the raw nuts. The
two coefficients most representative of a factory's performance are:
(i) the percentage of Icernels to raw nuts; this
percentage usually varies between 20% and 25%;
(ii) the ratio of whole/tbroken kernels; this ratio can
vary widely, but is generally between 70/30 and 40/60.
In India, under manual processing this coefficient has
consistently been about 80/20 in the years 1972 to 1975.
Other processing coefficients include the percentage of CNSL recovery, which
is usually about 7% of the raw nut in weight, and ratios describing the pro-
portions of various kernel grades in the finished product. These various
coefficients are of particular importance when deciding on the optimum process
for procurement under the project, since lower cost systems appear to have
inferior coefficients. It is therefore important that these coefficients are
taken into account, as well ais capital and operating costs (see paras 7.08 and
9.21), in the choice of the processing equipment.
Mechanical Processing in Tanzania
2.26      There are two cashewnut processing factories currently in operation
in Tanzania:
(i) TANITA, in Dar es Salaam, with a processing capacity
of 12,500 tons of raw nuts annually. This factory was
established in 1965i and utilizes Italian (Oltremare)
equipment.



- 17 -
(ii) The Mtwara Cashew Company, in Mtwara, with a processing
capacity of 8,000 tons of raw nuts annually. This factory
was established in 1970 and utilizes Japanese (CASHCO)
equipment.
2.27      Six new factories are currently under construction in Tanzania, five
being financed by the Bank under the first Cashewnut Development Project (Loan
1014-TA) and one by the Bank of Sicily; all these factories will employ the
Italian (Oltremare) process. Four further factories are currently planned,
one may be proposed to the Bank of Sicily for financing, the other three being
the object of the present report.
2.28      A summary of these factories is in Table 6 and their location is
shown on the Map. Detailed schedules of the development of Tanzania's pro-
duction and processing capacity are in Table 7. Total production capacity
would reach 113,000 tons of raw nuts per annum in 1984, i.e. still marginally
under the average production from existing trees, without provision for
processing production from the plantation program.
D. Cashew Research
2.29      No significant research on cashew which could benefit Tanzania
is carried out anywhere in the world. In Tanzania, research was originally
carried out at the Nachingwea Research Station. The main experiments carried
out before 1968 and their results are described in detail in the appraisal
report of the first Cashewnut Development Project (Report No. 397a-TA). In
1968 all cashew research was transferred to the Mtwara Research and Training
Institute, a multi-purpose research station run by the Ministry of Agriculture.
Since then, no intensive cashew research has taken place in Tanzania. At
present, the Mtwara station is only involved in cashew seed production and in
some research on cereals. The old Nachingwea station and the Chambezi station
in the Bagamoyo District are also involved only in seed production.
2.30      Funds were included in the first Project financed by the Bank in
1974 (Loan 1014-TA) for the financing of staff and research equipment. How-
ever, the research staff provided for under the Project was not recruited,
except an expert who arrived in Tanzania in late 1977 to stay for one year
and, the outline of a research program was only drawn by CATA in early 1977,
about one year behind schedule. The Government's postponement of the research
program was due to their expectation of a grant from the Italian Government
to finance the research program. Government recognizes the need for cashew
research which should be carried out mainly in the fields of variety selec-
tion, breeding and pest and disease control to improve the overall quality of
cashew nuts in the long-term, but it prefers to finance such research with
grant or quasi-grant funds, rather than funds on Bank terms, such as financed
the first Cashewnut Development Project.



- 18 -
2.31      The outline of the research program drawn up by CATA was appraised
by the Italian Government in 1977, which is expected to finance a research
program during the two years; 1978/79 and 1979/80. The proposed project
includes the continuation of this program for four years.
III. CASHEWNUT MARKETS AND PRICES
General
3.01      Until the late 1950s, India was the largest producer of raw nuts
and had developed a flourishing processing industry in the state of Kerala.
After the development of the cashewnut industry in Africa, India lost its
predominance in production but still remains the leading processor. Because
of its efficiency and low cost, the Indian processing industry, which remained
a hand industry, is still competitive and viable despite the governmental
price subsidies granted to African processors and the extra freight charges
borne by Indian processors. An advantage of the Indian processors is the
turnout of a higher percentage of whole kernels, about 80 percent, as compared
to the mechanical systems used in East Africa which only turn out about 40 to
70 percent whole kernels.
3.02      Apart from India, marketed production of raw cashewnuts is concen-
trated mainly in East Africa and Brazil. Total annual world marketed pro-
duction ranges between 400 and 500,000 m.t. (Table 11). Mozambique is the
largest producer, with Tanzania, India, Brazil and Kenya following in that
order.
3.03      Both in India and Brazil there has been significant expansion of
plantations in recent years. In Brazil, in particular, where most of the
production has in the past been from wild trees, very large organized
plantations were set up under government supported policies in the late
1960s and early 1970s. Their output is expected to come on stream in the
next few years and to be quite large 1/. In East Africa, on the contrary,
the increase in commercial production of cashew-nuts resulted mainly from
more intensive harvesting of existing trees stimulated by the higher prices
received by the farmers, although Tanzania is now embarking on a village
plantation program (para 2.13).
3.04      Hand processing never developed on a large scale in East Africa
because wage rates were higher than in India. As a result, most East
African raw cashewnuts were exported for processing to India until the
early 1970s. With the development of mechanical processing the incentive
to process the raw cashewnuts in the producing countries has grown, mainly
because of potential increase in value added and export earnings.
1/   According to the US Agriculture Attache Report (BB-6024, July 14, 1976),
production of unshelled nuts in the new organized cashew plantation will
reach about 53,000 metric tons in 1980 and about 182,000 metric tons in
1988.



- 19 -
3.05      Development of the processing industry has been rapid particularly
in Mozambique. Mechanical processing was introduced there in 1963. By 1973,
about 70 percent of the total raw cashewnuts production (170,000 m.t.) was
mechanically processed, the rest being exported raw. In Tanzania, the pro-
cessing capacity reached about 20,000 m.t. a year in the early 1970s, but
additional processing capacity is being built with World Bank and other
financing (as detailed in para 2.27). In Brazil, processing capacity has
grown sufficiently to absorb all the domestic crop, but the processes used
are still for the most part crude and semi-mechanical.
Trade in Cashew Kernels
3.06      Most of the processed cashewnuts are traded in the international
market. Total trade ranged in recent years between 65,000 and 100,000 m.t.
(Table 10). The decline in recent years is due to Mozambique shortfall in raw
nuts marketed production, due to the disruption of its marketing system, which
is expected to recover fully within a few years. Usually, processors sell
to dealers in the importing countries, either directly or via a selling agent
in the importing country. Dealers in turn sell to manufacturers, who process
the cashewnut kernels and prepare them for retail sale. Most shipments to the
USA (the largest importer) from India and Africa pass through the hands of
four main agents in New York.
3.07      India is the main exporter of kernels, although her share of the
market declined from 95 percent in 1962 to about 55 percent in 1972. The
main reason for the Indian decline is the rise of East African and Brazilian
exports. By 1972 Mozambique exported 26 percent of the world cashewnuts
compared to 4 percent in 1962 and Brazil exported 6 percent compared to 1.1
percent in 1962 11.
3.08      The regional distribution of world imports of cashewnut kernels
has remained fairly constant over the years. North America's share of total
imports ranges between 55-60 percent; Eastern Europe, including the USSR,
imports about 25 percent; Western Europe imports about 10 percent; the
remainder of imports is divided among a large number of countries. Follow-
ing the rapid growth in their per capita income, imports of Japan, Hong Kong
and Singapore have become significant. These three countries now account
for about 4 percent of world imports.
3.09      Imports of cashewnut kernels have been growing at a relatively
fast rate in most of the importing countries from the 1960s to the 1970s.
The combined imports of the US and Canada have increased at a rate of
about 4.0 percent per annum between 1960-62 and 1973-75. The Soviet Union
increased its imports at a rate of about 13.7 percent per annum during the
same period. Within Western Europe, the U.K., Germany and Holland are
1/   Since 1973, production of cashewnuts in Mozambique registered a setback
caused by a combination of adverse weather conditions and changes in the
organization structure of the industry. Statistics also became scarce.



- 20 -
the main importers, though the import growth rate of Germany and Holland
has been substantially faster than in the U.K. In Asia, Japan showed a
fast growth rate in imports, and in the Pacific, Australia and New Zealand
have continued to increase their imports at a rate of about 7.0 percent per
annum.
3.10      Consumption:  About 60% of cashewnut kernels are consumed as roasted
and salted nuts, and the remainder in confectionary and in bakery products.
Salted cashewnuts compete with other types of nuts, although other savory
snacks can impinge on the market for salted cahsewnuts. Since the price of
cashewnuts is substantially higher than the price of peanuts or other snacks,
its strong demand growth is largely due to a marked preference of consumers
for salted cashewnuts. Sales of cashewnuts normally reach their principal
peak at Christmas with a lower peak at Easter. Increased consumption in the
US, Western Europe and Japan has occurred despite rising cashewnut prices and
has coincided with a rising income. Income elasticity of demand for cashewnuts
in most of the developed countries is estimated in the range of 0.5 and 1.5,
though in the U.K. and few other countries, the income elasticity is lower.
3.11      Cashewnuts are used in confectionary and baking simply as a sub-
stitute for almonds or for other higher priced nut meals. The bland taste
of cashewnuts is lost in chocolate and bakery products where they are used
mainly to extend the nut texture without masking the primary flavor. Cashew-
nuts are not widely used in the baking industry. They are not as suitable
for cake decoration as almonds. As chopped nuts, they face competition with
less expensive nuts such as peanuts and unblanched hazelnuts. Overall, the
demand for cashewnuts in confectionary and baking fluctuates more than the
demand for salted cashewnuts.
Prices
3.12      Prices of cashewnut kernels 1/ in current terms have more than
doubled in the past 13 years from about US$0.45/lb in 1963 (c.i.f. New York)
to US$1.82/lb in 1976 and to an exceptionally high price of US$2.40/lb in 1977
due to shortage. Cashewnut retail prices are normally two or three times
higher than those of peanuts. Therefore, variations of cashewnut prices over
a narrow range do not induce substitution with other salted nuts. However,
substitution on the basis of price between cashewnuts and other tree nuts
is more likely in mixes where direct consumer preference is not so strong.
3.13      It is expected that until 1980 a worldwide shortage of cashewnuts
will push market prices up. The walnuts and almonds industries in the US
which have a strong impact on the world market, have been adversely affected
by the droughts and have struck the main producing areas. As a result, prices
of all types of nuts are on the rise and cashewnuts are affected mainly as
a substitute.
1/   Grade 300-320 whole kernels in 25 pound tin c.i.f. New York.



- 21 -
3.14      There is, however, no known research on the cross price elasticities
between cashewnuts and other types of nuts due to a limited time series. It
will be highly speculative therefore, to determine whether prices of cashews
will decline when an expected recovery of the nut industry comes about as
expected in the following three or four years. Authoritative sources in the
marketing of cashews believe that consumer behavior has been adjusted already
and therefore prices will stay at a higher level than in the past despite the
likelihood that prices of other types of nuts will decline.
3.15      As there is little reliable information on future world cashew
production, statistical analysis of past prices would not result in a fully
satisfactory forecast or prices. In the analyses included in the present
report, it has been assumed that the price of kernels 320 wholes CIF New York
will be at US$1.60/lb. This corresponds to a 12% increase over 1976 prices,
in real terms which is considered realistic by CATA and cashew traders, as
consumer behavior has been adjusted to the recent high prices of US$2.40/lb in
1977 (para 3.14). As shown at Table 13 the projected price for the Tanzanian
mix in 1985 and thereafter, in 1978 terms, is Tsh 21,180 per ton.
Trade in Raw Cashewnuts
3.16      Trade in raw cashewnuts has been virtually confined to imports by
India of East African raw nuts and occasionally from West Africa and South
East Asia. Despite the increase in processing capacity in Africa since the
mid-1960s, India has been able to maintain the level of its imports of raw
nuts at about 150,000 tons annually, because the growth of East African
production of raw nuts out-stripped that of the domestic processing industry.
Only in the case of Mozambique have raw nut exports to India actually fallen,
but India has been able to compensate for it through higher imports from
Tanzania and Kenya.
3.17      Prices.  In Tanzania, CATA is the sole agency for the export of raw
nuts. Raw nuts are mostly sold to the Cashew Corporation of India. Volume
of sales and prices are negotiated annually at tripartite meetings of India,
Tanzania and Mozambique representatives. As India is practically the sole
outlet for raw cashewnuts, raw nut prices are not determined by a price parity
between raw nuts and kernel prices, but rather by the bargaining power of the
parties concerned. Although no price parity formula between kernels and raw
nut prices has yet been agreed upon during negotiations between Tanzania and
India, it may be presumed that the margin between kernel prices obtained by
India and raw nut prices paid by India will be kept down to the lower levels
of recent years as Tanzanian supply of raw nuts declines and India is obliged
to offer competitive prices for the raw nuts. For the purpose of the finan-
cial and economic analyses in this report, the future margin is assumed to
be about 100% (the margin varied between 90% and 125% during the 1973-1976
period) (Table 9). With a projection of FOB prices for kernels for India
of the equivalent of Tsh 24,460 at present exchange rates in 1978 terms,
this implies a raw nut FOB Tanzania price of Tsh 2,800 per ton (in 1978
prices). The latter price coincides with the indication recently received
from Tanzania that a parity probably acceptable by both Tanzania and India



- 22 -
would be Tsh 17.50 per ton of raw nuts FOB per one US cent per lb of kernels
320 wholes CIF New York. With kernels 320 wholes at US$1.60 per lb CIF New
York, this results in a raw nut FOB price of Tsh 2,800 per ton. This assump-
tion of a relatively low margin to India for raw nut trade, although opti-
mistic as regards to Tanzania's balance of payments, is conservative in
regards to assessing the economic viability of this Project.
Cashewnut Shell Liquid (CNS,J
3.18      CNSL is exported mainly to Japan and the USA for use in the auto-
mobile and paint industries. Sales value of CNSL represents about 3% of total
sales value. CNSL future price is estimated at Tsh 2,500/ton (US$300) FOB
Tanzania in 1978 prices. Tb,is price is the same, in real terms, as in the
past.
Producer Prices
3.19      A review of producer prices is carried out annually by CATA and
the Marketing Development Bureau (MDB) 1/ of the Ministry of Agriculture.
Upon recommendations by the Ministry of Agriculture, the Economic Committee
of Cabinet decides prices (para 1.15) for standard and undergrade nuts which
prices are published before the harvest season. At present producer prices
are computed on the basis of export prices of raw nuts (Table 16). Benefits
are passed on directly to farmers, except small amounts (about 7% of net
producer price) which go to a village fund (fund to finance village's in-
vestments benefiting to the community) and a fund to improve feeder roads.
The margin of about 20% of the export price is expected to cover CATA's debt
service resulting from past commitments (construction of first phase proj-
ect and other) and to provide funds in certain years for investment in the
cashewnut industry (Table 30). Past producer prices are shown in Table 17.
3.20      The producer price setting mechanism used at present is satisfac-
tory, as most cashewnuts are exported raw. However, at Project completion,
Tanzania's cashew processing capacity will have reached such level that the
redistribution of factories' benefits to farmers could have an impact on
farmers' cash income, which is at present about Tsh 400 (US$50) annually,
almost totally generated by raw cashewnut sales. The price setting mechanism
should then be adjusted accordingly. A further discussion of this matter is
at paras 8.16 and 8.17.
IV. THE CASHEWNUT AUTHORITY OF TANZANIA
4.01      The Cashewnut Authority of Tanzania (CATA) was established by the
Cashewnut Industry Act of 1973 (The Act). The Act which came into effective-
ness in October 1973, gives CATA monopoly powers over all activities connected
1/   The MDB is an advisory body within the Ministry of Agriculture, respon-
sible inter alia for the annual agricultural price review. MDB is
assisted by an FAO/UNDP Project (S TAN 27).



- 23 -
with the cashew industry. These powers are to be exercised subject to the
overriding authority of the Minister of Agriculture. Until 1973, these
functions were the responsibility of the National Agricultural Produce Board
(NAPB) a parastatal organization whose existence was terminated in 1973 when
its trading activities in cashewnuts, oilseeds and food crops were transferred
to CATA, the General Agricultural Products Export Corporation and the National
Milling Corporation respectively.
Organization and Management
4.02      CATA's organization is summarized in the chart.  The Directors of
the Board are appointed by the Minister of Agriculture. At present, there
are 16 directors, including representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture,
the Ministry of Finance and Planning, and of the Regions and Districts within
which CATA is operating.
4.03      The functions of the senior management staff in CATA shown in the
chart are self-explanatory. The General Manager is appointed by the President;
he is the chief executive officer of CATA with overall responsibility for the
management and operations of CATA and for implementing the Project.
Financing
4.04      Until now, CATA has been financed through Government grants, loans
from Government and the Tanzania investment Bank for capital investments,
and through the National Bank of Commerce for working capital.
Reports, Accounts and Audit
4.05      The Act required the Board of Directors of CATA to file an annual
report on its operations with the Minister of Agriculture within six months
following the end of its financial year. CATA is also required by the Act
to keep proper books and accounts and to prepare annual balance sheets and
income and expenditure accounts which should be audited by the Tanzania Audit
Corporation and sent with the audit report to the Minister within six months
of the annual audit. The Minister is required to lay the accounts and audit
report before the National Assembly as soon as practicable after the receipt
thereof.
4.06      CATA's financial reporting, however, is weak and accounts have not
been prepared on time since CATA was established in 1973 (para 5.08). It is
expected that this situation will be remedied with the reinforcement of CATA's
financial management to be undertaken under the proposed Project (para 6.15).
4.07      CATA's income statements and balance sheets for the years 73/74 and
74/75 are shown in Tables 18 and 19. Audited 1975/1976 accounts should be
available by mid calendar 1978.
Financial Prospects
4.08      CATA's consolidated cash flow (Table 28) is expected to remain
positive. This question is further discussed at para. 8.03.



- 24 -
Existing Factories
4.09      CATA is a majority shareholder in TANITA and in the Mtwara Cashew
Company, the only two mechanized processing factories operating at present.
TANITA's operating results have been variable, and the quality of its man-
agement and factory operations could probably be improved significantly.
The Management Information System being designed under the first Cashewnut
Development Project should lead to better management (paras 8.08 and 8.09).
Factory operation should benefit from professional services included in the
first Cashewnut Development Project, which uses the same method of processing.
In particular, the kernel whole to broken ratio, which is at present 60/40,
could increase sensibly, since this ratio is 70/30 for a similar factory
presently operating in Kenya which benefits from technical services.
4.10      The Mtwara Cashew Company (MCC) has incurred losses every year since
it started operating in 1970. Its original equipment was a failure and was
replaced in 1974 by a new design from its co-owner, Cashew Company Ltd., Tokyo.
Other technical problems, as well as frequent power failures from the Mtwara
town supply, contributed to the poor results of the factory. It is expected
that the above problems will disappear, because the technical problems have
been solved by the equipment manufacturer, and are progressively incorporated
into the factory, and because CATA intends to purchase an independent power
generator. The whole/broken ratio is at present about 45/55. This ratio is
lower than at TANITA, because the Japanese process employed at MCC causes more
kernel breakage than the Italian process, although it has a higher kernel
outturn.
4.11      The Mbagala factory is a hand processing factory which will be
closed shortly because it is not profitable. Its capacity is about 2,500 tons
of raw nuts annually, and the whole/broken ratio is about 43/57. In 1976, the
overall weighted average whole/broken ratio for the Tanzanian mix was 48/52.
Other CATA's Activities
4.12      CATA carries out a few ancillary activities, such as the transporta-
tion of fertilizers in the Mtwara region, and the operation of service stations
in Mtwara. These activities have a marginal impact on CATA's finances. As
the only major commercial institution in the area, CATA has also had under
consideration the construction of an hotel in its headquarters' town of
Mtwara, which does not offer suitable accomodations. However, it is not
expected that CATA would finance or manage enterprises not directly connected
with the cashewnut industry, without prior consultation with the Association.



- 25 -
V. THE FIRST CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. SUMMARY PROJECT DESCRIPTION
5.01      In May 1974, the Bank extended a Loan for US$21 million (Loan
1014-TA) to the Government of Tanzania to help finance a project for Cashewnut
Development. When the Loan was signed, the project was expected to consist of
the following parts:
A.   Cashewnut Production
(1) The construction, installation and equipping of (i) five new cashew-
nut processing factories to have an aggregate annual capacity to process about
40,000 tons of raw cashewnuts, and (ii) storage facilities at the port of
Mtwara to store 700 tons of cashewnut shell liquid, and the provision of the
services for four years of a Senior Manufacturer's Representative and for
three years each of five Assistants to assist in carrying out the above part
of the Project.
(2) The construction and equipping of CATA headquarters at Mtwara,
including the construction of staff houses and the provision of vehicles.
(3) The establishment and maintenance of a road maintenance unit
attached to each of the five factories for the purpose of maintaining farm
access roads.
(4) The carrying out of a cashewnut research program at the Mtwara
Research and Training Center, and the establishment and operation of a
cashewnut extension and grading service.
B.   Staff Employment, Staff Training and Project Preparation
(1) The employment by CATA of (i) a Marketing Manager and a Financial
Manager, each for a period of four years, and (ii) professional staff to carry
out the research program mentioned above.
(2) The provision of fellowships for Tanzanian research personnel,
overseas management training courses for factory managers, and study tours
and seminars.
(3) The preparation by CATA of future cashewnut development projects
in Tanzania.
C.   Rural Water Supply and Community Education Centers
The carrying out by the Borrower of:
(1) The construction and equipping of rural water supply
facilities at seven locations in Tanzania to supply
water to cashewnut farmers.



- 26 -
(2) The construction of seven community education centers
in the areas from where cashewnuts are being supplied
to the five i-actories included in the Project.
B. PROJECT HISTORY
Project Cost
5.02      When bids were received and awarded for the supply and erection
of processing machinery and the civil works relating to the project's five
factories, headquarters, stores, etc., costs of these items turned out to
be about 30 percent above the appraisal estimate, with buildings costs over
twice the original estimate. The Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB), a develop-
ment finance company supported by the Bank (Loan 1172-TA), agreed in December
1975 to a loan of US$1.1 million to help finance the buildings. This loan is
met from the proceeds of the Bank Loan 1172-TA. TIB lent a further US$600,000
in 1977 to meet the total financing gap for buildings of US$1,750,000.
5.03      Nevertheless, the following Project components had to be excluded,
with the Bank's approval: (i) the establishment of Community Education
Centers in seven selected viLllages, (ii) the improvement of rural water
supplies in seven selected villages, and (iii) the maintenance and upkeep
of access roads to facilitate transportation of cashewnuts from the villages.
The exclusion of these components is not expected to have any significant
effect on the Project's financial and economic performance. Community Educa-
tion Centers and water supplies were not directly related to cashewnut activi-
ties. The maintenance of roads is carried out by the Ministry of Works under
the supervision of the District Development Director. Standards are similar
to those elsewhere in Tanzania. The works are financed through a levy on
cashewnut purchases. Table 20 shows the revised estimate of project costs
and their financing.
Project Construction
5.04      Project's construction has been proceeding satisfactorily, with the
exception of the arrangements for the water supply of the factories. The
water supply difficulties were first identified in June 1976, when CATA esti-
mated the costs of water developments at about US$570,000, compared to the
appraisal estimate of about US$150,000. The Bank recommended that CATA liaise
with the Mtwara District Administration to find out if savings could be
achieved by coordinating activities with the Ministry of Water. In October
1976, the Bank was informed that the existing sources of water were insuffi-
cient and that the lowest of- the proposals made by contractors would cost
about US$1.26 million. However, the Bank found that the technical specifica-
tions and conditions of contract were inadequate and that Bank's procurement
procedures had not been followed. New bids were invited under ICB procedures
at the end of 1976, and the lowest of the two bids received was at US$1.8
million. Upon the Bank's recommendation that CATA try to reduce this cost by
discussing with the Ministry of Water the possibility of their participating



- 27 -
in the works, the award of the contract was withheld until July 1977. As the
discussions with the Ministry of Water yielded no results, the contract was
awarded in July 1977 for an amount of US$1.6 million (the lowest bidder having
revised his offer downwards).
5.05      In February 1978, the project's completion schedule showed an
average delay of about five months in the completion of the factories:
Training and
Commissioning Commence           Full Operation Commence
Factories            Appraisal Est.   Feb. 78 Est.   Appraisal Est.   Feb. 78 Est.
Lindi Factory           May 77         April 78            Sept. 77      Aug. 78
(10,000 tons)
Mtama Factory           July 77        May 78              Oct. 77        Sept. 78
(5,000 tons)
Nachingwea Fact.        June 78        June 78             Sept. 78       Sept. 78
(5,000 tons)
Masasi Factory          April 78       Sept. 78            Aug. 78        Jan. 79
(10,000 tons)
Newala Factory          Feb. 79        Jan. 79            June 79        May 79
(10,000 tons)
Other
Mtwara Workshops              not applicable              May 76         July 77
CNSL Depot                    not applicable              June 77        July 78
CATA Headquarters             not applicable              Feb. 77        April 78
Extension and Grading
5.06      According to CATA, cashewnut extension and grading services have
been operating satisfactorily. The percentages of undergrade raw nuts to
the total purchases (Table 1) tend to show that the proportion of undergrade
nuts was kept down to reasonable limits since 1973/74. No claims for reim-
bursement (25% of local expenditures were to be financed under the loan) have
been received by the Bank for this component, as Government prefers financing
these expenditures from their own funds rather than from borrowings from the
Bank.
Research
5.07      The Project Agreement required that, no later than December 31,
1975, or such other date as the Bank and CATA may agree CATA submit to the
Bank for review a draft of the research program. The research staff pro-
vided for under the Project was not recruited, except an expert who arrived
in Tanzania in late 1977 to stay for one year. The Government's postponement



- 28 -
of the research program was due to their expectation, which materialized,
of a grant from the Italian Government to finance the research program (see
paras. 2.29 to 2.31).
Financial Management
5.08      The post of Finance Director provided for under the project has
never been filled satisfactorily. CATA's financial reporting is weak,
accounts are not prepared on time, the auditor's reports which have been
received by the Bank (FY73/74 and 74/75) highlighted poor accounting practices,
and comprehensive financial projections are not available. The auditor's
report qualifications mainly refer to poor accounting practices, resulting
into unreliable records. A study for the design of a management information
system was made by the firm Coopers and Lybrand and financed under the first
project (Amendment No. 2 of the Loan Agreement, August 1977). The consultant's
report was completed in December 1977. It is intended that funds be included
in the second project for the implementation of this management information
system, and for the services of a qualified finance director. The recruitment
of the finance director would be a condition of credit effectiveness (para.
6.15).
Monitoring
5.09      The appointment of qualified officials or organization to monitor
all the project's activities, and to prepare annual reports thereof, was a
requirement of the Loan Agreement. However, as none of the factories being
constructed in the first phase are yet in operation, no formal appointment has
taken place as CATA has been quite capable of monitoring its present activi-
ties. With the introduction of the management information system noted in
para. 5.08, CATA should be able to monitor its expanded activities without
further external assistance.
Conclusion
5.10      The physical execution of the project, which is expected to be com-
pleted in March 1979 is, overall, satisfactory. The unsatisfactory aspects
of financial reporting and research are not affecting the immediate project's
performance, and are expected to be rectified shortly.



- 29 -
VI. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
6.01      The Project was conceived by Government as a follow-up to the first
Cashewnut Development Project Financed by the Bank (see Ch. V). The Project
would after about three years (1978/79 - 1980/81) increase cashewnut process-
ing capacity by 30,000 tons annually through the establishment of new factories.
The Project would include:
(a)  the establishment of three cashewnut processing factories
each with the capacity of processing 10,000 tons of raw
cashewnuts annually;
(b)  the extension of port storage facilities of Cashewnut Shell
Liquid (CNSL), a by-product of cashewnut processing, by 750
tons;
(c)  the procurement of factory vehicles and tankers to trans-
port CNSL;
(d)  the construction of staff houses for two factories;
(e)  professional services for engineering, supervision of
construction, operation of the factories and training
of personnel, financial management, the implementation
of a management information system, the strengthening of
CATA's cashewnut research program and the carrying out
of a study to determine occupational health hazards in
cashewnut factories.
6.02      The Project would be implemented and managed by the Cashewnut
Authority of Tanzania (CATA), a public institution established in 1973 to
conduct all activities connected with the cashew industry (see Ch. IV),
which is the entity managing the first Cashewnut Development Project.
B. Detailed Features
Factory Sites
6.03      The Project would provide one factory of 10,000 tons capacity of raw
nuts in Kibaha in the Coast Region and two factories of 10,000 tons capacity
of raw nuts each, in Newala and Mtwara respectively, in the Mtwara Region.
The capacity of 10,000 tons of raw nuts corresponds to a standard factory size.
Information on the Map and at Table 7 show that total processing capacity is
expected to remain below the raw cashewnut production, even if the new plant-
ing program (para 2.13) is excluded. However, it would be imprudent to embark



- 30 -
on further expansion of cashewnut processing facilities other than those planned
at present (Table 6) until the actual results of the planting program have shown
that there would be a safe margin between total processing capacity and expected
production. The Government shares these concerns and would keep the Association
continuously informed of any plans for expansion through the regular quarterly
progress reports submitted to the Association.
6.04      Kibaha Site:  The factory would be established in the vicinity of
Kibaha, in the Coast Region (about 20 miles west of Dar es Salaam on the Dar
es Salaam-Morogoro Road). Kibaha is a new town which is being planned as the
capital of the Coast Region. The land use plan was prepared by a firm of
consultants and has been approved by Government. A preliminary review of this
plan by the Bank's Urban Projects Department indicated that it was deficient
in certain aspects and recommended informally Government that they review it
particularly to take account of the likelihood of major industries being
attracted -- the present plan only provides for small scale industry.
6.05      However, the site chosen for the cashewnut factory is some 3 km
west of the new town, on reasonably level site, which is not in conflict
with the present or any expected revised plan. Supply of power and water
would not cause problems as the main electricity transmission lines and the
water supply mains to Dar es Salaam run close to the area. An adequate labor
force would be available from neighboring villages, and communications with
Dar es Salaam are good, so that the factory labor supply is not dependent
on the rate of actual development of the new town itself.
6.06      Newala Site:  The Newala factory would process cashewnuts produced
mainly in the Newala District of the Mtwara Region. The factory would be
constructed on a reasonably level site at approximately 200 m from where one
of the first project's factories is being constructed. The site is on a main
road about 3 km from Newala. Labor for the proposed factory and for the
factory under construction would come from Newala and neighboring villages.
6.07      The water supply system being constructed under the first Project
for the factory in Newala would be sufficient to supply water to the second
factory proposed under the present report. Water would be pumped from a
source about 20 km from the factory through an existing 17 km long pipeline
at present unutilized and a 3 km long new pipe. The additional costs for the
new factory mainly consist of an increase in the pumping capacity. However,
adequate physical contingencies were added to this cost, to provide for un-
foreseen requirements and to take into account the possible need of replacing
whole or part of the existing 17 km pipeline by new pipes. Power for the
factory would be generated internally.
6.08      Mtwara Site:  The Mtwara factory would process cashewnuts produced
mainly in the Mtwara District (Mtwara Region). The factory would be built in
the area owned by CATA and where their present headquarters and main cashewnut
stores are situated. The site is level and well situated. Because of the
availability of existing raw nut storage, which will be underutilized when the
first project's factories come into production, it would not be necessary to
build raw nut storage for the new factory. Workers would come from Mtwara.



- 31 -
The water supply to Mtwara township is erratic, not due to lack of water, but
due to inadequate electricity supply. The Project would include about three
days water storage at the factory and a diesel generator for the factory.
CNSL Storage Facilities
6.09      The Project would provide for the expansion of Cashewnut Shell
Liquid (CNSL) storage facilities being built in Mtwara under the first
project. This would include a storage tank, pumps and piping. The storage
tank would have capacity of 750 tons allowing for an annual throughput of
about 3,000 tons. With the storage capacity also of 750 tons now under con-
struction, total annual throughput in Mtwara would be about 6,000 tons of
CNSL. This would cover the requirements of the cashew processing industry
in Southern Tanzania. Adequate storage facilities are available in Dar es
Salaam for the CNSL production of the Coast Region.
CNSL_Tankers and Vehicles
6.10      In order to transport the CNSL from the factories to the port
storage facilities the Project would include the procurement of 6 tankers.
One tanker would be utilized for the Coast and Dar es Salaam regions, and
5 tankers in the South. The calculation of tankers' requirements is at
Table 21. These tankers would transport almost all Tanzania's CNSL pro-
duction of about 8,000 tons annually, the exception being the Mtwara factory
(proposed under the Project) which would be directly connected by pipe to
the main storage. At present, CNSL is transported in drums, which is a
dangerous and inefficient method. Because no accurate estimate of the effi-
ciency of tankers operations in Tanzania is available, a physical contingency
of 30%, which could allow for two further tankers, was included in the cost
estimate.
6.11      Each of the three proposed factories would also be provided with
two 7-ton lorries to transport the finished product, kernels, and materials
such as empty tins and gunny bags, and three 4-wheeldrive vehicles.
Staff Housing
6.12      The Kibaha and Newala factories would each be provided with seven
houses for managerial staff (Manager, Administration and Personel Manager,
Chief Accountant, Processing Manager, Factory Engineer, Procurement Manager
and Technical Assistant), and with ten low cost houses for other semi-skilled
staff.
Professional Services
6.13      The Project would provide for consultancy for engineering of civil
works and supervision of Project construction, as in the first project.
Negotiations between CATA and its consultant employed for the first project
are well advanced, and Government gave assurances at credit negotiations that
the consultants would be employed no later than June 30, 1978.



- 32 -
6.14      Technical and management services would be provided to CATA by
the equipment manufacturer or by a team of consultants for the operation of
the factories and the training of factory personnel. These services would
be provided for a period of about four years after initiation of processing.
Assurances were obtained from the Government at credit negotiations that
(i) by June 30, 1979 CATA would submit to the Association for its review and
approval the detailed description of the training program for the staff to be
employed in the Project's factories, and that (ii) CATA would employ no later
than the beginning of the assembly of equipment and for a period of at least
four years thereafter qualified and experienced technical and management
experts on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
6.15      The Project would provide for the services of a finance director
and of a chief engineer both for a period of three years. The appointment of
the finance director would be a condition of credit effectiveness, and CATA
has already taken positive steps to recruit such person. Assurances were
obtained from the Government at credit negotiations that (i) until June 30,
1983, the position of Finance Director for CATA would be filled by a person
with qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment satis-
factory to the Association, and (ii) no later than June 30, 1979, and until at
least June 30, 1983, CATA rould employ a qualified and experienced Chief
Engineer on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
6.16      The Project wouldL also provide for consultancy services for the
implementation of the Management Information System designed under the first
project by a firm of consultants. The consultant would also provide asistance
in training CATA's finance and accounting staff. As the consultants would not
be in charge of carrying out CATA's day-to-day financial management work, but
would provide guidance and supervision, their work would be intermittent. A
total of 2 man-years, spread over a 3-year period would be provided under the
Project. Government indicated at credit negotiations that the contracts for
these services are expected to be finalized soon and gave assurances that the
consultants would be employed no later than June 30, 1978.
Environment and Occupational Health
6.17      The Project would be implemented with due regard to the environment
and to occupational health. Inside the factory the main potential problems
could be caused by dust, CNSL fumes, and fire hazards. Outside, the factory
would release gaseous and liquid effluents and smokes, originating mainly from
the burning of cashewnut shells, cooling water, used water after the washing
of cashewnuts which would contain earth-dust and traces of CNSL, and organic
sewage.
6.18      Contact of the skin with CNSL is a health hazard.  It penetrates the
skin which results in shedding of the upper layer, much as in severe sunburns.
It is possible that CNSL compounds, absorbed through the skin, find their way
to other parts of the body, As health consequences of exposure to CNSL and
CNSL fumes are not clearly perceived at present, the Project would include
a study to determine occupational health hazards in the cashewnut industry
and to formulate criteria for monitoring such hazards. Assurances were



- 33 -
obtained from the Government at credit negotiations that such study would be
carried out by December 31, 1979 and that its recommendations would be imple-
mented, as appropriate, in consultation with the Association.
6.19      The Project's environmental and health aspects have been reviewed by
the Bank's Office of Environmental and Health Affairs, which consider that the
project is environmentally sound and that the measures taken in the field of
health are sufficient.
C. Organization and Management
6.20      CATA would have overall responsibility for carrying out the Project.
A detailed description of CATA is at Chapter IV.
Project Construction
6.21      Project construction would be carried out by private contractors
under the supervision of a consulting engineer to CATA and of CATA's engineer-
ing department (para. 6.13). This arrangement was made for the construction
of the first project and is satisfactory.
Factory Operations
6.22      All project factories would be fully owned and operated by CATA as
self-accounting branches. Each factory would employ about 900 persons, of
whom about 700 would be women. The manager of each factory would be respon-
sible to CATA's Director of Factory Operations and Development (see CATA's
organization chart). Assurances were obtained from Government at credit
negotiations that, until June 30, 1983, CATA would inform the Association
on any appointments to the positions of Project factory managers sufficiently
in advance of such appointments so as to allow the Association time to comment
thereon. The factories would be operated by Tanzanian staff who would be
advised on technical matters by a team of consultants from the equipment
manufacturers firm or from an independent firm of consultants for a period of
about four years (para. 6.14). Factory operations would be supervised and
coordinated from CATA's headquarters in Mtwara by the General Manager and
his staff. In particular, CATA's headquarters would directly carry out the
following: (i) purchasing, transporting and distributing raw nuts to fac-
tories, (ii) collecting CNSL, (iii) providing short-term financing of working
capital, (iv) marketing of cashew kernels, and (v) monitoring of factories'
performance and output quality.
Monitoring
6.23      As noted in para. 5.09, CATA would be responsible for Project
monitoring and also for the preparation of a Project Completion Report.



- 34 -
D. Accounts and Audit
6.24      CATA's financial reporting is weak, accounts are not prepared on
time, and the auditor's reports which have been received by the Bank (FY73/74
and 74/75) highlighted poor accounting practices (para. 5.08). It is expected
that this situation would be remedied with the reinforcement of CATA's finan-
cial management to be undertaken under the Project (paras 6.15 and 6.16).
Accounts for factories would be kept separately for each factory. Assurances
were obtained during credit negotiations that CATA would maintain a separate
account for the Project.
6.25      CATA's accounts are presently audited by the Tanzania Audit Cor-
poration which audits all parastatal institutions in Tanzania and which is
acceptable to the Association. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that CATA's accounts would continue to be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association and that CATA would send the audited accounts to
the Association no later than six months after the end of CATA's fiscal
year.
VII. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT
Capital Costs
7.01      Total Project costs are estimated at Tsh 301.8 (US$36.3 million),
the foreign exchange component of which is about Tsh 240.4 million (US$28.8
million) or about 80%. This estimate includes working capital requirements of
about Tsh 18.3 million (US$2.2 million). As goods imported under the Project
would be imported free of taxes and duties, the above cost estimates include
only negligible amounts of taxes corresponding to sales taxes on locally
procured goods.
7.02      All estimates are based on actual bids for civil works and equip-
ment (para. 7.08), which account for about 80% of the Project cost (excluding
working capital) and on prices expected in July 1978. Nevertheless, physical
contingencies of 5% have been added to civil works and equipment covered by
these bids. In addition, 20% physical contingencies have been provided for
water supply and 30% for numbers of vehicles and tankers. Bids received for
civil works and equipment include price adjustment clauses allowing for a
maximum escalation of 5% and 2% of the bid price respectively. An average
inflation rate of about 7.5% per annum was used for the items not covered
in the above bids. The net effects are physical and price contingencies
each amounting to about 7% of base cost.
7.03      Details of the Project costs are presented in Tables 22 to 24, and
are summarized below:



Local   Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total         Foreign      Base
Exchange    Cost
-------Tsh Million -----        -----US$ Million ------()                    (%)
Civil Works                           37.4      63.7    101.1           4.5       7.7     12.2           63         40
Equipment and Vehicles                 4.4      84.4    88.8            0.5      10.2     10.7           95         35
Water                                   2.2      8.6    10.8            0.3       1.0       1.3          80          5
Professional Services                  3.5      46.1    49.6            0.5       5.5      6.0           93         20
TOTAL BASE COST                   47.5    202.8   250.3            5.8      24.4      30.2          81        100
Physical Contingencies                  3.2     13.0    16.2            0.4       1.5       1.9          81          7
Price Contingencies                     3.4     13.6    17.0            0.4       1.6       2.0          81          7
TOTAL COST                       54.1    229.4   283.5             6.6     27.5      34.1          81        114
Working Capital                         7.3     11.0    18.3            0.9       1.3       2.2          60
GRAND TOTAL                      61.4    240.4   301.8             7.5     28.8      36.3           80



- 36 -
Operating Costs
7.04      Current operations would require bank overdrafts up to a maximum,
at the end of each semester of about Tsh 6 million (US$0.7 million) in 1980
(the first year of factories operations) prices for each of the three pro-
posed factories. This includes half of the expected annual expenses for
production and administration. Funds required for the purchasing of raw
cashewnuts, however, are not included because no additional expenses would
be incurred by CATA as raw nuts are at present purchased for export. CATA
is currently authorized by the Ministry of Agriculture to overdraft its
account at the National Bank of Commerce (NBC) by a maximum of Tsh 200 mil-
lion. In practice, CATA's current overdrafts, which finance purchasing of
raw nuts from farmers, do not go over about Tsh 160 million. It is not
expected that CATA will havie difficulties in extending its overdraft facili-
ties to about Tsh 240 million (in 1981/82), in order to cover its additional
requirement of about Tsh 80 million for the starting of 10 new factories,
including the three Project factories.
Financing
7.05      The Project would be financed as shown below:
Tsh Million       US$ Million       _
IDA                       229.4             27.5           76
Government                 54.1              6.6           18
Subtotal               283.5              34.1           94
NBC (Working Capital)    18.3                2.2             6
Total                   301.8             36.3          100
7.06      The Government would relend to CATA fifty percent of the Credit and
fifty percent of the other Eunds required for the Project. This loan would be
repaid over 15 years inclusive of five years of grace, with a rate of interest
of 10% per annum. The other fifty percent of the funds required for the
Project would be made available to CATA as equity. A condition to the effec-
tiveness of the Credit is that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been entered
into between the Government and CATA under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Disbursements
7.07      The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed to cover 100% of the
foreign expenditures for alL the project's components as follows:
(a)  civil works and water
supply facilities:         65% of total expenditures;
(b)  equipment and vehiLcles:    100% of foreign expenditures;
(c)  technical assistance:        100% of foreign expenditures.



- 37 -
All disbursements would be against contracts and would be fully documented.
The credit would be disbursed over a period of six years. The disbursement
schedule is shown at Table 25.
Procurement
7.08      Because of uncertainty on the project cost for equipment and civil
works, and because the type of equipment which would be purchased would deter-
mine the processing coefficients (para 2.25) and the economic and financial
performance of the Project, it was decided after the return of the appraisal
mission that bids for equipment and civil works should be invited through
international competitive bidding, in accordance with Bank Group guidelines,
and should be received and evaluated before credit negotiations. Bids for
civil works have been received by CATA, all from foreign contractors. So as
not to delay the Project, contracts for civil works amounting to a total of
about US$14 million were awarded in April 1978 because construction time is
longer than delivery time for the equipment. Retroactive financing require-
ments would amount to about US$2.5 million. Bids for equipment amounting to
about US$11 million have been evaluated, and it is expected that award would
be made to the CASHCO (Japanese) manufacturer shortly after signing of the
credit.
7.09      Contracts for the purchase of other goods would be bulked as far as
possible and orders for goods of US$100,000 or more would be procured through
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.
Orders for less than US$100,000, amounting to a total of less than US$100,000
would be procured with existing Government procedures, which are satisfactory.
Engineering, construction supervision, and other professional services would
be retained by CATA following Bank Group guidelines.
VIII. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Forecasts of Factory Operations
Basic Assumptions
8.01      The assumptions regarding project capital costs and financing are at
paras. 7.01 through 7.05. Recurrent costs and processing coefficients are
based on actual operating conditions of the CASHCO factory in Mtwara. In view
of the technical improvements introduced by the CASHCO company, these assump-
tions might be conservative. It was assumed that factories would operate at
95% capacity, as this has been the case historically in Tanzania.
8.02      The selling price of cashewnut kernels, the finished product, was
based on a projected price of 320 wholes 1/ of US$/lb 1.60 CIF New York, in
1/   Standard grade used to quote cashewnut kernels prices.  There are 320
whole (i.e. unbroken) kernels in a pound of cashew kernels of such grade.



- 38 -
1978 prices, adjusted to prices FOB Tanzania (para 3.15).  The FOB price of
raw cashewnuts was taken at Tsh 2,800 per ton (para 3.17).  Producer prices
were kept at their 1978 level (para 3.19).
Financial Projections
8.03      Projected Income Statements and Cash Flow Statements for the Project
factories are at Tables 26 and 27. Although the factories' net income would
be negative during the first two years of operations, their cash flow would
each year be positive. The Project's impact on CATA's cash flow (Table 28),
including Project components not directly related to the factories' operations
(part of management services and agricultural research), would also be positive
each year.
8.04      The financial rate of return of the factories would be 12% before
taxes, and 4% after taxes in constant 1978 terms. Sensitivity analyses are in
Table 32.
Farmers Benefits
8.05      Assurances were obtained from Government at negotiations for the
first Cashewnut Development Project (Loan 1014-TA) that, within two years
after the date of the Loan Agreement (i.e. by June, 1976), the Borrower
would establish and thereafter maintain a pricing structure for cashewnuts
based on the grading of such nuts and closely relating world prices to farm
gate prices less appropriate processing and marketing costs (Section 4.02
of Loan Agreement). Government's pricing structure described in para 3.19
follows closely the spirit of the Loan Agreement. However, processing costs
are not at present included in the pricing structure, because the factories
being built under the first Project are not yet in operation. To ensure that
farmers would share in the benefits of the Project, assurances were obtained
from Government at the negotiations of the proposed credit that Government
would continue to maintain a pricing structure based on, inter alia, the grading
of such nuts and closely relating farm gate prices (less appropriate processing
and marketing costs) to appropriate world prices.
8.06      At full development of all CATA's currently planned factories
in 1984/1985, and at the present level of producer prices, CATA's net
annual cash flow before taxes would be about Tsh 140 million (in 1978
prices) of which 95% would be provided by the factories' operations.
About 20% of this Tsh 140 million correspond to depreciation and will
most likely be reinvested in the cashewnut industry. The balance of
about Tsh 110 million corresponds to an overall surplus of about Tsh 920
per ton of raw nuts purchased from the producer. Of this Tsh 920, about
Tsh 520 represents the surpluses which CATA would have been expected to
earn even without any factories, the remaining Tsh 400 being due to the
factories (including the three to be built under the Project). If all
this surplus were distributed to smallholders in the form of increased
producer prices, these prices would rise by 80% from an average of
Tsh 1,120/ton to Tsh 2,040/ton (in 1978 prices), raising the average



- 39 -
family income from about Tsh 400 to Tsh 720 annually. However, such increases
could only be paid when most of the crop is processed through the factories,
rather than exported as raw nuts. The above price increase represents the
maximum increase which could be granted to farmers, since, at this price
level, CATA's would show no profits, and no funds would be available to Govern-
ment in the form of taxes. It is therefore expected that the actual increase
in farmer's revenues will be somewhat lower than stated above. Purely as an
illustration, if half of the possible eventual increase in prices to farmers
took place, and making reasonable assumptions about the relative impacts of
the Project factories and the other CATA factories, the Project would have the
effect of raising the incomes of all 400,000 cashewnut farmers by Tsh 50 per
ton (half of a 25% increase of Tsh 400 per annum), i.e. Tsh 20 per farmer
annually.
8.07      Another way of looking at the input of CATA's factories operations
on smallholders is the better protection against fluctuations in world prices
of cashewnuts. At present, those prices could drop by some 18% without it
being essential to lower the prices to the farmers, while still leaving CATA
in a financially solvent position. With all the factories in full operation,
this margin would be increased to about 30%. As it is considered highly
unlikely that world prices will drop by this amount, there should be little
or no risk to farmers failing to harvest their nuts.
Government Cash Flow
8.08      The Government cash flow is in Table 29.  The Government cash flow
would be negative during the three years of Project's construction and the
cumulated deficit would reach a maximum of about Tsh 74 million (US$9 million)
in current terms. Thereafter, the cash flow would be positive; the cumulative
cash flow would become positive during the third year of factories' operations,
in Project Year 6.
Foreign Exchange Benefits
8.09      The Project's impact on Government's foreign exchange earnings is
in Table 30. There would be a foreign exchange deficit during the first
two years, reaching a maximum of Tsh 4.7 million (US$0.6 million), of which
over 60% correspond to operating costs and foregone revenues from raw nuts
exports during the first six months of factories' operation, the remaining 40%
corresponding to the IDA service charge. At full development in Project Year
7, the net annual foreign exchange earnings would be about US$7 million in
1978 terms.
IX. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Summary Economic Benefits and Justification
9.01      The Project would support Government's high priority given to cashew-
nut processing under the Third Five Year Plan. The Project would increase



- 40 -
cashewnut processing capacity in Tanzania by 30,000 tons of rawnuts, which
would otherwise be exportetd unprocessed, thus increasing Tanzania's net
foreign exchange earnings by about US$7 million equivalent annually (in 1978
prices) when factories would have reached their maximum capacity in 1984/85.
The project would provide employment to about 3,000 workers, of which two-
thirds would be women. CaLpital investment 1/ per job created would be about
US$9,000 (in mid 1978 prices) and falls within the range characteristic of
modern medium scale industries 2/. As noted in paras. 8.06 and 8.07, the
Project is expected to contribute to increases of farmer's income, affecting
all 400,000 cashewnut producers.
9.02      The basic economtic rate of return (ERR) would be about 16%.
Foreign exchange and labor were shadow priced.3/ If foreign exchange and
labor were not shadow priced, the ERR would decrease by about 4 percentage
points, of which 3 percentage points are accounted for by the shadow pricing
of foreign exchange.
B. Basic Assumptions
9.03      The economic life of the project is assumed to be 25 years.  The
rate of return analysis includes all expenditures for capital investments
replacements and operation and maintenance costs directly related to the
operation of the factories.
9.04      Assumptions on capital and recurrent costs are at paras 7.01, 7.02
and 8.01. Costs do not include price contingencies, taxes and duties. Physical
contingencies, however, are included in the calculation of the rates of
return.
9.05      Assumptions regarding kernel and raw nuts prices are at paras. 3.15
and 3.17 respectively. Costs and benefits streams used for the calculation of
the rates of return are shown in Table 31. The summary of the sensitivity
analysis is in Table 32.
C. Sensitivity Analysis
Changes of Prices
9.06      A decrease of kernel prices of 10% during the entire project life,
with an accompanying decrease of the export price of raw nuts, would reduce
1/   Net of price contingencies, working capital and interest during
construction.
2/   The cost per job created of the Tanzania-Morogoro Industrial Complex
(Loans 1385 and 1386 'CA) calculated on the same basis, is about US$12,500.
3/   Shadow foreign exchange rate Tsh 12.0/US$1.0, compared to current
rate of Tsh 8.3/US$1.0. Wages shadow rated at 75% of their actual
price.



- 41 -
the ERR by 2.5 percentage points from 16% to 13.5%. If kernel prices were 25%
lower than expected during the entire project life, the ERR would be 10%.
9.07      About 70% of the project's recurrent costs correspond to the cost
of raw nuts, the price of which is relatively uncertain (para 9.11). For
each 10% increase (decrease) of the export price of raw nuts, the ERR would
decrease (increase) by about 2.5 percentage points.
Capacity Level of Factories' Operations
9.08      It was assumed in this report that the factories would operate
at 95% of capacity, as this has been the case historically in Tanzania.
For each 10% decrease in the factories' throughput during the entire
project life (this corresponds to about 1,000 tons of raw nuts per factory),
the ERR would decrease by about two percentage points.
Delay in Factories' Start Up
9.09      A delay of one year in the realization of benefits, with an accom-
panying delay of variable production costs, and no delay in capital and fixed
costs, would reduce the ERR by half of a percentage point from 16% to 15.5%.
Capital Costs
9.10      The capital cost estimates are based on actual bids (para 7.08),
and it is not expected that project cost will materially differ from these
estimates. An increase of 10% of capital costs, however, would decrease
the ERR from 16% to 15%.
D. Uncertainties and Risks
Uncertainties
9.11      Most raw cashew nuts produced in Tanzania, if not locally pro-
cessed, are exported to India. The export price of raw cashew is negotiated
each year, and, in the absence of a world market, prices cannot be forecasted
with reasonable certainty. As noted in para 3.17, raw cashew prices are not
determined by a price parity between raw nuts and kernel prices, but rather
by the bargaining powers of the virtually sole purchaser of raw nuts (India)
and of the few remaining producers who do not process their own cashew (mainly
Tanzania). These relative bargaining powers are, of course, directly affected
by Tanzania's decision to process an increasingly large share of its own
cashew crop. This factor makes the economic analysis of the project particu-
larly difficult. However, the principal price assumption (para 3.17) used
for the economic analysis for raw nuts - FOB price of Tsh 2,800 per ton -
implies a relatively low margin for India. It is probable that Tanzania would
receive only about Tsh 2,500 per ton for its raw nuts if it had not decided to
process domestically all its production. If raw nuts were valued at Tsh 2,500
per ton the ERR would be about 18%, and the FRR 14%.



- 42 -
Risks
9.12      Technical risks regarding plant design and operations and risks of
substantial delays of construction can be considered low since (i) substantial
experience is being gained during the construction of the first project, (ii)
the projection of factory performance is based on actual coefficients observed
at the CASHCO factory in Tanzania (Mtwara), and (iii) the project provides for
training of factory personnel.
9.13      The commercial risks are considered relatively high given the range
of uncertainty of prices of cashew kernels. It should be considered unlikely
that cashew kernel prices would fall from the expected US$1.60/lb to below
US$1.30/lb, or rise above US$1.90/lb. This would result in the ERR within
the 11% - 20% range.
9.14      Managerial risks are minimized through the provision of technical
and management services outlined earlier. Also, the fact that the three
factories would be operated independently mitigates the risk of unsatisfactory
factory management.
E. External Effects of the Project
9.15      At present Tanzania exports most of its raw nuts to India.  Tan-
zania's average production is 120,000 tons annually, of which about 20,000
tons are processed domestically. The balance of 100,000 tons is exported
to India (80,000 tons) and other countries. India's imports of raw nuts from
Tanzania represent about half of its total rawnut imports.
9.16      The development of mechanical processing in Africa will ultimately
result in the disappearance of raw cashew trade between Africa and India.
The Government of India has, for several years, been aware of these devel-
opments, and its current plans provide for raising raw nuts production in
India by 150,000 tons annually after about 10 years (the Government of India
has undertaken the preparation of a paper outlining a possible cashewnut de-
velopment project which may be suitable for IDA financing). To the extent
that India is able to step-up domestic production, the proposed Tanzanian
project, which would contribute to a reduction in raw nuts exports of about
30,000 tons, would not have a significant impact on the cashewnut processing
industry in India.
X. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
10.01     The following are conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a) that the position of Finance Director for CATA
has been filled by a person whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment
are satisfactory to the Association (para 6.15);



- 43 -
(b) that a subsidiary Loan Agreement has been entered
into between the Government and CATA under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association (para 7.06).
10.02     Assurances were obtained from the Government and CATA at credit
negotiations that:
(a)  the cashewnut grading system followed during the 1977/78
season would be reviewed no later than two years from the
date of the credit agreement and from time to time there-
after, and if such review indicates that the new system is
not satisfactory, CATA would be authorized to follow the
1976/1977 system or such other system satisfactory to the
Association and CATA (para 2.15);
(b)  consultants for engineering of civil works and supervision
of Project construction would be employed no later than
June 30, 1978 (para 6.13);
(c)  by June 30, 1979, CATA would submit to the Association for
its review and approval the detailed description of the
training program for the staff to be employed in the
Project's factories (para 6.14);
(d)  until June 30, 1983, the position of Finance Director for
CATA would be filled by a person with qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment
satisfactory to the Association (para 6.15);
(e)  no later than June 30, 1979, and until at least June 30,
1983, CATA would employ a qualified and experienced
Chief Engineer on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association (para 6.15);
(f)  consultants to implement a Management Information
System and to train CATA's finance and accounting
staff would be employed not later than June 30, 1978
(para 6.16);
(g)  Government would carry out, or cause to be carried
out, by December 31, 1979, a study to determine
health hazards in its cashewnut industry and to
formulate criteria for monitoring such hazards, and
thereafter, in consultation with the Association, would
implement, as appropriate, the recommendations of such
study (para 6.18);
(h)  CATA would inform the Association on any appointments
to the positions of Project Factory Managers suffi-
ciently in advance of such appointments so as to allow
the Association time to comment thereon (para 6.22);



- 44 -
(i) CATA would maintain a separate account for the
Project (para 6.24). CATA's accounts would
continue to be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association, and the audited
accounts would be sent to the Association no
later than six months after the end of CATA's
fiscal year (para 6.25);
(j) Government would continue to maintain a pricing
structure of raw c:ashewnuts based on, inter alia,
the grading of such nuts and closely relating
farm gate prices (less appropriate processing
and marketing costs) to appropriate world prices
(para 8.05).
10.04     Based on the above assurances and conditions the proposed Project
is suitable for an IDA Crediit of US$27.5 million, on standard terms.



TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPKENT PROJECT                                  Table 1
CATA Purchase of Raw Nuts, 1969/70 to 1976/77
(Ton '000)
69/70       70/71      71/72       72/73       73/74       74/75       75/76       76/77
I. Northern Regions
Coast Region                     29         31          34         30          39          30          29          29
Other Regions l/                  1          3          4           4           6           5           4           5
Total                         30         34         38          34          45          35          33          34
II. Southern Regions
Zone I I/                        42        42          43          47          54          41          38          39
Zone II 3/                       28         27         33          33          31          31          25          28
Zone III 4/                      11         10         12          12          15        -11           10           9
Total                         81        79          Al          92         100          83          73         76
TOTAL                   111        113         126         126         145        118         106        110
~~~~~~-=    :
Undergrade Raw Nuts (x)           4         18         20          39          10          12          19         12
1/ Tanga, Morogoro, Mbeya, Moshi, Iringa.
2/ Corresponds to CATA zones A, F, G, H, I which include the districts of
Mtwara, Lindi (pare), and Nevala.
3   Corresponds to CATA zones C, D, J, K, L, which include the districts
of Tunduru, Nachingwea, Masasi and Songea.
_/ Corresponds to CATA zones B and E which include the districts of
Kilwa and Lindi (part).
December 20, 1977



Table 2
TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RainfaLl and Cashewnut Growth Periods /
Month
J     F   M    A    M    J    J    A    S    0    N    D
Average Rainfall (mm) 2       200   170  180  135  30    6    4    4    8   12   40   140
Rainfall (1975) 2/             -      89   98   -  217    -    -    -   28    -  107   120
Rainfall (1976) 3/            227   264  219   77  77   32    -    -    -   24   -        -
Growth Periods:
Flowering
Fruit Set/Ripening                        l       _I
Harvest
1/ For Southern regions, which produce about 70% of Tanzania's cashewnuts.
2/ For the period 1931-1960. Source: Mtwara Regional Integrated Development
Plan 1975-1980, Finnconsult.
3/ Nachingwea research station.



Table 3
TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cashewtree Plantation Program: Allocation of Planted Areas
Region                                 District                Area (ha)
Coast and Other                        Bagamoyo
Northern Regions                       Mizizima
Kisarawe
Rufiji
Kibaha                   62,600
Mtwara                                 Mtwara
Newala
Masasi                   17,500
Lindi                                  Lindi
Kilwa
Nachingwea
Liwale                   46,000
Ruvuma                                 Tunduru
Songeo
Mbinga                   12,500
Morogoro                               Mahenge
Ifakara
Morogoro
Kilosa                    6,250
Nbeya/Iringa                           Kyela
Mbozi
Ludewa                    3,125
Total           147,975 ha
(150,000)
Source: CATA



Table 4
TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cashewtree Plantation Program: Anticipated Yields
Age of Tree 1/                Yield (kg/tree)         Yield (kg/ha) 2/
1
2
3
4                                0.5                    35
5                                2.5                   175
6                                4.0                   280
7                                5.5                   385
8                                6.5                   455
9                                7.5                   525
10                                8.5                   595
11                                9.5                   665
1/ Seeds are planted from January to March. Age of tree is counted from
the date the seed is planted.
2/ Trees are spaced 12 meters apart. There are 70 trees per ha.
August 4, 1977



TANZANIA
SECOND CASEWNIUT DEVZLOENT FROJECT
Cashewtree Plantation Program: Production
(Ton '000)
Year of           Area                                                                                                                                                                          91/92
Plantation 1/   Planted (ha)    78/79         79/80        80/81       81/82       82/83       83/84       84/85       85/86        86/87       87/88       88/89        89/90       90/91    & thereafter
76/77            8,000 2/        -         0.3           1.4         2.2         3.1         3.6         4.2         4.8         5.3          5.3         5.3         5.3          5.3          5.3
77/78           22,000           -          -           0.8          3.8         6.2         8.5        10.0        11.6        13.1         14.6        14.6        14.6         14.6         14.6
78/79           30,000           -          -             -          1.0         5.3         8.4        11.2        13.7        15.8         17.9        20.0        20.0         20.0         20.0
79/80           30,000           -           -            -           -          1.0         5.3         8.4        11.2        13.7         15.8        17.9        20.0         20.0         20.0
80/81           30,000           -           -            -           -           -          1.0         5.3         8.4        11.2         13.7        15.8        17.9         20.0         20.0
81/82           30,000           -          -             -           -           -           -          1.0         5.3         8.4         11.2        13.7        15.8         17.9         20.0
Total production
(for 150,000 ha)              -         0.3          2.2         7.0         15.6        26.8       40.1         55.0        67.5        78.5         87.3        93.6        97.8          99.9
Allocation by Region 3/
Coast and other Northern
Regions                            _         0.1         0.9          2.9         6.6        11.3        16.8        23.1        28.4        33.0         36.7        39.3        41.1         42.0
Southern Regions                     _         0.2          1.3         4.1         9.0        15.5        23.3        31.9        39.1        45.5         50.6        54.3         56.7         57.9
1/  Trees are planted Erom January to March.
2/  Actual.                                                                                                                                                                                                        n
3/  Production is allocated proportionately to areas shown at Table 3.
i.e. Coast and other Northern Regions 42I of total and Southern
Regiona 58% of total.
September 2. 1977



TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Tanzania's Cashewnut Processing Capacity
Expected
Factory              Production at          First Year     Equipment
Name                  Full Capacity(ton)   of Operation        Used                           Observation
TA>.ZT^.  12,,00  uperatilng     italianI
TANITA II                  12,500              78/79         Italian            Financed by Bank of Sicily,under construction
Kibaha                     10,000              81/82       Undetermined         Financing requested from IDA ,under the Project
Mtwara CashcO Co.           8,000            Operating       Japanese
Mftwara                    10,000              81/82       Undetermined         Financing requested from IDA ,under the Project
Lindi                      10,000              78/79         Italian            Financed by Bank, Loan 1014-TA ,under construction
Mtarn.                      5,000              77/78         Italian            Financed by Bank, Loan 1014-TA ,under construction
Ne-wala I                  10,000              78/79         Italian            Financed by Bank, Loan 1014-TA ,under construction
Newala II                  10,000              81/82       Undetermined         Financing requested from IDA ,under the Project
Masasi                     10,000              78/79         Italian            Financed by Bank, Loan 1014-TA ,under construction
Nachingwea                  5,000              77/78         Italian            Financed by Bank, Loan 1014-TA ,under construction
Tunduru                    10,000              81/82         Italian            Planned, Financed by Bank of Sicily
Total Capacity     113,000
August 18, 1977                                                                                                              X
I-



TANZAN7LA
SECOND CASH5RCUT DhTL0JIPI    PLOIECT
Satla a, R.. Outs *nd Procet.S.in   C- eltt
(70 '000)
A Mrg.                                                                                                                                                                    91/9
8rod,ot1o,,        76/77            77/78            78/79            79/80            80/81            81/82            82/83            83/84             64,'5              -d
70/71-76177 7hereLcer_
1. NartItern Recians
Coas.t R8.g.,     ,                     31              29               31               31               31               31               31               31               31               3i               31
Other R.oni.-  1                         4               5                4                4                4                4                4                4                4                                 _
0..- '10211D82 -                         -                                                                                    1.0             3.0              6.5             11.5             17               42
local Produ,tion                     35               34              35               35               35                86              38               41.5              46.5             52               77
PtoC.l nL C-D5CitV
T0-C,. I F..tOry                                          12               12.5 12.5 12.5    12 .5    12                                                           .5    12 .5    12                .5             12.5
70011.0 11 Pent..,, _/                                     _                8.0             10.0             12.5             12 5             12 5             12.5             12.5             12 5             12 5
I/ISha _/                                                  -                                 -                -                                 7.5               8.5             9.5             10.0             10.4
P-1        c-s-ine CanaitY                           [2.5             20.5             22.6             25.0             25.0             32.5             33.5             34.5             35.0             35 .
.4a-lc-be r-r E.-oL                                           21 5             14.5             12.5             10.0             11.0              5.5       5       .0       a      2.0             17.0                0
11. So,.1hern Rent,,,.
ft.d-ct [08
Produetio
Zoo. 1 6L/                              45              39              45               45               45               45               45                45               45               45               45
Zon.  II L                              30              28              30               30               30               30                30               30                                30               30
Z.n  III1                               10               9              10               10                10               10               10               10                                10               10
S.C  Plec0lnr'sn                          --                                -                                 -                 1.5              4                 9              15.5             23.5             38
7.t.1 Production                     85              76                5               85               85               86.5             90               94              *00.5            108.5            143
Procorsulo Ceneoll,,
Lt,dl F-to  y/                              -                                 5.0              9.0             10.0             10.0             10.0             10.0             10.0             10.O             10.0
Mowac-  C..h.. Co.                                           8 0                . 0            8.0              8 0              8.0              s.0               8.0              s.0             8.0               8.0
--v0.0  F ctory 2/                                           -                -                -                -                -                7.5               8.5             9.5             10.0             10.0
MC. Fe.toy 2                                                 -                 '.5             4.0              5.0              5.0              50                1.0              5.8             5.0              5
No.-..    I Factory 2/                                       -                -                6.0              9.0             10.0             10.0             10.0              10.0            10.0             10.0
Ne_.l. 11 FPeto0y 5/                                                  -                -                -                         -               7.5               8.5              9.5            10.0             10.0
M...1 Ft 0C-y 2/                                             -                -                7.5              8.5              9.5             100               10 .0            10.0            10.0             10.0
N.ohign-. FPetory 2/                                          -                1.5             4.0               5.0              5.0              5.0              5.0              5.0              5.0              5.0
T7nduru F.t.oy _                                             -                 -                -                7.5              8.5              9.5            10.0              10.0             10.0            10.0
Tot.l Pr-o e60n Ce peet,                              8 0             16.0                                                                3 2 5            75.0             77U.0 7.3                         78.0
Aewileble lor 0.ewrt                                         68               69               46.5              32              30               17.5              19               23.5            30.5             65
Et.iting T....                           120             110              120              120              120              120             120               120             120              120              120
N-  Plestings                             _              -                                                                                    _                 16              _
T.t.1                               120             110              120              120              120              122              127              136              147              160             220
FPe ....si    C.peeLty               not  pplie-ble         20.5             36.5             61               78               a1              1OS              106.5            111.5           113              113
R- Nutc. A*vdlbl. f..  Ueport             -"-               89.5             63.5             59               42               41               23               27               35.5             47.5           107
11 TS.e, 8               breg.r.. ).y..  hi, 1erteg.
V  Fo  Teb l. S      S     rsuded tn neatest 500 t-e..
/ ti.ting f-t-r.
Ud 0.r   fon ierCe.tnoe   lieenod by the  enk .( SieiLY. Cwtr,Ctle   f TotSduru feetery  i  espetted to  t.rt in ..1end-r 1977.
P. Prp.. d .ed    the pree.nt prnj et.
W  Distrit. of MW-r. pert .f Liedi,   d N eI.
V  Ditti t: n2f Tsnduru. N-ehinEge. esei *d Sor...
/l Oietnte .t   Kil . *nd p          frt nt Lidi.
9/ 0.d0.  oCeetetine e.D.t the first C-ebh t Dov ln_nt PeFrot- ,
finscen d by the       .
10/ TSld  ..um  Cill b.  cepted bfore greens,               r et.s  thee lnetl
pCo OtiCe dOt.  ill be p ledIely  he.
n e.- not av_1lhble
De.e.ber 20, 1977



TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Export of Cashewnut Kernels from Processing Countries
(t0)Q m,t,)
1962   1963   1964   1965   1966   1967   1968   1969   1970   1971    1972   1973   1974   1975              1976
Brazil          0.6    1.1    1.1    0.7    1.8    1.5    3.3    5.1    6.5    4.6           7 3e  6.0    7.6    11.4        10.0
Kenya            -       -     0.1    0.2    0.1    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.1    0.2          0.1   0.2    0.1       0.2       1.6
Tanzania         -       -     0.1    0.1    0.6    1.4    1.4    2.4    2.9    4.0          2.9   3.7    4,1       4.0       6.1
Mozambique      1.9    2.7    3.5    4.0    5.7    8.1   11.3   12.8   14.7   20.4    27.2   4.0    8, 0. 8.P/   8.0 -
India A       48.6   51.0   55.7   51 3   50.1   51.0   63.7   60.6   50.3   60.4    66.3  52,3   65,0    53.6              46.0
Total      51.1   54.8   60.5   56.2   58.3   62.2   79.8   81.1   74.5   89.5   103.3  66.2   84.8    77.2              71.7
al Actual Figures un"tro-n.  A 'rndtictioni of 8,000 metric tons of kernels has been assumed
[1  Twelve months from April of the year shown to March of the following year.
Totals may not equal the sum of their constituent items, due to rounding of figures.
Source:  National Trade Statistics; Gill and Duffus Landover Ltd., Edible Nuts Statistics  December 1976.
H
a.
tJ.



TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
India's Margin on Raw Nut Processing -
Actual Prices in Current Terms             Projected for 1985 and thereafte
1972      1973       1974      1975       1976        1976 Terms      1978 Terms
Kernels Exported (ton '000)                         66.3       52.3      65.0       53.6       46.0
Value of Kernels FOB India(Rs million)             688.2      744.3   1,181.4      961.3      920.0
Average Kernel Price FOB India(Rs/ton)          10,380    14,231    18,175    17,935    20,000
Average Kernel Price FOB India(Tsh/ton)          9,265    12,545    16,020    14,930    18,650              20,900          24,460
Average Raw Nut Price FOB Tanzania(Tsh/ton)    1,330        1,280     1,720      1,820     1,980             2,400           2,800
Margin per Ton of Raw Nuts(%)-/                     60        125       114         89        117              101             101
1/ Source: India Monthly Statistics of Foreign Trade. Twelve months from April of the year shown to March of the following year
2/ For comparison purpose with prices obtained in Tanzania. Exchange rates used are as follows:
72        73         74        75         76
Tsh/US $            7.14      7.14       7.14      7.41       8.30
Rs/US $             8.0       8.1        8.1       8.9        8.9
3/ Assuming a kernel to raw nut outturn of 23%.  The margin would cover transportation and processing costs and profits.
Margin (X)   100 x (Kernel Price x 23% - Raw Nut Price)/Raw Nut Price.
H
PZ
S



Table 10
TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Kernels 320 Wholes Prices CIF New York
(US $flb)
1972     1973     1974      1975     1976
January               0.73     0.74     1.28      1.10     1,05
February              0.72     0.81     1.22      1.12     1.12
March                 0.74     0.82      1.18     1,13      1.16
April                 0.75     0.86      1.20     1.28     1.18
May                   0.75     0.94      1.28     1.22      1.18
June                  0.78     1.15     1.30      1,13     1.20
July                  0.77     1.20     1.22      1.10     1.25
August                0.75     1.20      1.15     1.15     1.28
September             0.73     1.13     1.10      1.12     1.29
October               0.74     1.10     1.10      1.06     1.28
November              0.73     1.06      1.10     1.03     1.30
December              0.72     1.12      1.06     1.05     1,40
Average 1/            0.74     1.01      1.18     1.12     1.22
1/ Not weighted by corresponding tonnage.
Source: US Department of Commerce
January 6, 1978



TANZANIA                                   Table 11
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Raw Cashewnut Production
(t000 m.t.)
Year     Brazil   Mozambique   Tanzania       Kenya      India        Total
1963       22         133           43            5        66          269
1964       16         142           57            5        14          294
1965       22         119           65            8        67          281
1966       22         106           75            6        59          268
1967       26          97           78            9        72          282
1968       29         189           87            9        68          382
1969       29         132           94           10        68          333
1970       26         138           92           24        58          338
1971       16         156          116           11        90          388
1972       40         201          127           16        77          461
1973       25         167          128           11        65 e        396
1974       35         180          145          22         75 e        457
1975       37         9go          120          25        105 e477
e = estimate
Source: Tropical Product Institute, The Market for Cashew-Nut Kernels
and Cashew-Nut Shell Liquid, Gill and Duffus Edible Nut Market
Reports, various issues.



TANZANIA                              Table 12
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Price Relationship between Processing Mix and 320 Wholes
Expected           Price Relationship
Kernel Grade                Outturn (%)          (320 grade . lOC)
220                          1                      105
320                         30                      100
450                          1                       95
T. Wholes                        12                      95
D. Wholes                         6                      75
50                      48
Butts                             2                      70
Splits                          15                       75
Large Pieces                     20                      65
Small Pieces )
Baby Bits    )
Dessert P.                      .13                      50
Baby P.
50                      32
Total Kernels                100                       80
March 23, 1978



Table 13
TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projection of Kernel Prices
Actual        Projected for 1985
and Thereafter
1976      1976 Terms    1978 Terms
Average Price  320 Wholes CIF New York (US$/lb)          1.22          1.37           1.60
Less:  Quality Adjustment 1/                             0.06          9.07           0.08
Less:  Freight and Insurance                             0.10          0.10           0.12
Average Price   320 Wholes FOB Tanzania (US$/lb)         1.06          1.20           1.40
Average Price   320 Wholes FOB Tanzania (Tsh/ton) 2/ 19,355           22,060         25,830
Price   Project Mix FOB Tanzania (Tsh/ton) 3/           14,862        17,648         20,664
1/ On average cashew kernels processed in Africa command prices about 5% lower than
prices for India processed kernels. The latter weight heavily in the statistics
yielding average New York prices, since India processes over 60% of world cashewnuts.
2/ Ton 1.0 = lb 2,200; exchange rates: US$ 1.0 = Tsh 8.30 in 1976 and thereafter.
3/ In 1976, the average price of the Tanzanian mix was only 77% of the 320 wholes
price, because the weighted average of the whole/broken ratio was only 48/52.
TANITA output was 60/40, the output at the Mtwara Cashew Co. was 44/56 and the
output at the Mbagala hand processing factory was 43/57. The whole/broken ratio
of the new factories is expected to be 50/50, and the resulting average
mix price would be 80% of the 320 wholes price (see Table 12).
March 23, 1978



Table 14
TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Costs of Raw Nuts to Factories 1/
(Tsh/ton)
Foreign Exchan8e    Foreign Exchange
Shadow Rated 2       Not Shadow Rated
Raw nuts, F.O.B. Mtwara/Dar es Salaam               4,025                2,800
Less: F.O.B. Charges -                                 100                 100
Less: Transport to Factory (Average)                   100                 100
Economic Cost to Factory                             3,825               2,600
1/ In mid-1978 prices.
2/ Foreign exchange costs valued at US$ 1.0 = Tsh 12.0 (official exchange rate
US$ 1.0 = Tsh 8.30).
3/ No price parity formula between kernel and raw nut prices has yet been arrived
at during negotiations between Tanzania and India, but there are indications
that an acceptable parity would be Tsh 17.50 per ton of raw nuts per one
US cent per lb of kernel, 320 whole, CIF New York.
4/ Mostly handling. Export taxes are not taken into account because they represent
a transfer within the economy.
March 23, 1978



Table 15
TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Cost of Raw Nuts to Factories 11
(Tsh/Ton)
Standard              Under
Grade                Grade
Producer Price                                      1,150                1,000
Transport to Factory 2/                               200                   200
Bags and Twine                                        130                  130
Procurement Administration                            190                  130
Village Levy                                           60                    60
Sub-total                                       1,730                1,520
Crop Insurance3/                                        3                     2
Cash Insurance 4/                                       2                     2
Bank Interest  _!                                      58                    53
Head OffIce Administration                            120                   120
Feeder Roads Fund                                      20                    20
Sub-total                                         203                  197
Total Cost to Factory                           1,933                1,717
Average Cost to Factory N Tsh/ton 1,900.
1/ Expected 1978/79 costs.
2/  Average Tsh 200 per ton for transportation within a district.
3/ About 0.15% of value of crop.
4/ About 0.1% of cash handled.
5/ 6.5% for about 6 months.
6/ Based on historical data, showing that an average 20% of nuts are undergrade.
Source: CATA
July 25, 1977



Table 16
TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Costs of Exporting Raw Nuts
(Tsh/Ton)
Standard       Under
Grade        Grade
Producer Price                                   1,150          1,000
Transport                                          200            200
Bags and Twine                                     130            130
Procurement Administration                         190            130
Village Levy                                        60             60
Sub-Total                                   1,730          1,520
Insurances and Interest                             62             57
Head Office Administration                         121            121
Handling and Miscellaneous                          76             76
Branch Costs                                       190            130
Feeder Roads Fund                                   20             20
Sub-Total                                     469            404
F.O.B. Charges                                     105            105
Export Tax 1/                                      130            120
Sub-Total                                     135            125
Total Cost                                  2,334          2,049
Average Cost          Tsh/ton 2,280
F.O.B. Export Price Tsh/ton 2,800
Less: Average Cost            2,280
CATA Margin                     520
1/ Half of this tax goes into the Cashewnut Industry Fund, for investments
in the cashewnut industry.
2/ Based on 20% of nuts undergrade.



TANZANI)
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Producer Prices for Cashewnuts
(Tsh per ton)
1972/1973      1973/1974      1974/1975      1975/1976      1976/1977      1977/1978
Standard Grade                     950            950           1,050          1,050          1,100          1,150 1/
Under Grade                        750            750             950            950            950          1,000 1/
Std.Gr/Under Gr. Ratio           60/40          90/10           90/10          80/20          80/20 l/       80/20
Average Producer Price             870            930           1,040          1,030          1,070          1,120
1/ Expected
2/ Average for Tanzania
August 25, 1977
I-



TANZA IU                                                Table I18
SECOM S CASHEWN     ltT DEVELOFM ENT FROJECT
CATA ^ Income Scatemenets -
(Tsh Million)
1973/1974             1974/1975
(a) Sales Ravenue 2/
Export Sales                                                171.7                 189.6
Local Sales                                                  17.2                  25.7
Toral  Sales                                           188.9                 215.3
(b) Cost of Sales
urchases                                                    175.6                 159.0
Opening Stock less Closing Stock                            (35.3)                  0.9
Labour                                                        0.9                   0.3
Agents' Rnunrratiofn                                          1.2                   0.9
Development Levy - Faeder  Roads                              7.1                   5.9
Other                                                      -                    0.9
Total  Cost  of  Sales                                 149.5                 167.9
c)  Cross  Sales (a-b)                                              39.4                  b7.    6
(d)  Operating  Expenses
1. .1.dniistrativc Expenses.
Salaries and Benefits: HO                                1.4                    1.8
3ranches                       2.7                     3,
Other Administrative Expenses                             2.1                   3.2
Sub-total                                              6.2                   8.7
2. Sellinz and Distributiofn
F.O.    t Cha ges                                    3.6                    5.0
Export Tax                                                10.2                  17.7
Miscellaneous                                            0.4                   0.9
Sub-total                                             14.2                  23.6
3. AiscellaneouS
Gunny  Bags                                              1.0                   0.5
Other                                                     0.5                   0.1
Sub-total                                              1.5                   0.6
Total   Operating   Expensa                              21.9                  32,9
(e) Finsncial Expenses
1. Bank Interest
Sub-total                                              3.4                   4.1
2. Other
Insurancees                                              0.4                   0.7
Shrinkage of Stocks                                      1.7                   1.6
Depreciation                                              1.0                  1 '3
Provisions                                                 1   D
MiscUllaeoue Charges                                     0.1                   0.3
Sub-total                                              4.1                   3.9
Total   Financial    Expenses                             7.5                   S.0
(f)  let    Profit   (Loss)  3efore  S ndries  and    Bad  Debts    9.9                   6.4
(g) Bad    Debts                                                          _                      g
(h)  Sundry  Income                                                 1.2                   1_1
(i)  Net    Inoe    (Loss)   3efor    Taxes                       11.1                   1.5
(j)  Taxes                                                          5.0                   0.8
(k)    N et  Inco    (Loss)  A fter  Taxcs                          6.1                   0.8
1/ For the years ending Septmber 30th.
/ Export sales mainlY to India - Local sales to domescic processing factories.
,Tar.ua-v 10, 1978



Table 19
TANZANIA                                Page 1
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CATA Balance Sheets as of September 30th: Assets A
(Tsh Million)
1973/1974          1974/1975
ASSETS
1. Current Assets
Stocks 2/                                34.7               48.5
Debtors and Prepayments                  19.8               44.3
Guarantee Deposit with NBC  /             -                  3.6
Cash                                      -                  0.1
Total Current-Assets                  54.5               96.4
2. Fixed Assets
Fixed Assets                            (                   11.0
Capital Work in Progress/               (11.8               10.9
less: Accumulated Depreciation 5/         1.1                2.4
Net Fixed Assets                      10.7               19.5
3.  Investments_/                                                 13.2
Other Assets
Loans Advanced                            1.0               51.4
Goodwill                                  2.9                 -
Total Other Assets                     3.9               51.4
1/ Columns may not exactly add up due to rounding.
2/ Raw nuts, kernels, packing materials, work-in-progress.
3/ Amount paid to the National Bank of Commerce to secure-guarantee from them for a loan
from Banco di Scicilia, to finance the construction of Tanita II factory.
4/ Mtwara Staff Houses and Rest House, Kilva Store House, Staff Houses and offices,
Factories at Lindi, Masasi and Mtamza.
5/ Straight-line basis: buildings over 25 years, plant and machinery 5 years, vehicles 3 years,
furniture and small equipment 6 years, small tools 2 years.  Capital work-in-Progress is
not depreciated.
6/ TANITA factory and other minor investments.
7/ Loans advanced to contractors and sub-contractors in the Fir-st Cashewnut Development Project
in 1975.
December 20, 1977



-Table 19
TANZANIA                                              Page 2
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CATA Balance Sheets as of September 30th: Liabilities and Equity -
1973/1974           1974/1975
LLABILITIES
1   Current Liabilities
Creditors and Accruals                                       4.9                 25.3
N.A.P.B. 2/                                                 26.8                 26.8
Bank Overdraft                                              26.8                 53.6
Taxation Provision                                           5.0                  0.8
Current Maturities, Long-Term Debt                            -                    -
Total Current Liabilities                               63.5                106.5
2. Long-Term Debt
World Bank, First Project                                     -                  51.5
Total Long-term Debt                                      -                  51.5
less:  Current Maturities                                 -                    -
Net Long-term Debt                                        -                  51.5
3. Reserves
Development Reserve 3/                                        -                   5.5
Total Reserves                                            -                   5.5
4. Equity
Shares                                                       3.0                 15.2 4/
Accumulated Profits                                          6.1                  5.0
Total Equity                                             9.1                 20.2
5.  Difference in Books                                          (3.5)                (3.2)
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                                 69.1                180.5
I/ Columns may not exactly add up due to rounding.
2/ This liability was taken over the NatLonal Agricultural Produce Board to be shared between CATA,
the National Milling Corporation and the General Agricultural Products Corporation in proportion
to net assets acquired as a result of the break-up of NAPB. The liability was still in NAPB
account in 73/74 and 74/75.
3/ Amounts retained to be utilized for the develop-ent of feeder roads to cashewnut producing areas.
b/ TANITA and Mtvara Cashew Co. factories.
September 2, 1977



TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Comparative Estimates of First Proiect's Costs
(US$ Million)
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE (May 1974)                      LATEST ESTIMATE (Nov.1975)
Financed by:                                    Financed by:
Total Cost       Bank      CATA/Govt. Total Cost         Bank        CATA/Govt.   T.I.B. 27
Factory Development:
Machinery                                   6.8           5.5           1.3          10.1          10.1           -            -
Factories Buildings                         2.3           1.8           0.5       )
Other Buildings                             1.5           1.3           0'2        ) 15.1           9.1          4.1          1.9
Equipment and vehicles                      0.8           0.7           0.1        )
Working Capital                             2.7           2.2           0.5           2.7           _            2.7
Sub-Total                              14.1          11.5          2.6           27.9         19.2           6.8         1.9
Community Education Centers                   0.9           0.8           0.1            -             -            -            -
Technical Services 3/                         0.5           0.5            -            1.4           1.4           -
Salaries 4                                    2.9           0.4           2.5           2.9           0.4          2.5
Rural Water Supplies                          1.0            -            1.0            -             -            -
Unallocated                                  10.9            7.8          3.1
TOTAL                                  30.3          21.0           9.3          32.2         21.0           9.3         1.9
1/ It is expected that the next supervision mission will make a new estimate. The 1975 estimate
was made after contracts for equipment and civil works were received, and the Loan Agreement amended to
reflect the new allocation of Bank funds into disbursement categories.
2/  Tanzania Investment Bank, a Development Finance Company. TIB loan to CATA ib met from the proceeds
of Loan 1172-TA.
3/ Marketing Manager and Financial Manager of CATA for four years, 3 research staff, fellowshipsand training
courses, preparation of Phase II Project.
4/ Extension and grading officers, national staff for research and CATA headquarters-Bank contribution
correspond to 25X of the salaries of extension and grading staff.
November 4, 1977
a
r~
0~
ID.
a
0Io



Table 21
TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tankers Requirements for Transportation of CNSL
Average No.          Raw Nuts             CNSL
of Round Trips       Production           Output         No. of           No. of Tankers
Factory          per day               Capacity(tons)       (tons)L/      Tankers-Days      Required 3/
TANITA                 2                  12,500              875             90     )
TANITA II              2                  12,500              875             90     )
Kibaha                 2                  10,000              700             70     )
Mtwara 9Wshco          2                   8,000              560             56     )
Mtwara -               -                  10,000              700             -      )
Lindi                  2/3                10,000              700            210     )
Mtamna                 2/3                 5,000              350            105     )
Newala I               2/3                10,000              700            210     )
Newala II              2/3                10,000              700            210     )          5
Masasi                 2/3                10,000              700            210     )
Nachingwea             2/3                 5,000              350            105     )
Tunduru                1/3                10,000              700            420     )
1/ 7% of production capacity.
2/ 5-ton tankers.
3/ Based on 300 working days per year.
4/ Would be linked to main storage lby a pipe.
November 28, 1977



TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs Summary /
(Tsh Million)
Foreign
0        1          2        3         4         5         6       Total   Exchange
Civil Works                           31.1      47.3       22.7       -         -         -        -       101.1        63
Equipment                               -       48.1       30.2      7.2                  -        -        85.5        95
Water Development                                7.8        3.0       -                  -         -        10.8        80
Vehicles and Tankers                             0.8        1.7     0.8        -         -         -          3.3       95
Professional Services                   -        9.1      12.2       9.5       7.2       7.2      4.4       49.6        93
TOTAL BASE COST                   31.1    113.1        69.8    17.5        7.2       7.2       4.4      250.3       81
Physical Contingencies                  -        7.3        6.1      1.5      0.5       0.5       0.3        16.2       81
Price Contingencies                     -        4.8        4.0      2.4      1.8       2.4       1.6       17.0        81
TOTAL COST                          31.1   125.2       79.9    21.4        9.5      10.1       6.3      283.5       81
1/ Derived from Table 23.
H



Table 23
TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Prolect Costs 1!
(Tah Million)
Foreign
0           1            2            3            4            5            6          Total    Exchange t
A. KIAAHA COMPLEX
Civil Works 2/               9.5         13.9          5.3           -            -            -            -           28.7        70
Processing Equipment 3/       -          19.2          8.1          1.3           _-                        -           28.6       95
Water Development             -           2.6          1.0           -            -            -                         3.6        80
Vehicles 4/                   -            -           0.3           -            -            -            -            0.3        95
Sub-total                 9.5         35.7         14.7          1.3           -            -            -           61.2       82
B. MTWARA COMPLEX
Civil Works                 11.2         17.7          5.8           -            -            -            -           34.7        70
Processing Equipment -        -          16.0         10.6          1.3           -            -            -           27.9        97
Water Development             -           2.6          1.0           -            -            -            -            3.6        80
Vehicles Al                   -            -           0.3           -            -            -            -            0.3        95
Sub-total                11.2         36.3         17.7          1.3           _     -                   -           66.5       82
C. NEWALA COMPLEX
Civil Works 2               10.4         15.7         11.6           -            -            -            -           37.7        51
Processing Equipment -        -          12.9         11.5          4.6           -            -            -           29.0        94
Water Development             -           2.6          1.0           -            -            -            -            3.6        80
Vehicles IV                   -            -           0.3           -            -            -            -            0.3        95
Sub-total                10.4         31.2         24.4          4.6           -            _            _           70.6       70
D. TANKERS 5/                 -           0.8          0.8          0.8           -            -            -            2.4        95
E. PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 6/ _             9.1         12.2          9.5          7.2          7.2          4.4          49.6        93
Total Base Cost          31.1        113.1         69.8         17.5          7.2          7.2          4.4         250.3       81
Physical Contingencie7 7/ -            7.3          6.1          1.5          0.5          0.5          0.3          16.2       81
Price Contingencies 8      -           4.8          4.0          2.4          1.8          2.4          1.6          17.0       81
Total Cost               31.1        125.2         79.9         21.4          9.5         10.1          6.3         283.5        81
1/ Costs extracted from bid document, excluding taxes and duties. Contracts are fixed price contracts.
Year 0 corresponds to fiscal year   starting July 1, 1977.
2/ Tsh 1.6 million have been added to the civil work component of the factories in Yibaha and Newala to
cover the cost of one senior staff house and 10 semi-skilled houses which were not included in the
bids for civil works. Although contracts for civil works include water development, the latter costs
are shown here as a separate item. Contract price includes provision for cost escalation of
Tsh 1.8 million for each factory which is deducted to obtain base cost and added back into price
contingencies.
3/ Contract price includes provision for price escalation of Tsh 0.6 million for each factory which is
deducted to obtain base cost and added back into price contingencies.
4/ Two seven-ton lorries at Tsh 150,000 to transport tins and finished product. Three utility vehicles
are included in the contracts for processing equipment.
5/ To transport CNSL. Tankers requirments are in Table 21. Tankers are required from year 1 because
they would be seed for the existing factories. Two tankers at Tah 400,000 would be purchased each
year, except if bulking of orders results in price reduction.
6/ From Table 24.
7/ Civil works and equipment: 5%; vehicles and tankers 30%; professional services: 101 (except research and supervision
of construction); water development: 20X plui Tsh 400,000 to cover possible need of constructing additional
pipeline to the Newala factory. Year 0 corresponds to initial payment to contractors and is not subject
to contingencies.
8/ Civil works contracts (including water development) include provision for cost escalation of Tsh 1.8 million
for each factory.  Equipment contracts include a provision of Tsh 0.6 million for each factory.  In addition
to the above amounts, price contingencies were applied to vehicles and taskers and to the physical contingency
of equipment contracts at 7% for 1978, 6.5% for 1979 and 6% thereafter. On professional services and on
the physical contingency component of civil works, the rates of 8% for 1978, 7.5% for 1979, and 7% afterwards
were used.



TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost of Professional Services 1/
(Tsh Million)
Foreign
1         2         3         4        5         6       Total   Exchange
A. SUPERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION 2/                  6.2        6.2       0.4        -        -         -        12.8       87
B. OTHER PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
Factory Operation: Coordinator 3/                -        1.3       1.3       1.3      1.3       1.3        6.5       95
Kibaha                      -         1.3       1.3       1.3      1.3        -        5.2       95
Mtwara                      -         1.0       1.3       1.3      1.3       0.3       5.2       95
Newala                      -         0.5       1.3       1.3      1.3       0.8        5.2      95
Sub-Total                                   -         4.1       5.2       5.2      5.2       2.4       22.1       95
Finance Director 4t                             0.7        0.7      0.7         -       -         -         2.1       95
Engineering Adviser 4/                          0.7        0.7      0.7         -       -         -         2.1       95
Management Information System 5/                0.5        0.5       0.5        -       -         -         1.5       95
Agricultural Research                            -          -        2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0        8.0       95
Health Study                                    1.0         -         -        -        -         -         1.0       95
Sub-Total                                  2.9        6.0       9.1       7.2      7.2       4.4       36.8       95
TOTAL                                      9.1       12.2       9.5       7.2      7.2       4.4       49.6       93
1/ In mid-1978 prices. Year 1 corresponds to fiscal year starting July 1, 1978.
2/ Would be a fixed price contract for the amount shown.
3/ One for each factory, and one coordinator, all starting work at the beginning
of machinery installation and staying during four years. Average cost at
$80,000 per man-year.
4/  Three years, starting year 1 at $80,000 per year.
5/  Two man-year at $80,000 spred over a thre-year period.                                                                       F
6/To complement the present research program from year 3 to 6.  About 16 man-year                                                r
at $60,000.



Table 25
TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule -/
(US$ Million)
IDA Fiscal Year                Quarterly                    Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                  Disbursements                   at End of Quarter
1978/79
September 30, 1978                  -                                  -
December 31, 1978                  2.4                                2.4
March 31, 1979                     2.2                                4.6
June 30, 1979                       -                                 4.6
1979/80
September 30, 1979                 2.6                                7.2
December 31, 1979                  2.6                                9.8
March 31, 1980                     2.6                               12.4
June 30, 1980                      2.6                               15.0
1980/81
September 30, 1980                 1.9                               16.9
December 31, 1980                  1.9                               18.8
March 31, 1981                     1.9                               20.7
June 30, 1981                      1.9                               22.6
1981/82
September 30, 1981                 0.5                               23.1
December 31, 1981                  0.5                               23.6
March 31, 1982                     0.5                               24.1
June 30, 1982                      0.5                               24.6
1982/83
September 30, 1982                 0.4                               25.0
December 31, 1982                  0.4                               25.4
March 31, 1983                     0.3                               25.7
June 30, 1983                      0.3                               26.0
1983/84
September 30, 1983                 0.3                              26.3
December 31, 1983                  0.3                               26.6
March 31, 1984                     0.3                               26.9
June 30, 1984                      0.3                              27.2
1984/85
September 30, 1984                 0.3.                             27.5
1/ A 9 months lag between physical investments and disbursements by the
Association is assumed. Disbursements in 1978/79 correspond to
advance payments to contractors and equipment suppliers.
March 23, 1978



Table 26
TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Income Statements for a Typical Project Factory -
(Tsh Million)
16 and
1           2            3            4            5          6 - 15    Thereafter
(a) Sales Revenue
Raw Nuts Processed (ton  2/           -            -          7,500        8,500        9,500        9,500         9,500
Kernels Pro e(ton)                    -                       1,800        2,040        2,280        2,280         2,280
CNSL (ton) y                          -            -            525          595          665          665           665
Kernel Sale  5/                       -            -           18.6         39.7         44.7         47.1          47.1
CNSL Sales                            -            -            0.6          1.3          1.5          1.6           1.6
Total Sales                           _            -           19.2         41.0         46.2         48.7          48.7
(b) Operating Expenses
Raw Nuts -                            -            -           14.2         16.1         18.1         18.1          18.1
Salaries and Wages 8/                 -            -            6.2          6.2          6.2          6.2           6.2
Other Operating Costs 9/              -            -            3.1          3.3          3.6          3.6           3.6
Interest an bank overdraft 1-1        -            -            0.3          0.3          0.3          0.3           0.3
Total Operating Expenses              -            -           23.8         25.9         28.2         28.2          28.2
(c)  Operating Income (Loss)               -            -           (4.6)        15.1         18.0         20.5          20.5
(d)  Depreciation 11/                      -            -            4.8          4.8          4.8          4.8           4.8
Net Income Before                     -            -           (9.4)        10.3         13.2         15.7          15.7
Interest and Taxes
Interest on Long-Term Loans   /       -            -             -            -                     6.6-0.7          -
Net Income Before Taxes               -            -           (9.4)        10.3         13.2       9.1-15.0       15.7
I/  It mid-1978 constant prices.  Year 1 corresponds to the first year of construction.
2/ Factories would operate at 95% of capacity at full development.
3/ Assuming an average kernel outturn of 24% in weight.
4/ Assuming a CNSL outturn of 7% of raw nuts in weight.
5/ Average kernel price Tsh 20,664. See Table 13. Revenues are accounted for 6 months
after the purchase of raw nuts.
6/ Average price US$ 300 per ton FOB (Tsh 2,400 per ton).
7/ Raw nuts into factory cost Tsh 1,900 per ton (Table 15).
8/ Based on actual operations of Cashco factory in Tanzania.
9/ Power, fuel, replacements and maintenance, packing materials and miscellaneous.
Packing materials represent about 65% of these costs.
10/ At 11% interest rate with 6 months turnover. Maximum overdraft is Tsh 5 million.
Interest on bank overdraft to purchase raw nuts is accounted for in the price of raw nuts.
11/ Straight line. Depreciation periods: civil works and water development 25 years,
equipment 15 years, vehicles 5 years, professional services 10 years. Investment costs are
averaged for the three factories and were extracted from Table 23.
12/ Half of the funds for factory construction and factory staff training are passed on to CATA
as equity. The other half is onlent at 10% interest rate, 15 years repayment period including
5 years of grace during which interest is capitalized.



TANZANIA
SECOND CASPEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consolidated Cash Flow Statements for the Project's Factories
(Tsh Million)
1            2            3            4             5           6             7            8            9            10           20
I. Kibaha Factory
Operating  Income (Loss)                            -          ( 2.6)         6.1         20.3          25.5        29.3          31.4         33.3         33.3         33.3          33.3
Depreciation                                         -         ( 2.4)       ( 4.8)       ( 4.8)          (4.8)      (4.8)         (4.8)        (4.8)        (4.8)         (4.8)        (4.8)
Interest on Long-Term  Loans                        -             -            -            -           (3.3)       (6.3)         (5.6)        (5.0)        (4.3)         (3.7)         -
Net Income Before  Taxes                             -         ( 4.8)         1.3         15.5          17.4         18.2         21.0         23.5         24.2          24.8         28.5
Loan Repayments                                     -             -            -            -            (3.3)       (6.5)        (6.5)        (6.5)        (6.5)         (6.5)         -
Mtw.,-ara Pactory
Operating Income (Loss)                             -          ( 1.2)         0.3         19.9          24.6        29.3          31.4         33.3         33.3          33.3         33.3
Depreciation                                         -         ( 1.2)       ( 4.8)       ( 4.8)          (4.8)       (4.8)        (4.8)        (4.8)         (4.8)        (4.8)        (4.8)
Interest on Long-Term Loans                         -             -            -            -            (1.7)       (6.4)        (5.8)        (5.1)        (4.5)         (3.8)         -
Net Income Before Taxes                              -         ( 2.4)       ( 4.5)        15.1          18.1        18.1          20.8         23.4         24.0          24.7         28.5
Loan Repayments                                      --                        -            -            (1.6)       (6.5)        (6.5)        (6.5)         (6.5)        (6.5)         -
III. Kibaha Factory
Operating Income (Loss)                              -            -         ( 4.0)        12.5          22.8        28.3          31.4         33.3         33.3          33.3         33.3
Depreciation                                        -             -         ( 3.6)       (4.8)           (4.8)       (4.8)        (4.8)        (4.8)         (4.8)        (4.8)        (4.8)
Interest on Long-Term Loans                         -             -            -            -             -          (5.0)        (6.1)        (5.5)         (4.8)        (4.2)         -
Net Income  Before Taxes                            -             -         ( 7.6)         7.7           18.0        18.5         20.5         23.0         23.7          24.3         28.5
Loan Repayments                                     -             -            -            -             -          (4.9)        (6.5)        (6.5)         (6.5)        (6.5)         -
IV.  Conuolidated
Net Income Before Taxes                              -         ( 7.2)       (10.8)        38.3           53.5        54.8         62.3         69.9          71.9         73.8         85.5
Taxes                                                -           3.6          5.4        (19.1)         (26.7)      (27.4)       (31.2)       (34.9)        (35.9)       (36.9)       (42.7)
Net Income After Taxes                               -         ( 7.2)       (10.8)        19.2           26.8        27.4         31.1         35.0          36.0         36.9         42.8
Depreciation                                         -           3.6         13.2         14.4           14.4        14.4         14.4         14.4          14.4         14.4         14.4
Loan Repayments                                     -             -            -            -            (4.9)      (17.9)       (19.5)       (19.5)        (19.5)       (19.5)         -
Initial Working Capital                             -           4.5          12.3          1.5            -           -            -            -             -
Net Factories Cash Flow                              -           4.5         20.8         35.1           36.3        23.9         26.0         29.9          30.9         31.8          57.2
1/ In current  prices.  Projections are based on July 1978 prices, and an  inflation rate of
7.57. in 78/79, 77. from 79/80 to 85/86, and thereafter.  Year 1 corresponds to financial
year beginning July 1, 1978.   This Table is derived from Table 26 and the implementation
schedule.
April 18, 1978



Table 28
TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cash Flow Statements for CATA V
(Tsh Willion)
0      1        2       3        4        5       6        7        8       9        10        20
A. WITHOUT PROJECT
(a) Raw Nut Exports:
Exports (ton  OO0).V          85     62       53      44       43       41      41       40       40      40       40        40
Margin 3J                     44.2   32.2    29.6    26.4    27.5    28.2    30.0    31.4    33.2    33.2    33.2            33.2
(b) Factories' Income 4/:
Income before Interest
and Taxes     5            21.3  (18.4)  (7.2)    63.0    64.1   112.1   129.4   140.9   151.2   151.2   151.2    151.2
Less: Interest -i             (8.6)  (9.4) (10.1)   (0.1)  (10.1)   (8.9)   (7)    (6.3)   (5.0)   (3.8)   (2.5)              -
Sub-Total                12.7  (27.8) (17.3)    52.9    54.0   103.2   122.0   134.6   146.2   147.4   148.7    151.2
(c) Net Income before Taxes         56.9    4.4    12.3    79.3    81.5   131.4   152.0   166.0   179.4   180.6   181.9    184.4
Taxes                           28.4    2.2      6.1    39.6    40.7    65.7    76.0    83.0    89.7    90.3    90.9           92.2
Net Income after Taxes          28.5    2.2      6.2    39.7    40.8    65.7    76.0    83.0    89.7    90.3    91.0           92.2
(d) Depreciation                     3.0    9.1    22.4    25.6    29.9    32.3    32.3    32.3    32.3    32.3    32.3            32.3
(e) Principal Repayments            (3.6)  (8.2)   (9.3)  (10.0)   (16.3)  (16.4)  (16.4)  (16.4)  (15.8)  (14.7)  (14.0)           -
Net Cash Flow                   27.9    3.1    19.3    55.3    54.4    81.6    91.9    98.9   106.2   107.9   109.3    124.5
B. PROJECT CASH FLOW
(a) Factories' Cash Flow V           -      -        4.5    20.8    35.1    36.3    23.9    26.0    29.9    30.9    31.8           57.2
(b) Revenue Foregone on Raw
Nuts Exports 7/                -      -       (1.5)   (6.1)   (7.9)   (9.2)  (10.2)  (11.2)  (11.8)  (11.8)  (11.8)   (11.8)
(c) Other Loans 8/-                         -        -        -       -        -       (7.9)   (7.7)   (7.5)   (7.1)   (6.9)        -
ProJect Cash Flow                - _    -        3.0    14.7    27.2    27.1        5.8     7.1    10.6    12.0    13.1        45.4
C. CATA CASH FLOW WITH PROJECT          27.9    3.1    22.3    70.0    81.6   108.7    97.7   106.0   116.8   119.9   122.4    169.9
1/  In current prices.  Projections are based on July 1978 prices, and an inflation
rate of 7.5% 78/79, 7% from 79/80 to 85/86, and zero thereafter. Tear 1
corresponds to financial year baginning July 1, 1978.
2/  Not taking into account the planting programme, and assuming all CATA's factories
operate at 95% of capacity.
3/  Tsh 520 per ton (see Table 16) in July 1978 prices.
4/  Excluding the factories proposed under the Project.
5/ Information provided by CATA. Interest on long-term loans from the Treasury
(20 years, 8-1/2%), the Tanzania Investment Bank (15 years, 10%), the Bank
of Sicily (15 years, 7%), and the Export-Import Bank of Japan (13 years, 6-1/2%).
6/  From Table 27.
7/ Tsh 520 per ton in July 1978 prices, less 50% to take into account the decrease
in taxes due to lower income.
8/  Interest and principal repayments for 50% of the funds passed on to CATA to
financed technical assistance not benefiting the Project factories directly.
Half of interest payments are offset by tax effect.
April 18, 1978



Table 29
TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Government Project Related Cash Flow-l
(Tsh Million)
1       2        3        4        5        6       7        8        9       10       20
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Factories' Operation:
Increase (Decrease) in Tax Revenues 2/             -      (3.6)   (5.4)   19.1    26.7    27.4   31.2    34.9    35.9    36.9    42.7
Tax on Margin on Raw Nuts Exports 3IF              -      (1.5)    (6.1)    (7.9)   (9.2)  (10.2) (11.2)  (11.8)  (11.8)  (11.8)  (11.8)
Export Tax on Raw Nuts Foregone 4/               -__    (0.4)    (1.5)   (2.0)   (2.2)  ( 2.5) ( 2.7)  ( 2.9)  ( 2.9)   ( 2.9)   ( 2.9)
Sub-Total                                  -      (5.5)  (13.0)      9.2    15.3    14.7   17.3    20.2    21.2    22.2    28.0
Revenues from Loans to CATA:
Loans for Factories 2/
Interest Payments                                -       -        -        -       5.0    17.7   17.5    15.6    13.6    11.7            -
Principal Repayments                             -        -        -        -      4.9    17.9   19.5    19.5    19.5    19.5            -
Other Loans 5
Interest Payments                                -        -       -        -        -       2.6    2.4       2.2      1.8      1.6       -
Principal Repayments                             -        -        -        -        -      5.3    5.3       5.3      5.3      5.3       -
Sub-Total                                  -        -        -        -       9.9    43.5   44.7    42.6    40.2    38.1            -
External Financing:
IDA Credit                                     124.0    62.4    19.0         8.8      9.4     5.8       -       -        -        -        -
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                  124.3    56.9       6.0    18.0    34.6    64.0   62.0    62.8    61.4    60.3    28.0
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Project Implementation 6/                         156.3    79.9    21.4        9.5    10.1       6.3      -        -        -        -        -
External Debt Service:
IDA Service Charge                                0.5      1.2      1.5      1.6      1.6     1.7    1.7       1.7      1.7      1.7      1.5
Repayments  to IDA                                 -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -      2.3      6.9
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS              156.9    81.1    22.9    11.1    11.7          8.0    1.7       1.7     1.7      4.0       8.4
Net Cash Flow before CATA's Surplus               (32.9)  (24.2)   (16.9)      6.9    22.9    56.0   60.3    61.1    59.7    56.3    19.6
Consolidated CATA/Govt. Cash Flow -7/             (32.9)  (21.2)  ( 2.2)   34.1    50.0    61.8   67.4    71.7    71.7    69.4    65.0
I/  In current prices.  Projections are based on July 1978 prices, and an inflation
rate of 7.5% in 78/79, 7% from 79/80 to 85/86, ard zero thereafter. Year 1
corresponds to financial year beginning July 1, 1978.
2/  From Table 27.
3/  50% of Tsh 520 per ton in July 1978 prices.
4/  About Tsh 63 per ton of raw nuts in July 1978 prices (Table 16).
5/ See Table 28, line B (c) and footnote 8.
6/ From Table 22.
7/ CATA's project surplus is in Table 28.
April 18, 1978



TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Foreign Exchange Earnings and Expenditures -
(Tsh Million)
1            2            3            4            5            6            7            8            9            10           20
Sale of Factories' Production                              -          15.5         79.6        149.3        183.7        205.1        220.6        233.8        233.8          233.8        233.8
Less:
Operating Costs and Replacements                           -           1.5          6.1          7.7          8.6          9.1          9.8         10.4          10.4          10.4         10.4
Raw Nuts Sales Foregone 1/                                            16.9         68.8         89.5        104.5        112.5        120.5         127.7        127.7         127.7        127.7
Net F.E. Earnings (Losses)
Before Debt Service                                      -         ( 2.9)         4.7         52.1         70.6         83.5         90.3         95.7          95.7          95.7         95.7
Less:  IDA Credit Debt Service                            0.6          1.2          1.5          1.6          1.6          1.7          1.7          1.7          1.7            4.0          8.4
Net F.E. Earnings (Losses)                               (0.6)       ( 4.1)         3.2         50.5         69.0         81.8         88.6         94.0          94.0          91.7         87.3
1/ In current prices. Projections are based on July 1978 prices, and an inflation rate
of 7.57 78/79, 7% from 79/80 to 85/86, and zero thereafter. Year 1 corresponds to
financial year beginning July 1,1978.
2/ Based on export price of Tsh 2,800 per ton.
April 10, 1978



TANZANI4
Table 31
SECOND CASEiEWNUT DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
(Tsh Million)
Cost and Benefics Stream  - No Shadow Pricing                                   Derivation bf Shadow Prices 4/
1            2           3            4           5            6         7 -25                  Foreign Echsnge x       Fa-tor
Capital Costs 1/                      143.8         73.8         15.0         5.9          5.9         2.8           _                           80                1.36
Operating Costs: 2/
Raw Nuts 3/
Kibaha                               -           9.7         20.8        23.4          24.7       24.7          24.7
Mtwara                               -           4.9         20.2        22.7          24.7       24.7          24.7
Newala                               -            -          14.6        21.5          24.1       24.7          24.7
Total Raw Nuts                       -          14.6         55.6        67.6          73.5       74.1          74.1                         _                 1.47 5/
Salaries and Wages 2
Kibaha                               -           3.1          6.2         6.2           6.2        6.2           6.2
Mtwara                               -           1.5          6.2         6.2           6.2        6.2           6.2
Newala                               -            -           4.7         6.2           6.2        6.2           6.2
Total Salaries and Wages             -           4.6         17.1        18.6          18.6       18.6          18.6                         -                 0.75
Other Operating Costs 2V
Kibah-                               -           1.5          3.2         3.4           3.6        3.6           3.6
Mtwara                               -           0.8          3.2         3.5           3.6        3.6           3.6
Newala                               -            -           2.4         3.5           3.6        3.6           3.6
Total Other                          -           2.3          8.8        10.4          10.8       10.8          10.8                         60                1.28
Sales 2
Kibaha                               -           9.6         30.1        43.6         47.5        48.7          48.7
Mtwara                               -           4.8         24.6        42.3          46.8       48.7          48.7
Newala                               -            -          L4.4        35.6         44.9        48.1          48.7
Total Sales                          -          14.4         49.1       121.5        139.2       145.5         146.1                        100                1.45
1/ Fro= Table 23, including physical contingencies. Investment in CNSL tankers and part
of the professional services (finance director, engineering adviser, management
information system) will benefit all factories operated by CATA. Only 272 of these
costs has been lloted to the project (ratio of the project processing capacity to
the total proceasing capacity).
2/ Based on Table 26 phased according to the implementation scheduLe.
3/ Based on export price of Tsh 2,800 per ton FOB (Table 14), i.e. Tsh 2,600 per ton into factory.
4/ Costs and benefits streams with the use of shadow prices are derived from costs and benefits
streams without shadow pricing by shadow pricing the foreign exchange component of the streams,
using the exchange rate US$ 1.0 . Tsh 12.0 (official erchange rate is US$ 1. - Tsh 8.30. The
economic cost of rsw nuts is calculated in Table 14. Labor is shadow priced at 753 of its
actual value.
5/ See Tsble 14.
April 3, 1978



Table 32
TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic and Financial 1/ Rates of Return Sensitivity Analysis
Hypothesis                                               ERR (%)       FRR (%)
1. Base estimate (factories operating at
95% of maximum capacity)                               16           12
2. Factories operating at 80% of maximum
capacity                                               13            9
3. Factories operating at 70% of maximum
capacity                                               11            6.5
4.  Change in sales due to a change of
kernel prices, with an accompanying
change in raw nuts prices:
- decrease of 10%                              13.5           9.5
- decrease of 20%                               11.5          7.0
- increase of 10%                               18           14
- increase of 20%                               20           16
5.  Change in raw nut export price, without
an accompanying change in kernel prices:
- decrease of 10%                               18           14
- decrease of 20%                               20.5         16.5
- increase of 10%                               13            9
- increase of 20%                               10.5          6.5
6.  Delay of one year in commencing the
factories' operation                                   15.5         10.5
7.  Increase of 10% of Capital Costs                       15            11
1/ Before Taxes in constant 1978 terms.



ANNEX 2
TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector or Sub-Sector
Al. CASHEW PROCESSING, Evaluation of mechanical processing
methods, equipment suppliers and operational plants.
A2.  Price Policy Recommendations for the 1977/78 Agricultural
Price Review, five volumes, Marketing Development Bureau,
Dar es Salaam, July 1976.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Bl. Proposal for a Second Phase Cashewnut Development Project,
Ministry of Agriculture, Tanzania, October 1976.
B2. Coast Region Hieadquarters, Kibaha New Urban Area,
Norman and Dawbarn, Architects Consulting Engineers,
Town Planners.



TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE CASHEWNUT AUTHORITY OF TANZANIA
80ARO OF
DIRECTORS
GENERAL MANAGER
INTERNAL
AUDITORl
DIRECTOR OF                                                                                                            DIRECTOR OF                               DIRECTOR OF
CROP                                           DIRECTOR OF                                                             MANPOWER                                  FACTORtY
DEVELOPMENT                                    MARKETING                        DIRECTOR OF                            DEVELOPMENT                              OPERATIONS
AND                                            AND PLANNING                     FINANCE                                AND                                       AND
PROCUREMENT                                                                                                            ADMINISTRATION                           DEVELOPMENT
ZONAL  CASHEW        ~CROP            ZNLPANN
Z ENll     CAHPROCUREMENT    ZNLPANNIN                                                                                       PUBLIC        MANPOWER         ADMINIS-         FACTR
MANAGR        DEVELOPMENT    ADMANAGER                         MANDE          EXOT                                                                                             OEAINHE
(NORTHERN)    AND RESEARCH   RANSSOUTHERN)                                      NAGER         ACCOUNTANT   ACCOUNTANT           RELATION     DEVELOPMENT      TRATIVE                     
ZONE          MANAGER        TRANSPO"T                         RESEARCH                                                         MANAGER      MANAGER           MANAGER         MANAGER          4NGINEER
MAANAGER        ZONE             RESAEARC
WoOd BanE - 17944






TANZANIA
SECOND CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1978                           1979                           1980                   1981
1"| I2         3       4      1       2       3      4       1       2       3       4       1      2
CONTRACT WORKS
CIVILWORKS        AWARD   COMMENCE
KIBAHA        AI~IId                           CONSTRUCTION
KIBAHA                                     -               -_ UTO
MOBI LIZATiON
I  I                    ~~~~~~CONSTRUCTION
MTWARA             I W A                    _                        -_
MOBILIZATION
CONSTRUCTION
NEWALA             mrFP eA   ~
MOBILIZATION
EQUIPMENT
MANUFACTURING AND DELIVERY    INSTALLATION   TESTING
K I BA H A                          1                    2                 IIa
.MANUFACTURING AND DELIVERY          INSTALLATION TESTING
MTWARA                                            I                            I II
MANUFACTURING AND DELIVERY                          INSTALLATION  TESTING
NEWALA                                     I  7   ]                         w   i
World Bank -18330






IBRD 13096
K F  KENYA~~~~~~~~~~~U8COFTNZNA
AFzLCA   SECO-ND CASNENTDVLfMN   RJC
TAN  OA~MTW-ARA                               ro   erty
D A             Bukinno                                                                                0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(12,500)  hni~rr,erio- n  I
131,1500   AO        -,6`~~qddp97074ybyCATA
9   U   ft   tj   N                                y a lilCu n g u                  ~     ~~~ ~~~~~~~~Mo n d u l i  M o b-           P y r  b v d r U            y
Kibondo                                                        NYA RA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'      ~        Irw'brndrw
Sre          ""~KEINYA
K140.  Urambo  Tabora                           Singid                       on oa                                            gw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kdogv8 Tno '
Kilosa   Morogoro      ~        Pang
0'    sa250       6,0
REPUB LIC                                                                                                   Iig
OF~                                               .K
ZAIRE                                                                                                                                                    r7,000                                                      8
0OHill~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~KIa  ool
lvuna~~~       h.nyo                                                    Mohengeeb
MAAS  -,50 "8,00
-lCuYY  a amo  upembe*  rneo                                                   3i500v
I~~LOI.4ETERS                                                                      .          A        (100001 Prt.Lwal                        00
MrLE$  I                                                                               /9,009~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.~~~~~~~~  ~ ~~ 0
~~~                          "                          Mbombo Bay  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
tM   oeo0oo'      o na   0000    To0000 '~                                                                SC R000' A L W
lO~oyOiyO0O0OO0000l~~Of00toW00'0okdit0M OZAMA
no00 oloko  0o..0000 yoon,n  r 10K00001L6 



