CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 801 TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Cashewnut Development Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 14, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 801 TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 14, 1978, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Cashewnut Author-
ity of Tanzania (hereinafter called CATA) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to CATA the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
CATA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Act" means the Borrower's Cashewnut Industry Act, 1973;


﻿-2-
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and CATA of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement; and
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and CATA pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty-seven million five hundred thousand dollars
($27,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association,
for expenditures made (or, if A,he Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provi-
sions set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1984, or such later date as the Association shall establish.
The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1988, and ending
February 15, 2028, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15, 1998, to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.(a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause CATA to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable CATA to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower: (i)
shall relend to CATA fifty per cent of the proceeds of the Credit
($13,750,000 equivalent) and fifty per cent of the other funds
(estimated to be $3,500,000 equivalent) required for the Project
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and CATA under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association including, inter alia, repayment in
15 years inclusive of five years grace and a rate of interest of
ten per cent per annum and (ii) shall make available to CATA as
equity fifty per cent of the proceeds of the Credit ($13,750,000
equivalent) and fifty per cent of the other funds (estimated to be
$3,500,000 equivalent) required for the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the


﻿-4-
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to
be carried out, by December 31, 1979, a study to determine occu-
pational health hazards in its cashewnut industry and to formulate
criteria for monitoring such hazards, and thereafter in consulta-
tion with the Association shall implement, as appropriate, the
recommendations of such study.
Section 3.03. The Borrower agrees that the new cashewnut
grading system followed during the 1977/78 season shall be
reviewed no later than June 30, 1980, and if such review indicates
that the new system is not satisfactory, CATA shall be authorized
to follow the 1976/77 system for cashewnut grading, or such
other system as shall be satisfactory to the Association and
CATA.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall continue to maintain a
pricing structure for cashewnuts based on, inter alia, the grading
of such nuts and closely relating farm gate prices (less appro-
priate processing and marketing costs) to appropriate world
prices.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) CATA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(b) the organization, powers or responsibilities of CATA
shall have been terminated or altered so as to affect materially
and adversely the carrying out by CATA of its obligations under
the Project Agreement; and
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that CATA will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower and CATA; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that (a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has
been executed on behalf of the Borrower and CATA; and (b) the
position of Finance Director shall have been filled in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Associa-ion:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by CATA, and is legally binding upon CATA in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and CATA and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and CATA in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date September 14, 1978 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.03 and 3.04 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section
4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date 20 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
Tanzania
Cable address:
TREASURY
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                                 440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                        248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-7-
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By Is/ Paul Bomani
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W.A. Wapenhans
Regional Viie President
Eastern Africa


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works and              9,000,000        65%
water supply
facilities
(2) Equipment and               10,500,000        100% of foreign
vehicles                                      expenditures
(3) Technical assis-             6,000,000        100% of foreign
tance                                        expenditures
(4) Unallocated                 2,000,000
TOTAL       27,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.


﻿-9-
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdraw-
als, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$2,500,000 may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
April 15, 1978.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Categoiy will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allo-
cated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Associa-
tion are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 10
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
1.   The establishment, including construction, installation
and equipping, of three new cashewnut processing facto-
ries one each at Kibaha, Newala and Mtwara each with the
capacity of processing 10,000 tons of raw cashewnuts
annually.
2.   Construction of about 17 staff houses each at Kibaha
and at Newala.
Part B:
1.   Expansion of cashewnut shell liquid storage facilities
in Mtwara, including a storage tank with a capacity of
about 750 tons, and related pumps and piping.
2.   Provision of vehicles to, inter alia, transport cashew-
nut shell liquid from existing and new factories to port
storage facilities, and to transport cashewnut kernels
and packing materials from the factories to the port.
Part C:
Strengthening the management capability of CATA by, inter
alia, training and improving CATA's technical, financial
and accounting staff.
Part D:
1.   Strengthening CATA's cashewnut research program, includ-
ing the provision of experts, vehicles and equipment.
2.   Carrying out a study to determine occupational health
hazards in cashewnut factories and to formulate criteria
for monitoring such hazards.
The facilities included in Part A.1 of the Project are
expected to start commercial operation in late 1980. The remain-
ing Parts of the Project are expected to be completed by Decem-
ber 31, 1983.


