Report No. PID7065
Project Name                     St. Kitts and Nevis-Emergency Recovery and Disaster
Management Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Multi-sectoral
Project ID                       KNPE62668
Borrower                         Government of St. Kitts and
Nevis
Implementing
Agencies                         Sector Ministries and Public
sector bodies through a Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU)
Date of this PID                 December 14, 2001
Appraisal Date                   November 9, 1998
Board Date                       December 10, 1998
St. Kitts and Nevis's Vulnerability to Natural Disasters
1.     St. Kitts and Nevis's geographical location, in the
hurricane belt between the Atlantic Ocean and Caribbean Sea, and
its island status make St. Kitts and Nevis highly vulnerable to
natural disasters, mostly to hurricanes and flooding, and
occasional volcanic and tectonic activity. The consequences of
these natural disasters can have a severe impact on economic
activities, property, human welfare, and natural resources. A
European Commission Humanitarian Office (ECHO) diagnostic study
reports that between 1900 and 1996, Caribbean countries had
sustained 309 disaster events resulting in over 72,000 deaths
and approximately 12 million people affected.
2.    As recently as September 1998, Hurricane Georges struck
the St. Kitts & Nevis, resulting in loss of human life,
destruction of over 50t of the country's sugar crop, destruction
or serious damage to 85t of housing stock, and critical
impediment to its main hospital. Additionally, the severe
damage or destruction of harbor facilities, hotels, and airports
is expected to severely impact tourism, which combined with the
sugar industry accounted for 689 of total exports of good and
nonfactor services.
3.      Cognizant of their social and economical vulnerability, St.
Kitts and Nevis and the other OECS countries have incorporated
disaster prevention and mitigation, along with recovery/relief
to try to reduce their losses from natural disasters. As a
region, St. Kitts and Nevis, and the other OECS countries have
taken steps to become more disaster resilient. Each country has
named a National Disaster Coordinator with the unique function
of bringing diverse groups together to promote disaster
mitigation, stimulate preparedness and coordinate relief
operations. Regionally, the Caribbean Emergency Disaster Relief



Agency (CDERA), after Hurricanes Luis and Maryland in 1995, took
a comprehensive approach to deal with natural disasters by
adding prevention, mitigation, and reconstruction to response,
and hence creating a disaster cycle to manage natural disasters.
In addition, St. Kitts and Nevis (like all the OECS countries)
has partnered with many international organizations such as
Organization of American States (OAS) and the Pan American
Health Organization (PAHO) to reduce vulnerability of natural
disasters.
4.      Despite St. Kitts and Nevis's government and the
international community's efforts already underway, the country
require more assistance to strengthen its infrastructure and
institutional capacity as was evidenced most recently by the
devastating impact of Hurricane Georges. While it is not
possible to prevent natural disasters from striking St. Kitts
and Nevis, it is possible to mitigate the economic and social
disruption they can cause.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
5.      At the request of a Commonwealth Ministerial Group to
examine the specials needs of small states resulting, among
other things, from exogenous factors, including natural
disasters, World Bank President, James D. Wolfensohn, formed a
Task Force to study the particular economic and environmental
vulnerability of these small states. OECS member nations
expressed a strong interest in expediting Bank resources to
implement disaster management programs in each of their
countries. The devastating impacts of Hurricane Georges on St.
Kitts and Nevis heightened the governments' concern for rapid
implementation of a program.
6.      The program would directly support two principal goals of
the OECS Country Assistance Strategy (CAS): strengthening
infrastructure and safeguarding the environment. As they
develop fully as service-based economies, strengthening
infrastructure and ensuring their reliability, especially
following disasters, becomes increasingly important. With
regard to the environment, the Bank has taken the lead in
assisting St. Kitts and Nevis in preparing a National
Environmental Action Plans (NEAP), which have identified
disaster prevention and mitigation as a priority need. The
proposed program would support the CAS goal of following through
with specific programs to implement the NEAP.
Objectives of the Proposed Program
7.      The main objectives of this program are to:
(i)     protect and strengthen key social and economic
infrastructure before disasters strike so as to reduce
the likelihood of loss of life and assets;
(ii)    strengthen the capacity of the St. Kitts and Nevis
emergency management agency to enable it to perform
more effectively;
-2-



(iii)   increase the ability and interest of the private
insurance industry to share disaster-related risks, and
to improve and support the enforcement of building
codes and sound land-use planning; and
(iv)    organize, train, and equip community-level disaster
committees to enhance their role in disaster
preparedness and recovery.
Program Description
8.      The program -is designed as an "horizontal" Adaptable
Program Loan (APL) -and is phased to allow the countries
(Dominica, St. Kitts and Nevis, and St. Lucia) that have already
developed rehabilitation and institutional strengthening program
components (Phase 1) to conclude loan agreements immediately,
while allowing the remaining countries to "sign up" (Grenada and
St. Vincent and the Grenandines) as soon as their programs are
ready (Phase 2). Finally, the operation also makes financial
resources readily available for emergency reconstruction needs
to restore, inter alia, critical public services (Emergency
Phase).
9.      The overall program lays out a framework for St. Kitts and
Nevis to address disaster management in a comprehensive manner--
(i) from the policy side, by strengthening the regulatory
framework for disaster mitigation, helping develop the
incentives to involve private insurance in sharing disaster
risk, and improving and supporting the enforcement of building
codes and land-use planning; (ii) from the capacity building
side, by strengthening the national emergency management agency
to perform more effectively; (iii) from the community level, by
organizing, training and equipping community disaster committees
in disaster preparedness and mitigation; and (iv) from the
physical side, by protecting key infrastructure and facilities.
Program Management and Implementation
10.     Program coordination and management.   In St. Kitts and
Nevis, a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would be set up in the
respective ministries of finance and planning. A Project
Coordinator would be assigned by each ministry to coordinate and
monitor implementation progress according to agreed upon
performance indicators and report to the World Bank. The
program would finance a program Financial Manager within the PCU
for the duration of the program who would be familiar with Bank
procedures and guidelines for administration and management of
funds. The program would also finance a contract management
specialist where necessary to assist the various implementing
agencies in awarding and supervising contracts.
12.     A National Hazard Mitigation Council would be set up to
serve as a steering committee to coordinate policy issues,
approve the selection of priority investments, and help ensure
compliance of government commitments. The committees would
consist of representatives of relevant sector ministries
- 3 -



involved in the program, as well as representatives from the
private sector and NGOs.
13.     Program Implementation. Each program component would be
implemented by the respective line ministry responsible for that
component (e.g. sea defenses would be implemented by the
Ministry of Communications and Works, while retrofitting of
schools would be implemented by the Ministry of Education). For
some of the institutional strengthening components, the national
emergency management agencies would be the implementing agency.
The implementing agencies would provide progress reports to the
PCU on a monthly basis.
Procurement Arrangements
14.     Procurement, contracting and payments to contractors would
be undertaken by the respective implementing agencies using
World Bank guidelines with the assistance of the contract
management specialist in the PCU where necessary.
Program Costs
15.     The financing of the first phase is as follows:
Phase 1:
FINANCING PLAN FOR PHASE 1 (US$m)
Country Bank    Governments      Co-financiers  Total
St. Kitts & Nevis                8.50    1.80             .90             11.20
St. Lucia                6.00            1.15             .95             8.10
Dominica                 5.00            1.20             .80             7.00
Subtotals        19.50           4.15            2.65             26.30
Phase 2:  additional World Bank financing for Grenada (US$10)
and St. Vincent and Grenadines (US$6) and US$ 2.5 million
government financing.
Emergency Phase: up to US$ 10 million Bank financing, and US$
2 million government financing, for emergency reconstruction
needs that occur at any time during the 6 year program span.
Sustainability
16.     Physical Investment Components. Inadequate maintenance has
been a key issue in sustainability of infrastructure. For each
of the physical investment components of the program, the
relevant sector ministry would provide an operations and
maintenance (O&M) plan up-front before disbursement begins, and
commit to providing the resources necessary. In addition, an
annual review of O&M needs for each component would be carried
out.
19.     Institutional Strengthening Components. The program would
provide assistance to the national emergency management agency
to assist it in preparing for and managing emergency situations.
To ensure sustainability in the long run, the program would seek
- 4 -



government commitment of staff and financial resources to this
agency to ensure their long-term viability after the program is
completed. The bulk of the assistance provided to this agency
from program resources would be in setting up systems for
response activities, as well as for equipment and training.
Social Considerations
20.     The program is expected to have a positive social impact
because a majority of the components would restore and retrofit
basic infrastructure such as schools, hospitals, shelters, and
roads, as well as benefit communities by strengthening their
capacity to prepare for and warn citizens in advance of natural
disasters.
Lessons Learned from similar Programs
21.     Bank-wide experience of successful emergency projects and
previous programs undertaken in the Caribbean and incorporated
into this program are: (i) rapidity of response; (ii) project
simplification; (iii) strong government commitment; (iv) clear
agreements between implementing agencies and the Bank; (v)
strengthening of existing institutions rather than creating new
ones; and (vi) investing in measures that enable the Borrower to
be better prepared to mitigate the effects of future disasters.
Contact Point
Task Manager
Arnaud Marie Guinard
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-8121
Fax: (202) 522-3552
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 17, 2002.
- 5 -



