Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18645 LAC
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
FOR PROPOSED CREDITS (2) AND LOANS (3)
IN THE AMOUINT OF SDR 4 MILLION AND US$14.07 MILLION RESPECTIVELY
TO
THE COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA, ST. KITTS & NEVIS,
AND ST. LUCIA
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
ORGANIZATION OF EASTERN CARIBBEAN STATES
EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND DISASTER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
December 2, 1998
Fmance. Private Sector, and Infrastructure Unit
Caribbean Department
Lann America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rates Effective December 1998)
Currency Unit = Eastern Caribbean Dollars (EC$)
EC$ 1.0 = US$ 0.37
US$ 1.0 = EC$ 2.7
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL              Adaptable Program Lending (World Bank)
CARICOM          Caribbean Community and Common Market
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy (World Bank)
CDB              Caribbean Development Bank
CDERA            Caribbean Disaster Relief Agency
EU               European Union
FEMA             U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency
IBRD             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank)
ICB              International Competitive Bidding
IDA              International Development Association (World Bank)
NCB              National Competitive Bidding
NEAP             National Environmental Action Plan
NMS              National Meteorological Service
OAS              Organization of American States
ODP              Office of Disaster Preparedness
OECS             Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
OFDA             U.S. Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance
O&M              Operations and Maintenance
PAHO             Pan American Health Organization
PCU              Project Coordination Unit
TOR              Terms of Reference
USAID            United States Agency for International Development
WTO              World Trade Organization
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Director: Daniel M. Leipziger
Task Team Leader: Eugene D. McCarthy



,ii                       IFOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Program
CONTENTS
A: Program  Purpose and Project Development Objectives ..................................................                 3
1. Program   purpose and program  phasing: .................................................3
2. Project development objectives: ..................................................4
3. Key performance indicators: .................................................4
B: Strategic Context ..................................................6
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the program ..................................................6
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ..................................................6
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the program  and strategic choices .......................................9
4. Program  description and performance triggers for subsequent loans .................................... 10
C: Project Description Summary .................................................                                         12
1. Project components ................................................. 12
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the program ............................................ 14
3. Benefits and target population .................................................                                   14
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .................................................                    14
D: Project Rationale .................................................                                                   16
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection: .................................................   16
2. Major related projects .................................................                                           16
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ....................................                           17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ....................................                              18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ....................................                                   18
E: Summary Project Analysis ...................                                                                          20
1. Economic ...................                                                                                       20
2. Financial ...................                                                                                      20
3. Technical ...................                                                                                      20
4. Institutional ...................                                                                                  20
5. Social ........................                                                                      ,                21
6. Environmental assessment .21
7. Participatory approach .21
F: Sustainability and Risks .22
1. Sustainability: .22
2. Critical Risks .22
3. Possible Controversial Aspects: .23
G: Main Loan Conditions .23
1. Effectiveness Conditions: .23
2. Other.23
H. Readiness for Implementation .23
I. Compliance with Bank Policies.                                                                                        25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



iv
ANNEXES
Annex 1 Program Design Summary ....................................................  26
Annex 2 St. Kitts and Nevis ................................................... 28
Annex 2A    Detailed Project Description .29
Annex 2B   Estimated Project Costs .37
Annex 2C        Project Management and Implementation .38
Annex 2D   Project Progress Indicators .39
Annex 2E        Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .40
Annex 2F    Statement of Loans and Credits .43
Annex 2G  Country at a Glance .44
A nnex   3    St   Lucia  ........................................................................................................... 46
Annex 3A    Detailed Project Description .47
Annex 3B   Estimated Project Costs .55
Annex 3C        Project Management and Implementation .56
Annex 3D   Project Progress Indicators .57
Annex 3E        Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .58
Annex 3F    Statement of Loans and Credits .61
Annex 3G  Country at a Glance .62
A nnex   4    Dom inica   ........................................................................................................... 64
Annex 4A    Detailed Project Description .65
Annex 4B   Estimated Project Costs .72
Annex 4C        Project Management and Implementation .73
Annex 4D   Project Progress Indicators .74
Annex 4E        Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .75
Annex 4F    Statement of Loans and Credits .78
Annex 4G  Country at a Glance .80
Annex 5 Project Processing Schedule ...................................................  81
Annex 6 Economic Developments and Bank Program Implementation ............................... 82



Page 1
Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Program
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Caribbean Department
Date: December 2, 1998                            Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Eugene D. McCarthy
Country Manager/Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos   Sector Manager/Director: Daniel M. Leipziger
ProjectIID: 60-PA-62668    Sector: Multi-sectoral  Program Objective Category:
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  Program of Targeted Intervention: []Yes  [ *] No
PROGR   FINANCING  DATA                                                                                |
IBRD            IDA            Govt       Co-financiers  TOTAL
US$m    %      US$m    %       US$m     %     US$m    %       USsm
APL I  St. Kitts & Nevis           8.50    85%                    1.08    10%    0.50    5%      10.08
St. Lucia                  3.04    39%    3.00    39%    1.14    15%    0.50    7%       7.68
Dominica                   2.53   41.5%    2.50   41.5%    0.50    8.3%    0.50   8.3%   6.03
APL 1 SUB-TOTAL           14.07   59%    5.50    23%    2.72   11.4%    1.50   6.3%    23.79
APL 2  St. Vincent & the Grenadines   2.0    42%   2.0    42%    0.75    16%                     4.75
Grenada                    1.0    43%      1.0    43%    0.35    15%                     2.35
APL 2 SUB-TOTAL            3.00    42%    3.00    42%    1.10    16%      _              7.10
APL 3  Additional physical         5.0    42%      5.0    42%     2.0    16%                     12.0
investments & institutional
strengthening
APL 4  Contingency Funding         5.0    42%      5.0    42%/o   2.0    16%              _      12.0
PROGRAM                   27.07   49%    18.50   34%    7.82    14.5   1.50   2.5%    54.89
PROJECT FINANCIAL DATA               [A] IBRD       [A] IDA         [] Guarantee   1 Other[Specilyl
For IBRD Loans:
Amount (US$m): 14.03
Proposed terms:                        []  Multicurrency      [.]  Single currency, specify (US$)
Grace period (years): 3           []  Standard Variable  [.] Fixed            []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Front-end fee: 1%
For IDA Credits:
Amount (SDRm): 4 million (US$5.5 million equivalent)
Proposed terms:         Standard IDA   []   Multicurrency
Grace period (years): 10 [I   Standard Variable
Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.5%
Service charge: 0.75%



Page 2
Government - St. Kitts & Nevis                   1.08
Government - St. Lucia                           1.15
Government - Dominica                            0.63
Subtotal: OECS Governments          2.86
IDA - St. Kitts & Nevis                          0.00
IDA - St. Lucia                                  3.00
IDA - Dominica                                   2.50
Subtotal: IDA        5.50
IBRD - St. Kitts & Nevis                         8.50
IBRD - St. Lucia                                 3.03
IBRD - Dominica                                  2.50
Subtotal: IBRD        14.03
Cofinanciers - St. Kitts & Nevis                 0.50
Cofinanciers - St. Lucia                         0.50
Cofinanciers - Dominica                          0.40
Subtotal: Cofinanciers       1.40
__g.X TOTAL                                              2 es T  ,?3.79
Borrowers: Governments of St. Kitts & Nevis, St. Lucia, Dominica, Grenada and St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Guarantor: Same
Responsible agencies:
St. Kitts & Nevis - Ministry of Finance, Planning and Development
St. Lucia - Ministry of Finance and Planning
Dominica - Ministry of Finance, Industry and Planning
Grenada - TBD
St. Vincent & the Grenadines - TBD
t _ _ure~m~ t*_APJy,:(US$in)               FY1999*   FY2000  FY001  FY_2E*
St Kitts & Nevis                        Annual    2.5        2.5       3        0.5
Cumulative    2.5       5.0      8.0       8.5
St. Lucia                               Annual    0.5        3.5      1.5       0.53
Cumulative    0.5        4       5.5       6.03
Dominica                                Annual    0.5        3.0       1        0.5
Cumulative    0.5       3.5      4.5       5.0
APL 1:                                           APL 2:
Implementation period: 3 years                   Implementation period: 3 years
*Expected effectiveness date: January 31, 1999   Expected effectiveness date: June 30, 1999
**Expected closing date: January 31 , 2002       Expected closing date: June 30, 2002
APL 3: Additional physical investments & institutional APL 4: Contingency Funding
strengthening
Implementation period: 3 years                   Expected effectiveness: Depends on occurrence of
disaster
Expected effectiveness date: FY2002              Expected closing date: FY2005
Expected closing date: FY2005



Page 3
A: Program Purpose and Project Development Objectives
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The proposed program aims to support the physical and institutional efforts of the five member countries
of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (0ECS)' for disaster recovery and emergency
preparedness and management. The OECS nations are particularly vulnerable to different types of
disasters including hurricanes, tropical storms, floods, landslides, earthquakes and storm surges. The
nations' low level of preparedness, lack of mitigating measures and limited disaster response capability
was evidenced most recently by the devastating impact of Hurricane Georges on St. Kitts & Nevis in
September 1998.
The program will consist of individual lending operations in the five member countries. It will be phased
over a period of approximately six years and will support a comprehensive set of activities:
* Physical investments: Key social and economic infrastructure will be protected and strengthened
before disasters strike so as to reduce the likelihood of loss of life and assets--alternatively, they will
be rehabilitated or reconstructed in the aftermath of a disaster.
* Capacity building: The capacity of national emergency management agencies will be strengthened to
enable them to perform more effectively.
* Institutional strengthening: Steps will be taken to increase the ability and interest of the private
insurance industry to share disaster-related risks, and to improve and support the enforcement of
building codes and sound land-use planning.
* Community preparedness: Community-level disaster committees will be organized, trained and
equipped to enhance their role in disaster preparedness, mitigation and recovery.
These activities will be carried out in the following phases:
* APL 1: The first phase of the program will focus on immediate reconstruction and rehabilitation of
infrastructure in St. Kitts and Nevis which suffered major damage due to Hurricane Georges on
September 21, 1998. It will also support disaster mitigation investments in St. Lucia and Dominica
which are both particularly vulnerable to disasters due to their proximity to past hurricane paths. This
phase will strengthen emergency preparedness and response systems in all these countries, such as
Early Warning Systems. In addition, it will finance analytical studies for developing insurance/re-
insurance schemes for public buildings, improving building codes and proper land use planning. The
studies will lay the basis for improvements in the institutional framework and help develop disaster
mitigation instruments which will be financed in subsequent phases.
* APL 2: The second phase will bring in the two remaining OECS countries (Grenada and St. Vincent
& the Grenadines) to the program. The activities supported will be the same as in APL 1.
* APL 3: The third phase of the program will focus on additional physical investments identified
through the hazard mapping analysis, as well as provide further support for the longer-term
institutional strengthening of each country's disaster management capacity.
*  APL 4: The operation will include contingency funding for any eligible OECS member nation should
a severe natural disaster strike them during the program period (approximately six years). This phase
will run in parallel with APL 1 and APL 2, meaning that as long as a country has signed for either
APL I or APL 2, they would be eligible to access the Contingency funds.
'OECS member countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent
and the Grenadines. Antigua and Barbuda is not eligible for Bank financing.



Page 4
2. Project development objectives:
Within the framework of the program, individual lending operations will be financed in the five countries
(hereafter referred to as projects). The development objectives of the five projects will be the same:
*  To strengthen key economic and social infrastructure and facilities with the aim of minimizing
damage caused by future natural disasters and reducing the disruption of economic activity in the
event of disaster emergencies (pre-disaster works)
*  To reconstruct and rehabilitate key social and economic infrastructure following disasters to allow
quick recovery and minimize disruption of economic activity (post-disaster works)
*  To strengthen the countries' institutional capacities to prepare for and respond to disaster
emergencies in an efficient and effective manner
3. Key performance indicators:
Program phasing and output indicators
*  Three OECS countries (Dominica, St. Kitts & Nevis, and St. Lucia) have already prepared projects in
accordance with the program framework, and have signed a Development Program Agreement
acceptable to the Bank.
*  The remaining two countries (Grenada and St. Vincent & the Grenadines) will be able to participate
in APL 2 once they have adequately completed project preparation as well as made a clear
commitment to a disaster management framework by signing the Development Program Agreement.
These countries are expected to come on board early in 1999, as project preparation is already well
under way.
*  Participation in APL 3 will be triggered by the following conditions:
1. Satisfactory completion of physical investments on time, within budget, and of adequate technical
quality under APL I and APL 2
2. Evidence of adequate maintenance of infrastructure particularly vulnerable to disasters
3. A fully staffed National Emergency Management Agency with a clear mandate, adequate Terms
of References, and sufficient financial resources
4. A program of preparedness and mitigation activities at the national and community level,
including a complete National Disaster Preparedness and Response Plan for natural and man-
made disasters
5. An operational plan within NEMA to carry out training and other activities in disaster awareness,
preparation and response at the community level, including at schools and private businesses
6. A fully staffed National Meteorological Service with a clear mandate, adequate Terms of
References, and sufficient financial resources to issue timely weather and flood warnings, as well
as an operational island-wide communications systems to transmit the information to
communities and businesses
7. Enactment of a National Building Code that provides for disaster-resistant construction standards
for publicly owned buildings, infrastructure facilities as well as private buildings and homes
8. Completion of a national map of hazards and a detailed vulnerability analysis of natural and
manmade disaster threats;
9. Completion of investigation of insurance/re-insurance policy options for public buildings,
including exposure assessment as well as pricing of insurance policies.
* Contingency funding (APL 4) will be available to member countries in the event of a major disaster
during the program period (six years). Access to this loan will be triggered by a declaration of a
disaster emergency by the government and recognition by the international community of an
emergency situation. The contingency funding will run in parallel with APL I and APL 2, i.e. as
long as countries have committed to a disaster management framework by signing either APL I or
APL 2, they would have access to the loan.



Page 5
Outcome indicators
*  Appreciable reduction in time for restoration of key public services following a disaster. Key
services include water supply, electricity service, basic health services, and opening of schools.
* Smooth and effective disaster response systems (early warning, shelter management, relief supplies,
subsequent reconstruction and rehabilitation, etc.) during and after emergencies.
* Reduced cost to Governments of repair and rehabilitation of key infrastructure, and quick resumption
of economic activities following disasters.
Inputimplementation progress indicators
* Specific monitorable indicators to measure implementation progress for different project components
for each country are given in the Project Progress Indicators sections in the Country Annexes.



Page 6
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the program (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 14295-LAC   Date of latest CAS discussion: May 4, 1995
The program directly supports two principal goals of the OECS CAS: supporting infrastructure and
safeguarding the environment.
*  Supporting infrastructure Supporting infrastructure is key to sustaining income growth as these
countries develop fully as service-based economies. Although the initial strategy of the CAS had
been to support infrastructure by providing resources to these countries via the Caribbean
Development Bank (CDB), this strategy has not been successful, as witnessed by the recent
cancellation of the CDB VI project. As a result, it was agreed with the OECS countries that it would
be more effective to increase direct lending to these countries for projects (see Annex 6: Economic
Developments and Bank Program Implementation). However, close coordination with similar CDB-
financed project investments has been maintained throughout the preparation of this program.
* Safeguarding the environment. In the last few years, the Bank has taken the lead in assisting the
OECS countries in preparing National Environment Action Plans (NEAPs). The next step, foreseen
in the CAS, is to assist in implementing these plans and preparing specific programs to address
priority needs. One of the priority needs identified in the NEAPs is disaster prevention and
mitigation, which is the primary objective of the proposed program.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues
* The consequences of natural disasters in the small island states of the Caribbean from events such as
hurricanes, tropical cyclones, earthquakes, and floods on economic activities, property, human
welfare, and natural resources can be devastating. These events can lead to significant disasters
greatly affecting the productive sectors of the economy such as agriculture and tourism, not to
mention the impact on communities. The impact of various hurricanes on the OECS countries in the
present decade is summarized below.
Major Caribbean Disaster Losses 1979 - 1998
E~~~                  Year;-     >; Setn               Im<>,pac!t;      -
St. Kitts   Hurricane Georges       1998   Housing          85% damage/destruction
Agriculture     50% sugarcane crop lost
Dominica    Hurricanes Luis and     1995   All sectors      $66.7 m in total damages
Marilyn
Antigua     Hurricane Luis          1995   Tourism          60%/e fewer tourists
3 months after
St. Lucia    Tropical Storm Debbie  1994   All sectors      $79 m in damages (18% Of GDP)
Jamaica     Hurricane Gilbert       1988   All sectors      $956 m in total damages
$130 m in lost exports
S 100 m in lost tourism
St. Lucia    Hurricane Allen        1980   Housing           30% damaged
Dominica    Hurricanes David &      1979   Housing           60% destroyed or damaged
-      Frederic
Source: Caribbean Disaster Mitigation Project (CDMP), Organization ofAmerican States (OAS), World Bank
documents, and others



Page 7
*  Since these events recur at frequent intervals, preparedness and mitigation activities must focus on
minimizing their potential negative impact. The OECS countries face special challenges to
development because of their small size. Their topography of mountainous terrain and low
population densities (see table below) makes the cost of economic and social infrastructure high. The
full cost of natural disasters in the OECS goes beyond the direct dpmages incurred from each storm.
It involves the higher costs of building infrastructure to withstand storms and flooding, additional
protections such as sea walls, and strict engineering designs for all facilities. The devastation
associated with the impact of these hazards often overwhelms local emergency systems resulting in
the need for massive external assistance.
OECS Country Statistics
Population    Area     G            Population      Unemployment
(1997)    (sq. km)    Capita    in Poverty (%)      Rate (%)
Dominica               75,000      750       $3,120         33.0             10.0
St. Kitts & Nevis      41,000      269       $6,160         15.0             12.0
St. Lucia             150,000      610       $3,620         19.0              16.0
St. Vincent & the     112,000      340       $2,500         17.0             20.0
Grenadines
Grenada                99,000      340       $3,000         20.0              16.0
Source: Caribbean Economic Overview, The World Bank, June 1998
0  In the Caribbean, there were a total of 309 disaster events between 1900 and 1996 with over 72,000
deaths and approximately 12 million people affected. This included 189 natural disaster events in the
Greater Antilles2 with over 34,000 deaths and 11 million people affected, and 120 events in the
Lesser Antilles3, where there were over 38,000 deaths and 624,000 people were affected. On
average, at least one major hurricane and numerous tropical storms cross the Caribbean each year,
with the OECS countries often in their path.
Types of Disaster Events by Country (1900 - 1996)
Total      Tropical     Floods      Volcanic
Cyclones                Eruptions
Dominica                   11           11
St. Kitts and Nevis         7            6           1
St. Lucia                   11          10           1
St. Vincent                 1I           4           4            3
Grenada                     4            3           1
Source: Diagnostic Study for the DIPECHO Action Plan for Central America and the Caribbean, April 1997,
ECHO Programme for Disaster Prevention, Mitigation, and Preparedness, CRED/CIFEG
*  The repercussions of disasters on the development of these countries' economies can be severe:
Economic developments. The OECS countries demonstrated an impressive growth performance in
the 1980s with an average GDP growth rate of 5-6%, due largely to a favorable external environment
(concessional aid flows financing a large portion of public investments in infrastructure; preferential
market access; favorable prices allowing a twofold increase in banana exports receipts; and fast
growth in the tourism sector). However, growth in the 1990's has slowed considerably to
approximately 3% per year, again due mainly to the external environment with external flows
slowing down and concessional aid flows declining rapidly. The main economic trend in the OECS
2Greater Antilles: Bahamnas, Cuba, Haiti, Cayman, Turks/Caicos, Jamaica, Puerto Rico, Dominican Republic
3 Lesser Antilles: Leeward and Windward Islands from Antigua to Trinidad/Tobago



Page 8
countries during the 1990s has been the rapid transition from agriculture-based economies to service-
based ones, mostly tourism. The WTO ruling against the preferential treatment of Caribbean bananas
accelerated this trend. Since 1995 there have been positive signs indicating that the OECS economies
might have overcome the worst part of their adjustment towards more diversified economic
structures. The prospects for GDP growth have improved somewhat relative to the first half of the
1990s, due mainly to the expansion of the tourism sector in substitution of the banana industry as the
main foreign exchange earner. This development, however, will require a medium- and long-term
perspective to protect the very resources that makes them attractive to tourism. The challenge that
the OECS countries face is that both their main foreign exchange sources, tourism and agriculture,
are particularly vulnerable to disasters.
TourisnL Tourism has become the most important foreign exchange earning sector in these
countries. In St. Lucia, for example, agriculture represented 16% of GDP in 1977, while tourism
represented 21%. In 1996, agriculture formed 6% while tourism doubled to 32%. However, natural
disasters like hurricanes can have a devastating impact on the tourist industry, as tourists become
more cautious about going to the country that has been devastated by a tropical cyclone, and it takes
time to rehabilitate necessary infrastructure to serve the tourist industry. In St. Kitts, Hurricane
Georges destroyed the harbor that docks all cruise ships, caused severe damage to all but two hotels,
and destroyed the airport traffic control tower. Prior to Hurricane Georges, the sugar industry and
tourism accounted for 68% of total exports of goods and non-factor services and the share of tourism
in GDP in St. Kitts and Nevis had been constantly rising. Although the impact of Hurricane Georges
on revenue from the 1998/99 tourism season is yet to be seen, past examples like Antigua in the
months following Hurricane Luis in 1995 show that an estimated 60% to 70% fewer tourists visited
the island that year.
Agriculture. Agriculture is also vulnerable to natural hazards because of its dependence on foreign
trade and because it still plays an important role in creating the island's economic wealth. There is
still a single-crop export-oriented agricultural industry (bananas or sugar cane) on many of the
islands. In St. Lucia in 1979, in the aftermath of Hurricane Allen, farming employed 43% of the
active population and consisted of about 15% of the country's GDP (banana production, which is
particularly vulnerable to high winds, represented 80% of the island's agriculture exports).
Following Hurricane Georges (1998), over 50% of the sugar crop was completely destroyed in St.
Kitts.
Roads, transport and coastal areas. The transport and communication networks, which are
increasingly vital to these countries, are particularly vulnerable. Natural events cause disasters such
as landslides and floods, which have a significant negative impact on road conditions and the road
network, and eventually disrupt road transport. Selective strengthening of roads and bridges in key
sections of the network is needed to help minimize this disruption.
Housing. Housing is one of the most vulnerable sectors, because it is generally rudimentary and
structurally weak in these countries. In Dominica, in the aftermath of Hurricane David (1979), 60%
of housing was seriously damaged or destroyed. In St. Lucia, following Hurricane Allen (1980), 30%
of housing was impacted, and 80% of the schools were destroyed or seriously damaged. In St. Kitts,
following Hurricane Georges (1998), 85% of the housing stock was seriously damaged or destroyed
and all schools sustained some damage.
Public buildings and utilties. Lifeline infrastructure such as hospitals, airports, public buildings,
shelters, etc., are also potentially vulnerable to natural disasters. In St. Kitts, following Hurricane
Georges (1998), three quarters of the main hospital was destroyed. One of the major problems in the
OECS countries is an absence of legislation, a lack of regulations and no effective enforcement
measures to ensure appropriate building construction. Following a hurricane or tropical storm, the



Page 9
electrical network is often down for weeks, which causes serious disruptions in power supply to all
economic activities and key social services such as hospitals and water distribution. In St. Kitts,
electrical poles were uprooted or broken throughout the entire island leaving citizens without power
for weeks.
Communities. Due to rapid population growth and human settlements in disaster prone areas, more
and more people and their assets are vulnerable to natural hazards. However, often communities are
not forewarned of an impending disaster, not prepared, and are not organized to manage emergency
situations.
Government Disaster Mitigation Strategies
*  Although natural occurrences such as floods, hurricanes, earthquakes and volcanic eruption cannot be
stopped, countries can take preventive measures at various levels to make the impact of such events
less harmful and costly, and prevent some of their worst effects.
*  The OECS countries are committed to reducing their vulnerability to natural disasters and have taken,
or are planning, several steps in the appropriate direction. They have:
i) named a National Disaster Coordinator with the unique function of bringing diverse groups
together to promote disaster mitigation, stimulate preparedness and to coordinate relief
operations;
ii) developed a process and structure to engage all aspects of society and to help them prepare
themselves;
iii) undertaken disaster related training;
iv) attempted disaster training to improve emergency management skills;
v) drafted and supported laws and regulations to strengthen national and community disaster
awareness and protection;
vi) engaged business and industry resources to support public projects; and
vii) stimulated private sector to develop plans to protect their productive capacity
* A number of regional initiatives are also under way.
i) There has been considerable progress in the identification of hazards and analysis of country
vulnerability.
ii) The CARICOM countries formed the Caribbean Emergency Disaster Relief Agency (CDERA)
which initially focused on relief coordination but has now launched a program aimed at
evaluating the economic impact of hurricanes in the short, medium and long terms based on the
1995 hurricane season.
iii) The UNCHS with the Organization of American States (OAS) has developed a Caribbean
Disaster Mitigation Project (CDMP) which has developed an OECS Model Building Code and is
providing technical assistance to OECS governments for adoption, enactment and enforcement of
the code.
iv) Several organizations are working with the Organization of American States (OAS) on an
initiative to reduce the vulnerability of schools.
v) The Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) has conducted vulnerability studies of hospitals
and health facilities which have resulted in specific recommendations for strengthening hospitals
in St. Lucia and Grenada. PAHO has secured funding for these countries and is seeking
additional funds for hospital mitigation in other OECS countries. Countries have also improved
Mass Casualty Management through training provided by PAHO.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the program and strategic choices:
The proposed program will consist of two types of activities: investments in physical infrastructure and
strengthening institutional capacity to prepare for and manage disasters.



Page 10
* Emergency physical investments. Certain key infrastructure facilities in each country are repeatedly
devastated by disasters (points along roads during heavy rains/landslides, bridges during floods, roofs
of shelters, hospitals and other critical public buildings during hurricanes). There are other structures
that need to be constructed as their absence leads to damage and destruction to nearby areas (like sea
defenses and retaining walls. These facilities are likely to be affected at any time in bad weather
conditions, and particularly during the "hurricane season" every year. These investments needs have
already been prioritized by the member governments and are limited in number. Financing these key
investments on an emergency basis will clearly be one of the most cost-effective ways to reduce
damages and lessen the negative impact of future disasters on the society and economy. Therefore,
for the infrastructure component, the program will finance specific investment needs and not seek to
address any long-term sectoral issues in any one sector.
* Disaster preparedness, mitigation, and emergency management. The program will address long-
term issues in the area of disaster preparedness and mitigation. In each country, it will aim to
strengthen the authority and capability of the national emergency management agencies, establish
effective Early Warning Systems, and strengthen community organization and preparedness for
disasters. The program will also seek to address institutional issues such as improvements in, and
enforcement of, the regulatory framework of disaster-related insurance, building codes and land use
planning. This would ensure that physical infrastructure in future is located in less vulnerable
locations and built to minimize damage due to disasters, as well as reduce future costs of repair and
rehabilitation.
*  Quick disbursing loans in emergency situations. In emergency situations, the program will also
consider providing quick disbursing funds to finance essential imports from a positive list of items
needed to help restore economic activity. These imports will include food grains, edible oils,
construction materials, and petroleum products. In the case of St. Kitts and Nevis under APL 1, a
quick disbursing component of US$2.4 million is included to finance imports. Similar mechanisms
might be considered under APL 4 (the contingency funding) as well.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The program consists of four types of activities: physical works, capacity building, institutional
development and strengthening community involvement in disaster preparedness, mitigation and
response.
*  Physical works: These include prevention and mitigation works such as construction of sea
defenses; river control and damage protection; flood protection (for key facilities such as airports,
main network roads); slope stabilization; retrofitting of schools and shelters; construction of
hurricane-resistant shelters; and installation or construction of backup facilities (like generators and
reservoirs) for critical services such as hospitals. They also include post-disaster rehabilitation works
such as construction of hospital wards and shelters; beach restoration; restoration of water and
electricity facilities, etc.
* Capaciy building: This will involve strengthening the capacities of national institutions responsible
for disaster preparedness, mitigation and management. National Emergency Management Agencies
in each country will be adequately staffed, provided the necessary training, and given necessary
equipment and facilities such as an Emergency Operations Center and communications equipment.
Technical assistance will be provided in disaster planning and management as well as to enhance the
operational links, including communications, between the national agency and other stakeholders in
government ministries, private businesses, NGOs, and, most importantly, local communities. The
National Meteorological Services in each country will be provided appropriate equipment and



Page 11
training to carry out weather observations and warnings adequately at the local level, including the
development of flood alert warning systems and ham weather radio observation networks. Where
necessary, the capacity of the Ministry of Communications and Works to carry out activities such as
river training or monitoring earth movements, etc. will also be strengthened.
Institutional strengthening: The program will support improvements in the regulatory framework as
it relates to disaster planning and mitigation. This will involve the enactment and enforcement of a
national Building Code and hazard analysis and vulnerability mapping to improve land-use planning.
A major activity for institutional strengthening will be to put in place an appropriate insurance policy
for government buildings. Studies will be carried out to examine the mechanisms for putting in place
market incentives (for example, via insurance premium pricing) for mitigating risk and reducing
vulnerability, as well as mechanisms for protecting against sharp fluctuations in insurance/re-
insurance prices. The latter would have the objective of eventually augmenting overall insurance
coverage at a reasonable cost, and ensuring the availability of backstop financial mechanisms to
provide the insurance industry and the government sufficient reserve liquidity to finance damages
from disasters.
* Community involvement: The program will support District Disaster Committees and strengthen
their capacity to prepare community disaster plans and respond to and manage disasters and
emergencies. It will promote community activities in disaster prevention and mitigation by providing
access to training and mitigation measures. As a pilot in Dominica, it will establish a small fund to
finance small-scale community-driven initiatives for local disaster prevention and mitigation.
* These activities will be carried out or initiated in the first phase of the program (APL 1 for St. Kitts &
Nevis, St. Lucia and Dominica; APL 2 for St. Vincent & the Grenadines and Grenada). In the second
phase (APL 3), the program will focus on additional physical investments identified through the
hazard mapping analysis, as well as provide further support for the longer-term institutional
strengthening of each country's disaster management capacity. Institutional strengthening will
include activities such as: (i) the enforcement of regulations such as building codes and land use
planning, including tracking and inspection; (ii) the development of insurance schemes for public
buildings; (iii) examining ways in which appropriate technologies can be applied more effectively for
disaster management and mitigation; (iv) continuing the process of community outreach and change;
and other measures as they arise from the results of implementation of the first phase. The triggers.
for this phase are given under "Program Phasing Indicators" earlier in this section of the PAD.
* The program will also make available contingency funds whose objective would be to finance
emergency rehabilitation and reconstruction investments as a result of disasters in order to restore
critical public services and stimulate economic recovery. Any OECS member country that is already
a participant in the program (by having signed either APL I or APL 2) would be eligible. The
trigger for the loan, would be a national declaration of an emergency as a result of a disaster, which in
turn triggers an international disaster/emergency declaration. The Contingency funding would
finance immediate rehabilitation activities that would help restore critical public services, and the
reconstruction of physical and social infrastructure which will stimulate economic recovery. It is
expected that rehabilitation of roads and bridges, restoration of water and sanitation facilities,
rehabilitation of critical public buildings (hospitals, schools, administrative buildings) and critical
services (electric power), would receive priority consideration for funding. Purchase of capital goods
(construction materials, equipment, repair materials such as "Bailey type" bridge elements,
engineering services) would also be considered for financing. Relief supplies such as blankets,
clothing and food would not be considered.



Page 12
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2A, 3A and 4A for detailed descriptions and Annex 2B, 3B, and 4B for detailed
cost breakdown):
Component                       Category       Cost Incl.    % of Total    Bank-       % of
Contingencies               financing    Bank-
;______________ ______________    ______  __         (USSM )                   (US$        fi acin
1. ST. KITmS AND NEVIS                                            10.00        100%          8.5        85%
a. Fast Disbursing Component
Essential imports for recovery and rehabilitation  Other        2.4          24%
according to positive list
b. Physical Recovery and Mitigation Works
Hospital, shelters, water supply, electricity,  Physical        5.35         53.5%
roads and coastal protection, airport.
c. Strengthening Emergency Preparedness and
Response                                   Physical works,
(i) Strengthen NEMA and construct Emergency  institution        1.45         14.5%
Operations Center; (ii) Develop Early Warning   building, other
System (support to NMS, ham weather radio
observation network); (iii) Community based
disaster management (support to district disaster
committees)
d. Institutional Strengthening
Hazard analysis/vulnerability mapping,    Institution           0.28         2.8%
vulnerability reduction of public buildings,  building
building code
e. Support to the Project Coordination Unit  Project              0.52          5.2%
management
2. ST. LUCIA                                                      7.65         100%         6.00        78%
a. Physical Prevention and Mitigation Works
Airport flood protection, bridges and river  Physical works,    5.94         78%
training, Cul de Sac flood prevention, reservoir,  other
schools and libraries
b. Strengthening Emergency Preparedness and
Response                                                        0.86         11%
(i) Strengthen Office of Disaster Preparedness;   Institution
(ii) Develop Early Warning System (support to   building, other
Met Service, flood alert system, ham weather
radio observation network); (iii) Community
based disaster management (support to district
disaster committees).
d. Institutional Strengthening
Hazard analysis/vulnerability mapping,    Institution           0.24          3%
vulnerability reduction of public buildings,  building
building code
e. Support to Project Coordination Unit      Project              0.61          8%
management
3. DObMINCA                                  ______               59710                     5O          40.%
a. Civil works
Sea defenses, river control, flood prevention,  Physical        4.13         69%
roads, shelters



Page 13
Component                       Category       Cost Incl.    % of Total    Bank-       % of
Contingencies               financing    Bank-
(US$M) (USSM              US$M)   financing
b. Strengthening Emergency Preparedness and
Response
(i) Strengthen national Office of Disaster  Physical works,     1.22         20%
Preparedness; (ii) Develop Early Warning  institution
System (support to NMS, flood alert system,  building, other
ham weather radio observation network); (iii)
Community based disaster management (support
to district disaster committees and pilot
Vulnerability Fund).
c. Institutional Strengthening
Hazard analysis/vulnerability mapping,    Institution           0.17          3%
vulnerability reduction of public buildings,  building
building codes
d. Support to Project Coordination Unit      Project              0.45           8%
management    I                           I           I
TOTAL        23.62*     _             19S3**
* Cost figures do not include the front-end fee charged on IBRD loans
** Bank financing figures include the front-end fee charged on IBRD loans



Page 14
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the program:
*  This is an emergency multi-sectoral operation, which does not intend to address long term economic,
sectoral and institutional problems within any one sector or include conditionality linked to
macroeconomic or sectoral policies.
*  To ensure sustainability of physical investments financed through the program in the different
sectors, each responsible ministry (e.g. the Ministry of Health for a hospital rehabilitated) will be
required to carry out satisfactory operations and maintenance (O&M) by including provisions for
O&M in the annual budget.
*  Institutional reforms will be sought in the area of disaster preparedness, prevention and mitigation,
namely through activities like staffing of national emergency management agencies, ratification of
national disaster plans, institutionalization of effective Early Warning Systems, and passing of
building codes, as necessary in the respective countries.
*  The program will also finance studies and other initiatives to enhance preparedness to manage future
emergency situations in the long-term, for example, evaluating the existing frameworks of privately
offered disaster-related insurance/re-insurance schemes for public buildings, incorporating hazard
analysis and mapping into land use planning, and enforcing building codes.
3. Benefits and target population:
*  The main beneficiaries will be the population at large who will benefit from the avoidance or
minimization of the disruption of economic activity due to prevention and mitigation works financed
through the program, or in the event of damage, their rapid rehabilitation/reconstruction.
*  The program will benefit many lower income groups as it will finance the protection of dwellings and
commercial properties in the most risk-prone areas, which are often inhabited by poorer sections of
the population (in St. Kitts, the housing reconstruction component will be targeted to lower income
people).
* Government agencies such as the national emergency management agencies, the planning ministries,
and other implementing agencies (especially the Ministries of Communications and Works) will
benefit from technical assistance and institutional strengthening.
*  There will be a decrease in the cost of disaster management, response and rehabilitation, as the nation
will be better prepared to work more effectively and with a better coordinated mechanism during and
following disasters.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project coordination and management
*  In each country, a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be set up in the respective ministries of
finance and planning. A Project Coordinator will be assigned by each ministry to coordinate and
monitor implementation progress according to agreed upon performance indicators and report to the
World Bank. The project will finance a project Financial Manager within each PCU for the duration
of the project who will be familiar with Bank procedures and guidelines for administration and
management of funds. The project will also finance a contract management specialist where
necessary to assist the various implementing agencies in awarding and supervising contracts.
*  In each country, a National Hazard Mitigation Council (or similar body) will be set up to serve as a
steering committee to coordinate policy issues, recommend the selection of priority investments, and
assist in ensuring compliance of government commitments. The committees will consist of
representatives of relevant sector ministries involved in the project, as well as representatives from
the private sector and NGOs.



Page 15
Project impkmnentation
*  In each country, each project component will be implemented by the respective line ministry
responsible for that component (e.g. sea defenses will be implemented by the Ministry of
Communications and Works, while retrofitting of schools will be implemented by the Ministry of
Education). For some of the institutional strengthening components, the national emergency
management agencies will be the implementing agency.
*  The implementing agencies will provide progress reports to the PCU on a monthly basis.
*  Procurement, contracting and payments to contractors will be undertaken by the respective
implementing agencies using World Bank guidelines with the assistance of the contract management
specialist in the PCU where necessary.
*  Special implementation arrangements for specific components, like the Vulnerability Reduction Fund
in Dominica, are described in the respective Country Annexes.
Project supervision, reporting and audit requirements
* A Project Implementation Manual will delineate financial management and control procedures,
including TORs for internal and external audits acceptable to the Bank
* Each implementing agency will forecast the amount to be requested from the Special Account on a
quarterly basis. The Financial Manager in the PCU will authorize the withdrawal of these funds from
the Special Account and make payments directly to the contractors/consultants.
*  The PCU will, on a periodic basis, supervise the implementation of each component of the project,
including the physical investment components, and undertake periodic field visits
*  The PCU will make quarterly reports to the World Bank, including a statement of sources and uses of
funds, ensuring that all project guidelines are being followed
*  Financial audits for all accounts and components will be carried out annually.
  Technical audits will be carried out for large civil works that do not include technical audits as part of
the supervision process. Audits reports will be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year.



Page 16
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Regular Bank operations vs. Adaptable Program Loan (APL)
All five of the OECS countries require assistance for disaster management and preparedness. Because
three countries are advanced in project preparation, whereas two are in the process of identifying priority
investments and developing engineering designs and studies, it was decided that an APL would allow the
flexibility for the Bank to:
*  respond immediately to a disaster recovery emergency in St. Kitts & Nevis;
*  not penalize the countries that have prepared projects and taken the required steps;
*  allow the slower moving countries to come on board at a later stage;
*  follow through with institutional reforms for long-term sustainable disaster management policies and
strategies; and last
*  through the Contingency funding, ensure that the Bank is fully responsive to the particular needs of
member countries as they arise.
Using the APL will have the important benefit of encouraging regional integration through the sharing of
facilities, practices, and information between the OECS countries (for example, the program will finance
a regional workshop for training local contractors in hurricane-resistant building technologies). It will
also reduce the cost of preparing and supervising small operations (as a ratio of administrative budget
over dollars lent).
Earmarkingfundsforpost-disaster works on a country basis vs. creating separate Contingency
funding
It is not possible to predict how much damage might be caused by a future disaster. Earmarking funds
within the allocated amounts per country for recovery from a disaster would reduce the flexibility of the
operation by first, reducing the amounts available for pre-disaster works, and second, forcing countries to
pay commitment fees for amounts that it cannot use until and if a disaster strikes. In addition, creating a
regional facility gives the flexibility to increase the amount of assistance according to the level of damage
incurred, especially if one country is hit particularly badly.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned):
Sector issue                      Project             Latest Supervision Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Bank-fimanced                                                    hnplementation   Development
Progress       Objective
Rehabilitate hydraulic infrastructure of  St. Lucia: Watershed &       S               S
priority watersheds; strengthen govt   Environmental Management
capacity for environmental management &    Project--completed 1997
flood preparedness
Strengthen monitoring capacity & analysis   GEF Planning for Adaption  S               S
of global climate change to determine  to Global Climate Change
potential impact on coastal areas; identify    Project--1997
areas vulnerable to adverse effects of global  (implemented by OAS/
climate change & sea level rise        CARICOM)                 ___
Introduce pro-competitive reforms in   OECS: Telecommunications       N/A             N/A
telecommunications sector and increase  Project-- 1998
supply of informatics-related skills.



Page 17
Sector issue                       Project                _i                ings
________.__.___-._                                                  (Daulc..flanced rojects onl)
i________                              ~Implementation    )evlopment
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ,,._,_,_._._._'Progres                   Objective
Reduce public health risk              OECS: Solid Waste Mgmt           U               U
Project-- 1995
Finance rehabilitation needs; provide  Jamaica: Emergency               2               1
framework for overall coordination &   Reconstruction Import
implementation of reconstruction program    Loan---completed 1991
Reduce loss of life & deterioration of living  Bolivia: El Nino Emergency  S            S
standards from floods &/or droughts;   Assistance Project--- 1998
rehabilitate & reconstruct infrastructure
facilities damaged by floods
reduce loss of human life and deterioration   Peru: El Nino Emergency   S               S
of living standards from floods &/or   Assistance Project--1997
droughts; minimize the loss of, or damage
to, economic and social infrastructure;
enhance institutional capacity to forecast
and respond to future El Nino events
Other development agencies
USAID, implemented by OAS              Caribbean Disaster
Mitigation Project (sp.
Model Building Code
project)
PAHO                                   Caribbean Hospital
Mitigation and Mass
Casualty Training
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
*  The Bank has had experience with disaster management in the Caribbean region through two
projects: the St. Lucia Watershed and Environmental Management Project (following Tropical Storm
Debbie in 1994) and the Jamaica Emergency Reconstruction Import Loan (following Hurricane
Gilbert in 1988). The main lessons learned from the St. Lucia project are the following: i) donor
coordination in emergency situations is critical; ii) flexibility in procurement procedures, particularly
for small contracts, allows rapid implementation; iii) a balance needs to be set between rapid
implementation and engineering designs so that quality is not compromised, and environmental
guidelines are adhered to; and iv) community participation can benefit implementation and ensure
sustainability of interventions. The proposed program has been designed to address these main
lessons: the project was designed in close coordination with donors; procurement procedures have
been made particularly flexible for the project; engineering designs will be carefully reviewed by the
Bank for the larger civil works projects, and the Project Implementation Manual will set the criteria
and guidelines for environmental assessments for civil works; and as part of the disaster management
framework, the project foresees the participation of communities through training in disaster
management, search and rescue, etc.
* Lessons learned from the Jamaica project have also been incorporated. The Jamaica experience
demonstrated, among others: i) the need for greater involvement of communities and the private
sector in decision-making and implementation of the project; and ii) the importance of clearly
defining the responsibilities of implementing agencies (ambiguous roles can lead to significant
implementation delays). The proposed program has been designed and conceived with active
participation of all major stakeholders, including communities and the private sector, and the
responsibilities of implementing agencies will be clearly defined during negotiations.



Page 18
*  Bank-wide experience has shown that successful emergency projects have involved: (i) rapidity of
response; (ii) project simplification; (iii) strong government commitment; (iv) not imposing major
conditions that are difficult for the Governments to meet; (v) strengthening existing institutions rather
than creating new ones; and (v) investing in measures that enable the Borrower to be better prepared
to mitigate the effects of future disasters. The most successful emergency operations have been those
that not only responded quickly, but identified and addressed underlying problems and determined
how to resolve them in ways that resulted in long-term sustainable solutions. One of the main aims of
the proposed program is to strengthen institutional capacity to prepare for and manage disaster
situations in the future. Given the vulnerability of the OECS countries to disasters, there is already
strong government commitment to the program. The program will also enhance the capacities of
existing institutions involved in disaster management.
* The management of regional projects with participation by a number of beneficiary countries poses
special challenges to the implementing agencies as different national priorities, capacities, and
practices must be taken into consideration when designing individual country participation in project
activities. Although the proposed program is designed as a regional program, with similar issues
addressed in each country, and similar goals pursued, the program has been tailored to fit the specific
needs and circumstances of each country through individual lending operations, which have been
designed separately with each country.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
This program emerged in response to a direct request to the President of the World Bank in July 1998 by
a team of Commonwealth Secretariat ministers to assist small nations to address their economic,
environmental and legal vulnerability. Following a commitment by the President to create a Task Force
for small states, the OECS member nations expressed a strong interest in using Bank resources for a
Disaster Management Program. Following Hurricane Georges in September 1998 and its devastating
impact on St. Kitts & Nevis, the governments' desire for rapid implementation of the program has
increased. The Government of St. Kitts & Nevis especially has urged the Bank to assist on an expedited
basis, and has made significant progress in carrying out damage assessments and identifying priority
needs. The Governments of St. Lucia and Dominica have prepared preliminary designs for the majority
of physical investment components. The Government of St. Vincent has identified physical investments
and institutional strengthening components to be included in the future project, and Grenada has indicated
a strong interest in participating and has made a preliminary identification of components. The program
has strong support from senior officials in the governments, as witnessed by the Prime Ministers meeting
with some Bank missions or signing mission Aide Memoires in some cases.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
* Disaster mihigation experience. The Bank has gained experience, particularly over the last five
years, in preparing a number of emergency disaster mitigation projects, including for floods,
cyclones, and El Nino effects throughout the Latin America and Caribbean Region, as well as in other
developing countries outside this region. The lessons and best practices from these experiences are
being applied to this project.
* Regional OECS projects. The Bank has already worked on a number of regional projects for the
OECS/CARICOM countries and has established strong working relationships, as well as experience
in coordinating regional efforts.
* Bringing in expert advice. Through the Disaster Mitigation Program within the Bank, the project
team from the Bank includes staff from the U.S. National Weather Service, the USAID Office of
Foreign Disaster Assistance (OFDA), and the U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency to
provide practical, operational and state-of-the-art approaches to emergency management. The team
is also drawing upon the experience of the Organization of American States (OAS) in these areas.



6
Page 19
* Donor coordinaton. The project has been designed in collaboration with donors and other
intemational organizations such as the CDB, EU, CIDA, OAS and PAHO.



Page 20
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[e] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$   million; ERR=   % [ ] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[] Other (Specify)
The investments financed through the project will be limited to the most urgent reconstruction, prevention
and mitigation works. Economic analyses will be carried out for the major civil works that require a full
design and will be financed if they have an ERR higher than the minimum acceptable to the Bank
(approximately 12%). For schools, libraries, and shelters, most of which benefit entire communities and
involve retrofitting of existing infrastructure, a least-cost approach will be used.
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV=US$         million; FRR=       %
Not applicable
Fiscal impact. For each of the physical works components, the operations and maintenance costs will be
calculated and a commitment required from government to finance and carry out effective O&M on an
annual basis. An annual review of O&M needs will be carried out three months prior to the beginning of
each fiscal year.
3. Technical:
The project will follow current economically acceptable best-practices in technical standards for
infrastructure to ensure their ability to withstand natural disasters in the future and to minimize their
environmental impact. Technical ministries have been actively involved in the preparation of project
components, ensuring their consistency with national technical standards. The key issues would be the
skills of local contractors in applying disaster-resistant technologies and ensuring that, in future,
construction throughout the country meets technical standards to withstand natural disasters, especially
hurricanes. To address these issues, the project foresees some training of local contractors in disaster
resistant technology, and aims to address the regulatory and enforcement capacities of the governments in
infrastructure construction.
4. Institutional:
* Inplementing agencies: Because the project is multi-sectoral, each sector ministry will be in charge
of implementing their respective component of the project. They will prepare relevant terms of
reference for studies, prepare bidding documents, hire consultants and contractors, and supervise
implementation. Technical assistance will be provided to ministries on an as-needed basis (mainly
for procurement of equipment and hiring consultants in specialized areas). For some components, the
national emergency management agencies (or their equivalent) in each country will be the
implementing agency. Because the capacities of these offices are generally weak, the project will
require government commitment of resources and staff for some of the offices, while the project will
finance some equipment and technical assistance.
*  Project management: Project coordination and management will be centralized in the ministry of
finance and planning (or its equivalent) in each country. Each ministry will designate a staff person
from the ministry as the Project Coordinator. Due to the lack of resources in these ministries, the
project will finance the services of a financial manager who will be trained in Bank procurement and
financial management procedures and be responsible for accounting, management of the Special
Account, and reporting to the Bank. The project will also finance the services of a contract
management specialist where necessary to assist the different implementing agencies in awarding and
supervising the various contracts required for implementation.



Page 21
5. Social:
No major social issues are foreseen for the program. On the contrary, the program is expected to have a
positive social impact as a result of the restoration and retrofitting of basic infrastructure such as schools,
hospitals, shelters, roads, etc., and benefit communities by strengthening the capacity of the countries to
prepare for and warn their citizens in advance of natural disasters. The Community Based Disaster
Management component aims to organize communities better, supply them with assistance and
equipment to prepare for and respond efficiently to disasters, and provide funds for other community-
based disaster prevention or mitigation activities.
6. Environmental assessment:
Environmental Category []A  [.] B  [] C
*  The project is considered to be a Category "B" project
*  The majority of investments are reconstruction, rehabilitation and retrofitting of existing
infrastructure, and are not expected to have any negative environmental effects
*  For other investments, detailed design studies will include environmental impact analyses and
appropriate mitigation measures will be incorporated into the final designs. The Project
Implementation Manual will set the criteria for the need for and extent of environmental assessments
necessary for civil works (preparation of this manual is a condition of disbursement on the civil
works components).
7. Participatory approach
* Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: The project was prepared in close collaboration
with the governments of the OECS member countries. Technical ministries and the national
emergency management agencies (or their equivalent) were directly involved in discussions during
the preparation and pre-appraisal missions, and project identification, assessment of investment needs
and prioritization of actions were done in conjunction with the main stakeholders. In each country, a
National Hazard Mitigation Council (or similar body) consisting of representatives of each of the
concerned ministries will be formed to ensure coordination and to share progress, information and
views throughout the project cycle. During project preparation, discussions were also held with
communities and Community Disaster Committees to assess their needs. A Vulnerability Reduction
Fund will be started as a pilot in Dominica, which would be a demand-driven fund to identify priority
prevention and mitigation activities that can be undertaken at the community level.
*  Other key stakeholders: The preparation missions consulted with private sector businesses and the
Chambers of Commerce to explore possible public-private partnerships in disaster preparedness and
response. Collaboration with local or national NGOs was also considered, but there is a relative
dearth of active NGOs in the countries. The Red Cross Society is the one of the few active national
NGOs, and the project will seek to involve the Red Cross in project implementation, particularly to
carry out training of communities and Disaster Committees.



Page 22
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
*  Maintenance of infrastructurefaciities: Inadequate maintenance has been a key issue in
sustainability of infrastructure. For each of the physical investment components of the program, the
relevant sector ministry will be expected to provide an operations and maintenance plan up-front
before disbursement begins, and commit to providing the resources necessary. An annual review of
O&M needs for each component will be carried out no later than three months prior to the beginning
of each fiscal year. Disbursement on the physical investment components in the second year will
depend on whether adequate provisions were made in the annual budget for O&M of works initiated
or completed in the first year.
*  Institutional abilit toplanfor andmanage emergency response activities: The program will
provide assistance to the national emergency management agencies (or their equivalent) to assist
them in preparing for and managing emergency situations. To ensure sustainability in the long run,
the project will seek government commitment of staff and financial resources to these agencies to
ensure their long-term viability after the project is completed. The bulk of the assistance provided to
these agencies from project resources will be in setting up systems for response activities, as well as
for equipment and training. Through APL 3, the program will support long-term institutional
reforms in disaster preparedness and management.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                        Risk Ratiu      Risk Mlinimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
* That physical works are undertaken at technically  Substantial  Particular attention to supervision for
adequate standards                                           large infrastructure works plus
technical audits
* That national emergency management agencies have    Substantial  Careful monitoring of leadership
sufficient authority and leadership to take leading role    performance in Phase l; specific
in disaster preparedness and response                       trigger mechanism for Phase II
* That disaster committees in charge of early warning  Modest   Training programs in disaster
use their offices and equipment appropriately                preparedness
* That communities are willing to be involved in    Modest   Careful prescreening of communities
Disaster Committees and take responsibilities before,        to ensure a minimum commitment
during and after emergencies
Annex 1, cell '"rom Components to Outputs"
* Government capacity to manage project and perform  Substantial  Technical assistance to PCU and to
effectively in each country                                 national emergency management
agencies
* That adequate counterpart funding is in place     Modest   Substantial risk in St. Kitts.
* That there is adequate capacity in the construction  Substantial  Supervision of more complex
industry and that contractors are well supervised           infrastructure works
* That there is adequate government commitment and  Modest   Careful monitoring of financial and
resources to staff national emergency management            human resources in Phase I; specific
agencies and to operationalize them                          trigger mechanism for Phase 11
* That communities are willing to organize and take  Modest   Careful selection of communities
actions in disaster preparedness and mitigation              supplemented by training programs
(applicable for Dominica only)
Overall Risk Rating    Modest
Risk Rating - H (High Risk). S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 23
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
That a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) with a Project Coordinator and a Financial Manager will be
established, and a financial management system acceptable to the Bank will be set up
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements]:
Conditions of disbursement
*  That a Project Implementation Manual will be prepared and approved by the Bank as a condition of
disbursement on the civil works components (excluding engineering and studies).
*  That in St. Lucia, a disaster management expert will be hired in the national emergency management
agency as a condition of disbursement for the "Strengthening Emergency Preparedness and
Response" component
*  That in Dominica, an Operational Manual acceptable to the Bank will be prepared as a condition of
disbursement for the Vulnerability Reduction Fund component.
Other
*  That the Governments will provide quarterly progress reports to IDA and will hold project reviews
with IDA supervision missions.
* That the Governments will undertake to contract annual financial and technical audits for the project
components, and submit audit reports no later than six months following the end of the fiscal year.
For the activities to be financed retroactively, such audits will be sent to the Bank no later than
December 31, 1999.
* That the Government will make staff available to the PCU, the relevant sector ministries, and the
national emergency management agencies (or their equivalent in each country) for satisfactory
implementation of the components and to ensure compliance with Bank policies such as
environmental and resettlement policies as needed.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [.] Not applicable.
StKits & Nevis: The specifications and quantities of standard equipment, portable generators, small
rescue tools, electrical accessories, poles and supplies are ready. The retrofitting of shelters and other
facilities will be contracted on the basis of an inventory of the damages. The feasibility study and general
layout of the facilities for the Emergency Operations Center are available. Terms of Reference (TOR) for
various engineering assignments for detailed design and supervision of sea defenses, hospital facilities
and road works are being prepared
St. Lucikc Complete designs of bridges at Caico and Marc Floissac and a detailed engineering proposal
for river training have been prepared. For the Cul de Sac Valley flood prevention and road raising works,
full designs have been prepared, and tender documents are under preparation; tender documents for the



wage 24
provision of supervision services and review of the design are expected shortly. Tender documents for
the Hewanorra airport flood protection works, a hydrological study of the Vieux Fort river, and a detailed
design for sea defenses are under preparation. Tender documents for the procurement of Bailey-type
components, launching equipment, and gabions are ready. TORs to assess in-house the frequency of
floods and a plan to mobilize internal resources for supervision are being prepared. Tender documents
for the elaboration of detailed design for Victoria hospital and the provision of supervision services have
still to be prepared; their status of preparation will be reviewed at negotiations. A complete list of
equipment for schools and libraries, with a rationale, specifications, quantities of equipment, and tender
documents for their procurement are being prepared.
Donnica: River training work is dimensioned: computers and river and flood simulation models will be
procured under the project together with drafting and surveying equipment to finalize the design and
inspect the works. A feasibility study has been prepared by foreign experts for the sea defense and
protection of coastal erosion: bidding documents used in similar works will be adapted by consultants to
conform to the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents and the detailed engineering and supervision of these
works will be hired using TOR under preparation. The detailed design of the model community shelter
will be completed in consultation with the community and stakeholders. The retrofitting of shelters will
be made based on a simple inventory to be carried out by the Department of Public Works.
[] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [i] Not applicable
The participating implementing agencies are familiar with the ICB documents of the Bank. There will be
a procurement workshop in St. Lucia in January 1999 (open to the other program countries also) where
the ICB documents will be reviewed and NCB and quotation forms for civil works will be adopted. The
agencies are also familiar with the standard package of documents for hiring consultants, and cases will
be reviewed in the procurement workshop to ensure readiness of the PCU and other agencies in hiring the
various technical and engineering services to implement the works. In the case of the hospital facilities in
St. Kitts and Nevis, PAHO will be hired on a sole source basis to provide the technical input, preparation
of bidding and supervision of the works.
[] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality. [.] Not applicable
PIPs were discussed and agreed upon during negotiations.
[ The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):



Page 25
. Comnliance with Bank Policies
t ]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
t[]   [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:  The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Eugene D. McC
Sector Director: Danny M.,7fie ger
C'ountry Director: Orsa4a, x6iantzop6uos



Page 26
ANNEX 1
Orpnization of Eastern Caribbean States
Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Program
PROGRAM DESIGN SUMMARY
I.y.Slrfonac Indlcators             Monltoring and          Critial Assumptions
2                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~    ~~~~Evaluation  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Economic growth and poverty    0 No major disruptions in GDP due to natural  National data on  That economic growth will be
reduction                        disasters                              growth, income,     equitable and have a positive
Supporting infrastructure and                                           gini coefficients   impact on poverty alleviation
safeguarding the environment
Program Purpose:               Program Phasing:                                             (from Purpose to Goal)
1. To ensure that all five OECS  0 APL 2: Grenada & St. Vincent & the   World Bank project  That there is macroeconomic
member nations have adequate   Grenadines can join when project       preparation team    stability in each country
systems in place to prepare for  preparation is complete              and quality
and respond to disaster      0 APL 3: For all 5 countries upon        assurance           That institutional capacity in
emergencies                  * L          of: S    if                 mechanisms          emergency preparedness and
demnonstration of. (i) satisfactorymagentisuand
2. To set up a credit facility for  completion of investments during first
any member nation in case of   phases; (ii) sustained government
severe disaster emergencies    commitment to disaster mgmt policies as
demonstrated by effective enforcement of
key policies e.g. building codes & using
hazard analysis for land use planning; (iii)
adequate maintenance of infrastructure
particularly vulnerable to disasters
* APL 4: Triggered by: (i) declaration of
disaster emergency by govt at any time
during program period; (ii) evidence that
govt is committed to implementing disaster
mitigation policies.
Project Development Objective:   Outcome/Impact-lndicators:                                 (from Objective to Purpose)
1. To strengthen key economic &
social infrastructure to minimize  * Appreciable reduction in time for  Monthly           * That disasters will not strike all
damage caused by future natural   restoration of key public services (water,    implementation  OECS countries at once
disasters and reduce disruption  electricity, basic health services, & schools)  progress reports
of economic activity (pre-    following a disaster.                   from each
disaster works)              * Smooth and effective disaster response  implementing       * That Grenada and St. Vincent &
1. To reconstruct & rehabilitate  systems (early warning, shelter mgmt, relief  agency to PCU  the Grenadines will adequately
key social & economic         supplies, subsequent reconstruction &                         prepare their projects
infrastructure following       rehab. Etc.) during & after emergencies  PCU quarterly
disasters to allow quick     * Reduced cost to Governments of repair &  monitoring and
recovery (post-disaster works)    rehab of key infrastructure, & quick  reporting
To strengthen the countries'    resumption of economic activities following
institutional capacities to    disasters.
prepare for & respond to
disaster emergencies in an
efficient and effective manner



Page 27
Project Outputs:               Output Indicators:                                           (from Outputs to Objective)
1. Physical works completion in  * Degree to which each physical works  Monthly             * That physical works are
prevention and mitigation      component meets its original schedule  implementation         undertaken at technically
2. Adequately staffed and      * Paid staff in emergency management     progress reports      adequate standards
equipped national e-mergency                                          from each
managpednationalemenrgencys    agencies, with clear roles & responsibilities  implementing  * That national emergency
3. Early Warning Systems in p    and adequate equipment & facilities    agency to PCU          management agencies have
with adequate equipment      * Adequately equipped & staffed national                       sufficient authority and
4. Main public buildings         meteorological services and system for early  PCU monitoring  leadership to take leading role in
adequately covered by          warning in place                       and reporting           saer preparedness an
insurance                    * Insurance for critical public buildings
5. Functioning District Disaster                                                            0 That communities in charge of
Committees                   * Number of functioning District Disaster                       early warning use their offices
Committees; regularity of meetings; types                    and equipment appropriately
of activities                                              * That the governments pay
insurance fees
* That communities are willing to
be involved in Disaster
Committees and take
responsibilities before, during
and after emergencies
Project Components/Sub-        Inputs: (budget for each component)                          (from Components to Outputs)
components:                                                                                 That adequate project coordination
1. Physical prevention, mitigation   US$15-16 million                   Monthly             and management teams are in place
and recovery works                                                       implementation     in each country
progress reports
2. Strengthening emergency     US$3-4 million                           from each           That adequate counterpart funding
preparedness and response                                                implementing       is in place
agency to PCU
3. Institutional Strengthening  USS0.6-0.7 million                                          That there is adequate capacity in
Quarterly reports    the construction industry and that
4. Project management          US$1.5-1.6 million                       from PCUs to the    contractors are well supervised
Bank
5. For St.Kitts, Fast Disbursing  US$2.4                                                    That there is adequate govemment
component                                                                                   commitment and resources to staff
national emergency management
agencies and operationalize them
That communities are willing to
organize and take actions in
disaster preparedness and
mitigation



Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Program
Country Annex
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ANNEX A       Detailed Project Description
ANNEX B       Estimated Project Costs
ANNEX C       Project Management and Implementation
ANNEX D       Project Progress Indicators
ANNEX E       Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ANNEX F       Statement of Loans and Credits
ANNEX G       Country at a Glance



29                                  ANNEX 2A
St. Kitts & Nevis
St. Kitts and Nevis
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1. Fast Disbursing Component
The project will provide US$2.4 million in fast disbursing funds to the Government which will be used to
finance imports from a positive list of items required for recovery following Hurricane Georges.
The list is as follows:
Food grains
Edible oils
Fertilizers
Seeds
Agricultural equipment and inputs
Cement and other construction materials
Industrial machinery, spare parts and raw materials
Petroleum and fuel products
Medical equipment and supplies
These essential imports can be financed retroactively (the total amount of goods that will be financed
retroactively under the project will be a maximum of 20% of the total loan amount), as long as
appropriate procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank have been followed.
Implementing agency: Project Coordination Unit in Ministry of Finance, Planning and Development



30                                  ANNEX 2A
St. Kitts & Nevis
St. Kitts and Nevis
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2. Physical Prevention and Mitigation Works
This component aims to strengthen and/or rehabilitate key public infrastructure to enable the country to
resume basic operations, and to reduce their vulnerability to future hazards. In the social sectors, it will
cover hospitals and shelters, and in the economic sectors, it will cover water, electricity, roads, and the
airport. Technical assistance will be provided to the different implementing agencies to prepare bids, and
award and supervise contracts.
a. Reconstructaonlrehabiitation of hospitals
A new ward with a 40-bed capacity will be constructed for the Joseph N. France Hospital, the main
hospital on St. Kitts. Technical assistance in the design, engineering and bidding process, as well as in
the specialized supervision of hospital construction, will be provided through a partnership with the Pan
American Health Organization (PAHO), which is currently assisting the European Union in the definition
of a long-term solution for the hospital. On Nevis, the resilience of Alexander Hospital to disasters will
be strengthened by installing a back-up generator. In addition, two generating units for health posts
requiring refrigeration of medicines will also be installed on Nevis.
Implementing agency: Ministry of Health
b. Construction of shelters
Eight shelters will be constructed on St. Kitts and two on Nevis. The shelters will include toilets, kitchen
and facilities to accommodate 50 to 100 people, and will be designed to withstand high winds and
hurricane damage. The facilities might be used to lodge crews of neighboring countries assisting in the
relief and restoration of other public services following a disaster (when people have returned to their
dwellings). Between hurricane seasons, the shelters will serve as community centers or be used for other
communal activities.
Implementing agency: Ministry of Communications and Works
c Improving the reliability of water supply
Water supply is severely affected by the interruption of electricity after hurricanes, interruptions which
can last several days. The reliability of water supply following a disaster will be improved by providing
back-up generators--on St. Kitts, 11 wells supplying the water distribution system will be equipped with
back-up generators, and on Nevis, 12 stand-by 50kv generators will be installed. Water storage facilities
and other equipment will also be installed to ensure that water supply is uninterrupted following disasters.
This will include setting up a pipe-rack storage facility for the Water Department warehouse on Nevis
and small tools and portable storage tanks for both Water Departments on St. Kitts and on Nevis. This
component will also include a study on how to improve the intakes to mitigate future damages and
improve the operation of the intakes during heavy rains.
Implementing agency: Ministry of Communications and Works
d Improving electicy supply
This component will strengthen electric power supply by rehabilitating the roof of the St. Kitts Power
Station and supplying poles, tools and equipment to restore electricity supply. It will also include a study



31                                  ANNEX 2A
St. Kitts & Nevis
on the feasibility of placing underground transmission lines. The tentative allocation of costs is as
follows:
i) Poles (St. Kitts)                                 US$200,000
ii) Conductor and distribution line accessories (St. Kitts)  100,000
iii) Roof for Needsmust Power Station                    200,000
iv) Truck and small tools                                 100,000
v) Feasibility of underground feeders                     100,000
vi) Nevis: poles, small tools and accessories            200,000
vii) Nevis: rental equipment                              50,000
viii) Emergency response drills                            50,000
Total:   US$1,000,000
Poles, conductor and distribution line accessories for St. Kitts and poles, small tools and accessories for
Nevis will be financed on a retroactive basis for a total of US$500,000.
Implementing agency: Electricity utility company
e. Roads and coastalprotection
The project will contribute to the protection of vulnerable sites along roads and specific coastal areas
against recurrent disasters. As a first step, studies will be carried out on the following: beach restoration
and erosion control in specific areas; slope stabilization, coastal and inland erosion in several areas on St.
Kitts and Nevis, particularly, the detailed engineering of vulnerable sites in Old Road and Saddlers on St.
Kitts, and the Newcastle area on Nevis; and a study on water resource management of small, steep
catchment areas. Based on these studies and recommendations, a priority list of investments will be
developed, which will include cleaning up beaches; culverts, gabionage protection and clearing of water
crossings, particularly in Southeast Nevis; and a program for periodic flood protection works in the ring
road. Bailey-type components will be procured on St. Kitts. The first step in protecting the airport
landing strip and the ring road on Nevis will be carried out through the completion of detailed
engineering for sea defenses along these sites. In addition, an assessment of sea and beach movements
and their potential impact on nearby tourist areas, fishing outposts and the airport will also be carried out.
Implementing agency: Ministry of Communications and Works
f. Air traffic control tower
The air traffic control tower at Robert A. Bradshaw International Airport which was lost during the
hurricane will be replaced by a mobile unit procured from Montserrat. This component will be financed
through retroactive financing (the mobile control tower has already been transferred to St. Kitts) for a
total of US$75,000.
Implementing agency: Airport Authority



32                                  ANNEX 2A
St. Kitts & Nevis
St. Kitts and Nevis
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3. Strengthening NEMA and the Emergency Operations Center
a. Construction of an Emergency Operations Center ($800,000)
Disaster management operations are best coordinated when all major players are located in one place.
The heart of these operations needs to be in close proximity to technical ministries, and the authorities
responsible for coordination and management need to be equipped with modem communications
equipment and reliable information sources. Under the project, a new Emergency Operations Center
(EOC) will be constructed in Basseterre, located outside hazardous areas, accessible during adverse
weather conditions, and built to earthquake- and hurricane-resistant standards (to withstand at least a
Category 3 hurricane). The new building will serve as the headquarters of the National Emergency
Management Agency (NEMA). The EOC will have modem, state-of-the-art disaster management
facilities, and will contain a modest kitchen, bath and sleeping quarters, and have a radio/communications
room, storage rooms for some relief supplies, water storage/cistern and a backup generator. The EOC
will also be used for training and simulated disaster drills for district level communications specialists,
rescuers and community volunteers.
As this is the only country participating in the Disaster Management Program where a new EOC is being
financed, the building will also house a regional training facility for emergency managers. Various
regional training courses will be held at this center, and demonstrations of disaster-resistant construction
and state-of-the-art communications and information equipment will be used as a model for the sub-
region. Construction costs for the EOC are estimated at US$800,000.
b. Specialized disaster equipment and loss reduction materials ($160,000)
Immediate availability of certain materials like reinforced plastic sheeting can limit or prevent secondary
losses. Because infrastructure damage often impedes the movement of relief and assistance materials for
days, the project will ensure the ready availability of limited stocks of emergency supplies and "loss
reduction materials" such as portable generators, water purification equipment and storage tanks,
reinforced plastic sheeting to cover valuable facilities, and search and rescue tools and protective gear for
rescuers and community volunteers. Some of this equipment will be stored in the EOC, and some will be
located with the District Disaster Committees at the community level.
ca Island-wide emergency communications system ($80,000)
A dedicated system is needed to communicate among national level agencies, and emergency
management committees at the national and district levels, as this critical function cannot rely on other
agencies, especially during crises. Proposed communications equipment will include: 12 VHF Base
Stations one for each District Emergency Committee; two repeaters to link all the base stations; HF
transceivers; hand held radios (50); antennas; marine radio base station; a hand held, marine frequency
citizen band radio and spare; an antenna tower and installation; automatic and manual tuner for antennas;
backup generators for the communications systems; rotators, cables, and other spares; and vehicle
mounted mobile radios and whip antennas.



33                                 ANNEX 2A
St. Kitts & Nevis
St. Kitts and Nevis
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
4. Developing an Effective Early Waruing System
This component will aim to establish an effective early warning system to alert appropriate government
authorities and the public of adverse weather conditions to provide for the protection of life and property.
The island of Antigua provides weather forecasts and warnings for St. Kitts and Nevis. The St. Kitts
Meteorological Service is responsible for collecting hourly weather observations at the St. Kitts Airport
and providing those observations to the Antigua Meteorological Service. These observations are critical
information for aircraft traffic approaching and departing the airport.
The St. Kitts Meteorological Service is also responsible for disseminating forecasts and warnings to alert
appropriate government authorities, the media and the public of adverse weather conditions to provide for
the protection of life and property. The ability to collect weather observational data and disseminate
warnings on a continual and timely basis will provide inhabitants with sufficient time to take measures to
significantly reduce the loss of life and minimize property damages. Rehabilitating the early warning
capabilities of the National Meteorological Service (NMS) will assist St. Kitts in mitigating the effects of
extreme natural weather events such as hurricanes, tropical storms and floods.
This sub-component will: (i) strengthen the National Meteorological Service; (ii) develop a Ham Weather
Radio Observation Network; and (iii) provide technical assistance and training in meteorology and
hydrology.
a. Supportfor the National Meteorological Service ($135,000)
St. Kitts and Nevis was devastated by the impact of Hurricane Georges. The hurricane destroyed all
meteorological sensors and equipment at the St. Kitts Airport. The air traffic control tower which housed
operations for the Meteorological Station was also destroyed. The NMS will be strengthened through:
v  Replacement of meteorological sensors and equipment at the St. Kitts Airport, including installation
costs, such as: thermometers, thermohygrograph, large Stevenson Screen, rain gauges, tilting syphon
rain recorder, anemographer recorder, anemometer, wind vane, wind dials, mercury barometer,
aneroid barometer, barograph, S.T.U. & Antenna, uninterruptable power supply (UPS), electric
generator (back-up). A specialized consultant will be hired to provide expert advice on procurement,
installation and maintenance of equipment.
*  Purchase of three PC Pentium (200 MHz minimum) computers with 17-inch monitors and 56K speed
modems and Internet connectivity, as well as two (laser quality) printers, to create the basis for the
acquisition and dissemination of critical meteorological data and products from regional and
international centers.
*  Installation of two additional phone lines; one dedicated for Internet access at the NMS at the St.
Kitts Airport and the second dedicated for Internet access at the Meteorological Station at the Nevis
Airport, and a fax machine.
*  Training associated with new equipment.
b. Development of a Ham Weather Radio Observation Network ($40,000)
Development of a network of 5-10 ham weather radio operators dispersed throughout the country will
provide critical auxiliary weather observations such as wind, gusts, barometric pressure and rainfall to the
NMS and the U.S. National Hurricane Center in Miami. Providing ham radio operators, law enforcement
or fire department officials with reliable instruments capable of measuring weather conditions
automatically also increases the chances of obtaining critical information before, during and after a



34                                ANNEX 2A
St. Kitts & Nevis
hurricane since these are likely to represent the only operable communication pathway to and from a
hurricane devastated area. This sub-component will finance: (i) weather stations with solar panels
integrated with a modem and an Automatic Weather Packet Reporting System; (ii) transmitters,
generators, and spare parts and maintenance; and (iii) training associated with development of the Ham
Weather Radio Observation Network.
ca Technical Assistance and Training (S25,OOO)
With the recent advances in science and technology, effective and efficient up-to-date training of staff in
operational meteorology and hydrology is critical to maximize the information from new technology and
to minimize error of misinterpretation of observational data. This sub-component will provide for: (i)
training courses, symposiums and workshops associated with computer technology, basic meteorology
and equipment maintenance (repair and preventive); and (ii) technical assistance related to operations and
maintenance of meteorological equipment.
Implementing agency: National Sea and Airport Authority and the National Meteorological Service



35                                  ANNEX 2A
St. Kitts & Nevis
St. Kitts and Nevis
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
5. Community Based Disaster Management
This component aims to organize, train and support new and existing District Disaster Committees to
mobilize and educate communities in disaster preparedness, mitigation, response, and recovery. The
ultimate mission of a National Disaster Plan is to save lives and protect property. The cornerstone of
such a plan is the education, empowerment and active involvement of the local community in the plan's
mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery activities. It is the citizens of local communities who
will personally experience, or have already experienced, the devastating effects of disasters. A public/
private partnership, with local citizen participation in planning, decision-making and the implementation
of the National Disaster Plan, is critical to quick and effective recovery from the effects of a disaster.
This partnership is also necessary for awareness and understanding of community's responsibilities
before, during and after a disaster.
T-here are 12 disaster districts on St. Kitts and five districts on Nevis. The districts on St. Kitts do not
have a formal structure, like District Disaster Committees, for disaster preparedness and response.
Management of many emergency shelters following Hurricane Georges was accomplished solely through
ad-hoc responses by compassionate and well-meaning volunteers (although one district, St. Paul's,
mobilized volunteers very quickly and managed to put together a remarkably well-organized disaster
response system due to the initiative mainly of one individual). In contrast, on Nevis, there are structured
District Committees with volunteer chairpersons, a health officer, scouts, and representatives of the police
and churches. The Nevis Disaster Committees also have strong training programs.
The absence of an overall system of strong and active local disaster committees nationwide, particularly
on St. Kitts, presents a serious weakness in the Federal Government's disaster management system, and
could undermine its capacity to mitigate the loss of life and property in future disasters. There is an
urgent need to organize, train and support disaster committees on St. Kitts, continue the strengthening of
the committees on Nevis, and to tie all committees into a strong National Disaster Plan.
The Caribbean Disaster Emergency Response Agency (CDERA), the U.S. Office of Foreign Disaster
Assistance (OFDA), the U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and the International
Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, are some of the agencies that could provide
essential training for key District Disaster Committee members. Under the project, Disaster Committees
will be provided the following types of training: (i) organization and functions of a District/Community
Disaster Committee; (ii) training in "Surviving the Next Disaster" (special training available through the
Red Cross); and (iii) other skills such as emergency search and rescue, donations management, disaster-
related needs of seniors and persons with disabilities, etc.
Disaster Committees will be provided with essential radios and other search and rescue equipment,
potable water delivery systems, etc. (financed under section 3b. Strengthening NEMA and EOC).
Physical facilities are necessary for storage of disaster supplies and emergency response equipment at the
community level. In addition, committees need a dedicated space to meet and to establish an operations
center during an emergency. Under the project, NEMA and the Ministry of Community Development
will ensure that the equipment provided to communities is stored in a safe place and that committees have
a space to meet and organize.
Implementing agency: NEMA and Ministry of Community Development



36                                 ANNEX 2A
St. Kitts & Nevis
St. Kitt and Nevis
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
6. Institutional Strengthening
a. HazardAnalysisIVulnerability Mapping(US$60,000)
There is a need to more precisely identify hazards and vulnerability to protect current and future
government and private sector investments in St. Kitts and Nevis. Once recognized, vulnerable areas can
be identified for mitigation activities and held to an appropriate standard for development planning.
Existing information in government ministries and in private companies need to be consolidated and
additional research done to identify all hazards to be analyzed. The project will support the development
of a comprehensive hazard and vulnerability map for St. Kitts and Nevis; the preparation of an economic
and population vulnerability analysis; and training for government, private sector and communities to
identify strategies to use the information for development planning across sectors and for disaster
preparedness and mitigation.
b. Vulnerability Reduction of Public Buildings(US$150,000)
The main objective of this component will be to reduce potential fiscal liabilities incurred by the
Government in case of catastrophic losses by efficiently insuring its buildings/facilities and reducing their
vulnerability. This component will consist of technical assistance to: (i) assess the value of the
Government's building/facilities; (ii) evaluate the risk of potential damages to buildings/facilities based
on their location and quality of construction and maintenance; (iii) determine optimal vulnerability
reduction measures through mitigation/retrofitting investments and/or an insurance strategy to minimize
the cost of insurance for a given level of risk; (iv) consider alternative financial instruments (e.g.
catastrophic bonds and weather hedges); (v) review existing regulatory requirements covering building
codes, siting and land use planning, and recommend improvements to current practices; and (vi) make
recommendations with regard to the development of an insurance sector regulatory framework, including
prudential solvency and reserve provisions for disasters. The project will thus strengthen the capacity of
the Government to reduce or spread the risk of catastrophic loss.
c. Building Codes ($50,000)
The project will aim to strengthen the resilience of buildings, public and private, to disasters such as
hurricanes in the country through adoption of a national building code and its effective enforcement
through proper building inspection. The Organization of American States (OAS), as executing agency of
the Caribbean Disaster Mitigation Project (CDMP) and with funding from USAID, joined the United
Nations Centre for Human Settlements (UNCHS) in a technical assistance program to introduce a model
building code in the OECS countries. The Government is committed to enacting such a model building
code, and will use the technical assistance provided through the OAS program to adopt a national
building code (modified from the model building code to fit the specific circumstances in St. Kitts and
Nevis) and work out a firm timetable for its full adoption and enforcement. In addition, an assessment of
the present situation regarding the enforcement of building inspection will be carried out (appropriate
consultants have already been identified by OAS) and recommendations will be made as to what steps the
Government will need to take to improve enforcement.
Implementing agency: National Emergency Management Agency



ANNEX 28
St Kitt and Nevis                              SL KCt N"
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
USSmilions                                          Base Cods       Physical  Price   TOTAL
________________________________________   Local  Foreign Total Confng. Conting. COSTS
I Physical Recovery & Mitigation Works               1.63    3.30  4.93    0.33      0.10    5.35
Hospital                                          0.75    0.70  1.4S     0.14     0.03    1.61
Construction of new ward & equipment              0.75    0.50  1.25     0.13     0.03    1.40
* Supervision by PAHO                                      0.20  0.20     0.01     0.00    0.21
Sheters                                            0.48    0.32  0.80     0.08     0.02    0.90
Water supply                                               0.45  0.45              0.01    0.46
- Nevis water intakes study                        0.01    0.05  0.05     0.00     0.00    0.05
_Electrcity                                                 0.90  0.90             0.02    0.92
_ Feasibility study for underground electricity wiring  0.01    0.09  0.10  0.01   0.00    0.11
Roads and coastal protecton                        0.36    0.54  0.90     0.09     0.02    1.01
- Coastal erosion mnodeling                        0.02    0.18  0.20     0.01     0.00    0.21
Airport trafflic control tower                             0.08  0.08     0.01     0.00    0.08
2 Strengthning Emergency Prepadness & Response       0.06    1.28  1.34     0.09     0.03    1.45
a. Strengthening NEMA and EOC                      0.00    1.04  1.04     0.08     0.02    1.14
Constcion of EOC                                          0.80  0.80     0.08     0.02    0.90
Specialized disaster equipment for EOC                    0.16  0. 16             0.00    0.16
Island-wide emeigency communicatons system                0.08  0.08              0.00    0.08
b. Developing Effectve Early Waming Systems        0.00    0.20  0.201    0.00     0.00    0.21
Meteorological equipment                                 ,0.14 0Q14               0.00    0.14
Weather Radio Obsevation Network*                         0.04  0.04              0.00    0.04
1- TA and training                                 0.00    0.02  0.03     0.00     0.00    0.03
c. Community Based Disaster Management
Strengthening Dist ctDisaster Commitees           0.06    0.04. 0.10     0.01     0.00    0.11
3 Inditutional Strengthening                         0.03    0.23  0.261    0.011    0.01    0.28
Hazard analysis/vulnerability mapping              0.01    0.05  0.06'    0.001    0.00    0.06
Vulnerability reduction of public buildings        0.02    0.14! 0.15     0.01:    0.00    0.16
'Building Code                                     0.01    0.05' 0.05     o.ool    0.00    0.05
4 Fat Disbursing Component                               _             _         _        ___
_Posltive list of essential imports                         2.40  2.401                     2.40
S ProJect Management                                 0.18    0.30  0.49_   0.02      0.01    0.52
Finandal manager & project management services     0.08    0.12  0.20     0.01     0.00    0.21
Equipment                                          0.01    0.04  0.05              0.00    0.05
Workshops                                          0.03          0.03     0.00     0.00    0.03
Technical audits                                   0.06    0.06  0.11     0.01     0.00    0.12
Financial audits                                   0.01    0.09  0.10     0.01     0.00    0.11
TOTAL                                              1.90    7.51  9.41     0.45     0.14   10.00
N.B. Figures may not add up due to rounding            I_ 
PhysWcal contingendes a 10% for cM! works; 5% for consutandcies; 0 for goods  ___      _
Prce contingencies = 2%                                          =



38                                 ANNEX 2C
St. Kitts & Nevis
St Kitts and Nevis
PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Project coordination and management
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be set up in the Ministry of Finance, Planning and
Development. It will consist of a Project Coordinator, appointed by the Ministry, who will
coordinate and monitor implementation progress according to agreed upon performance indicators,
and report to the World Bank. The project will finance a project Financial Manager for the duration
of the project who will be familiar with Bank procedures and guidelines for administration and
management of funds. Consulting services will be hired (either through an individual or a firm) to
assist the Project Coordinator in managing particularly the engineering and contract management
aspects of the project.
* The Government will set up a National Disaster Mitigation Council to serve as a steering committee
to coordinate policy issues, recommend the selection of priority investments, and assist in carrying
out government commitments. This council will be chaired by the Pernanent Secretary of the
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Development (or his representative) and will consist of
representatives of the relevant line ministries, as well as the Chamber of Commerce.
* A Deputy Manager in the PCU will be appointed by the Government to coordinate implementation
activities in Nevis.
Project implementation
*  Each project component will be implemented by the respective line ministry responsible for that
component. The National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) will be the implementing
agency for the institutional strengthening components. Implementation of the new hospital ward will
be carried out by Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) under special arrangements.
-  The implementing agencies will provide progress reports to the PCU on a monthly basis.
-  Procurement, contracting, and payments to contractors will be undertaken by the respective
implementing agencies using World Bank guidelines, with the assistance of the PCU where
necessary.
Project superwision, reporting and audit requirements
*  A Project Implementation Manual will delineate financial management and control procedures,
including TORs prepared by the PCU for internal and external audits acceptable to the Bank.
*  Each implementing agency will forecast the amounts to be withdrawn from the Special Account on a
quarterly basis. The Financial Manager in the PCU will authorize the withdrawal of these funds from
the Special Account and make payments directly to the contractors/consultants.
*  The PCU will, on a periodic basis, supervise the implementation of each component, including the
physical investment components, and undertake periodic field visits.
*  The PCU will make quarterly reports to the World Bank, including a statement of sources and uses of
funds, ensuring that all project guidelines are being followed.
*  Financial audits for all accounts and components will be carried out annually. Technical audits will
be carried out for large civil works that do not include technical audits as part of the supervision
process. Audit reports will be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year.



39                                                  ANNEX 2D
St. Kitts & Nevis
St. Kitts and Nevis
PROJECT PROGRESS INDICATORS
:Comp0onent                       First Year           Second Year          Third Year    |           Total
Hospital                    _                      _                   new ward            40 bed-ward ready
Shelters                   4 shelters             4 shelters           2 shelters          10 shelters constructed
Water supply
Power back-up for pumps   12 pumps supplied      10 pumps supplied                       22 pumps with back-up capacity
Water intakes study                                           .                          study completed
Electricity
Power station roof        roof repaired                                                  roof repaired
Feasibility study for     study completed                                                study completed
underground cables
Drills                    1 practice drill       I practice drill     I practice drill   3 drills completed
Roads/coastal protection
Feasibility studies       studies completed                                              studies completed
Road protection works     works 15% completed    works 75% completed  works completed    priority roads/coastal areas
protected
Airport                    traffic control tower in                                       functioning traffic control tower
place
Emergency Operations Center  bidding, award of    center completed                         functioning EOC
contract, commencement
of works
NEMA Equipment & loss                             equipment procured                       NEMA & disaster committees
reduction materials                                                                        equipped with communications
equipment & loss reduction
materials
Early Warning System        procurement and       training                                 EWS in place with trained staff
installation of equipment;
training
Vulnerability Reduction of                        study completed                          study completed
Public Buildings
Hazard analysis             study completed                                                study completed



40                                  ANNEX 2E
St. Kitts & Nevis
St. Kitts and Nevis
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
The civil works under the project consist of sea defenses, road protection, and buildings. For these
works, ICB procedures will be used for larger contracts. Leasing of equipment for cleaning beaches,
road crossings and bridges will be made on the basis of priced quotations. Consultancy services include
studies on potable water intakes, underground electricity studies, and technical assistance on disaster
preparedness. PAHO will be hired on a direct contracting basis for design and supervision of hospital
facilities under the project for an amount up to US$210,000. A contract management expert and a
financial specialist will be appointed to the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Development to assist in
the implementation of the project. Technical and financial audits will be financed from the loan
proceeds.
Goods will consist of small tools, plastic sheeting, radio communication and meteorological equipment,
Bailey-type bridge components, portable generators, roofing materials, poles and electricity distribution
cable and accessories. The project will include a Fast Disbursing Component of about US$2.4 million to
be disbursed against a positive list of goods, including construction materials and other items agreed upon
during negotiations. Procurement of these goods will be made through ICB if the estimated cost of the
package is US$1 million or more. For packages estimated to cost less than US$1 million, the
Government will use national procurement procedures and private sector commercial practices which
were examined by the Bank and found to be acceptable. Retroactive financing up to an aggregate amount
of US$800,000 will be used to reimburse the Government for expenditures incurred in the procurement
of electrical materials and supplies purchased by the Electricity Department for urgent repairs of
distribution and transmission lines, and for the transport and insurance of a mobile air traffic control
tower shipped from Montserrat immediately after the emergency. Retroactive financing will also be used
to reimburse the Government for essential imports required for reconstruction, including housing
construction materials, procured following the emergency under the Fast Disbursing Component. The
total amount of retroactive financing under the project will be 20% to the total loan amount, or
approximately US$1.6 million.
The following methods will be used: (i) International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for major civil works
above US$300,000, and procurement of large goods packages (above US$100,000); (ii) National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) for small works under US$300,000; (iii) Limited International Bidding for
specialized meteorological equipment or construction materials with a limited number of providers; (iv)
three quotations from qualified contractors for civil works under US$75,000; (v) international shopping
for acquisition of standard equipment (below US$100,000); and (vi) national shopping for procurement
of standard equipment (below US$20,000).



41                                    ANNEX 2E
St. Kitts & Nevis
Table 1: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure                  Procurement Method                     Total Cost
Category              ICB      NCB        Other    N.B.F   (including contingencies)
1. Works             3.30        0.90                                4.20
(2.15)     (0.67)                              (2.82)
2. Goods             0.85                   1.00                     1.85
(0.85)                (0.85)                    (1.7)
3. Services                                 1.21      0.05           1.26
(1.21)                   (1.21)
4. Fast disbursing                         2.40                      2.40
Component                               (2.40)                    (2.40)
5. Operating                               0.28                      0.28
Expenditures                            (0.28)                    (0.28)
6. Front-end fee                            0.085                    0.085
(0.085)                  (0.085)
Total                4.15        0.90       4.98      0.05          10.08
(3.00)     (0.67)     (4.83)                    (8.50)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Table 2: Consultant Selection Arrangements
Consultant                        Selection Method                          Total Cost
Services                                                                   (including
QCBS   QBS   SFB    LCS    CQ    Other    N.B.F.    contingencies)
A. Firms        0.59            0.14                    0.21                     0.94
(0.59)         (0.14)                  (0.21)                   (0.94)
B. Individuals                                          0.27      0.05          0.32
(0.27)                  (0.27)
Total   0.59            0.14                    0.48      0.05           1.26
1 (0.59)          (0.14)                  (0.49)                  (1.21)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Other = Selection of individual consultants (hiring of PAHO).



42                                  ANNEX 2E
St. Kitts & Nevis
Table 3: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure     Contract Value       Procurement          Review      Estimated Total
Category        (Threshold)           Method                        Value Subject to
US$ thousands                                          Prior Review
(USS million)
1. Works            >300,000       ICB                        All             3.30
< 300,000      NCB                      First two
< 50,000      Quotations               First two
2. Goods            > 100,000       ICB/LIB                    All             1.85
< 100,000      International Shopping   First two         0.50
< 20,000      Local Shopping           First two         0.20
3. Services           100,000       QCBS                       All            0.59
> 25,000      Individuals                All             0.24
4. Fast Disbursing  > 1,000,000     ICB                        All         Not expected
Component
< 1,000,000      Commercial practices     Ex-post
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:



Status of Bank Group Operations in St. Kitts and Nevis
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Milions                  and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                               disbursemnts a/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD       IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Fro Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 0
Active ProAect0
KM-PE-8065      1991   GOVERNMENT                      AG DEV SUPPORT               l S0        l S0            0.00           .31      .30        0.00
Total                                                                               1.50        1.50           0.00            .31      .30       0.00
Active Proiects      Closed Proiects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRO and IDA):                  2.72               0.00                2.72
of which has been repaid:                   .22               0.00                 .22
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  2.78                0.00               2.78
Amount sold                                      0.00                0.00               0.00
Of which repaid                              0.00               0.00                0.00
Total Undisburs d                                 .31               0.00                 .31                                                                           f   
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursemnt data Is updated at the end of the first w"k of the  onth.
GeMam        by dhe Op _d   Infonmdon System (OIS)



St. Kitts and Nevis at a glance                                                            lomm
St Kite     Lain   U0Pne
POVIERTY and SOCIAL                                and   Ano    mUddle-
Nes  & Cadb.  h nme          Developmlt dlamond
1917
Popadion. mki-wr (mlona)                           0.04      404       571               ULe apectancy
GNP per capi (Alas meuod; USS)                    6,160     3.60     4,520
GNP (Alis m.d, US$ bEbl)                           0.25     1.917    2,564
Average annual grow, 1991197
Populo  X)                                         -0.4       1.7       1.5
Labor foe (                                                   2.3       1.     GNP                             Groan
per                           primary
Most recet esamate (at yea avaale, 10911-97)                                   capita                      enrolmnt
Povrty (% olf oduaIon blbw nalnal oveo fw)           25
Urban popuaion (% o otol population)                 34        74       73
Ulh olency at birh h(yeas)                         70       70        70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 Ovem bbs)                22        32       30
Child malnutriton (% ofchldn under 5)                                                    Acess to sah water
Access to sale water (% ofpouation)                            73       79
iterac (% ofpoulafton o 15)                          10        13       15
Gross primarv enrollmnt (% of'school-age Populaton)           111      107              St     ardNews
Male                                               ..        ..       ..        -      /Upper-ikdle4ncomo group
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
11976    19#6     1106      109117
Economic rafts'
GDP (US$ biions)                          0.03     0.09      0.25     0.27
Gross domestic investmenUGDP                       27.3      45.1      44.9                   Trade
Exportsofgoodsand sernes/GDP                       81.4      51.5      51.3
Gross domestksaicngs/GDP                           10.6      18.0      22.4
Gross national saving/GDP                          22.0      18.6     24.4
Current account balancelGOP                         -6.2    -26.5    .20.6     Do0n0511\
Intbrest paymentsaGDP                      0.0      0.4       0.8      0.8     S                          k westment
Total debUGDP                              10.6    18.0      23.7
Total ddt serviceports                                        4.6
Present lue of detGDP                                        16.2
Present value of ddbUexpott                                  30.8
Indteness
1976-66  1967.97    1996     1997  101402
(avwrae annual growth)
GOP                                4.8      4.9     6.3       7.0                       St K/is and Nos
GNP per capita                     4.8     5.0      4.7       8.8                  -      cUpper-mo ,income group
EtVorts ofgoods and serces         3.9     3.2      7.9       6.6 
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1096      1017     Grow  rates  output and Investment %)
(X of GDP)I4
Agriculture                                 ..    10.8        5.2       5.1    4
Industry                                           24.7      24.6     24.6    20
Manufaturing                                      15.4      10.3     10.1      o
Sernces                                            64.5      70.2     70.3   o,  _      i        14 0       01   07
Private consumption                                89.6      40.3     35.3     o
Genral government consumption                      19 .8     41.7     42.3                    GDI         GDP
Impos of goods and services                        71        78.6     73. 8
1976-56  19#7-97     19       1997     Gowh       of axporta and Imports (%)
(avwage annual gom0)
Agriculture                                -2.3     0.6      10.7      22.8    30
Industry                                   2.9      3.9       4.7     10.2
Manufacturing                            -0.1      1.2       4.5     18.      s
Services                                   8.3      5.7       6.3      4.1
Private consumption                        7.0    -0.8        5.5      4.2                              r  i 
General oovemment consurnpton               5.1    14.6      18.3       8.7      <
Gross domestic investment                   1.8     4.4       6.2       6.6   -s
Imports of goods and sercs                 4.5      3.0      12.9      0.6              -    vons      knpors
Gro  natlion  poduct                       3.9      4.6       44        8.7
Not 1997 data are priminry estimates.
* The damonds show brw key Indicators In tle cotry (in bold) compared with its Income-group are. Ifd  are mIssng, the damond will
be hcomple.



St. Kitts and Nevis
PRICES aW GOVERNMEN  FANCE
1576    1K        15K       1557  i9 9on( %)
(% dflj                                                                         1
Consume pri                                  ..      0.0       2.0      8.9
knpcltGDdellatar                              ..    10.7  .8 0      3.    2 
Cwrent re         v    e     n     u         ...  .           45.3     46.7     ..
Cunrent budget bajance                        ..      ..       3.6      4.4                   GOP dIStr    CcP
Overall surplusldsfcit                       ..       ..      -3.7    -10.1
TRADE
(USS millIons)                             1576    1988      1999     117       Export and Import levels (UtS mUllona
Total exports (fob)                                             39       47
Sugar                                       ..      ..        13       15
Bevrages and tobacco                                           0         1    ISO
Manufactures                                ..       ..       19       24
Tota impo"t (off)14                                                       2      0
Food                                                          23       25      so
Fuel and nergy                              ..      ..         8        8  
Capital goods                                                 40       43       a
Export price index (1995-100)                                                                        4 6
Import price index (1995-100)                                                            11E *Eors    * npcfl
Terms of trde (1995-100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                             1976    198       15        19"?     Curant account balncto GOPM mo%
Ex-orts of goods and  se3rces                        57       127       139      c
Inmorts of goods and serAces                         74        193      201
Resource balance                              .      -17       47       41 
Net income                                            -1      -16       -14
Notcurrenttransfers                                  12        17        19 9I                            I    I
Current account balance                       .       4        4S       -56      205.
Financing items (ne)                                  7        es        52
Changes innet reserves                                -1       -1         3 
memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)       ..       ..       38        41
Convesion rate (DEC, 1ocaLVSS)              2.6      2.7       2.7       2.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1U        1t99S     1557
(USS millions)                                                                   ComposItlon of total debt, 1996 (US$ milliorn)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          3       17       58
IBRD                                        0       0          1        1                    G2 A1
IDA                                         0        0        2         1               F:4           32
Total debt service                            0        1        6
IBRD                                        0       0         0         0
IDA                                         0       0         0         0
Composition of not resouroe flows
Offical grwnts                              2       3         2                  E: 20
Offcial creditors                           1       4         4                                               20
Privabt creditors                           0        0       2
Foreign direct investment                                     17
Portfilo equity                             0        0        0
World Bank program
Commitments                                 0        0        0         0     A-NRD                       E - Blatal
Dlsbuusement                                0       0         0         0     9-DA    D - Othr muWtie     F - Priv
Pincipal repaments                          0       0         0         0     C-3Ff                       G - Shbrm
Not flows                                   0       0         0         0
bitest panb                                 0        0        0         0
Net transfers                               0        0        0         0
World Bank                                                                                                      10/1/98



Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Program
Country Annex
ST. LUCIA
ANNEX A       Detailed Project Description
ANNEX B       Estimated Project Costs
ANNEX C       Project Management and Implementation
ANNEX D       Project Progress Indicators
ANNEX E       Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ANNEX F       Statement of Loans and Credits
ANNEX G       Country at a Glance



47                                   ANNEX 3A
St. Lucia
St. Lucia
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1. Physical Prevention and Mitigation Works
This component would aim to strengthen and/or rehabilitate key public infrastructure to reduce their
vulnerability to hazards such as land slides, sea swells, storms surges, floods, and hurricanes. It would
also finance the retrofitting of public buildings used as shelters (many of which are vulnerable in their
existing state), and buildings critical to safety and public well being (such as hospitals). Environmental
assessments will be carried out for all civil works.
a. Hewanorra airportflood protection works
Flood protection works will be carried out, consisting of reinforcing the embankment of the Vieux Fort
river to prevent the river from going through the old bed. The engineering study will include
hydrological assessment of river, and detailed engineering to prepare a sea defenses project to protect
both the airport landing strip and the ring road. An assessment of sea and beach movements and their
potential impact on nearby tourist areas and the airport will also be carried out.
Implementing agency: Ministry of Communications, Works, Transport, and Public Utilities in
conjunction with the St. Lucia Air and Sea Ports Authority (SLASPA)
b. Bridges and river training
Bridges and river training works will be carried out at: (i) Marc Floissac, and (ii) Caico including the
launching of a Bailey-type bridge, a new abutment and wingwalls, and river training. Additional studies
will be carried out to assess the frequency of floods and complete the design for the bridges. The project
will aim also to strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Communications, Works, Transport, and Public
Utilities to carry out bridge works through the procurement of about 60 meters of Bailey-type
components and the replenishment of the gabions stock, which will enable the Ministry to respond
quickly to emergency flood situations.
Implementing agency: Ministry of Communications, Works, Transport, and Public Utilities
c. Cul de Sac Valley flood prevention works
The project would finance bridge construction, drainage and embankment works for Cul de Sac Valley
and raise the West Coast road.
Implementing agency: Ministry of Communications, Works, Transport, and Public Utilities
d. Supplementary reservoirfor Victoria Hospital
A supplementary water reservoir at La Toc Road will be constructed to ensure water supply to Victoria
Hospital, including construction of a gravity-fed system or other system to connect the reservoir to the
hospital.
Implementing agency: Ministry of Health, Human Services, Family Affairs and Women



48                                    ANNEX 3A
St. Lucia
e. Disawler Management Programfor schools and libraries (US$0.74 million)
The project will establish a disaster management program for schools and libraries, which includes but is
not limited to the retrofitting of schools used as shelters and the installation of sanitary facilities. The
sub-component would include three items: (i) capacity-building; (ii) procurement of emergency
equipment; and (iii) security of school plant and facilities.
Implementing agency: Ministry of Education, Human Resources Development, Youth and Sports



49                                   ANNEX 3A
St. Lucia
St. Lucia
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2. Strengthening the Office of Disaster Preparedness
The project would strengthen the capacity of the Office of Disaster Preparedness to prepare itself and the
population at large to respond quickly and effectively in emergencies.
a. Technical Assistance to the national Office of Disaster Preparedness ($175,000)
The project will strengthen human resource capacity in the Office of Disaster Preparedness (ODP) in
disaster preparedness and management. Technical assistance will be provided including: (i) a technical
advisor to assist in mobilizing and maintaining support from businesses and industries; and (ii) a technical
advisor in local emergency planning and mitigation to assist in the development of plans and mitigation
activities.
b. Emergency communications system ($75,000)
A dedicated system is needed to communicate among national level agencies, and emergency
management committees at the national and district levels, as this critical function cannot rely on other
agencies, especially during crises. The project will provide for the design and installation of an island-
wide emergency communication system to link national disaster officials with each district by providing
base station radios, repeaters and mobile radios for district Disaster Committees to ensure effective
communication during and after disasters.
c. Disaster equipment and loss reduction materials ($175,000)
Immediate availability of certain materials like reinforced plastic sheeting can limit or prevent secondary
losses. Because infrastructure damage often impedes the movement of relief and assistance materials for
days, the project will ensure the ready availability of limited stocks of emergency supplies and "loss
reduction materials" like portable generators, water purification equipment/storage tanks, reinforced
plastic sheeting, chain saws, lanterns, community first aid supplies and equipment for specialized
emergency responders at the national and community levels. These will be managed at the national level
by the ODP, but stored in several locations throughout the country.
Implementing agency: Office of Disaster Preparedness



50                                    ANNEX 3A
St. Lucia
St Lucia
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3. Strengthening the Early Warning System
This component will aim to establish an effective early warning system to alert appropriate government
authorities and the public of adverse weather conditions to provide for the protection of life and property.
Strengthening the existing early warning capabilities of the National Meteorological Service (the Met
Service) will assist St. Lucia in mitigating the effects of extreme natural weather events such as
hurricanes, tropical storms and floods. A well-defined hydrometeorological information infrastructure
offering an effective means of distributing forecasts and warnings to appropriate government authorities,
the National Office of Disaster Preparedness, the media and the public will provide citizens with
sufficient time to take measures to significantly reduce the loss of life and property damages.
This sub-component would: (i) strengthen the capacity of the National Meteorological Service; (ii)
develop a Ham Weather Radio Observation Network; (iii) develop a local Flood Alert System; and (iv)
provide technical assistance and training in meteorology and hydrology.
a. Support for the National Meteorological Service ($70,000)
St. Lucia's national Meteorological Service (Met Service) no longer has real-time access to radar
information from Barbados since the radar does not function most of the time. Therefore, access to
high-resolution satellite imagery in real-time becomes critical for detecting storm systems that might
affect the country. Support for the Met Service will include:
-  An enhanced satellite receiving station with a high resolution imaging system (including installation
costs) to acquire and process meteorological data from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration's geostationary weather satellite covering the Caribbean Region to supply information
on early storm warnings, hurricane tracking, and severe storms;
-  Upgrade Star IV computer terminal which is a critical component of the World Area Forecast System
that provides special digital data files for world-wide aviation forecasts;
-  Three PC Pentium computers (including a laptop for the Office of Disaster Preparedness) with high-
speed modems and Internet connectivity, as well as two printers, to create the basis for the acquisition
and dissemination of critical meteorological data and products from regional and international
centers;
* Three additional phone lines for the Met Service base at Hewanorra International Airport, one
dedicated for Internet access, the second for a voice mail system providing up-to-date forecasts and
warnings (which would free up the Met Service to monitor and track adverse weather conditions
during impending storms); and the third line to be used as back-up;
*  Training associated with new equipment
b. Development of a Ham Weather Radio Observation Network ($40,000)
Development of a network of 10-15 ham weather radio operators dispersed throughout the country will
provide critical auxiliary weather observations such as wind, gusts, barometric pressure and rainfall to the
Met Service and the U.S. National Hurricane Center in Miami. Providing ham radio operators, law
enforcement or fire department officials with reliable instruments capable of measuring weather
conditions automatically also increases the chance of obtaining critical information before, during and
after a hurricane since these are likely to represent the only operable communication pathway to and from
a hurricane devastated area. This subcomponent will include: (i) weather stations with solar panels
integrated with a modem and an Automatic Weather Packet Reporting System; (ii) transmitters,



51                                   ANNEX 3A
St. Lucia
generators, and spare parts for maintenance; and (iii) training associated with development of the Ham
Weather Radio Observation Network.
c. Developnent of a Local Flood Warning System ($1 75,000)
The Government needs a flood warning system that measures and transmits instantaneous data on
precipitation and water levels of streams prone to flooding. A system called ALERT (Automated Local
Evaluation in Real-Time) is one of the local flood warning systems that seems most appropriate in this
country context. This subcomponent will ensure the establishment of an ALERT system that would
encompass four basic components: (i) sensors for detecting weather events (rain gauge, river gauge, etc.);
(ii) a transmitter that encodes and transmits the data from the gage; (iii) a repeater that receives and
transmits the signal to the receiving base station; and (iv) a base station, which receives the information
and decodes and stores the data in a PC computer with appropriate software. The project will also
finance a specialized consultant to advise on an effective flood warning system, provide data collection
systenifstandards, carry out site selection and installation of necessary equipment and provide appropriate
training related to the operation and maintenance of the local flood alert warning system.
Currently, the Ministry of Agriculture already has 33 rain gauges deployed throughout the island which
are used on a weekly basis for monitoring purposes. The Met Service does not have access to the data
from these rain gages, and in addition, weekly monitoring is not sufficient for effective flood warning. In
order to avoid duplication of equipment and resources, the project would aim to enhance collaboration
between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Met Service to share the data for their respective purposes.
The project would also finance enhancements to the current rain gages if necessary to transmit the data to
the Met Service in real time.
c. Technical Assistance and Training ($15,000)
With the recent advances in science and technology, effective and efficient up-to-date training of staff in
operational meteorology and hydrology is critical to maximize the information from new technology and
to minimize error of misinterpretation of observational data. This subcomponent will finance: (i) training
courses, symposiums and workshops associated with: agrometeorology, climatology, media training,
equipment maintenance (repair and preventative), satellite interpretation, hydrology and specialized
meteorology for personnel involved with hydrologic and meteorology operations; and (ii) technical
assistance related to meteorological equipment operations and maintenance.
Implementing agency: National Meteorological Service



52                                     ANNEX 3A
St. Lucia
St. Lucia
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
4. Community Based Disaster Management
Background
The ultimate mission of a National Disaster Plan is to save lives and protect property. The cornerstone of
such a plan is the education, empowerment and active involvement of the local community in the plan's
mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery activities. It is the citizens of local communities who
will personally experience, or have already experienced, the devastating effects of disasters. A public/
private partnership, with local citizen participation in planning, decision-making and the implementation
of the National Disaster Plan, is critical to quick and effective recovery from the effects of a disaster.
This partnership is also necessary for awareness and understanding of community's responsibilities
before, during and after a disaster.
Disaster Committees exist in all 10 governmental districts. In addition there are two additional Disaster
Committees in two large rural areas. The government districts are scheduled to become legal local self-
governing jurisdictions in the year 2000. Currently, the chairperson of the District Council serves as the
chairperson of the Disaster Committee and the District Clerk serves as the Disaster Committee Clerk. In
communities below the district level, the local community development committee serves as the Disaster
Committee. Organization of the Committees is strong on paper with defined organizational
responsibilities. However, the Committees are at different levels of operational effectiveness and
resource capacity. There is a need for resources to strengthen and sustain this institutional disaster
management capacity at the local level.
The Caribbean Disaster Emergency Response Agency (CDERA), the U.S. Office of Foreign Disaster
Assistance (OFDA), the U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and the International
Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, are some of the agencies that could provide
essential training for key district Disaster Committee members. Under the project, Disaster Committees
will be provided the following types of training: (i) organization and functions of a District/Community
Disaster Committee; (ii) training in "Surviving the Next Disaster" (special training available through the
Red Cross); and (iii) other skills such as emergency search and rescue, donations management, disaster-
related needs of seniors and persons with disabilities, etc.
Disaster Committees will be provided with essential radios and other search and rescue equipment,
potable water delivery systems, etc. (financed under section 2b. Strengthening the Office of Disaster
Preparedness). Physical facilities are necessary for storage of disaster supplies and emergency response
equipment at the community level. In addition, committees need a dedicated space to meet and to
establish an operations center during an emergency. Under the project, the ODP and the Ministry of
Community Development will ensure that the equipment provided to communities is stored in a safe
place and that committees have a space to meet and organize.
Implementing agency: Office of Disaster Preparedness



53                                   ANNEX 3A
St. Lucia
St. Lucia
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
5. Institution Building
a. Vulnerability Reduction of Public Buildings ($160,000)
The main objective of this component would be to reduce potential fiscal liabilities incurred by the
Government in case of catastrophic losses by efficiently insuring its buildings/facilities and reducing their
vulnerability. Currently, very few of the Government's buildings are insured. Given the country's
propensity to experience disasters, an improved insurance scheme for public buildings is considered the
top priority.
This component will consist of technical assistance to: (i) assess the value of the Government's
building/facilities; (ii) evaluate the risk of potential damages to buildings/facilities based on their location
and quality of construction and maintenance; (iii) determine optimal vulnerability reduction measures
through mitigation/retrofitting investments and/or an insurance strategy to minimize the cost of insurance
for a given level of risk; (iv) consider alternative financial instruments (e.g. catastrophic bonds and
weather hedges); (v) review existing regulatory requirements covering building codes, siting and land use
planning, and recommend improvements to current practices; and (vi) make recommendations with
regard to the development of an insurance sector regulatory framework, including prudential solvency
and reserve provisions for disasters. The project would thus strengthen the capacity of the Government to
reduce or spread the risk of catastrophic loss.
The component would cost a total of US$160,000 with the following breakdown: (i) consultants for
studies (US$100,000); (ii) study tour (US$30,000); and (iii) in-country workshop with representatives of
major insurance/re-insurance and catastrophic bonds/weather hedges companies (US$30,000).
b. Hazard Analysis/Vulnerability Mapping (US$60,000)
There is a need to more precisely identify hazards and vulnerability to protect current and future
government and private sector investments in Dominica. Once recognized, vulnerable areas can be
identified for mitigation activities and held to an appropriate standard for development planning.
Existing information in government ministries and in private companies need to be consolidated and
additional research done to identify all hazards to be analyzed. The project will support the development
of a comprehensive hazard and vulnerability map for Dominica; the preparation of an economic and
population vulnerability analysis; and training for government, private sector and communities to identify
strategies to use the information for development planning across sectors and for disaster preparedness
and mitigation.
c. Building Codes
The project will aim to strengthen the resilience of buildings, public and private, to disasters such as
hurricanes in the country through adoption of a national building code and its effective enforcement
through proper building inspection. The Organization of American States (OAS), as executing agency of
the Caribbean Disaster Mitigation Project (CDMP) and with funding from USAID, joined the United
Nations Centre for Human Settlements (UNCHS) in a technical assistance program to introduce a model
building code in the OECS countries. The Government of St. Lucia is currently carrying out a national
consultation of the model code. Under the project, the Government, with technical assistance from OAS,
will work out a firm timetable for the code's adaptation, enactment and enforcement. In addition, an
assessment of the present situation regarding the enforcement of building inspection will be carried out



54                                   ANNEX 3A
St Lucia
and recommendations will be made as to what steps the Government will need to take to improve
enforcement.
Implementing agency: Office of Disaster Preparedness



Annex 3B
st Lucia                                      St. Luda
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
_US$ mnions                                               nCos          Physical   Price   TOTAL
Local Foreign Total Conting. Conting. COSTS
1 PhyWsal Prevenon &  lItigation Works                0.93    4.46  5.39      0.45     0.11    5.94
CMl works                                            0.82    3.28  4.10     0.41     0.08    4.59
a. Hewanonr alpoit3 food proction                    0.06    0.24  0.30     0.03     0.01    0.34
b. Bddges and ,ert.ung                               0.11    0.44  0.55     0.06     0.01    0.62
c. Culde Sac Vagey flood prventon                   0.43    1.72  2.15      0.22     0.04    2.41
d. Supplementary servorforVWctodsaHosptal           0.11    0.44  0.55      0.06     0.01    0.62
e. Disaster management for schoos &lb,es            0.11    0.44  0.55      0.06     0.01    0.62
Procuremnent of goods                                0.00    0.57  0.57     0.00     0.01    0.58
a. Bailey-te bddges                                          0.30  0.30              0.01    0.31
b. Gabions                                                   0.10  0.10              0.00    o.10
c. Emergency equipment for scoashaeltrs                      0.17  0.17               0.00    0.17
Technical assistance and studies                     0.11    0.61  0.72     0.04     0.01    0.77
a. Technkal assistance to Ministiy of Educatiin      0.00    0.02  0.02      .00     000      .02
b. Engineerng studfes                                0.05    0.30  0.35     0.02     0.01    0.37
c. Environmental assessments                         0.03    0.17  0.20     0.01     0.00    0.21
d Supervision of works                               0.02    0.13  0.15     0.01     0.00    0.16
2 Strengthening Emergency Prparednes & Response       0.04    0.78  0.83      0.01     0.02    0.86
a. Strengthening the Office of Disaster Preredness   0.03    0.40  0.43     0.01     0.011   0.44
Island-wide emergency communications system n               0.08  0.08              0.00    0.08
Spedaledisaster equimet                                     0.18  0.18 _            0.00    0.18
- TA and training for ODP                           0.03    0.15  0.18      0.01     0.00    0.19
lb. Developing Effectve Early Waming Systems         0.00    0.30  0.30    0Q00       Q.01   0.31
- Meteorological equipment                                   0.07  0.07               0.00    0.07
Ham Weather Radh iobsanation Network                        0.04  0.04              0.00    0.04
Local flood alert waming system                   _         0.18  0.18              0.00    018S
TA and training                                    0.00    0.01  0.02      0.001    0.00    0.02
c. Community Based Disaster Management               0.02    0.09  0.10     0.01      0.00    0.11
Training for Dist Disaster Comt s                  0.02    0.09  0.10      0.01     0.00    0.11
i~ ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ _  _   __I _   _
3 Instittonal strengthening                           0.03    0.19  0.22      0.011    0.00    0.24
Hazard analysis/vulnerability mapping                0.01    0.05  0.06     0.00;    0.00    0.06
Vulnerability reduction of public builings           0.02    0.14  0.16     0.01      0.00,   0.17
[Building code                                                      __|_i
4 ProJect Managemnt                                   0.27    0.31  0.58      0.03     0.014   0.61
TA (financial manager & contact specialist)         0.08    0.12  0.20     0.01     0.00    0.21
equipment                                           0.01    0.04  0.05              0.00    0.05
workishops                                          0.03          0.03     0.00     0.00    0.03
technical audits                                    0.10    0.10  0.20     0.01     0.00    0.21
financial audits                                    0.05    0.05  0.10     0.01     0.00    0.11
TOTAL                                                1.27    5.74  7.01     0.C0     0.14    7.65
N.M. Figures may not add up due to rwndg                      _
_CW  Civl Wiorks; CON a consrtancle GOODS  g oods & equ4pnent MISC. a idsoaineous
I Physkal conijrngencis u 10% for cwwod5    rcfrongnc; 0 roods  ieon          de - 2%



56                                   ANNEX3C
St Lucia
St. Lucia
PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Project coordination and management
*  A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be set up in the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MFP). It
will consist of a Project Coordinator, appointed by the Ministry, who will coordinate and monitor
implementation progress according to agreed upon performance indicators and report to the World
Bank. The project will finance a project Financial Manager for the duration of the project who will
be familiar with Bank procedures and guidelines for administration and management of funds. The
project will also finance a contract management specialist on an as-needed basis to assist the various
implementing agencies in awarding and supervising contracts.
* The Government has set up as of November 1, 1998, a National Hazard Mitigation Council to serve
as a steering committee to coordinate policy issues, recommend the selection of priority investments,
and help ensure the compliance of government commitments. This council is chaired by the
Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Finance and Planning (or his/her representative) and consists
of representatives of the relevant line ministries, as well as the Chamber of Commerce.
Project implementation
*  Each project component will be implemented by the respective line ministry responsible for that
component. The Office of Disaster Preparedness (ODP) will be the implementing agency for the
institutional strengthening components.
*  The project will strengthen the implementation capacity of ODP by financing a technical advisor
from the private sector to assist the ODP in mobilizing and maintaining support from businesses and
industries, and a technical advisor in local emergency planning and mitigation to develop plans and
mitigation activities.
*  The implementing agencies will provide progress reports to the PCU on a monthly basis.
*  Procurement, contracting, and payments to contractors will be undertaken by the respective
implementing agencies using World Bank guidelines, with the assistance of the contract management
specialist in the PCU where necessary.
Project supervision, reporting and audit requirements
*  A Project Implementation Manual will delineate financial management and control procedures,
including TORs prepared by the PCU for internal and external audits acceptable to the Bank.
*  Each implementing agency will forecast the amounts to be withdrawn from the Special Account on a
quarterly basis. The Financial Manager in the PCU will authorize the withdrawal of these funds from
the Special Account and make payments directly to the contractors/consultants.
*  The PCU will, on a periodic basis, supervise the implementation of each component, including the
physical investment components, and undertake periodic field visits.
*  The PCU will make quarterly reports to the World Bank, including a statement of sources and uses of
funds, ensuring that all project guidelines are being followed.
* Financial audits for all accounts and components will be carried out annually. Technical audits will
be carried o,ut for large civil works that do not include technical audits as part of the supervision
process. Audit reports will be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year.



57                                                   ANNEX 3D
St. Lucia
St. Lucia
PROJECT PROGRESS INDICATORS
[conmponent                                       e            Second Year           Third Year      ______-______
Hewanorra Airport Flood               100% completed                                                100% completed
Protection Works
Engineering Study                    100% completed                                                100% completed
Bridges and River Training           100% completed                                                 100% completed
Cul de Sac Valley                     50% completed       50% completed                  _           100% completed
Reservoir for Victoria Hospital       50% completed       50% completed                              100% completed
Schools and Libraries                 25% completed       75% completed                               100% completed
Office of Disaster Preparedness
Emergency communications             100% procured                                                 100% procured
equipment
Disaster equipment and loss          100% procured                                                 100% procured
reduction materials
Early Warning System
Equipment                            100% procured                                                 100% procured
Training                              33% completed     33% completed           33% completed      100% completed
Community Based Disaster Management
Disaster Management Committees       25% equipped and    65% equipped and      80% equipped and    80% equipped and
functional           functional            functional          functional
Community Training                   25% committees      65% committees        80% committees      80% committees
trained            trained                trained            trained
Vulnerability Reduction of                                Study completed                           Study completed
Public Buildings                                         Workshop completed                        Workshop completed
Hazard Analysis                       Study completed                                               Study completed
Building Codes                                            Building codes                            Building codes
adopted and enforced                      adopted and enforced



58                                  ANTNEX 3E
St. Lucia
St. Lucia
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Civil Works:
The civil works under the project consist of: (i) flood protection works and reinforced embankment; (ii)
repair and construction of bridges and river training; (iii) flood prevention works and raising of roads;
(iv) construction of a supplementary water reservoir for the main hospital; and (v) protective works for
school and facilities, including retrofitting of schools used as shelters and the installation of sanitary
facilities. For these works, ICB procedures will be used for larger contracts. Given the expected size of
the works in the island, there is no need for a prequalification of contractors under ICB nor any
international advertisement beyond the announcement of the project in the General Procurement Notice.
NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank will be used for contracts estimated to cost less than US$300,000
up to an aggregate amount of US$3 10,000. Small works estimated to cost less than US$30,000 up to an
aggregate amount of $310,000 will be procured using three quotations from registered contractors.
Goods and Equipment:
The procurement of goods will be carried out through ICB except for the following items: LIB
procedures will be used for the procurement of Bailey-type components and its launching system and for
gabion baskets (estimated aggregate cost of US$400,000) and for meteorological equipment (estimated
aggregate costs of US$410,000); international shopping procedures will be used for the procurement of
small rescue tools, office equipment, early warning systems, and other emergency tools in packages
estimated to cost less the US$50,000 individually up to an aggregate amount of US$610,000; and local
shopping procedures will be used for procurement of sundry items in packages estimated to cost less than
$20,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$ 100,000.
Consultants' Services:
The hiring of consulting firms will be made using Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) or Selection
under Fixed Budget (SFB), and the hiring of individuals will be made using selection based on
qualifications.
Prior Review:
All ICB will require prior review. For LIB procedures, the Borrower will submit a list of the bidders
invited to bid, the tender documents, the specifications and the official cost estimate prior to inviting for
bids and then will seek the non-objection of the Bank to the proposed awards and draft contract. Two
copies of the signed contract should be sent to the Bank prior to making disbursements against these
contracts. The first NCB procurement for civil works in each year as well as the first international and
local shopping procedures in each year will require prior review. All consultants' services estimated to
cost above $100,000 for firms and $25,000 for individuals will require prior review by the Bank.



59                                     ANNEX 3E
St. Lucia
Table 1: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure                      Procurement Method                        Totad Cost
Category                                                            (including contingencies)
.__________    ICB              NCB         Other        N.BF
1. Works             3.98         0.31       0.31                           4.60
(3.31)      (0.31)     (0.31)                          (3.93)
2. Goods              0.41                    0.72                           1.13
(0.28)                 (0.6)                           (0.88)
3. Consulting         1.06                    0.80                           1.86
Services          (0.80)                  (0.34)                         (1.14)
4. Operating                                  0.06                           0.06
Expenditures                              (0.06)                         (0.06)
5. Commitment fee                             0.03                           0.03
(0.03)                         (0.03)
Total                 5.45        0.31        1.92                           7.68
_______________   (4.39)          (0.31)      (1.34)      .                  (6.04)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultancies
under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items).
Table 2: Consultant Selection Arrangements
Consultant                                                                     Total Cost
Services                          Selection Method                           (including
contingencies)
QCBS    QBS        SFB      LCS   CQ    Other   N.B.F
A. Firms        1,000,000          460,000                                       1,460,000
B. Individuals                                              440,000              440,000
Total  1,000,000           460,000                 440,000              1,900,000
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection LCS = Least-Cost Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection       CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget    N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.



60                                 ANNEX 3E
St. Lucia
Table 3: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
.Conict Value          Procurement          Review       Estimated Total
Ga~~gwy   (I%treshoId)         Mehdvalue Sujct to
'__________'0,A   1 $ '* t housand S _____________    _______Prior Review
1. Works             <300,000   NCB                        First          300,000
<50,000   Quotations                First          550,000
>300,000  ICB                         All
2. Goods                        LIB                        All            400,000
<50,000  International Shopping     First          610,000
<20,000   Local Shopping            First          100,000
3. Services            25,000  Individuals                 All            530,000
>100,000   QCBS                       All
Tota value of contracts subject to prior review:



Status of Bank Group Operations in St. Lucia
Difference
B3etween expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                 and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                               disbursements a/
Project 1D    Year               Borrower                    Purpose
lIRD       IUA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Fr. Rev d
Number of Closed Projects: 2
Active Proiects
LC-PE-38698    1995   GOV'T OF ST. LUCIA               BASIC EDUC REFORM            3.36       3.36            0.00          2.81      2.69       0.00
Total                                                                               3.36       3.36            0.00          2.81      2.69       0.00
Active Projects      Closed Prolects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDR):                  3.72               13.27              16.99
of which has been repaid:                 0.00                 .73                 .73
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  6.73               12.26              18.99
Amount sold                                     0.00                0.00               0.00
Of which repaid                              0.00               0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                                2.81               0.00                2.81
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.                                                                         0r'
Note:                                                       
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.                                                                                              A
0
rt  S
Generated by the Opcrtos Information System (0IS)



St. Lucia at a glance 
Likn   Upw@-
POVE         and SOCUL                                     Ajuca   middle-
SL LUCa   & Cuw    hcom          Development dbamand
197
Ppulaon, midWaw (mAn)                                0.16       494      571                 Uh apa
GNP per cat Aas mao  USS)                           3,620     3.880     4.520
GNP (Ales neoL bigon)                                0.58     1,917     2.564
Jea  aua growt, 131M-
Populaon   )                                          1.0       1.7       1.5
Labor fre IX)                                          ..       2.3       1.9     GNP                             Gross
most ~~~~t   a.st~~~~ o~~at~~a~~ 199147) ~~per                                               piimary
Mostreml sent _IbbkWtn wun     aftbbb,  W                                         capita                      enrolment
POrWt (%0  oopJlalon beow ndonawlpo)
Urbn populaton (% of ot poulaon)                      37         74       73
Lia exechincyat bith (ws)                             70         70       70
Want mortality (per 1,000Nve Mls)                     18         32       30
Child mn tton (X of d    n uw b)                       ..        ..        ..               Access to safe water
Acces lo safe water (X ofpopuan)                       ..        73       79
hlUmb  (X  ofpopuulon   15+)                          10         13        15
Grs primay enroilmnt ( of scool    popubon)            ..       111       107              & Lucia
me                                                   ..        ..        ..        -    UpperW-niddleincore group
Female
KEY ECONMIC RATIOD  and LONG-TM  TRENOS
1976    19U6       196       191T
Economic ratlos
GDP ((18$ blio)                                ..    0.26      0.60        .
Gos domesic Imest      GDP                    ..    21.2       19.0
Eaports of goods and serloeGDP                ..    63.8       67.8                              Trade
Gross domestc unG DP                           ..    14.5      17.1
Grss noa singsGDP                              ..    21.3      12.8
C nt account bl GDP                           ..      0.1       4.1        ..    Dorrestcs/
Intee pa_mentsGDP                             ..      0.3       0.9        ..        Invesbnt
Totl debGDP                                    ..    12.1      23.8               Saings
Total debt servcdoqxorts                     0.6      1.1       3.0
Presa  valueof ddabGDP                        ..       ..      18.3
Presentvalue ofdetxpot                        ..       ..      28.
Indebtedness
197646  167-97    1196        197   1994-02
(averae annua rowth)
GDP                                   ..     4.5      3.2                  S..            LS ucia
GNP per capit                        ..      3.2      0.8        ..                    -   Upper-middle4ncorne group
Eort of goods nd services            ..      2.2      3.8            .._..
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(of01 GOP)                               1976    1986       1996      1997     Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                   ..    18.1       10.7               10
dustby                                        ..    17.2       19.7        ..
Manufcturing                                 ..     8.2        8.7                      92 n            N7
..rw                         e4.7   8 9.6                                 .       . 10 *\ 
Priate consumption                            ..      8.3      68.5        ..     20 
Genera govemment oonsumption                  ..    17.2       14.4        ..                    G01       0GDP
Imports of goods and services                  ..    70.5      69.7
197646  18797        1996      1997     Growth ret. of exports and Imports (%)
(avefao annua t owth)
Artu                                           ..     1.8       5.8              1.
Industry                                      ..      5.2       2.3
Manufacturing                                ..     1.5        2.8       ..      s
Ser                                            ..     .0        3.8
Prvt cnsumpion                                 ..     2.1       4.9               0
G     lV   e goWnt    tum0on                          3.5      -3.1        ..
Gross domestl invnsbmMn                       ..      1.9       33          . 
Import of goods wd ser*-                             -0.2       3.9        ..                  E ports         p
Gros nati   product                           ..      4.3       2.0        ..
Note: 1997 d   are preinasy estimtes.
*The dimonds show foure Indkaictor Iiecot In bod) compred whhf its income_roup erage. I dat are missng, l  diamond wvN
be incomplet.



St. Lucia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1176    1986      1196     1117      In f (on
(% chane) 
Consumer prices                                               3.1              o 
nmpliit GOP deflator                                3.6     3.2         4.
Govemment finance                                                              2
(% of GDP. includes cufent grants)
Current revenu                                               31.2                    *2   93 g         95  9w   07
Current budget bance                                          8.2                           GDP dtnawor    CCPi
Ovall surplus/deficit                                        .1.9
TRADE
(UJS$ millions)                           1976    1966      1996      1997     Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fobb)                                          118              o
Bananas                                                      48
Fruits and vegetables                                         1              3W_
Hanufaceures                                                 26
Total imporls (cin                                           348
Food                                       .        .        78        .
Fuel and energy                                              26
Capital goods                                                so
Export priee index (1995= 100)                                                      SI  92  93  94   9       o
mport price index (1995=100)                                  99                        a E2orts     a nports
Terms of trade (1995-100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                            1976    19S6      16        1117     Currnt acount balance to GOP ratio (%
Exports of goods and services               32      167      406                o 0
mportsofgoodsandservices                    50     185       417         .              *7
Resoure balance                            -19      -18      -12                s*
Net income                                   0       -5      -44
Net current transfers                       13      23        19              .10
Current account balance                     -5       0        -37        -      s
Financing items (net)                        8       11       37
Changes in net reserves                     -3      -12        0               2.
Reserves including gold (USS miilions)       ..       .       31
Conversion rate (DEC, ocasUUSS)            2.6      2.7       2.7      2.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986      199S     1997
(USS millions)                                                                 Compostion of total debt, 1317 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         5       32      142       152
IBRD                                       0       0         4         4
IDA                                        0       0         8        10             G:33    -   -
Total debt service                           0       2        12        13
IBRD                                       0       0         0         0
IDA                                        0       0         0         0
Compositon of net resource flows
Officialgrants                             3       3        29        16
Official creditors                         1       2        11         4
Private creditors                          0       3         0         0         E 34                      : 71
Foregn direct investment                   3       15       39        45
Porfolio equity                            0       0         0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                0       0         0         0
Disbursements                              0       0         3         2    A-SRO                        EB- BiitrFw
Principal repayments                       0                0         0     ,_)A c    - DOt nGiitw    F - Prvm
Net fows                                   0       0         3         2    C. SW                        G - Sh____ r_
Interest pawments                          0        0        0         0
Net transfers                              0       0         2         2
World Bank                                                                                                     9/29198



Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Program
Country Annex
DOMINICA
ANNEX A    Detailed Project Description
ANNEX B    Estimated Project Costs
ANNEX C    Project Management
ANNEX D    Project Progress Indicators
ANNEX E    Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ANNEX F    Statement of Loans and Credits
ANNEX G    Country at a Glance



65                                 ANNEX4A
Dominica
Dominica
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1. Physical Prevention and Mitigation Measures
This component deals primarily with public infrastructure, and includes: (i) retrofitting key vulnerable
buildings used as shelters, and buildings critical to safety and general public well-being such as hospitals;
and (ii) strengthening/rehabilitating key infrastructure (bridges/culverts; river bank protection; slopes
protection; sea defenses with regard to land slides, sea swells and floods. Environmental assessments/
screening will be carried out for all civil works. The sub-projects will include:
a. Sea Defense works                      (Estimated Direct Cost)
a) Soufriere to Scotts Head Road              $1,400,000
b) Hatten Garden Wave Tidal Protection         $478,000
Indirect cost                                $230,000
Design                                       $205,000
Bidding preparation                         $ 20,000
Supervision of Works                        $ 82,000
Total estimated cost                    US$2,415,000
b. River Control and Flood Damage Reduction
a) Pichelin River Dredging                    $250,0001
b)Colihaut River Control                       $195,000
c) Engineering and Supervision                 $120,000
Total estimated cost                      US$565,000
The capacity of the Ministry of Communications, Works and Housing (MCWH) to engineer and
supervise bridge strengthening and river training works (including wing-walls and gabionage) will be
strengthened through the hiring of an individual expert in river control and by equipping the ministry with
the appropriate technology required, including a computer, flood and river simulation software, and
drafting and surveying equipment.
c. Road Protection
Elmshall Road Reinstatement                  $300,000
Design                                        $40,000
Bidding Preparation                            $4,000
Supervision                                  $16,000
Total estimated cost                      US$360,000
d Shelters (US$690,000)
A regional hurricane community shelter will be constructed, equipped with a small kitchen and sanitary
facilities. The shelter will be used in non-emergency situations throughout the year for disaster training
of community Disaster Preparedness Committees. Six existing shelters will also be retrofitted to
hurricane-resistant standards.
Retroactive financing; not subject to indirect costs



66                                 ANNEX 4A
Dominica
Dominica
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2. Strengthening the National Office of Disaster Preparedness
The project will strengthen the capacity of the national Office of Disaster Preparedness to prepare itself
and the population at large to respond quickly and effectively in emergencies to save lives and protect
property. This will be done by enhancing human resource capacity through technical assistance to the
ODP; establishing an island-wide emergency communications systems; and providing quick access to
disaster equipment and loss reduction materials, both at the central and community levels.
a. Capacity building in the ODP (US$175,000)
The project will strengthen the human resource capacity in the national Office of Disaster Preparedness
(ODP) in disaster preparedness and management. Technical assistance will be provided including: (i) a
technical advisor from the private sector to assist in mobilizing and maintaining support from businesses
and industries; and (ii) a technical advisor in local emergency planning and mitigation to assist in the
development of plans and mitigation activities.
b. Specialized disaster equipment and loss reduction materials ($197,000)
Immediate availability of certain materials like reinforced plastic sheeting can limit or prevent secondary
losses. Because infrastructure damage often impedes the movement of relief and assistance materials for
days, the project will ensure the ready availability of limited stocks of emergency supplies and "loss
reduction materials" like portable generators, water purification equipment/storage tanks, reinforced
plastic sheeting, and equipment for specialized emergency responders at the national and community
levels. Some of this equipment will be stored at the central level, and some will be located with local
Disaster Preparedness Committees.
c. Island-wide emergency communications system ($45,000)
A dedicated system is needed to communicate among national level agencies, and emergency
management committees at the national and district levels, as this critical function cannot rely on other
agencies, especially during crises. Proposed communications equipment will include: 7 VHF Base
Stations one for each district; mobile radios for the local Disaster Preparedness Committees; and other
communications equipment to ensure effective communication during disasters.



67                                 ANNEX 4A
Dominica
Dominica
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3. Developing an Effective Early Warning System
This component will aim to establish an effective early warning system to alert appropriate government
authorities and the public of adverse weather conditions to provide for the protection of life and property.
Strengthening the existing early warning capabilities of the National Meteorological Service (NMS) will
assist Dominica in mitigating the effects of extreme natural weather events such as hurricanes, tropical
storms and floods. A well-defined hydrometeorological information infrastructure offering an effective
means of distributing forecasts and warnings to appropriate government authorities, the National Office
of Disaster Preparedness, the media and the public will provide citizens with sufficient time to take
measures to significantly reduce the loss of life and property damages.
Barbados provides weather forecasts and warnings to the Dominica Meteorological Station at Melville
Hall Airport. Dominica is responsible for collecting hourly weather observations at both the Melville
Hall Airport and the Canefield Airport and providing those observations to the Barbados Meteorological
Service. The Dominica Meteorological Station (Melville Hall Airport) is also responsible for
disseminating weather forecasts and warnings to alert appropriate government authorities, the media and
the public of adverse weather conditions to provide for the protection of life and property. Although the
primary purpose for these observations at the airports is to provide critical surface observations for
effective airport operations, this data is also very important in developing weather forecasts and warnings.
This sub-component will provide: (i) support to the National Meteorological Service; (ii) development of
a Ham Weather Radio Observation Network; (iii) development of a local Flood Alert System; and (iv)
technical assistance and training in meteorology and hydrology.
a. Supportfor the National Meteorological Service (US$55,000)
Several pieces of existing meteorological sensors and equipment are in need of upgrading at the Melville
Hall Airport and the Canefield Airport to improve the weather observations for both of Dominica's
Weather Observation Stations. Support for the NMS will include:
*  Replacement of existing antiquated meteorological equipment (including installation costs) including
two large Stevenson screens, two tilting syphon rain recorders, one anemographer recorder, one
anemometer, two wind vanes, and two wind dials. Specialized consultants will be hired to provide
expert advice on procurement, installation and maintenance of equipment.
*  Two Pentium (200 MHz minimum) computers with appropriate software, 17-inch monitors, 56K
speed modems, with Internet connectivity at the Melville Hall Airport Meteorological Station, and 2
laser quality printers. Internet access creates the basis for the acquisition and dissemination of critical
meteorological data and products from regional and international centers.
* Two additional phone lines for the NMS at the Melville Hall Airport; one dedicated for Internet
access, and the second a dedicated phone line between the Dominica Meteorological Station
(Melville Hall Airport) and the Barbados Meteorological Service. This will ensure data is received
and disseminated on a timely and continual fashion, since Dominica receives their weather forecasts
and warnings through the Barbados Meteorological Office. Computers between the two
Meteorological Observation Stations and the National Disaster Preparedness Office should be
networked to continue to improve the communication between these offices.
* Training associated with new equipment.



68                                 ANNEX 4A
Dominica
b Development of a Ham Weather Radio Observation Network (US$40,000)
Development of a network of 5-10 ham weather radio operators dispersed throughout the country will
provide critical auxiliary weather observations such as wind, gusts, barometric pressure and rainfall to the
NMS and the U.S. National Hurricane Center in Miami. Providing ham-radio operators, law enforcement
and fire department officials with reliable instruments capable of measuring weather conditions
automatically also increases the chances of obtaining critical information before, during and after a
hurricane since these are likely to represent the only operable communication pathway to and from a
hurricane devastated area. Setting up such an observation network will involve (i) installation of weather
stationsmwith solar panels integrated with a modem, augmented by Automatic Weather Packet Reporting
Systems; (ii) transmitters, generators, and spare parts for maintenance; and (iii) training associated with
development of the Ham Weather Radio Observation Network.
c. Development of a Local Flood Warning System (US$230,000)
The Govemment needs a flood waming system that measures and transmits instantaneous data on
precipitation and water levels of streams prone to flooding. A system called ALERT (Automated Local
Evaluation in Real-Time) is one of the local flood warning systems that seems most appropriate in this
country context. Through the project, an ALERT system will be established encompassing four basic
components: (i) sensors for detecting weather events (rainfall gage, river gage, etc.); (ii) a transmitter that
encodes and transmits the data from the gage; (iii) a repeater that receives and transmits the signal to the
receiving base station; and (iv) a base station, which receives the information and decodes and stores the
data in a PC computer with appropriate software. A specialized consultant will be hired to advise on an
effective flood warning system, provide data collection system standards, evaluate site selection and
provide appropriate training related to the operation and maintenance ofthe local flood alert warning
system.
d TechnicalAssistance and Training (US$25,000)
With the recent advances in science and technology, effective and efficient up-to-date training of staff in
operational meteorology and hydrology is critical to maximize the information from new technology and
to minimize error of misinterpretation of observational data. This subcomponent will provide: (i) training
courses, symposiums and workshops associated with: computer technology, basic meteorology, and
equipment maintenance (repair and preventative) for personnel involved with hydrologic and
meteorology operations; and (ii) technical assistance related to meteorological equipment operations and
maintenance.
Implementing agency: National Meteorological Service



69                                  ANNEX 4A
Dominica
Dominica
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
4. Community Based Disaster Management
Background
The ultimate mission of a National Disaster Plan is to save lives and protect property. The cornerstone of
such a plan is the education, empowerment and active involvement of the local community in the plan's
mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery activities. It is the citizens of local communities who
will personally experience, or have already experienced, the devastating effects of disasters. A public/
private partnership, with local citizen participation in planning, decision-making and the implementation
of the National Disaster Plan, is critical to quick and effective recovery from the effects of a disaster.
This partnership is also necessary for awareness and understanding of community's responsibilities
before, during and after a disaster.
Disaster Districts of Dominica
Within the Commonwealth of Dominica, there are seven Disaster Districts covering 86 local
communities, all of which have Local Disaster Management Committees. Through the Department of
Local Government and Community Development, there is strong organizational linkage of the National
Disaster Plan to the local communities.
Indicative of the strength of the effectiveness of the department and its dynamic leader is the impressive
"Report on the Passage of Hurricane Georges, September 20th 1998" produced less than two weeks after
Georges just missed Dominica. The report details the results of the seven district assessments and
evaluation sessions covering the preparedness and response of the local communities to the projected hit
by a Category 4 hurricane of 150 miles per hour. This self-assessment report highlights the need for
continued training in disaster management, continued public education, shelter management and
management of special needs populations such as the physically challenged and elderly. There is a clear
need for resources to help meet these training needs required to sustain the institutional disaster
management capacity of the Local Disaster Management Committees.
This component aims to: (i) train district and local Community Disaster Committee Members to better
mobilize and educate communities in disaster preparedness, mitigation, response, and recovery including
a special emphasis on shelter management and management of persons with special needs such as the
physically challenged, elderly, and other vulnerable persons; (ii) provide access to emergency disaster
equipment and loss reduction materials at the local level (financed under 2b, Strengthening the National
Office of Disaster Preparedness); and (iii) make available financial resources for small scale community
initiated activities in preparedness and mitigation
a. Training in Community Disaster Preparedness (US$50, OO)
The Caribbean Disaster Emergency Response Agency (CDERA), the U.S. Office of Foreign Disaster
Assistance (OFDA), the U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and the International
Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, are some of the agencies that could provide
essential training for key District Disaster Committee members. Under the project, Disaster Preparedness
Committees will be provided the following types of training: (i) organization and functions of a
District/Community Disaster Committee; (ii) training in "Surviving the Next Disaster" (special training
available through the Red Cross); and (iii) other skills such as emergency search and rescue, donations
management, disaster-related needs of seniors and persons with disabilities, etc.



70                                 ANNEX 4A
Dominica
b. Vulnerability Reduction FEnd (USS3 75,000)
A Pilot Vulnerability Reduction Fund will initiated in Dominica. The objective of the Fund will be to
demonstrate in Dominica that targeted and continuous financial support for disaster loss reduction
projects at the community level can be encouraged, effectively implemented, and managed well. Over a
period of two years commencing January 1999, this Fund will promote local involvement in self-help
disaster mitigation activities by local disaster preparedness committees in twenty one of the most
vulnerable communities in Dominica. A pilot of three projects from each of the seven local government
districts will be targeted. District teams in consultation with local councils and community disaster
preparedness committees will be required to make submissions to a project selection committee to be
established with members from the Local Government and Community Development Department,
Disaster Preparedness Office, the Ministry of Finance, Industry and Planning, and the Project
Management Unit. Bottom-up proposals from the communities will be developed around the following
sub project categories designed to reduce the vulnerability of each community to potential disasters:
* Hazard mapping and assessment of mitigation measures required to reduce the loss of life and
property;
* Individual, community, and public disaster mitigation education; and
*  Improved drainage and culvert projects.
The total amount available under the Vulnerability Reduction Fund will be US$375,000. A maximum of
US$20,000 will be provided per grant for the local activities.
Implementing agency: The Local Government and Community Development Department of the Ministry
of Community Development and Women's Affairs



71                                 ANNEX 4A
Dominica
Dominica
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
5. Institutional Strengthening
aL HazardAnalysis/Vulnerability Mapping (US$60,000)
There is a need to more precisely identify hazards and vulnerability to protect current and future
government and private sector investments in Dominica. Once recognized, vulnerable areas can be
identified for mitigation activities and held to an appropriate standard for development planning.
Existing information in government ministries and in private companies need to be consolidated and
additional research done to identify all hazards to be analyzed. The project will support the development
of a comprehensive hazard and vulnerability map for Dominica; the preparation of an economic and
population vulnerability analysis; and training for government, private sector and communities to identify
strategies to use the information for development planning across sectors and for disaster preparedness
and mitigation.
b. Vulnerability Reduction of Public Buildings(US$100,000)
The main objective of this component will be to reduce potential fiscal liabilities incurred by the
Government in case of catastrophic losses by efficiently insuring its buildings/facilities and reducing their
vulnerability. This component will consist of technical assistance to: (i) assess the value of the
Government's building/facilities; (ii) evaluate the risk of potential damages to buildings/facilities based
on their location and quality of construction and maintenance; (iii) determine optimal vulnerability
reduction measures through mitigation/retrofitting investments and/or an insurance strategy to minimize
the cost of insurance for a given level of risk; (iv) consider alternative financial instruments (e.g.
catastrophic bonds and weather hedges); (v) review existing regulatory requirements covering building
codes, siting and land use planning, and recommend improvements to current practices; and (iv) make
recommendations with regard to the development of an insurance sector regulatory framework, including
prudential solvency and reserve provisions for disasters. The project will thus strengthen the capacity of
the Government to reduce or spread the risk of catastrophic loss.
c. Building Codes
The project will aim to strengthen the resilience of buildings, public and private, to disasters such as
hurricanes in the country through adoption of a national building code and its effective enforcement
through proper building inspection. The Organization of American States (OAS), as executing agency of
the Caribbean Disaster Mitigation Project (CDMP) and with funding from USAID, joined the United
Nations Centre for Human Settlements (UNCHS) in a technical assistance program to introduce a model
building code in the OECS countries. The Government of Dominica has already modified the model
building code for Dominica, and final adoption of the code is pending a vote in parliament on the
legislation required to have the code promulgated as an official document. The Government, with
technical assistance from OAS, will work out a firm timetable for the code's full adoption and
enforcement. In addition, an assessment of the present situation regarding the enforcement of building
inspection will be carried out and recommendations will be made as to what steps the Government will
need to take to improve enforcement.
Implementing agency: National Emergency Management Agency



ANNEX 41
Dominica                                       Doniinica
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
U.(S$ millions                  ______                      Base Costs__  Physical Price  TOTAL
Category Local Foreign Total Conting. Contlng. COSTS
1 Physical Prevontion & Mitigation Investments            0.76   2.92 3.69    0.36 -- 0.07.  4.12
Sea defense works                              CW        0.22    1.94 2.15    022     004   2.41
River control and flood damage reduction       CW        0.04   0.36 0.40    0.04,   0.01   0.45
Tfrrietraining and flood control          CON       0.01 -0.11 01        .1       .0 01
Road protection                      ____CW            -0.08   0.24 0.33    003_  0.01   0.36
Shelters                            ____       __         .41'  0.28 0.69J   0.0!T   0.01-  0.77
Construction of regional community shelter    CW - -    14~  0.10 0.241      .2    0.00 _0.27
~.Retrofit 6 existing shles                     W       027   0.18 0.45       .5     00    0.50
shelters                c__                    45-
2. Strengthening Emergency Preparedness & Response    - 0.28:  0.92 1.19 --0.01  --0.02!  1.22
I.Strengthening National Office of Disaster Preparedness  0.02:  0.40 0.42    O0.01    0011   0.43
I 1sland-w~ide emergency communications systemGO S          -- 0.050.05        0 0  OOW;  o.05
Specialized disaster equipment for national ODP  IGOODS        00.204-0.00'-  0.20
- 1 TA (2 experts) and training   -__     _     CON       o.Of  01608_  0.01. _  0.00   0.19
Deeopn Effective Early Warning Systems        1       - 0.0,0     0.35      60.00 -         0.36
Meteworolgial equipment               ____GOODS    --j00   .60                      0.0      .6
:Weather Radio Observation Network            JGOODS        I0.04 0.041   -          0.001  0.0
Local flood aleft waming system              J ODS__    0.23 0.231             0    0.00 -02
TA and training                -       --  CN          0.00.  0.02 0.,03    0.0     0.00   0.03
c.Cmmunity Based Disaster Management       0__2_6   0.17 0.43~~             Wi6b          0.43
Trining4 for Disaster PreparenessComites      CON    I.3       0.02: 00   -0.00 -  0.00   0.05
Vulnera bility Reduction Fund -    -                 t           -4-                        0.36
3 InstitutionalStrngqtlheninig        -.002,  0.14. 0.1                        0.01'   0.00,  0.17,
.Hazard. analysisAvulnerability mapig           O                              _ .o  0_00   0.00    0.0I00
Vulnerability reduction of public buildings   jCO: N- j    - 0.01    .09 IDA0~  0.01    0.00:  0.11
Building cds                  -                        -- 
4, Pojet Mnagmen                                      0.22.  0.20; 0.43    0.02    0.01.  0.45
TA (financial manager)                        C --.___  OOD    00,1  0.0  0.05    0.0 - 0.0-0   0.05
:equipment                                     GO__-  ONS 001 00  ---5          O'- ----i--
workshops                                     CN        0.0         0.0-3   0.00    0.00.  0.03
technical audii---                CON  -  O78   0.08 0.15    0.01'   0.OO    0.16
financial audits ~~                CON-    0.01    0.09 0.10    0.01    0.00   0.11
~TTL                                               -1.28'   4.19 5.46   -0.40. -.0.10   5.97
JN.B.Fij~   m~ay i~i                      iip 7to-roi  1    -g---
CW=- Ci fft         con CJ =~suflancies; GOODS =goods & eiquipment, MIC=miscellaneous
Phssca `ontingencres  10% for civi works; 5% for cons~ultancies; 0 for goods, Price contingenci~es =2%



73                             ANNEX 4C
Dominica
Doiminica
PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Project coordination and management
* A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be set up in the Ministry of Finance, Industry and
Planning. It will consist of a Project Coordinator, appointed by the Ministry, who will
coordinate and monitor implementation progress according to agreed upon performance
indicators and report to the World Bank. The project will finance a Financial Manager for
the duration of the project who will be familiar with Bank procedures and guidelines for
administration and management of funds. An engineer will be hired with contract
management experience to assist the PCU with project implementation.
* The Government will set up a Joint Disaster Management Task Force comprising members
from the National Development Corporation and the National Emergency Planning
Organization to coordinate policy issues, evaluate priority investments, and help ensure the
compliance of government commitments.
Project implementation
- Each project component will be implemented by the respective line ministry responsible for
that component. The national Office of Disaster Preparedness (ODP) will be the
implementing agency for the institutional strengthening components. The implementation
arrangements for the Vulnerability Reduction Fund are described separately in the
description of that component.
-  The project will strengthen the implementation capacity of ODP by financing a technical
advisor from the private sector to assist ODP in mobilizing and maintaining support from
businesses and industries, and a technical advisor in local emergency planning and mitigation
to develop plans and mitigation activities.
X The implementing agencies will provide progress reports to the PCU on a monthly basis.
* Procurement, contracting, and payments to contractors will be undertaken by the respective
implementing agencies using World Bank guidelines.
Project supervision, reporting and audit requirements
* A Project Implementation Manual will delineate financial management and control
procedures, including TORs prepared by the PCU for internal and external audits acceptable
to the Bank.
* Each implementing agency will forecast the amounts to be withdrawn from the Special
Account on a quarterly basis. The Financial Manager in the PCU will authorize the
withdrawal of these funds from the Special Account and make payments directly to the
contractors/consultants.
* The PCU will, on a periodic basis, supervise the implementation of each component,
including the physical investment components, and undertake periodic field visits.
* The PCU will make quarterly reports to the World Bank, including a statement of sources
and uses of funds, ensuring that all project guidelines are being followed.
* Financial audits for all accounts and components will be carried out annually. Technical
audits will be carried out for large civil works that do not include technical audits as part of
the supervision process. The Vulnerability Fund will also be subject to technical audits.
Audit reports will be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year.



74                                                   ANNEX 4D
Dominica
Dominica
PROJECT PROGRESS INDICATORS
Compoment                    |      First Year           Second Year            Third Year                  Total  ; ^
Sea Defense
Hatten Garden               100 m completed         200 m completed    100 m completed           400 m completed
Soufriere-Scotts Head Road  500 m completed         500 m completed    1000 m completed          2000 m completed
River Control & Flood Damage
Pichelin River Dredging     500 m completed,                                                     500 m completed
Colihaut River Control      100 m completed         200 m completed    100 m completed           400 m completed
Road Protection
Elmshall Road               100 m completed         -                                            100 m Completed
Shelters                                              I shelter retrofitted   5 shelters retrofitted  6 shelters retrofitted
Hazard Analysis and Mapping   I study completed                                    _               Study completed
Vulnerability Reduction of Public
Buildings
Study                       I study completed       -                                            I study completed
Workshop                    I workshop completed    -                                            I workshop completed
Emergency Communications Syst 25% installed           100% installed     -                         Systems fully functional
Early Warning Systems         25% installed           100% installed     -                         Systems fully functional
Disaster Mgmt. Committees     25% equipped &          65% equipped &     80% equipped & functional  80%equipped & functional
functional             functional
Community Training            25% committees trained   65% committees    80% committees trained    80% committees trained
trained
Vulnerability Fund            7 sub-projects          7 sub-projects     7 sub-projects            21 projects financed



75                                 ANNEX 4E
Dominica
Dominica
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Civil Works
The civil works under the project consist of sea wall defenses, river control and flood damage reduction,
road protection, construction of a community shelter and retrofitting of six other shelters. For these
works, ICB procedures will be used for larger contracts. Given the expected size of the works on the
island, there is no need for a prequalification of contractors under ICB nor any international
advertisement beyond the announcement of the project in the General Procurement Notice. NCB
procedures acceptable to the Bank will be used for contracts estimated to cost less than US$300,000 up to
an aggregate amount of US$1,200,000. Small works estimated to cost less than US$20,000 up to an
aggregate amount of $375,000 under the Community Based Disaster Management component will be
carried out by the beneficiary community using procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Goods and Equipment
The procurement of goods will be carried out through ICB except for the procurement of small rescue
tools, office equipment, other emergency tools in packages estimated to cost less than US$50,000
individually up to an aggregate amount of US$210,000, which will be procured through international
shopping. Also, local shopping procedures will be used for procurement of sundry items in packages
estimated to cost less than US$20,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$50,000.
Consultants' Services
The hiring of consultants, including for financial and technical audits, will be made using QBCS, and
hiring of individuals will be made on Selection Based on Qualifications. A financial specialist will be
appointed to the Ministry of Finance, Development and Planning for the financial management of the
project
Prior Review
All ICB will require prior review. The first NCB procurement for civil works in each year as well as the
first international and local shopping procedures in each year will require prior review. All consultants'
services above an estimated cost of US$50,000 for firms and US$25,000 for individuals will require prior
review by the Bank.
Retroactive financing
River training works at the Pichelin River, carried out by the Department of Public Works using
procedures acceptable to the Bank, will be financed on a retroactive basis in an amount not to exceed
US$250,000.



76                                     ANNEX 4E
Dominica
Table 1: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
________ e'e'Other               (incding)
1. Works                  2.85          1.29                                 4.14
(2.25)        (1.12)                              (3.37)
2. Goods                  0.37                           0.28                0.65
(0.37)                         (0.23)             (0.60)
3. Services                                              0.75                0.75
._____ ______ ______   _______(0.60)     (0.60)
4. Miscellaneous                                         0.38                0.38
(Vulnerability                                        (0.38)             (0.38)
Reduction Fund)
5. Operating Expenses                                   0.028                0.028
(0.028)             (0.028)
6. Front end fee                                        0.025                0.025
____ ____ ____ ____   ____ __(0.025)    (0.025)
Total 0                   3.22           1.29            1.46                5.97
(2.62)        (1.12)          (1.26)              (5.00)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
Table 2: Consultant Selection Arrangements
Consultant                                                                   TotalC ost
Services                         Selection Method                           (including
condngencies)
QCBS  QBS  SFB  LCS   CQ                       Other
A. Firms         0.40                               0.05                          0.45
(0.40)                            (0.05)                        (0.45)
B. Individuals                                                   0.3              0.3
(0.3)            (0.3)
Total            0.39                               0.05         0.3              0.75
(0.39)                            (0.05)       (0.3)           (0.75)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants



77                                 ANNEX 4E
Dominica
Table 3: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure    Contract Value       Procurement           Review       Estimated Total
Category       (Threshold)           Method                          Value Subject to
US$ thousands                                           Prior Review
______________  ______________  _______________ _  (U S$    m illion)
1. Works           >200,000      ICB                         All              2.9
< 250,000      NCB                        First            0.25
2. Goods           >500,000       ICB                         All             0.37
< 50,000     International Shopping      First            0.05
< 20,000      Local Shopping             First            0.02
3. Services                       QCBS                       All              0.39
Individuals                All              0.30
4. Miscellaneous                  Vulnerability Fund        Ex-post          --
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  4.28



Status of Bank Group Operations in Dominica
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                 and actual
Fiscal                .                                                                                              disbuLsemenits a/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD       IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 3
Active Projects
DM-PE-6969      1996   GOVERNMENT                       BASIC EDUCATION REF         3.07        3.07            0.00          3.51     2.31        2.05
Total                                                                               3.07        3.07            0.00          3.51     2.31        2.05
Active Projects      Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  2.41                9.88              12.29
of which has been repaid:                  0.00                 .48                .48
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  6.14                9.46              15.60
Amount sold                                      0.00                0.00               0.00
Of which repaid              :0.00                                0.00               0.00                                                                            0
Total Undisbursed               :                3.51                0.00               3.51                                                                             T  a
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
a
5. x3
o. .B~
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



Dominica at a glance
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                       Amedca   middle-
Dominica   & Carib.  Income h   Dvelopment diamond
1997
Popuaton, mid-war (milons)                        0.07       494    2,285                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas meod,US$)                  3.120     3,880     1,230
GNP (Ats nmo", USS billions)                       0.23     1,917    2,818
Average annual growth, 191197
Population  )                                      0.5       1.7       1.2    GNP                            Gross
L.abor tore().                                               2.3       1.3    GNGos
per                          primary
Most recent estimate (latst yer available, 1991197)                           capita                     enrollment
Poverty (% of pubion below neaonal poverty line)
Urban population 1% of total population)            70        74       42
Life expectncy at birth (years)                     74        70       69
Infant mortality (Per 1,000 live births)            16        32       38
Child malnutriton (% of chiklren under 5)                                               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (%  topulation)                          73       84
Iliteracy % ofpopulafon age 15+)                     6        13       19
Gross primary enrollment (% of schoowage population)         III      III              Dorinira
male                                                                11s              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                              113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1996     19"7
Economic mtros
GDP (US$ bilWions)                        0.03     0.11     0.23
Gross domestc investmenVGDP                       22.3      28.3                             Trade
Exports of goods and serviceslGOP                  53.3     48.8
Gross domes0c savingsGDP                           16.4     12.9
Gross nabional sningGDP                           20.2      10.2
Current account balancelGDP               -3.9     7.8    -16.8         ,     Domesbc
Interest paynentslGDP                      0.7     0.9       0.9              Sasings                    Investment
Total debGDP                              17.6    51.1      47.2
Total debt service/exports                 1.3     7.9       5.8
Present value of debtGDP                                    32.0
Present value of debt/exports                               63.6
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996     1997  1996-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                               8.7      2.2     3.3                                 Dominica
GNP per capita                    8.2      1.6     2.5                                  L I ower-niddle-income group
Exports of goods and serices      7.1      0.6     8.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1996     1997     Growth rates of output and Investintnt I%)
(% of GOP)
Agriculture                                        30.2     19.8
Industry                                           14.5     21.6              20-
Manufcturing                                      6.7       7.3               o 0
Services                                          55.2      58.5              40 , 2    1    *4   *5 '          *
Private const. ption                              63.1      87.0              40
General government consumption                    20.5      20.1                       -     GD       -GDP
Imports of goods and services                     59.2      62.2
(average annual wowth)197646  1987-97                       1996     1997    Growth rates of exports and Imports(%)
Agriculture                               -2.6    -3.7        2.4             20,
Industry                                   2.8     2.4       -1.8             10,
Manufacturing                            5.0      0.0       2.2
Seices                                     4.6     3.2       3.9   ;-
Priate consumpbon                          1.1     2.1       5.9        ..    .    '7
General government consumpbon              3.8     2.4        1.5
Gross domestic investment                  4.3      0.9    -16.5              -20 
Imports of goods and servkes               2.0     0.3      -0.6                     -    Exports   -    knpocds
Gross national product                     8.6.     1.6      3.4
Note: 1997 data are preiminary estimates.
The diamonds show tour key indiators in the countr (in bold) compared with its income-group average. n data are missing. the diamond will
be incomplete.



Dominica
PRICES and GOVRNMENT FINANCE                                                           _ __               __         -
DOMe"*Ic prices                            1976    1986       1996     1997      Inflation (%)
Consumer pnces                             11.0      3.0       1.7       2.2t.-
kmplicit GDP deflator                      19.2      8.2       1.8       0.7    4 
Govwrnme  Oinance                                                               2-
(% of GDP, includes cu'entgrants)                                               o       --
Current reveue                                .        ..     32.0        ..92   93   94   95   96   97
Curfen budoet balance                         .        ..      3.1                        -GDP deflator  --CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                        1.2        ..
TRADE                                                                                                     _____ _____
(USS millions)                             1976    1986       1996     1997      Export and Import levels (USM  millions)
Total exports (fob)                                             53       53      , 
Other manufactures                                            17        i8
Bananas                                     .
Uanufactures                                                  36        37    t-*
Total imports cif)                                             il l     t11  115
Food                                                                            sd JJ
Fuel and energy
Capital goods                                                                   o-
91  92  93  94  95   6   97
Exp toriprce index(199f-100)                  .                113
Import price index (1995=100)                                   95                        a EVorts      * knports
Terms of trae (195=100)                                        119
BALANCE of PAYMENTS                                                                  ___-
(1976    1986      1996     1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio I%)
(USS milSons)
Exports of goods and serwcs                  14       58       114      121       a
Importsofgoodsand servcs                     1t9      64       145      149,
Resource balance                              6       -8      -31       -28       5-
Not income                                    0       -5       -19      t19        - o
Net current transiers                         4       20        11        a
Current account balance                      -1        9       -39       -39
Financing items (net)                         2       -3        40       39      20
Changes in net reseres                        0       -6        -1       -1    -25 -
Afemo:_                                                                                 ___
Reserves induding gold (US$ milions)         ..       ..        23       24
Convemsion rate fDEC, loc&USS)              2.6,     2.7       2.7       2.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS                                                __________
1976    1986      1996      1997
(USS millions)                                                                   Composition of total debt, 1S95 (USS mtlilons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          5       57       110
IRD                                         0        0         0        0
IDA                                         0        5        12       12                G 16       8: 12
Total debt service                            0        5         7
IBRD                                        0       0          0        0
IDA                                         0        0         0        0
Composition of net resource ilows
Official grants                             2        4        23
Offcialcreditors                            1        1         3                  E:35
Ptivatecreditors                            0        0         0                                             . 0 46
Foreign direct investment                   0        3        19
Portfol oequity                             0        0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                 0        0         6        0     A - BRD                      E - Bilsra!
Distursements                               0        0         0        1    B - IDA    0 - Ote mulbtal   F - Priae
Pnincipal repasments                        0        0         0        0     C - M                        G - Shofltarm
Net flows                                   0        0         0        1
Interest pawnents                           0        0         0        0
Nettransfers                                0        0         0        1
World Bank                                                                       *                               10/1198



81                               ANNEX 5
Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Program
PROGRAM PROCESSING BUDGET & SCHEDULE
A. Program Budget                          Planned               Actual
$296,100             $235,500
B. Program Schedule
Planned              Actual
Time taken to prepare the program (months)  4 months             4 months
First Bank mission (identification)        08/14/1998            08/14/1998
Appraisal mission departure                09/21/1998            09/21/1998
Negotiations                               11/02/1998            11/23/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness              01/31/1999
C. Prepared by:  St. Kitts & Nevis - Ministry of Finance, Planning and Development
St. Lucia - Ministry of Finance and Planning
Dominica - Ministry of Finance, Industry and Planning
St. Vincent & the Grenadines - TBD
Grenada - TBD
D. Preparation assistance:    Bank Budget
E. Core Project Preparation Team:
Name                      Specialty
Eugene D. McCarthy        Task Team Leader, Principal Operations Officer
Bernard Becq              Engineer
Oliver Davidson           Consultant, Emergency Management Specialist,
Counterpart International
John Guerre               Consultant, Community Development and Loss Reduction
Specialist, U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency
Rumana Huque              Urban Planner
Andrei Iatsenia           Environmental Specialist
Efraim Jimenez            Procurement Specialist
Debra Larson              Consultant, Early Warning and Communication Systems
Specialist, U.S. National Weather Service
Thakoor Persaud           Senior Economist
Rajeev Swami              Financial Management Specialist
Kevin Tomlinson           Program Assistant



82                                 ANNEX 6
ORGANIZATION OF EASTERN CARIBBEAN STATES
ECONOM1C DEVELOPMENTS AND BANK PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
(DECEMBER 1998)
Background:
1.     This annex summarizes the main economic developments in the countries of the
Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS)' and the implementation of the Bank's program
since the April 1995 CAS. The Bank Group's strategy for the OECS aims to help these countries
in their efforts at reducing poverty and attaining sustainable growth, focusing particularly on
limiting economic reversals from natural disasters, assisting the transition from agriculture to
service-based economies, and helping to reduce per capita costs of infrastructure and service
provision through the introduction of sub-regional coordination mechanisms. The projects and
programs currently under implementation or in preparation rely on these principles and
complement the programs of other institutions, such as the European Union and the Caribbean
Development Bank. Some of the issues that are being addressed by the Bank are
telecommunications reform, waste management, education reform, safety-net mechanisms, and
disaster management. Institutional development, at the country level and at the sub-regional level,
is key in each one of these initiatives. Preparation has begun for a new OECS CAS, which is
currently scheduled for Board presentation in FY00.
2.     The OECS countries face special development challenges because of their small size and
vulnerability to natural disasters. On the one hand, with an overall population of half million2 the
per capita cost of economic and social infrastructure is very high in the OECS. On the other hand,
hurricanes and floods regularly reverse economic gains by destroying fixed investments and
disrupting economic activities, particularly in agriculture and tourism. In addition most of the
islands have traditionally been monocrop economies (bananas for Dominica, St. Lucia, St. Vincent
and the Grenadines and to a lesser extent
Grenada, and sugarcane for St. Kitts and
Nevis) and have relied on preferential trade  Population (1997)                485,000
arrangements for their main exports. These  Average popn growth (1991-96)        0.8%
affangement are nowinjeopadGDP (1996)                US$1,651 mill..
arrangements are now in Jeopardy due to an  GNP per capita (1997-Atas)        USS3,371
unfavorable World Trade Organization        GDP growth (96-97)                  3.9%
(WTO) ruling.                               GDP growth (91-97)                  3.2%
Fiscal DeficitVGDP (1996)            0.8%
Economic Developments:                     Inflation p.a. (1996)                 1.1%
CurrentAccount/GDP(1996)            4.7/o
3.     After the impressive growth
performance of the OECS in the 1980's (an  Ilfiteraiy
of -6  pr ea),grwt i te    nfant mortality rate                1/0
average of 5-6% per year), growth m the     Access to safe water                100%
1990's has slowed (approximately 3% per    Life expectancy                     71 yrs.
year). The primary reason for the strong
growth rates of the 1980's was a favorable external environment: concessional aid flows financing
a large portion of public investments in infrastructure; preferential market access and favorable
prices allowing a twofold increase in banana exports receipts; and fast growth in the tourism sector
The OECS consists of 6 independent states, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts and
Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. Antigua and Barbuda is not included in the
CAS update because it is not a borrowing member of the World Bank.
2    1997 estimates: Dominica 75,000; Grenada 99,000; St. Kitts and Nevis 41,000; St. Lucia 158,000;
St. Vincent and the Grenadines 112,000.



83                                 ANNEX 6
fueled by foreign investment (albeit starting from a small base). In the 1990s, external flows
declined, with concessional aid flows declining rapidly, from a peak of about 9 percent of GDP in
the early 1980s to about 4 percent in the 1990s and with foreign direct investment remaining
steady (7.9 percent of GDP in the 1980s and 8.6 percent in the 1990s).
4.     The main economic trend in the OECS countries, during the 1990s, has been the rapid
transition from agriculture-based economies to service-based ones, mainly tourism.3 The WTO
ruling against the preferential treatment of Caribbean bananas accelerated this trend. Relative to
the first half of the 1990s, the prospects for GDP growth have improved somewhat, due mainly to
the expansion of the tourism sector in substitution of the banana industry as the main foreign
exchange earner (Annex I).4 In addition, the Eastern Caribbean islands continue to enjoy some
inherent advantages. Their population is highly educated (illiteracy rates range from 1-5 percent),
their relative proximity to the markets of North America and Europe and their attractive natural
resources offer them the opportunity to further develop their tourism sector.
5.     Future growth perspectives have improved somewhat in most of the OECS countries. In
particular, the European Union has also introduced Stabex-financed banana recovery plans in the
Windward countries in order to improve quality and productivity through better agricultural
techniques. The results are beginning to be felt with a marked improvement on the quality index
for exported bananas, which rose from 76 in 1996 to 84 in 1997-on a scale of 100 and with a
score of 80 considered acceptable. The European Union is also facilitating the use of Stabex
funds by offering-starting with Stabex '95-general budgetary support instead of project-
specific financing.5
6.     There has also been some improvement in the tourism sector which, besides generating
most of the region's foreign exchange earnings, is also behind most of the foreign direct
investment (FDI) received by the countries. The expansion of the sector is, therefore, expected
to bring more FDI as anticipated in the case of St. Lucia, where FDI is expected to jump from
US$14 million in 1997 to US$37 million in 1998 due to the construction of a new hotel unit.
7.     The OECS economies are projected to sustain, in most cases, the current growth trend
toward the year 2000 with some improvement in the-traditionally highxternal current account
deficits.6 Creditworthiness indicators-net international reserves, debt-to-GDP, and debt service-
to-exports of goods and non-factor services-are projected to be stable and within comfortable
ranges. In particular, net international reserves are expected to continue accumulating in virtually
all countries.
8.     Even with the good overall economic growth prospects, creditworthiness could be
seriously hampered by large natural-disaster-related losses or large public expenditure/investment
3    For example, in St. Lucia agriculture represented approximately 16 percent of the total GDP value
added in 1977 while tourism represented 21 percent. The agriculture and tourism percentages for
1996 were 9% and 32% respectively.
4    In St. Lucia, for instance, travel receipts increased by over 55 percent in dollar terms in 1993-98
whereas the dollar value of banana exports fell by almost 50 percent. By the samne token, while the
share of tourism in the exports of goods and services reached 70 percent in 1998, up from 52 percent
in 1993, the participation of banana exports decreased from 15 percent to 7 percent.
s    In the case of St. Lucia, for example, Stabex has represented an imnportant source of public
investment financing-Stabex '94 totaled ECU 22.2 million, Stabex '95 ECU 17.7 million, and
Stabex '96/97, not yet committed but already announced, amount together to ECU 12.6 million.
6    The current account deficits have been financed by a blend of aid flows, foreign direct investinent,
and concessional borrowing.



84                               ANNEX 6
commitments. A disaster mitigation project addresses the former, whereas regional programs
meant to generate economies of scale-to reduce the per capita cost of infrastructure and
services-help address the latter.
Implementation of the Bank's Assistance Program
9.    The 1995 CAS foresaw direct Bank lending to the OECS of about $10 million annually
for FY95-98. The bulk of the Bank's financial assistance to the sub-region was going to be based
on Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) lines of credit in a wholesale-retail partnership.
However, in recent years CDB has encountered difficulties in disbursing those lines of credit.
The fifth such credit line, CDB V (US$32 million) was approved by the Board in FY90 and will
be closing at the end of this calendar year with US$14 million remaining undisbursed. CDB VI
(US$32 million) which was approved in FY94 had no commitments in 4 years and was cancelled
in June 1998. At the request of the governments of the region, the Bank has agreed to increase its
direct lending to these countries, while maintaining a strong partnership with CDB. The increase
in direct Bank lending has been facilitated by the use of more flexible instruments (such as APLs
and LILs), leading to a reduction in lending costs. As a result, the Bank's portfolio in the OECS
will increase from 4 to 7 projects by the end of FY99 compared with FY97,' which will still be
within the exposure envisaged in the 1995 CAS.
7    Lending to the OECS since the 1995 CAS:
Total     IBRD   IDA
OECS Waste Management  $11.5 million   $6.8   $4.7
St Lucia Education       $7 million   $3.5   $3.5
Grenada Education        $8 million   $4.0   $4.0
Dominica Education       $7 million   $3.5   $3.5
OECS Telecom             $6 million   $3.6   $2.4
Total                 $39.5 million    $21.4  $18.1



85                                            Annex 6
ANNEX 6: Table 1 - Selected Economic Indicators
Doniinica                              1992-95       1996       1997      1998       1999       2000
RealGDPgrowth(%)                            2.1       3.1        1.8        2.8       3.0        3.0
Tourismn ReceiptstXGS (/o)                 29.6      31.8       32.6       33.0       33.2      33.4
Banana Receipts/XGS (%)                   -22.9      15.4       15.4       12.6       12.5      12.5
CAB/GDP (%)                               -15.6     -16.8      -16.1      -15.9     -16.2      -15.4
Net Intemational Reserves(USS M)           19.4      23.2       23.9       24.7      25.8       27.2
Extemal Debt/GDP (/6)"                    46.4       43.9       37.2       36.7      37.3       36.2
External Debt Service/XGNFS (%)             6.7       7.7        8.8        5.7       7.0        6.5
Grenada                                1992-95       1996      1997       1998       1999       2000
Real GDP growth (%)                         1.6       3.0        4.7        4.8       4.0        4.0
Tourism ReceiptstXGNFS (%)                68.8       69.6       51.7       63.5      65.2       65.0
Banana Receipts/XGNFS (%)                   2.0        ..         ..
CABtGDP(%)                                 -8.6      -8.5      -13.2      -16.5     -13.5       -12.8
Net Intemational Reserves(US$ M)          29.9       35.7       42.6       44.6      48.2       54.3
Extemal Debt1GDP (%) "                    33.4       28.8       26.7       28.5      32.8       31.9
External Debt Service/XGNFS (%)             5.9       6.7        5.4        5.3       4.9        8.6
St. Kitts &  Nevis                     1992-95       1996      1997       1998       1999      2000
Real GDP growth (%)                        4.4        6.1        6.6        3.2       4.0        3.7
Tourism ReceiptstXGS (%)                  57.0       52.7       50.7       52.6      51.9       51.5
Sugar Receipts/XGS (%)                     10.7       9.3       15.8       12.0       12.2      11.7
CAB)GDP (%)                               -11.0     -26.5      -20.8      -18.5     -16.3      -14.4
Net International Reserves(USS M)         30.2       32.7       36.0       36.2      37.6       37.7
External DebttGDP (%) "                   22.4       23.5       37.7       40.4      40.4       40.0
External Debt Service/XGNFS (%) 1'         3.8        4.7        4.4        8.0       9.3        9.3
St. Lucia                              1992-95       1996      1997       1998       1999      2000
Real GDP growth (%)                         3.8       1.4        2.1        2.9       3.5        3.8
Tourism Receipts/XGS (%)                  55.7       63.2       67.0       70.1      70.0       71.9
BananaReceipts/XGS(%)                      15.0      12.4        7.3        6.6       7.1        8.2
CAB/GDP(%)                                 -9.3     -10.5      -12.5       -8.1      -8.7       -8.4
Net Intemational Reserves (USS M)          57.2      54.1       59.0       59.7      59.7       61.1
Extemal Debt/GDP (Yo) "'                  23.0       24.8       26.4       27.0      27.2       27.3
Extemal Debt Service/XGNFS (%))"            3.9       3.4        3.7        4.2       4.2        4.2
St. Vincent &  the Grenadines    1992-95             1996      1997       1998       1999      2000
Real GDP growth (V)                        3.0        1.3        2.2        3.5       4.5        4.5
Tourism Receipts/XGNFS (%)                33.5       44.4       49.6       49.4      48.1       48.1
BananaReceipts/XGNFS(%)                   20.4       14.2       10.1       11.8      13.5       13.5
CABtGDP(%)                                -12.1     -12.3      -21.1      -18.0     -12.7      -12.5
Net Intemational Reserves (USS M)          30.9      29.4       30.4       30.4       30.4      30.4
Exteral DebtAGDP (%)i                      33.2      31.9       32.2       34.3      32.9       33.0
External Debt Service/XGNFS (%)             5.1       5.9        6.2        5.9        5.9       5.9
1/ Total public and publicly gateed debt.
2/ Projedimns completed before hurricu Goroes.



86                                                    Annex 6
ANNEX 6: Table 2 - IDA Commitments and Disbursements
IDA Commitments and Disbursements to the OECS
by Fiscal Year
(USS million)
Country               1990      1991     1992      1993     1994      1995      1996     1997      1995    TOTAL
COMMITMENTS                    5.29      1.50     9.99      9.ee     9.99      5.1       9.60     e.99      2.49      26.80
Dominke                       0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.60     3.10      0.00      0.60       4.30
Grenada                       0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     3.80      0.00      0.60       4.40
St. Kils A Nevis              0.00      1.50     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00        1.50
St. Lucia                     5.20      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      5.70     2.70      0.00      0.60       14.20
St. Vincenid Grenadines       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      1.80     0.00      0.00      0.60       2.40
DISBURISEMENTS                 1.79      4.00     3.60      3.59     1.99      9.29      2.39     1.59      2.59      20.99
Domnuica                      0.60     0.70      0.40      0.20     0.10      0.20     0.10      0.50      0.90       3.70
Grenada                       0.50      1.50     0.50      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.50      0.00       3.00
St. Li, & Nevis               0.00      0.00     0.50      0.40     0.70      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00        1.60
SL Lucia                      0.00      0.60     1.50      3.20     0.20      0.00     2.20      0.50      1.90      10.10
St. Vincenth Grenadines       0.60      1.20     0.70      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00       2.50
Source: _CT. World Bank



90O                                          80                                          70                                          60c
UNID STATES OF AMERICA                                                                                                       QECS
EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND
DISASTER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
9/29 
-30                     q                              > ,                                                                                                                                     30'-
rS   -    >) KX. ;3  9/28                                                                                           -     \  TROPICAL DEPRESSION
-         -  st  %  TROPICAL STORM
-         i   \.  HURRICANE
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
C) F                           11           <    4 5                                                      10 Is IAHAMAS  I   I 500  I             1000 KILOMETERS
/9/2.                  Q;'-~~t-44.9/24
-205   1 l/45 o   / !+                                  i _        ",\       =                                            .                                         20o-~~~~~N Rco (S)  
| 1- 1/2 iD            Ii0/27                                                                      GECORGES 'st & cot
11/4          03
'.s  7        ONRUA S6, \ ,                   C    A    Rk    I   g    B    E    A    L9          S    E    ASTlCA
EL'SA4Y,ADGR>J  NICARAGUA                                                                                              ST./24  AruD{AMI  INC iNT. J >KBARBADOS
nod tBtro
t         ,Xs\'earsl.j gl                              o        J      --- -) Arb (Mt)  C o o c                 GRENAGINE
P A C   -  'C  O CFEAN                 3                                                    ef/                                                         -~  7  TRINIDAt) ad
-10 , , COSTA                           ;i    ,     L           |         , , N0\ - t2                     TO  BAROUDA
Th,1s ttopoottproduce.d by te       ~~  RIC                             4; ht"                        G  
Mop Desigt UnitofThe Woti Stock.                                    <   -r>      X          
<7 The broondarieo, colors,denominotnioo1s             r                                                                                    JN A .
m EX andanyorinfonrtirhowon               
mn thiontopdonooimp(y,onthepa~rtof                                            ovtSrt    ...                                                                                                            '' ..V ENE ZU E LA  0 , 
a  The World 8ank Group,t anty judgmoent                        iFt<1                                           --.                                                       \
nmaon /hfe logo) oktno of aony tenritooy, or                                                                                                                   5" _  U YA        rX~NAE
< str h Lba/ndarie5.     900                                           801                                                                          DCMIN        60I CA
oa                                                                                                                                                                  I ~t__.         



IBRD 30024
104                      U N  I T E D   S T A T E S                                                        80'                                    72                                    64'                                     561
<_.        4               O  F   A M  E R I C A
OECS
EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND
24'  '                                    U2 . F                                                      71 8DISASTER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
-24~                                                        G      U     L    F                                                    :     e:
0     F                                     7,                    -       '                                                    Members of the Organization oF Eostern Caribbeon States (OECS(
M     E    X       I    C     0                                                         i 4"                                                Project recipients
- - --- Internotional Boundaries                                                    24'
17, o.1~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Th&  n
A     T    L    A       N      T    I    C
-'                                  -'          ru~~    ~     ~~~     ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~st  -1/1~T.th),
Coymn a,.                               HAITI )DOMINICAN                                       S.MO!IR
(UK)                                                                                         $ -     SA.I..y m r;
JAMAICA                                                    S                      L IN.,hI-'  FR
1,   i                                                                           tMonf rrof lUKli        DEgia                      O  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C   E   A   N
-16'                                       0                                                                                                                                              . KITdiS  a tt        C    ,oalnp. (FRI
.ri'CF     -                                                                                                                                                                                        16'
SGUATEMALA
C    A      R    I    B    B    E    A         N           S    E    A                        (T.LuCtA
1       HONDURAS                                                                                                                                            B rIARBADOS
Et SALYADOR                                                     ,Anba IN*th                                   C4,acaa INniRI
NICARAGUA                                                                           '        eonoi.rt.rth  '
--'TRINIDAD and
A     C     i    F    I    C
COSTA                                                                                                                        6-=
RICAE"    P4.--4,COo.   - '-                                                                                               ,-        -
C,    C      E    A      N                                             'V    E    N    E    Z    U    E   L   A                                                                                   I
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/                       ~~~~~~~~~1.   French
0         SURINAME    ,  Guiana
~~  '4               ( ~~~~~~(FR)
0  '        3                     790 8KILOMETERS                                                                                                      '-          _rr0                                              jR 
frLimopwapr.dtvr                            9t4O  290300  4q0,q0 6z5 J9a70,~:l               5                                             C   O     L   0    M    B   I  A
,.i Th. bO W.i     0de   200                              k       i6 460 5  MILES
n,donyoAh ,ArinLon iR. a "N_
-rynmunsor_J to l.;o .n,                                                                                                                                                   j                       _-                 B     R    A      Z      I    L
,.h b,4.4B7,.
16'9OA8                                                                                                     o'     --'                           "7~2'                                   64A'                                   56'                                     4
DECEMBER 199B



