Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4418 SC
Loan Agreement
(Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project)
between
SAINT KITTS AND NEVIS
and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 15, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4418-SC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 15, 1998 between SAINT KITTS AND NEVIS (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A)  the Bank has received from the Borrower a document describing the 
Borrower’s emergency recovery and disaster management program which consists of a 
series of activities to strengthen the Borrower’s capacity to respond to and manage 
disasters;                  
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(C)
the Borrower intends to receive from one or more cofinancers to be 
selected by the Borrower one or more grants or loans in an aggregate amount equivalent 
to five hundred thousand Dollars ($500,000) to assist in financing  the Project on the 
terms and conditions to be set forth in an agreement or agreements to be entered into 
between the Borrower and such cofinancers; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
Page  2
through December 2, 1997), with the following modification thereto (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows: 
"(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial 
operations of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived 
from 
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the 
Loan."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(c)
"PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit established and maintained 
within the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Planning pursuant to Section 3.02 of 
this Agreement;
(d)
"Project Monitoring Letter" means the letter dated December 9, 1998 from 
the Borrower to the Bank with respect to the timetable and monitoring indicators for 
the Project;
(e)
"Project Implementation Manual" means the manual described in Section 
3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(f)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to eight 
million five hundred thousand Dollars ($8,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of  such  later  
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  3
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
Section 3.02. To assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project as set forth in 
Section 3.01, the Borrower shall establish in its Ministry of Finance, Planning and 
Development and maintain until completion of the Project, a Project Coordination Unit 
(PCU) with such assignments, powers and personnel as shall be satisfactory to the 
Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement the Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with a 
manual (the Project Implementation Manual) agreed upon between the Borrower and the 
Bank; and
(b)
Whenever any activity under such Part A of the Project requires the 
undertaking of environmental protection measures, the Borrower shall: (i) submit to 
the Bank for its approval an environmental assessment prepared in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of the Project Implementation Manual; and (ii) carry out the 
mitigation measures provided in the corresponding environmental assessment approved by 
the Bank.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views  with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall establish by January 31, 1999 and thereafter 
maintain until completion of the Project a National Disaster Mitigation Council to 
serve as a steering committee to coordinate policies, recommend the selection of 
priority investments and assist in the carrying out of the Borrower’s commitments, 
comprising representatives of the Borrower’s ministries concerned with the Project as 
well as interested private sector and non-governmental organizations.
Section 3.07. Without limitation on the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall, through the PCU, furnish to the Bank in   
January and June during each year until completion of the Project, semi-annual reports 
in a form satisfactory to the Bank on the progress of the Project and based on the 
timetable and targets set forth in the Project Monitoring Letter.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
Page  4
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account audited for each fiscal year in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the  Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than March 31, 
1999, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
Page  5
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar 
quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenant
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall ensure that adequate provisions be made in its 
annual budgets for the operation and maintenance of the equipment and facilities 
included in the Project as well as any other interdependent equipment and facilities 
of the Borrower related to disaster planning, mitigation or recovery.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the agreement or agreements for 
cofinancing of the Project described in paragraph (C) of the preamble to this 
Agreement shall not have become effective by June 30, 1999  or by such later date as 
the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not 
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds 
for the completion of the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources and 
on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event set forth in Section 
6.01 of this Agreement shall have occurred.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that, the PCU has been duly established and staffed as set 
forth in Section 3.02 of this Agreement
Section 7.02. The date March 15, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance, Planning and Development of the Borrower 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Government Headquarters
Basseterre
St. Kitts and Nevis
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  6
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
SAINT KITTS AND NEVIS
By /s/ Osbert Liburd  
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
     Amount of the
    Loan Allocated
   % of
    Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
         Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
2,500,000
100%
(2)   Goods
1,650,000
100%
(3)   Consultants’ 
1,150,000
100%
services
(4)
Operating Expenditures    280,000  
100%
(5)
Imports under Part E
2,400,000
100% of foreign
      of the Project
expenditures
      as listed in Schedule
      5 to this Agreement
(6)
Fee                        85,000
Amount due under Section 2.04 
of this Agreement 
(7)
Unallocated               435,000
      _________
TOTAL
            8,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from any such 
country.
(b)
the term "Operating Expenditures" means expenditures required for: (i) 
the operation of the PCU such as office supplies and communications costs; and (ii) 
auditing costs required under the Project.
Page  7
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding an amount equal  to 
$1,600,000, may be made on account of payments made for eligible expenditures incurred 
after September 21, 1998; and
(b)
any payments for civil works under Part A of the Project until the Bank 
shall have received the Project Implementation Manual.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for payments under contracts for (i) goods costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent, (ii) works costing less than $300,000 equivalent, (iii) 
services of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 and (iv) services of 
individual consultants costing less than $25,000, all under such terms and conditions 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars in a commercial bank a special 
deposit account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into 
said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Page  8
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals 
Are Not Made On the Basis of 
Project Management Reports 
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of 
$4,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.   Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special  Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Page  9
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals 
Are Made On the Basis of 
Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account other than that in respect of the fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  Each such deposit 
into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under 
one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided,  however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated 
by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special  Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in preparing for, 
mitigating against and responding efficiently to, disasters such as hurricanes, 
tropical storms, floods, landslides and storm surges, through physical strengthening 
of infrastructure, institutional development and training of human resources.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Physical Works
1.
Carrying out construction and rehabilitation works at the Joseph N. France 
Hospital on St. Kitts, including a new ward, and the installation of back-up 
generators at the Alexander Hospital and at two other health posts on Nevis.
2.
Constructing to hurricane-resistant standards about eight public shelters on St. 
Kitts and two on Nevis, with sanitary and kitchen facilities, and suitable for use as 
multi-purpose centers when not needed for disaster relief.
3.
Strengthening the water-supply and distribution systems on both islands by 
providing back-up electricity facilities (generators), storage tanks and tools as well 
as a pipe-rack storage facility on Nevis; conducting a study on improving the design 
and operation of intakes during heavy rains.
4.
Strengthening of electric power supply capabilities, including rehabilitation 
works at the St. Kitts Power Station and the procurement of poles, distribution-line 
supplies, vehicles and small tools; carrying out emergency response drills and a 
feasibility study on underground transmission lines.
5.
Carrying out studies on the restoration and control of erosion of beaches, sea 
and beach movements and their impact on tourist and fishing areas, stabilization of 
slopes, coastal and inland erosion and water resource management of small steep 
catchment areas, including but not limited to detailed engineering studies for the 
protection of vulnerable sites in Old Road, Saddlers and Newcastle as well as a study 
for sea defenses to protect the airstrip and ring road at the airport on Nevis.
6.
Establishment of a list of priority investments based on the results and 
recommendations of the studies carried out under paragraph 5 of this Part A, including 
cleaning of beaches, culverts, gabionage protection, slope stabilization and clearing 
of water crossings, particularly in southeast Nevis and a program of periodic flood 
protection works in the ring road.
7.
Installation and operation of a mobile air traffic control tower at the Robert 
Page  10
L. Bradshaw International Airport.
Part B:
Emergency Preparedness and Response
1.
Construction of office and warehouse space for a new Emergency Operations Center 
in Basseterre, and the provision of appropriate equipment such as portable generators, 
water purification and storage equipment, plastic sheeting, tools and protective gear 
for rescue personnel, communications equipment including VHF radio base stations, 
repeaters and mobile radios, to establish an island-wide emergency communications 
system;
2.
Establishment of an early warning system, including:
(a)
replacement of the destroyed meteorological equipment at the St. Kitts 
Airport and the procurement for both St. Kitts and Nevis airports of computers, 
modems, printers and software, including Internet connectivity;
(b)
development of the ham observation network; and
(c)
conducting training programs for personnel involved in the foregoing.
3.
Implementation of training programs for Community Disaster Committees in 
organization, disaster preparedness and response, emergency search and rescue, 
donations management and related activities.
4.
Provision of space at the community level for disaster committee meetings as 
well as storage facilities for emergency response equipment and supplies.
Part C:
Institution Building
1.
Development of a comprehensive hazard and vulnerability map of the country, 
preparation of an economic and population vulnerability analysis, and carrying out 
training for government, private sector and community personnel to identify strategies 
for using such data in development planning across sectors and for disaster 
preparedness and mitigation.
2.
Carrying out of studies of government buildings and facilities to: (i) assess 
the value of such buildings and facilities; (ii) evaluate the risk of potential 
damages; (iii) determine the optimal vulnerability reduction measures through 
mitigation or retrofitting investments and/or adoption of an insurance strategy to 
minimize the cost of insurance for a given level or risk; (iv) assess alternative 
financial instruments such as catastrophic bonds and weather hedges; (v) review 
existing regulatory requirements covering building codes, siting and land use 
planning, and recommend improvements to current practices; and (iv) make 
recommendations with regard to the development of an insurance sector regulatory 
framework.
3.
Carrying out of an assessment of the enforcement of regulations concerning 
building standards and inspections, including the formulation of recommendations as to 
the improvement of such enforcement.
Part D:
Essential Imports
Carrying out a program of emergency imports of items listed in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
Page  11
(b)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
"Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed  Amount  is 
withdrawn.
B.
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include such Disbursed Amount for such Interest Period; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(c)
"Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
"Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Page  12
Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; 
plus
(iii)
the Bank’s risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.  Each installment shall be 
one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I of this Part C, if any installment 
of  principal of each Disbursed  Amount  would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after April 15, 2014, the Borrower shall also pay on said date 
the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Works estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,200,000 equivalent, respectively, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines. 
2.
Limited International Bidding
Page  13
Specialized meteorological equipment and other equipment which the Bank agrees 
can be purchased only from a limited number of suppliers may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the 
Guidelines. 
3.
International or National Shopping
Standard equipment estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract,  
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines, and other equipment and construction 
materials estimated to cost over $20,000 but under $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,200,000 equivalent, on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with paragraph 3.6 thereof. 
4.
Procurement of Imports Listed under Schedule 5 to this Agreement
(a)
Commonly traded commodities may be procured through organized 
international commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement 
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.65 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Other goods under such list estimated to cost $1,000,000 or more per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of simplified 
international competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.63 and 2.64 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Other goods under such list procured by the public sector estimated to 
cost less than $1,000,000 per contract may be procured in accordance with national 
competitive bidding pursuant to Part C.1 of this Section.
(d)
Other goods under such list procured by the private sector estimated to 
cost less than $1,000,000 per contract may be procured in accordance with established 
commercial practices satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for civil works and goods procured 
under Part B and C.2 of this Section; (ii) the first two contracts under Part C.1 of 
this Section; (iii) the first two contracts for goods awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures; (iv) the first two contracts for goods awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures; the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract  to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in paragraph (a) (ii) and (iii) above, the following procedures 
shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or the execution of any 
contract under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received;
(ii)
prior to the signing of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  14
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as provided in Part C of this Section II, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and 
cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Auditing services estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent in aggregate, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services related to hospital design and supervision of construction thereof may, 
with the Bank's prior agreement, be provided by the Pan American Health Organization 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
 Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
Page  15
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided, however, that the terms of reference for such contracts and any 
single-source selection of consulting firms shall be subject to the Bank’s prior 
review.
SCHEDULE 5 
LIST OF IMPORTS ELIGIBLE TO BE 
FINANCED UNDER THE LOAN 
1.
Food grains
2.
Edible oil
3.
Fertilizer 
4.
Seeds
5.
Agriculture equipment and inputs 
6.
Cement and other construction materials
7.
Industrial machinery, spare parts and raw materials
8.
Petroleum and fuel products
9.
Medical equipment and supplies
