'ILE Copy
Report No. 877-MAI
Appraisal of a Second Education Project
in the Republic of Malawi
October 28, 1975
Education Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restri ted dlistribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performan(c of their OffiL ial dutie'S. Its (O ntolIts may llOt
otherwise be disc lsed without World Bank autho)rization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1           =        0.83  Kwacha (MK)
MK1                    US$1.20
MEASURES
1 Meter (m)          -         3.28 Feet
1 Square Meter (m2)           10.76 Square Feet
1 Kilometer (km)     =         0.6214 Miles
1 Hectare (ha)       =         2.471 Acres
GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31



REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ............ ..               ...............    i-iv
I.    INTRODUCTION               ..................................... ...         1
II.    DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCE NEEDS                     ................    1
Background  .........................   .................                   1
Economic Development ....................                                   2
Manpower Requirements  ...............................                      2
III.    THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR .................. .                       4
Evaluation of the Sector  ......              ......................        4
Educational Policies,  Strategy and Plans  ....                ........     5
Investment Program  ..................................                      7
IV. THE PROJECT......  8
General  ............................... . ...... .                         8
Project Items            .......................................            9
Primary Schools ............................... .                    9
Rural Education Centers  ......             ..................      10
Primary Teacher Training College                  .............     11
Secondary Schools  ....... .......................                  12
Project Implementation Unit  ........ .. ..........                 13
Pre-investment Studies  ......            ...................       13
V.    COST ESTIMATES,  FINANCIAL PLAN,  IMPLEMENTATION,
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS  ...................              ....       13
Cost Estimates             ......................................          13
Customs Duties and Taxes  ...................             ....      15
Contingencies Allowances  ...               ....................    15
Financial Plan            ................................ .... .          16
Implementation         ................... ...................             16
Procurement         ............................. ............             17
Disbursements         ................... ....................             18
This report is based on the findings of a mission in March 1975 to Malawi
composed of Messrs. R. Loken (general educator), K. Andersen (architect) and
Mrs. S. Asher (economist) of the Bank.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ...........................         18
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....       ............  20
APPENDIXES: I. Educated Manpower Requirements
II. The Education and Training System
ANNEXES:
1.  Employment Structure by Sector, 1971-74
2.   Past and Projected Primary and Secondary Enrollment
3.  Actual and Projected Enrollment at the University of Malawi
4.   Teacher Requirement and Supply, 1975-85
5.   Central Government Recurrent Expenditure on Education and
Training, 1970/71-1985/86
6.  Estimated Project Cost by Type of Expenditure
7.   Summary of Enrollment and Estimated Project Cost
8.   Implementation and Disbursement Schedules
9.   Project Implementation Unit's Staff and Cost
10. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Comparative Education Indicators
CHARTS:
1.  Education Pyramid 1973/74                       World Bank 9827
2.  Education System, 1974                          World Bank 9820
MAP                                                 IBRD 11632R
Key to Map



REPUBLIC OF MIALAWI
BASIC DATA (EST.) - 1974
General
2
Area                                               1 18, 5oo  r2
-  land only                                   9,000  Km2
Population                                        5.0 million
-  Annual growth rate                         2.6%
Per Capita Income                                 US$ 105.0
Literacy rate                                      25-0%
Education
Enrollment in Primary Schools
(Grades 1 - 8)                                    606,100
- as % of 6 - 1l age group                     56.0% (gross)
Enrollment in Secondary Schools
(Grades 9 - 12)                                    1L,2 00
- as % of 15 - 18 age groun p.0,
Enrollment in tUniversity of lIalawi                 1,100
Recurrent Expenditure of IMlinistry
of Education                                         MK 11 .3 million
- as % of Gov't Recurrent ExDenditure           15.5%
Recurrent Exnenditure on Education
and Training                                         MK 15.2 million
- as % of Gov't Recurrent Expenditure           20.9,.
Total Expenditure (Canital and Recurrent)
on Education and Traininc as ,' of GDP             3 .1 %



GLOSSARY
CHSE      -    Cambridge Higher School Certificate
DANIDA    -    Danish International Development Agency
ET        -    Executive Teacher (Junior Secondary School Teacher)
HILMP     -    High and Intermediate Level Manpower
JC        -    Junior Secondary School Certificate
LC        -    Local Council (The Local Administrative body for each District)
MANR      -    Ministry of Agriculture and National Resources
MCDSW     -    Ministry of Community Development and Social Welfare
MCE       -    Malawi Certificate of Education (Secondary School Leaver's
Certificate)
MOE       -    Ministry of Education
MS        -    Manpower Survev
NRDP      -    National Rural Development Program (a twenty-year rural
improvement plan)
REC       -    Rural Education Center
T2        -    Primary School Teacher with two years post-secondary training
T3        -    Primary School Teacher with two years post-JC training
T4        -    Primary School Teacher with two years post-primary training
USAID     -    United States Agency for International Development



REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a second education project in Malawi for which
an IDA credit of US$11.6 million equivalent is proposed. The first project
(Credit 102-MAI signed in 1967) assisted primary teacher training and secondary
education and is now virtually complete. The teachers' college and the second-
ary schools are in operation. The objectives of the first project to improve
the quality of primary teacher training and to introduce practical studies
into the secondary school curriculum have been achieved. As savings were
realized, the scope of the project was broadened to include a new Telecommu-
nication Training Center in Blantyre to serve the needs of Malawi, Botswana,
Lesotho and Swaziland.
ii.       Starting from a low base at Independence in 1964, Malawi has made
notable progress in education. The expansion of school enrollment has been
particularly remarkable, especially at the lower level where 56% of the
6-14 age group are enrolled. However, enrollment in secondary schools
represents only 4% of the relevant age group and has increased at less than
5% p.a. in recent years. On the other hand, training programs in agriculture,
industrial skills and health are expanding fairly rapidly and the University
of Malawi is gradually developing its facilities in line with estimated high
level manpower requirements. The Ministry of Education is well staffed and
organized but has been slow in introducing needed changes in some of the programs
of study. Ninety percent of the population is dependent on farming and there
are numerous nonformal training programs in fields such as health, agriculture
and community development which are now being coordinated under the National
Council for Education and Training with a view to increasing their effective-
ness and assisting the development of skills applicable to rural occupations.
iii.      In recent years the Government has undertaken a program designed to
improve the effectiveness of the educational system and to make it more respon-
sive to Malawi's needs. This program gives priority to: (a) the improvement
of primary school buildings; (b) the introduction and expansion of practical
subjects in secondary schools; and (c) the improvement of both in-service and
pre-service teacher training. In addition, rural education and training
programs will be strengthened, greater efforts than in the past will be
made to increase the proportion of girls in secondary schools, and curricula
and teaching methods will be reviewed and updated throughout the sector.
iv.       The proposed project would assist in:  (a) the strengthening of the
on-going rural education programs; (b) the improvement of the primary school
structures which are built by communities and local authorities; and (c)
the expansion of primary teacher training facilities and secondary school
enrollments with particular emphasis on schools for girls. It would consist
of:



- ii -
(a) Buildings, furniture and equipment for the following
institutions:
-    22 new rural education centers;
-    22 new primary schools;
-    one new primary teacher training college and one
demonstration school; and
-    additions to seven secondary schools.
(b) The cost of professional services, technical
assistance and other operational expenses for
project administration and for the preparation
of future education projects.
The new and expanded institutions would increase existing capacity by about
11,500 places. In addition, approximately 20,000 rural adults would be served
annually by part-time training programs. This expansion is geared to specific
manpower needs and the entire program would conform to present and projected
constraints in terms of availability of both instructors and finance. As the
proposed project would promote several changes in educational programs, it
would be monitored by the Program Evaluation Unit within the Ministry of
Education throughout the implementation period and thereafter.
V.        The Government is giving high priority to rural development and
several agricultural projects are in progress. 1/ While the agricultural
extension service supports these projects, few facilities exist to provide
training for rural adults which would lead to self-employment and improvement
in rural skills. The proposed Rural Education Centers (RECs) would partially
meet this need and would become the basis for the development of a nationwide
rural adult education program. Each Center would provide facilities for train-
ing about 1,000 adults annually in rural skills, farm equipment repair, domestic
science, nutrition and health on a short-course basis. The Centers would also
provide a means of coordinating the on-going programs aimed at rural adults
by various Ministries and would be used by adults in the afternoons and
primary school students in the mornings. Each Center would provide the
basic services and facilities to support most of the nonformal learning programs
in each District, including programs in health, nutrition, agriculture, com-
munity development and education. The youth and adult populations in each
District vary from 75,000 to 150,000, thus providing a large pool of poten-
tial trainees for the Centers.
1/   There have been six IDA credits for agricultural development in recent
years (FY 1968 - FY 1976).



- iii -
vi.       Most of Malawi's 2,000 primary schools were built under self-help
schemes and the standards of design and the quality of construction of these
buildings are often poor. Many primary schools are inadequate for instruc-
tional purposes because they consist of mud-brick buildings with little or
no window space and are devoid of essential furniture, didactic material and
books. Under the proposed project, the Government would construct and equip
22 model primary schools, to serve as prototypes which the villagers in the
surrounding area could copy. Standard designs would be developed and construc-
tion of the replicas of these prototypes would be carried out by the villagers
under the supervision of a building technician. The construction of these
22 prototype schools, the provision of educational materials and equipment
and the planned subsequent assistance to local self-help efforts would aid in
improving the quality of primary education and help reduce dropout and
repeater rates.
vii.      One-fifth of Malawi's primary school teachers have no professional
training and are not qualified by Malawi standards. Most of these teachers,
however, are enrolled in in-service training programs. An annual output of
about 1,000 teachers is required to provide for the losses through attrition
and the needs of planned expansion. The present capacity provides an output
of about 700 teachers p.a. In order to help meet the needs, the proposed
project would increase the annual output of trained teachers by 200 in
addition to the 300 teachers p.a. who are completing up-grading training
through the Malawi Correspondence College.
viii.     The secondary school enrollment in 1974 was about 14,000 and the
rate of growth in recent years has been about 5% p.a. The Government has
found it necessary to limit this rate of growth for the immediate future
because of financial constraints and the limited supply of teachers. The
output is far below the number required to supply the needs of the labor
market and to provide students qualified for post-secondary education. Girls
have been particularly disadvantaged in the competition for the limited
number of places available in secondary schools and as a result, there are
too few educated women to meet requirements in nursing, teaching, nutrition
and other professions. Through the expansion of six secondary schools for
girls and one coeducational school, the proposed project would provide 1,600
places for girls and 200 for boys. These additions would include the provision
of the facilities required to teach practical studies.
ix.       The proposed project is part of a long-term program and would
include the cost of the specialist services necessary to conduct the
feasibility and architectural studies to expedite preparation and implemen-
tation of the next project. Since the Project Implementation Unit, established
in 1967 to administer the first education project (Credit 102-MAI) was largely
dismantled when that project neared completion, this Unit would be reactivated
to ensure implementation of the proposed second project. The Unit would oversee
the implementation of the project, train counterparts to replace the expatriate
architects and procurement specialist, help establish an effective school building
unit and assist in standardizing economical education facilities.



- iv -
x.        Contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement, except as follows (i) contracts for instructional
equipment, books and furniture costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each;
(ii) civil works contracts costing less than US$200,000 equivalent; and
(iii) locally procured construction materials and transportation services
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each contract. Contracts for items
(i), (ii) and (iii) above would be placed on the basis of locally advertised
competitive bidding conforming to local procedures which are acceptable to
the Association. This is justified because there is adequate competition
and, due to the small amounts and the variety of the lots involved, these
contracts are not likely to interest foreign suppliers and/or contractors.
xi.       The benefits of the proposed project would be: (a) the provision of
education and training for rural adults to increase their productivity and
to prepare them for self-employment; (b) the expansion of practical subjects
in primary and secondary school curricula; (c) the increase of the proportion
of girls in secondary schools from the present 25% to 35% by 1980; (d) the
improvement of design, building standards and quality of primary schools;
and (e) the increase in the supply of qualified primary school teachers.
These benefits indicate the suitability of the proposed project as part of
the country's overall strategy to improve the productivity of the agricul-
tural sector, raise the living standard of the rural population, increase
the contribution of women to the development process and improve the effi-
ciency of the education system.
xii.      The total project cost is estimated at US$15.0 million equivalent
including taxes of US$0.50 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange
component of US$7.5 million equivalent. The IDA credit (US$11.6 million
equivalent) would meet 77% of the total estimated cost including taxes or 80%
excluding taxes. The Government would provide the additional funds required
(US$3.4 million equivalent), which represent about 45% of the local currency
expenditures.
xiii.     The proposed project is suitable as a basis for a Development Credit
of US$11.6 million equivalent to the Republic of Malawi.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Since Independence in 1964, Malawi has made creditable progress in
the development of its education sector. The 1973-80 educational plan, which
is prudently related to expected increases in Government revenue, allows for
a conservative but steady expansion in enrollment at all levels of the system.
Since 90% of the population is still dependent on agriculture, the plan places
particular emphasis on the expansion of educational opportunities in rural
areas. In support of this plan, the proposed project would provide 22 rural
education centers, 22 prototype primary schools, a new primary teacher training
college including a demonstration school, and practical studies facilities and
science laboratories for seven secondary schools, all of which would be adjacent
to agricultural development project areas. The proposed project supplements the
assistance provided in the first education project (Credit 102-MAI, 1967) which
included a primary teacher training college and practical studies facilities for
12 secondary schools. The objectives of the first project were to improve the
quality of primary teacher training and to introduce practical studies into the
secondary school curriculum. These objectives have been achieved. The
college and all schools are operating satisfactorily. As savings were real-
ized, the scope of the first education project was broadened in 1973 to
include the establishment ot a Telecommunication Training Center at Blantyre;
the construction and equipping of this Center is nearing completion. The
Center will also serve the training needs of Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland.
1.02      Subsequent to Bank missions in April and November 1974 to review
Malawi educational plans and priorities, a mission composed of Messrs. R.
Loken (general educator), K. Andersen (architect) and Mrs. S. Asher (economist)
simultaneously prepared and appraised the project in March 1975.
II. DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCE NEEDS
2.01      Background.  Malawi is a small landlocked country in southeastern
Africa. One-fifth of its area is covered by Lake Malawi. Its estimated 5.0
million population, confined to a land area of only 94,000 sq. km., is growing
at the rate of approximately 2.6% p.a. The population is scattered and there
are only a few urban concentrations. The rural-urban migration has proceeded
at the comparatively low rate of 3.6% p.a. in recent years and the Government
is making determined efforts to develop the agricultural sector in order to
help improve living standards in rural areas. The soil and climate are well
suited to agricultural production and the varying altitudes (from 1,500 to
5,000 ft.) permit the growth of a wide range of agricultural produce.
2.02      The per capita GDP was US$105 in 1974.  Since 1964 GDP has grown
at an average rate of 8% p.a. in real terms. This growth has resulted
primarily from the expansion and diversification of agricultural production
and exports, the establishment of manufacturing industries and the increases



- 2 -
in construction activity. Agriculture still accounts for more than 45% of
GDP and smallholder production dominates the agricultural sector contributing
87% of total agricultural output. The Government has launched several large-
scale agricultural development projects which have assisted in increasing the
productivity of smallholders by the introduction of improved farming methods
and equipment. The basic food crop is maize, and the principal export crops
are tobacco, tea, groundnuts, cotton and sugar. The Ministry of Agriculture
and Natural Resources (MANR) administers a farmer training and extension
program which reaches 80,000 farm families p.a. and further expansion of
the program is planned.   The Malawi Young Pioneers Program, directed at
primary school leavers, trains 3,000 young farmers p.a. in agricultural and
rural-vocational skills.
2.03      Economic Development.  When Malawi became independent, it was the
poorest of the territories of the former Central African Federation. However,
through careful management of the economy, significant improvements in roads
and communications and development of the agricultural sector, remarkable
economic progress has been made and, since 1973, the country no longer
requires external assistance for recurrent expenses. The "Statement of
Development Policies" of 1971 emphasizes that the development of agriculture
and the rural areas is "the cornerstone of Malawi's development strategy."
The major thrust of the investment program in roads, education and agricul-
tural projects has been in support of this strategy.
2.04      Manufacturing, though still not a large factor in the economy,
is one of the most rapidly growing sectors and has expanded at the rate of
12% p.a. during the last four years. It is based on the processing of
agricultural products for export, but the production of consumer goods for
the domestic market is becoming increasingly important. The establishment
of new industries is geared to the availability of skilled workers, the
diversification of sources of foreign investment and the encouragement of
labor-intensive plants. This rapid growth of the modern sector has ac-
celerated the demand for skilled and semi-skilled labor.
2.05      Recent examinations of economic indicators point to continued favor-
able economic growth. In the agricultural sector, several major projects are
being implemented and others are in the final planning stage. In manufacturing,
new investments are planned in sugar processing, pulp and paper factories and
food processing. If financing is available, the principal constraint on the
implementation of these projects would be the shortage of skilled local man-
power to execute and operate them.
2.06      Manpower Requirements.  In 1974 the labor force was estimated at 1.5
million. Of these, 15% (223,000) were employed in establishments with
20 or more employees. In addition, 300,000 workers were engaged in smaller
enterprises and 275,000 miners were employed for wages outside the country.
Extrapolations of the 1971 manpower survey figures indicate that in 1974,
60,200 of all wage earners within Malawi were High and Intermediate Level Manpower



(HILMP) 1/ engaged primarily in services and more or less equally distributed
between the public (54%) and the private (46%) sectors (Annex 1).
2.07      The 1971 Manpower Study also projected that the 1974 HILMP stock
should ideally comprise 30% instead of 27% of total wage employment in order
to carry out the country's economic activities effectively. The survey fore-
cast that by 1980 the difference between the available and the required HILMP
would increase from 3% to 35%. In particular, it warned that in the 1974-81
period, the shortages of senior and junior secondary school leavers would
increase from 6% to 37% and 12% to 64% respectively. The Bank Group staff made
alternative projections applying different sets of assumptions and covering
a longer period up till 1985/86 (Appendix 1). Among the various projections,
even the lowest showed a significant shortage of HILMP. It compares with
the 1971 survey as follows:
Shortage of HILMP (Z)
1980/81                  1985/86
Bank staff     Bank staff
1971 Survey     Estimate        Estimate
Senior Category
(degree holder)                     30                6              13
Intermediate Category
(Sr. Sec. Certificate)              37               10               8
Skilled Category
(Jr. Sec. Certificate)              64               34              43
2.08      A new manpower survey will be carried out in 1976 and its results
will be available in late 1977-early 1978. It is apparent however that nearly
20 years will be necessary to produce an adequate stock of trained local man-
power. Other salient characteristics of the manpower situation in Malawi are
the predominance of male workers in HILMP, the large number of unqualified
teachers and the high dependence on expatriate manpower, particularly in the
private sector (30%) and the senior occupational category (75%). In 1974 out
of 223,000 employed, only 10% were females who were engaged primarily in
nursing and teaching. In 1974/75, there were 11,000 teachers in assisted
primary schools, out of which 20% had received no pedagogical training. Of
the 700 secondary school teachers, 270 were expatriates.
2.09      The future requirements and supply of trained agricultural manpower
were projected by the Ministry of Agriculture and National Resources (MANR)
in 1971 and more recently in early 1975. These projections indicate that
1/   The workers who have the educational qualification of at least a junior
secondary school certificate (JC).



the supply of field assistants (certificate holders) from the agricultural
schools including Colby College will be adequate to meet present and future
requirements. They have further forecast that Malawi would be able to
gradually reduce the average number of farm families served by a trained
extension worker from 2,000 at present to 500 by 1985. On the other hand,
the recent MANR study has shown that agricultural manpower at the professional
(degree holders) and technical (diploma holders) levels will remain a constraint
for some time. At present about 20% of the high level positions (a total of
about 500) are filled by expatriates.
2.10      In sum, for many years Kilawi will be unable to replace expatriates
and have an adequate supply of traLned local manpower for the development of
the main economic sectors. A possible solution to the projected manpower
shortages would be to make improved use of the primary school leavers; to
this effect, present minimum employment qualifications which require junior
secondary education for most occupations, may need to be reconsidered. The
Government confirmed its intention to review manpower training plans and ensure
effective utilization of manpower and to exchange views with the Association
on these matters. Also, while the formal education system is being expanded,
nonformal training, such as apprenticeship program and rural skill training
schemes, should be improved as an alternative means of providing skilled
manpower.
III. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
3.01      Evaluation of the Sector.  The education and training system of
Malawi is described in Appendix II and relevant data are summarized in Annexes
2, 3 and 4. The formal system includes a primary education course in two
cycles of five and three years each, followed by four years of secondary
education and post-secondary and university courses of various duration.
From the point of view of organization and administration, the formal educa-
tion system in Malawi is one of the best-run in East Africa. Teacher training,
inspection, supervision and curriculum development are well managed and effec-
tively operated. However, the numbers of qualified teachers and students
enrolled are both short of the country's needs (paras. 2.07-2.08). At present,
the gross enrollment ratio for primary schools is 56%, but only 4% of the
15-18 age group are in secondary schools. 1/ Although curricula and teaching
methods have been revised in recent years, only a limited number of primary
and secondary schools have the facilities necessary to teach the new programs.
The situation is particularly difficult in primary education where schools
have been built by the villagers themselves without technical guidance; often
the classrooms consist of mud-brick buildings with insufficient window space
containing little or no furniture or didactic materials. Under these cir-
cumstances, very little learning is possible which accounts partly for the
1/   This ratio in other African countries with comparable GDP per capita
is: Kenya 12%; Ethiopia 6%; and Zaire 10%.



- 5 -
high dropout rate; only 40% of those starting grade 1 complete grade 8. In
addition, the lack of facilities has retarded the introduction of courses
in crafts, domestic science and agriculture in grades 4-8. At the secondary
level, only 12 of the 60 existing schools have been equipped for the teaching
of practical subjects promoted by the first IDA education project.
3.02      As described in Appendix II, paras. 24-33, there are several non-
formal and accelerated training programs under various Ministries and para-
statal agencies as well as a well-organized apprenticeship program. One of
the principal weaknesses in the sector has been the lack of coordination of
these activities with the programs under the Ministry of Education (MOE).
Duplications have occurred in several areas because of the scattered nature
of the various initiatives, and gaps still exist in spite of the numerous
efforts to promote nonformal training schemes. As a consequence, a compre-
hensive rural skill training program directed at the adult rural population
is yet to be developed, even though there are various uncoordinated training
schemes aimed at this target group. A National Council for Education and
Training was appointed recently to plan and coordinate these programs. The
Council includes representatives from the Ministries of Health, Agriculture,
Community Development, Labor, Local Government and the President's Office
and is chaired by the Permanent Secretary for Education. The Council meets
quarterly to review education and training programs, to recommend actions and
to oversee progress. While the Council's authority is limited, its influence
is increasing and duplicate programs are being consolidated.
3.03      The importance of the training activities outside the MOE is reflected
by the fact that only some 70% of Government recurrent expenditure on education
is channelled through this Ministry. Total recurrent expenditure on education
and training is about 21% of the Government budget--a proportion which compares
well with those in neighboring countries and is an indication of the Government's
desire to keep the growth of educational expenditure under control.
Educational Policies, Strategy and Plans
3.04      The objectives of educational development in Malawi are outlined in
the 1973-1980 education plan and include the following principal aims: (a) to
improve access to education and expand educational opportunities; (b) to
reorient the content and increase the effectiveness of educational programs;
and (c) to provide the country with the trained personnel which would meet
the various levels and types of manpower requirements.
3.05      To improve access to education and expand educational opportunities,
the Government strategy gives priority to: (i) the growth of primary education;
(ii) the improvement of secondary schools in rural areas; and (iii) the
strengthening of the various nonformal programs operated outside the formal
education system.  After several experiments, the optimum length of the primary
school cycle is still under review (Appendix II, para. 12). In practice there
is a clear exit point at the end of five years. In 1972, the Government
doubled the school fees at Grade 6 and reinstated the Grade 5 school leaving
examination to ensure that the Grade 5 cut off point would be effective.



- 6 -
It is expected that by 1985, 100% of the 6-10 age group would be enrolled in
grades 1-5 and 70% of the 6-14 age group would attend the full eight-year
primary school cycle. The Government's targets, although ambitious for a
country of Malawi's level of development, can be achieved within the limits
of available recurrent finance (para. 3.08). The main constraints to their
attainment are the inadequate supply of qualified primary school teachers,
insufficient quantity and quality of primary school facilities, and the high
dropout and repeater rates resulting in part from the lack of teachers and of
appropriate school buildings and equipment. Expansion of secondary education
would not exceed 6% p.a. primarily because of the need to rely on expatriate
teachers who are in short supply and, according to plans, would not be replaced
by Malawians before 1990; at the same time, expansion and improvement of the
secondary school facilities would be directed to redress inequalities in
opportunities. The strengthening of the on-going nonformal education programs
would be achieved through improved coordination under the National Council for
Education and Training depicted in para. 3.02 and through the provision of
facilities to be used jointly by the Ministries and agencies in charge of these
programs. At present, 30% of the Malawian adults are reached by nonformal
education schemes; it is expected that this proportion will increase to about
60% by 1985.
3.06      To reorient the content and increase the effectiveness of the educa-
tion programs, the Government plan gives priority to the revision of curricula
and teaching methods in both primary and secondary schools. In particular,
the Curriculum Development Unit and the Program Evaluation Unit of MOE have
assessed the programs of practical studies introduced in the late 1960s at
both levels and are formulating updated syllabi based on this evaluation.
In addition, the assessment has indicated that: (i) at the primary level,
school facilities require improvement in order to teach agriculture, crafts
and domestic science in grades 4 to 8 which can be brought about only if the
Government provides technical and Einancial assistance to the local communi-
ties; (ii) at the secondary level, the teaching of practical subjects has to be
promoted gradually in line with expected availability of instructors. There-
fore, at this stage, the Government education strategy calls for (i) the
establishment of prototype primary schools to be imitated by the villagers
and the provision of roofing and frame materials together with technical
advice to encourage replication of the prototypes under self-help schemes,
and (ii) the continuation of the program to introduce practical studies in
secondary schools so that it will cover 40% of the secondary education enroll-
ment in 1980 as against 20% in 1975. With the first and the proposed second
education projects assisted by IDA, 30% of projected 1980 secondary school
enrollment would be in schools equipped for the teaching of practical subjects.
In addition, 13 schools with a total enrollment of 3,100 students are being
supplied with equipment for instruction in crafts, agriculture and domestic
science under bilateral agreements.
3.07      To provide the country wLth trained personnel which would meet the
various types and levels of manpower requirements, the strategy calls for the
expansion of the University of Malawi to an enrollment of 2,200 in 1985 (1,100
in 1974), including expansion of the Polytechnic to reach 600 in 1985 (300 in



- 7 -
1974) and the Bunda College to reach 450 in 1985 (200 in 1974). The Colby
College of Agriculture under the MANR would be increased to a 400 student
capacity from 150 in 1974 (for financing see paras. 3.08-3.09). Shortage of
staff prevents a more rapid growth. Reforms and improvements in curricula,
staffing and teaching methods are under way at both colleges. At the secondary
level, the Government intends to promote only a moderate expansion of
enrollment for the reasons outlined in the previous paragraph and in addition,
before programming a major expansion, the Government plans to review employ-
ment qualifications (para. 2.10) and complete a tracer study of school leavers'
performance in the labor market which would be part of the project and carried
out with Bank Group staff support. On the basis of these studies and of the
proposed 1976 manpower survey (para. 2.08), present targets for secondary
education growth are expected to be reviewed in the late 1970s. To provide
skilled and semi-skilled workers for the growing industrial sector (para.
2.04), the Government foresees a gradual expansion in enrollment of the
existing technical schools (Appendix II,para. 17) in line with the availability
of instructors; more importantly, the apprenticeship program is expected
to increase from an enrollment of 600 in 1974 to over 1,000 in 1980 (Appendix
II, para. 30).
3.08      The financial implications of this strategy have been worked out in
detail. If Government recurrent expenditure increases by 5% p.a. in real
terms which is the government's target, the share of the MOE expenditure
would be 18% in 1985. Including expenditure on training and nonformal learn-
ing schemes by other Ministries and agencies, total education expenditure
would require 24% of the recurrent budget in 1985 (Annex 5) which is a
reasonable proportion. On the other hand, if total Government recurrent
expenditure were to increase by 8% p.a. in real terms which is more realistic,
the share of total expenditure for education and training would still be about
19% in 1985. This indicates that greater efforts to expand and improve
education opportunity would be within Malawi's financial capacity.
3.09      Investment Program.  The Government investment program in education
is based on the strategy described in the preceding paragraphs and is designed
to meet the following priorities:
(a) Expansion and improvement of primary schools, initiated
through the construction by the Government of replicable
prototype schools and with technical guidance to assist
the self-help efforts of the villagers, and financial
assistance from the District Councils;
(b) Expansion and rationalization of primary teacher
training through the construction of a new college which
would provide additional supply in line with estimated
needs and later replace existing small and inefficient
teacher training institutes operated by missionary
societies (Appendix II, para. 20);



- 8 -
(c) Expansion of the University of Malawi, the Polytechnic,
the existing agricultural colleges and the apprentice
program to help meet demands for professional and technical
manpower;
(d) Improvement and moderate growth of secondary education
to be achieved by the extension of existing schools; and
(e) The start of a comprehensive program of adult education
through coordination of on-going schemes and the provision
of vital support facilities in all the Districts.
The total cost of this investment program from 1975 to 1980 is estimated at
about MK20.0 million. Of this total, bilateral agencies (principally, USAID,
the Danish Agency for International Development and the British Ministry of
Overseas Development) are providing about MK6.3 million to assist the
development of professional and technical training under (c) above. The other
areas of the program would form part of the proposed second education project
for which IDA support is proposed.
3.10      As the investment program would promote improvement in the organi-
zation of nonformal education and in curricula and teaching methods in the
formal education system, careful evaluation of its impact is required so that
its educational specifications can be revised if needed. For this purpose,
the Government has strengthened the Program Evaluation Unit of the MOE which
will be responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of the new organizatiion
of nonformal education and of the new curricula and teaching methods (para.
3.06). The evaluation methodology has been discussed with the Government
and progress in the evaluation studies would be followed up in the course of
project supervision.
IV.  THE PROJECT
General
4.01      To help attain the objectives set forth in paragraph 3.04, the
proposed project would assist the Malawi education investment program by:
(a) providing prototype construction models of primary schools; (b) strength-
ening the programs of rural education; (c) establishing a new primary teacher
training college; and (d) adding facilities for the teaching of practical
subjects in selected secondary schools with emphasis on facilities for girls.
It would consist of:
(a) The provision of buildings, furniture and equipment for
the following institutions:



-9-
Approximate Number of Student Places
Additional Places
Type of Institution   Existing          Full-time      Part-Time      Total
(i) 22 new prototype
primary schools and one
demonstration school /1    0               9,200               -      9,200
(ii) 22 new rural education
centers                      0                 0          2,200       2,200 /2
(iii) One new primary teacher
training college           0               420               -        420
(iv) Additions to seven
secondary schools        860             1,800               -      2,660
Totals                860            11,420          2,200     14,480
/1   Demonstration school adjacent to Primary Teacher Training College.
t2   These 2,200 places for part-time trainees would provide an annual
through-put of about 20,000 trainees.
(b) Re-establishment and strengthening of the Project
Implementation Unit; and
(c) Pre-investment studies.
Project Items
4.02      Primary Schools.  The provision of school buildings at the primary
level is the responsibility of the local communities while the Government
supplies teachers and provides supporting services such as in-service teacher
training, supervision and inspection. This has resulted in the construction
of more than 2,000 schools at little cost to the Government. However, the
school buildings are often inadequate for educational purposes (para. 3.01)
and their useful life, because of poor workmanship and low quality of materials,
averages only about five years. The main weakness is in the roof construc-
tion and its supporting structure. The Government has decided to construct
one model school in 23 of the 24 Districts to develop a prototype which the
communities in the surrounding areas can copy on a self-help basis. 1/ The
proposed project would provide for the construction, furnishing and equipping
of these 22 prototype schools and one demonstration school. Each school would
have eight 50-place classrooms to provide 400 student places. The schools
would be designed with four 2-classroom blocks to provide for flexibility and
possible later adjustments in the school cycle (para. 3.05). The Government
furnished the Association with satisfactory criteria to be used in the selec-
tion of sites for the proposed primary schools. The criteria agreed upon in-
clude : (a) accessibility, (b) population density, (c) local motivation as indi-
cated by community self-help, and (d) adJacency to rural development project areas.
1/   One of the 24 Districts has recently constructed a model primary school.



- 10 -
4.03      About 1,000 schools are needed for replacement of inadequate
facilities and expansion in enrollment. In addition to providing 22 prototype
schools, the Government would supply a construction supervisor and building
plans for the construction of additional schools and promote replications of
the prototype schools. The roofing materials and supporting structures would
be supplied through the District Councils. A draft plan of operation for the
replication of primary school facilities would be presented to the Association
for review within one year of the signing of the Agreement. This timing would
coincide with the completion of the first prototype school.
4.04      Rural Education Centers.  Malawi has a variety of rural-oriented
training programs which are operated by several Ministries and Government
agencies (Appendix II, paras. 24-33). In the past, there has been little
effort to coordinate these programs or to plan them so as to gain mutual
support and greater overall benefits (para. 3.02). An initial review of
rural education programs conducted by the National Council for Education and
Training indicated that the effectiveness of most of the on-going programs
in the rural areas could be appreciably increased through improved planning,
coordination and appropriate sharing of facilities and staff. It was also
found that inadequate attention was being given to training in several basic
rural skills for adults. As a result of this review, the Government has
decided that this skill training will be provided in low cost Rural Education
Centers 1/ to be established in each District, which, although under the
administrative responsibility of the MOE, would be used by all agencies
engaged in rural training.
4.05      The Government intends to establish one Rural Education Center per
District. Under the overall responsibility of the National Council for
Education and Training, the Local Council of the District would propose
programs to be offered in the Centers in support of rural skill training,
the literacy campaign of the MOE, the preventive health program of the
Ministry of Health, the community development activities, nutrition, leader-
ship, child-care and homecraft training programs of the Ministry of Community
Development and Social Welfare, the extension services including farmer train-
ing, animal husbandry, marketing and other programs of the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Natural Resources and other schemes among those mentioned in
paras. 24-29 of Appendix II. Through the Local Council and the District
offices of the various Ministries and Agencies, the courses of the Rural
Education Centers would be coordinated with those offered at the Farmer
Training Centers and at the Farm Institutes (Appendix II, para. 28) as well
as with the skill training programs conducted by missionary societies (Appendix
1/   The capital cost per Center would be US$25,000 to US$35,000 equivalent
depending on the location.



- 11 -
II, para. 33). The population of youths and adults in each District ranges
from 75,000 to 150,000 which ensures a broad base of potential trainees in
each District. Training needs and target groups for each District would be
identified by the Local Councils. The 22 Rural Education Centers to be
provided under the project would cover most of the Districts of Malawi and
would be adjacent to the 22 prototype primary schools (para. 4.02). Each
Center would consist of two workrooms -- a rural skill training shop for men and
a domestic science/nutrition room for women -- separated by a large, roofed open
area which would be used for village meetings, agricultural extension, and other
training programs. A special facility would be provided for preventive health
clinics. The structures would be simple and functional and the equipment would
consist of basic tools. The Government provided the Association with a satis-
factory draft plan of operations for the Rural Education Centers. The Center
would be used in the mornings for practical studies by students in grades 4-8 and
for rural skill training by adults and out-of-school youths in the afternoons.
Each would provide short-term (one week to three weeks) training courses for
about 1,000 persons p.a. Instructors are being trained in a special program at
the Polytechnic and, in addition, local artisans would teach at the Centers on
a part-time basis. Although the specific skills to be taught at each Center
would vary depending upon the needs of each District, emphasis would be placed
on rural crafts for adults (para. 3.02).
4.06      Primary Teacher Training College.  There are approximately 1,900
teacher trainees enrolled in teacher training colleges which include six small
mission colleges and two 540-place teacher training colleges at Lilongwe and
Blantyre. The present stock of teachers in Government-assisted schools is
11,000, of whom about 20% are unqualified (Annex 4). The Government is
concerned about the low quality of the teaching force and is retraining 300
unqualified teachers p.a. through in-service teacher training to the T3 level
(Junior Certificate plus two years of teacher training) and T2 level (Malawi
Certificate of Education plus two years of teacher training). The present
pre-service training capacity of about 700 teachers p.a. is insufficient to
supply the 11,000 additional teachers required by 1985 to meet the needs
caused by attrition and expansion (Annex 4). The proposed project would
provide buildings, equipment and furniture for a new teacher training college
for 420 teacher trainees, which, when combined with the 300 p.a. output from
the retraining program, should meet the immediate needs. A demonstration
school would also be provided. It is expected that in the initial years,
the teacher trainers would continue to be provided under bilateral assistance
programs; the Government confirmed that assistance for initial staffing of
the teacher training college will be available from bilateral agencies. The
site for the proposed college is about six miles west of Mzuzu, adjacent to
an agricultural development project. Because of its location in the sparsely
populated northern region, boarding facilities for 420 students and houses for
41 staff are required.



- 12 -
4.07      Secondary Schools.  Continuing the policy begun in the Bank Group
assisted first education project, the Government has decided to expand and
add facilities for practical studies for seven secondary schools. Curriculum
reforms for secondary education were begun in 1967 to make the program more
responsive to Malawi's needs (para. 3.06). In the first project, practical
studies facilities were added to 12 secondary schools. In this proposed
second project, appropriate facilities would be added to seven secondary
schools, including equipment for commercial training in three of the schools.
All of the schools would be located in rural areas and students would be
drawn 'from the entire country. Malawi's secondary boarding schools were,
for the most part, built originally by missionary societies and were not
evenly distributed over the country. To correct the uneven distribution of
schools the MOE ranks all eligible candidates for secondary school entry each
year and allocates the students to schools on the basis of available places.
Special care is taken in distributing available secondary school places to
candidates according to quotas by District in order to reduce disparity in
access to secondary education. While the location of the student's home
relative to the school is somewhat taken into account, few students are
assigned to boarding schools close to their homes in order to promote
national integration. Due to the sparsely populated locations and the fact
that most students come from distant areas, additional boarding facilities
for 1,740 students and housing for 29 additional staff are required in the
project schools. Where it is practical, the dormitories will be constructed
to permit possible future conversion to classrooms. As indicated in para.
3.05, expatriate secondary school teachers would not be fully replaced before
the late 1980s; therefore housing is essential to attract and retain suitable
staff. In addition, Malawi Government regulations require that certain
categories of civil servants--including the secondary school teachers--are
to be provided with housing in the locations where they are assigned. This
has resulted in greater flexibility than in other countries in assigning
teachers to remote rural schools and has eliminated the need for hardship/
housing allowances.
4.08      At present, only about 25% of those enrolled in secondary schools
are girls and of those enrolled in day schools, only about 10% complete the
four-year course with a Malawi Certificate of Education. On the other hand,
90% of girls who attend boarding schools complete the course successfully.
As a result of these low enrollment and completion ratios in day schools,
the proportion of Malawi women with secondary or post-secondary education is
very small. There are not enough qualified women to fill the post-secondary
institutions which provide training for nurses, teachers and other specialized
occupations (para. 2.08).  To help correct this imbalance, six of the seven
schools in the proposed project would be for girls only and one would be
co-educational. Altogether, 1,600 of the 1,800 additional places provided
under the project would be for girls.  By 1980 the proportion of girls in
secondary schools would increase to 35%.



- 13 -
4.09      Project Implementation Unit.  A Project Implementation Unit was
established within the Ministry of Works and Supplies to administer the first
education project. As the project neared completion, the staff of the Unit
was gradually reduced. To implement the proposed second education project,
the Unit would be re-established in the MOE and would include a project
manager, a project architect, a procurement specialist and an accountant.
A qualified Malawian is being appointed as Project Manager, the architect
employed under the first IDA education project is expected to be retained
and a procurement specialist has been selected for the Unit. The appointments
of the project manager, architect and the procurement specialist would be
conditions of credit effectiveness. The Unit would oversee the implementation
of the project, train counterparts to replace the expatriate architect and
procurement specialist and help establish an effective school-building unit to
assist in standardizing economical education facilities. The costs of the
Project Implementation Unit would be included as a part of the project.
4.10      Pre-investment Studies.  The proposed project is part of a long-
term investment program (paras. 3.04-3.08). It is likely that by 1977, the
elements of the next phase would be defined. Therefore, pre-investment studies
would be included in the project to bring a possible third education project
to an adequate stage of preparation and to provide support for student tracer
studies (para. 3.07) and other methods of project evaluation. In particular,
after completion of the studies referred to in para. 3.07 and definition of
the quantitative targets for education development in 1980s, priority areas
for educational investment will be identified. It is possible that one of
these areas would be the continuation of the program to expand secondary
education and provide schools with the facilities needed for the teaching of
practical subjects. Another area could be the establishment of additional
rural education facilities to supplement the District Rural Education Centers
within the framework of a well-coordinated rural education program. Any
project which may emerge would, of course, need appraisal; if accepted for
Association support, the pre-investment funds included in this project could
also be used to expedite architectural work and implementation.
V. COST ESTIMATES, FINANCIAL PLAN, IMPLEMENTATION,
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
Cost Estimates
5.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$15.0 million equi-
valent including taxes. The estimated cost and foreign exchange component of
the various categories of expenditures are given in Annexes 6 and 7 and
summarized as follows:



- 14 -
Estimated Project Cost: by Type of Expenditure
MK (million)              US$ (million)            % of
Local  Foreign  Total      Local  Foreign  Total       Total
1. Civil Works, Furniture,
Equipment and Profes-
sional Services:
a. 22 new Primary
Schools and Rural
Education Centers       0.97    0.96    1.93        1.17    1.14    2.31        21
b. One new Primary
Teacher Training
College(including one
demonstration           1.20    1.19    2.39        1.44    1.43    2.87        27
school)
c. Expansions of
seven Secondary
Schools                 2.02    1.99    4.01        2.42    2.39    4.81        45
Sub-total of 1        4.19    4.14    8.33       5.03    4.96    9.99         93
2. Technical Assistance      0.08    0.34    0.42        0.10    0.40    0.50          4
3. Project Administration   0.15    0.07    0.22         0.18    0.09    0.27          3
(including equipment,
vehicles, vehicle operat-
ing costs and pre-
investment studies)                        ____
Total Baseline Cost          4.42    4.55    8.97        5.31    5.45   10.76        100
(September 1975
negotiation date)
4. Contingencies
(a) Unforeseen events(9%) 0.42    0.38    0.80        0.50    0.46    0.96
(b) Price increase (28%)  1.38    1.35    2.73         1.68    1.60    3.28
Sub-total of 4        1.80    1.73    3.53       2.18    2.06    4.24
TOTAL PROJECT COST (1-4)-i  6.24    6.26   12.50         7.49    7.51   15.00
/1 Includes US$0.50 million equivalent in taxes.



- 15 -
5.02      Construction, furniture and equipment costs have been derived from
recent bidding received on similar institutions, with adjustments for proposed
changes in existing standardized building designs and master lists of furni-
ture and equipment. The average cost per square meter is estimated at about
US$65 equivalent for the rural primary schools and US$120 equivalent for the
primary teacher training college. 1/ The schedules of accommodation are
economical and appropriate to planned student enrollments. The cost of boarding
and staff housing is equivalent to approximately 35% of the total project cost;
the provision of these facilities is necessary for the reasons outlined at
paras. 4.06 and 4.07. Estimates of equipment and furniture costs are also
based on recent information obtained during implementation of the first IDA
education project. Detailed lists of furniture and equipment would be
prepared during the design stage and reviewed by the Association.
5.03      Customs Duties and Taxes.  All items specifically imported for the
proposed project would be exempt from direct customs duties and taxes in line
with the practice of the Malawian Government to grant customs and tax exemption
to imports for educational purposes. Some of the building material to be used
by contractors for use in construction of the proposed project's institutions
would be acquired on the open market and accordingly would have been subject
to customs duties and/or taxes. Of the estimated civil works costs, about
US$0.50 million equivalent would represent customs duties and/or taxes.
5.04      Contingencies Allowances.  For unforeseen events, 10% has been
added to the base cost of civil works and professional services and 5% to
furniture, equipment, technical assistance and project administration costs.
Estimated price increases are based upon the following annual rates for which
price escalation has been calculated from the base cost date (September 1975)
in accordance with the implementation schedule, shown in Annex 8.
Furniture            Professional Services
Civil              and                 Technical Assistance
Year            Works           Equipment            and Project Administration
1975           16%                  12%                        7.5%
1976           14%                  10%                        7.5%
1977-79         12%                  8%                        7.5%
1980           10%                   7%                        7.5%
5.05      The foreign exchange component of US$7.5 million has been calculated
as follows: (a) civil works, 45%; (b) professional services, 40%: (c) furni-
ture, 55%; (d) instructional equipment, 90%; (e) project administration, 20%;
and (f) technical assistance, 80%. The US$7.5 million represents 50%
of the total project cost of US$15.00 million (including contingencies and
taxes).
1/   These costs compare well with costs per m2 in other East African countries,
e.g., Ethiopia US$120; Lesotho US$140; Swaziland US$120. These costs
were based on 1974 prices.



- 16 -
Financial Plan
5.06      The total project cost of US$15.00 million would be financed as
follows:
US$ million equivalent
Malawi       IDA /1   Total /2
Category                                        Government   Credit       Project
1.   Civil Works                                    2.35       7.10        9.45
2.   Furniture, vehicles and equipment              0.30       1.60        1.90
3.   Professional Services                          0.24       0.50        0.74
4.   Technical Assistance                           0.04       0.50        0.54
5.   Project Administration                         0.05       0.20        0.25
6.   Contingencies/Unallocated                      0.42       1.70        2.12
Total                               3.40      11.60       15.00
Of which taxes:                               0.50                    0.50
/1   Based on the percentage of expenditures to be financed.
/2   For computation of credit allocation, 50% of contingencies have been
added to baseline cost of each category of expenditure.
5.06      The maximum Government capital contribution is not expected to
exceed US$1.5 million equivalent in any one year through the next five years.
Recurrent costs generated by the proposed project are estimated at US$0.6 mil-
lion equivalent p.a. at 1975 prices or about 3.0% of the estimated recurrent
cost of education in 1980/81. The Government attaches high priority to the
proposed project and is expected to be able to provide for these expenditures
and for its share of the capital costs.
Implementation
5.07      The project would be implemented over a period of five years after
credit effectiveness (Annex 8), including six months for completion of payments
and withdrawals from the Credit account.
5.08      Administration.  The Project Implementation Unit in the Ministry of
Works and Supplies (para. 4.09) would be re-established in the Ministry of
Education and would be responsible for the implementation of the proposed
second project; the Unit would work in close cooperation with the other
Ministries involved. The Unit would include: a project manager, a project
architect, two assistant architects, a quantity surveyor, a procurement
specialist, an accountant and supporting staff. The two assistant architects
and the quantity surveyor would be appointed, in consultation with the Asso-
ciation, within six months after the signing of the Credit Agreement. It



- 17 -
would help establish an effective school building unit, would assist in
standardizing economical educational facilities and would train counterparts
to replace the expatriate specialists. To ensure availability of key personnel,
provision for 12.5 man-years of technical assistance is included in the pro-
posed project to cover the cost of architects, a procurement specialist and a
quantity surveyor. Assurances were obtained from the Government that staff
as indicated in Annex 9 would be provided for the Project Implementation
Unit and maintained throughout the period required for project implementation.
5.09      Professional Services (Architectural/Engineering).  Standardized
designs, used for the first IDA education project, would be used for the
proposed project and modified in the light of experience to incorporate
maximum use of local labor and materials. For the design, preparation of
construction documents and supervision of construction works, the services
of consultants have been included in the project cost for the primary teacher
training college, the demonstration school and for the additions to the
secondary schools. The Project Implementation Unit would provide professional
services for the primary schools and for the RECs. The consultants have been
selected. Because of the urgent need that the primary teacher training college
be designed and its construction promptly started, retroactive reimbursement is
recommended for the services of the consultants and initial operating expenses
of the Project Implementation Unit. Retroactive reimbursement would cover
expenditures from July 1, 1975. The amount of expenditures before the date
of Credit Agreement is not expected to exceed US$160,000 equivalent, of which
US$120,000 equivalent would be eligible for reimbursement.
5.10      Site Selection.  Satisfactory sites are available for the primary
teacher training college and the seven secondary schools. All locations and
sites for the primary schools and Rural Education Centers will be selected
on the basis of criteria agreed upon with the Government (para. 4.02).
Procurement
5.11      Contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement except as follows: (a) civil works costing less
than US$200,000 equivalent each; (b) furniture and equipment contracts costing
less than US$50,000 equivalent; and (c) locally procured construction material
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent. Contracts for items procured under
(a), (b) and (c) above would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures which have been
reviewed by Bank Group staff and are acceptable to the Association. Contracts
under (a) consist of small units to be constructed in scattered locations and
would be unlikely to attract international bids; contracts under (b) are not
likely to interest foreign suppliers because of the small amounts involved
and the variety of the lots.



- 18 -
5.12      Sketch designs, draft tender documents and master lists of con-
struction materials, furniture and equipment would be reviewed by the Asso-
ciation. Review by the Association of tender evaluation documents for civil
works prior to award would be required only for contracts above US$200,000
equivalent; for furniture, equipment and construction materials, review prior
to award would not be required for contracts less than US$50,000 equivalent.
Where international competitive bidding procedures have been followed domestic
manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a preference of 15%
or the existing rate of import duties, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f.
price of competing foreign suppliers, and qualified domestic civil works con-
tractors would be allowed a preferential margin of 7-1/2% over bid prices of
competing foreign contractors.
Disbursements
5.13      Disbursements would be on the basis of:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for furniture, equipment,
vehicles and technical assistance;
(b) 100% of ex-factory cost for locally manufactured furniture
and equipment or 75% of local expenditures for locally
procured imported furniture and equipment;
(c) 75% of local expenditures for professional services and
project administration iLncluding expenditures for local
transportation; and
(d) 75% of total expenditures for civil works.
Disbursements would be fully documented with the exception that disbursements
for project administration would be made against a certificate of expenditure,
the documentation for which would not be submitted to the Association but
would be retained by the Borrower and available for review in the course of
project supervision. Upon agreement between the Government and the Associa-
tion, any funds remaining on completion of the project would be used for
project related items. The estimated disbursement schedule is shown in
Annex 10. The project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1980 and
the proposed closing date is March 31, 1981.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      Benefits.  The proposed project is part of a long-term program of
educational development to improve teacher, secondary and rural education
begun in 1967 with the assistance of Credit 102-MAI. The principal objectives
of this program are to improve access to educational opportunities in rural
areas and to help meet the manpower needs of the expanding modern sector.
In the current phase, the program places particular emphasis upon the promo-
tion of the education of women in order to give them opportunities to make
a greater contribution to the development process.



- 19 -
6.02      The benefits expected from the proposed project can be summarized
as follows: (a) the strengthening of the on-going education programs for
rural adults; (b) the development of functional design and building standards
for primary schools; (c) an increase in the supply of qualified primary teachers;
(d) the expansion of the teaching of practical subjects in primary and secon-
dary schools; and (e) an increase in the number and proportion of girls enrolled
in secondary schools.
6.03      In particular, the proposed project would provide one Rural Educa-
tion Center in most Districts of the country which would enable rural adults
to learn the skills required to enhance their productivity and prepare them
for self-employment. The provision of a model primary school in each District
would make it possible for villagers to improve the design and quality of
school construction and, thereby, make the schools more functional. To help
improve the quality of primary education, the project would also assist
expansion and rationalization of teacher training. Finally, by providing
additional places for girls in secondary schools, and adding facilities for
practical studies, the project would increase the number of educated women
and permit them to play a greater role in Malawi's development.
6.04      Risks involved in the project.  The principal risk involved in the
project relates to the Rural Education Centers which would introduce an
innovative element into Malawi's educational system. Although the structure
and programs outlined for Rural Education Centers are based on experimental
patterns which have been applied in other East African countries, considerable
coordination among Ministries and agencies would be required at the District
level, and a great deal of innovation would be needed in developing courses
and teaching methods. The risk exists that in spite of the development of
appropriate programs, some of the Centers would place undue emphasis on the
use of the facilities by primary school students and neglect the nonformal
courses for adults; in this event, the objectives of the Centers would be
limited to the provision of improved primary school facilities. In order to
minimize this risk, it is expected that careful monitoring of the Centers
would be carried out by the Ministry of Education Program Evaluation Unit in
consultation with Bank Group staff (para. 3.10). A plan for the coordination
in the use of the RECs among ministries and agencies of the Government is
included in the Plan of Operation for the RECs which the Government provided
to the Association.
6.05      In spite of these risks, the objectives of the project and its
expected benefits point to its suitability as a part of Malawi's overall
strategy to improve the productivity of the rural sector, provide amenities
for and raise the living standards of the rural population, reduce manpower
shortages and gradually replace expatriates, increase the contribution of
women to the development process and improve the efficiency of the education
sector.



- 20 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      Agreement was reached with the Government on the following principal
points:
(a)  training requirements and manpower utilization,
the replication of the prototype primary schools, the
plans for operation and coordination of the Rural Educa-
tion Centers, the staffing of the primary teacher training
college (paras. 2.10, 4.03, 4.05 and 4.06); and
(b)  sites for the primary schools and Rural Education Centers
and establishment and staffing of the Project Implementation
Unit (paras. 4.02 and 5.08).
7.02      In addition to the customary conditions, the establishment of
the Project Implementation Unit and the appointments of the Project Manager,
the project architect and the procurement specialist would be conditions of
credit effectiveness (para 4.09).
7.03      Retroactive financing is recommended for:  (a) the services of
consultant architects to prepare sketch plans for the teacher training
college; and (b) Project Implementation Unit expenditures (para. 5.09).
7.04      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$11.6 million equivalent to the Republic of Malawi.



APPENDIX I
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
EDUCATED MANPOWER REQUIREMENTS
1.        In 1971 the Government conducted a Manpower Survey (MS) to find the
existing stock of High and Intermediate Level Manpower (HILMP) 1/. The main
findings include the following:
a)   the total existing stock of HILMP was 47,800 2/ while
the required stock (i.e., the existing and vacancies)
was 48,900;
b)   the extent of localization of HILMP was 83.2% with more
extensive localization in the public sector and in the
lower occupational categories;
c)   the percentage distribution of HILMP by the three broad
occupation categories was 3.6%, 31.1% and 65.3%
respectively; and
d)   the ratios of the occupation categories between the public
and private sectors were 1:2, 3:1 and 1:2 respectively.
These findings are summarized in Table 1.
2.        On the basis of the MS, Malawi projected the HILMP requirements for
the 1971-80 period. The following basic assumptions were made for the
projections of need and supply:
a)   A HILNP growth rate is a function of the growth rate
of monetary GDP (in real terms); 3/
1/ HILMP comprises (i) the senior category of top management and professional
occupations requiring a university degree; (ii) the intermediate category
of middle and junior management and technical occupations requiring a
diploma or Malawi Certificate of Education; and (iii) the skilled category
of office and skilled workers requiring a Junior Certificate of Education.
2/   This number represented 27.7% of total wage employment.
3/   The Government based the future economic growth targets on the projections
provided in the Statement of Development Policies 1971-80.



APPENDIX I
Page 2
b)   Technological advance is not sufficient to "appreciably"
affect the HILMP requirements over the plan period;
c)   The attrition rates for different occupations for different
years are somewhere between 2% to 4%; 1/
d)   The number of non-Malawians will remain constant throughout
the period.
In summary, the MS projected that 133,000 HILMP would be neeeded for the
1971-80 period. This implies that HILMP would grow at an annual rate of
14.1%. Meanwhile, it estimated that the supply would increase at a slower
rate of 6.8% p.a. (total incremental supply of 44,000) 2/ and, as a result,
the HILMP shortage would worsen from 3% in 1971 to 35% by 1980.
1/   In spite of the stated attrition rates (MS, p.91), a careful examination
of the Study indicates the omission of the attrition factor in the
projection of HILHP need.
2/   This is in line with enrollments and financial projections in Annexes 3
and 5.



Table 1
HILMP Distribution by Occupation, Sector and Nationality
Broad                               Public and Private                                     Public                                         Private
Occupational              Total         Malawian        Malawian           Total         Malawian         No    a            Total         Malawian         N
Levels
No.     7,      No.      'A     No.      %       No.      %      No.      %       No.      %      No.      %       No.      %       No.      %
1 and 3                 1,706  100.0      382   22.4   1,324   77.6        621   36.4       232   37.4      389   62.6   1,085   63.6        150   13.8       935   86.2
Senior Level
2 and 4               14,858  100.0  12,392   83.4   2,466   16.6  11,151   75.1  10,527   94.4             624    5.6   3,707   24.9   1,865   50.3   1,842   49.7
Intermediate
Level
5, 6 and 7             31,186  100.0  26,962   86.5   4,224   13.5  14,028   45.0  13.843   98.7            185    1.3  17,158   55.0  13,119   76.9   4,039   23.5
Skilled Level
All Levels             47,750  100.0  39,736   83.2   8,014   16.8  25,800   54.0  24,602   95.4   1,198    4.6  21,950   46.0  15,134   69.0   6,816   31.0
b 
I-'



APPENDIX I
Page 4
3.        The Bank Group staff has made alternative HILMP projections using
two methods. One is similar to the MS, in projecting the senior, intermediate
and skilled categories independently of occupation applying different sets
of assumptions. The second method projects HILMP as an integrated whole of
total employment so that the projected proportions of the occupational cate-
gories could be examined. On the basis of published reports and the Bank
Group staff discussions with various Ministries concerned, the different sets
of the projection coefficients were derived as presented in Table 2.
While the MS assumed the monetary GDP growth rate at 11% p.a. for the 1975-80
period, the more probable rates of 9% (assumption A) and 8% (assumption B)
were assumed. A lower output elasticity of employment than that of the MS
accounting for the increase in labor productivity was also included in the
Bank Group staff projections. Similarly, the attrition rates were lowered
with the consideration that many workers are relatively young new entrants to
the job market and secondly, that the occupation breakdown is so broad that
even if one left a job for another, it would be unlikely for him to move
from one category of occupation to another due to his education and training
background.
4.        The second method calculated required HILMP as an integrated whole
of total employment using the estimated past employment structure provided
by the National Statistical Office and the projection of employment
generation for 1974-80 furnished by the Ministry of Labor. Based on these
sources, total employment of 172,000 in 1971 was assumed to increase by
8% p.a. for the public sector and 6.5% for the private sector reaching
351,000 in 1980 and 466,000 by 1985. The percentage distribution of HILMP
by occupation in 1971 is provided by the MS. First, it was assumed that the
percentage distribution would remain the same as in 1971 throughout the
period (assumption C). Secondly, it was assumed that it would change as
shown in Table 3 (assumption D).



Table 2
MALAWI - Coefficients of Required HILMP Projections, 1971-85
1971 - 75                     1976 - 80                        1980 - 85
MS/1'    A /L2    B /3          MS      A        B             MS        A        B
Annual Growth Rate
(at constant prices) %:
Monetary Sector                   9.8       9.5      9.0         11.0      9.0      8.0         11.0       9.0      8.0
Output Elasticity of HILMP:
Sr. Category                      0.9       0.8      0.8          1.0      0.9     0.9           1.0       0.7      0.7
Int. Category                     1.1       1.2      1.2          1.4      1.2     1.2           1.4       0.9      0.9
Skilled Category                  1.2       1.3      1.3          1.6      1.4     1.4           1.6       1.1      1.1
HILMP Annual Growth Rate %:
Sr. Category                      9.0       7.6      7.2         10.7      8.1      7.2         11.0       6.3      5.6
Int. Category                    10.2     11.4    10.8           15.8    10.8      9.6          15.4       8.1      7.2
Skilled Category                 11.7      12.4    11.7          17.8    12.6    11.2           17.6       9.9      8.8
Attrition, %:
Sr. Category                      2.0       1.5      1.5          2.0      1.5     1.5           2.0       2.0      2.0
Int. Category                     3.0       2.0     2.0           4.0     2.0      2.0           4.0       3.0      3.0
Skilled Category                  3.0       2.0     2.0           4.0     2.0      2.0           4.0       3.0      3.0
/1 1971 Manpower Survey. The 1981-85 period was extended from the 1976-80 period.
/2  Medium growth rate assumptions.
/3  Lower growth rate assumptions.



Table  3
Shares of HIIP in Total J p1.oyvmnt
Senior        Int.       Ski 41d       Total       Total
Catoory      C8t@gr       C9f1tsy       HIRE      g21aUt
1 1971
Public            1.1         21.2         26.5          48.8        100.0
Private           0.9           3.1        14.4          18.4        100.0
Total             1.0          8.7         18.1          27.8        100.0
1975
Public            1.2         21.5         30.0          52.7        100.0
Private           1.0           3.5        18.0          22.5        100.0
Total             1.0          10.4        22.6          34.0        100.0
1980
Public            1.3         22.0         35.0          58.3        100.0
Private           1.1          5.0         23.0          29.1        100.0
Total             1.2          11.8        27.8          40.8        100.0
1985
Public            1.3         22.5         40.0          63.8        100.0
Private           1.1          6.5         28.0          35.6        100.0
Total             1.2         12.6         32.6          46.4        l00.0
5.        The following summarizes the varlous top1cation. for net *ncr.m.ntal
requirements for HILMP over the periods 1976-80 and 1981-86 under the asaump-
tions made by the MS and Bank Group staff A, B, C 4nd D.
Table 4
Not Incremental Reguirgmnts
BDnk Group stiff Estimates
MS         A            B            C         D
Senior Category
1976-80           1,840      1,280        1,100        1,000     1,500
1981-86          3,040       1,380        1,150        1,200     1,400



APPENDIX I
Page 7
Int. Category
1976-80          29,000      19,000      16,300       11,100    15,500
1981-86          57,700     22,300       18,200       10,500    17,300
Skilled Category
1976-80          74,200     49,800       42,200       19,900    41,100
1981-86         162,600     65,400       52,400       21,200    54,400
Total HILMP
1976-80         105,040      70,080      59,600       32,000    58,100
1981-86         223,340     89,080       71,750       32,900    73,100
According to the different assumptions, the implications of the requirements
of education output vary significantly. For instance, the MS projects that
degree holders will have to be provided for at an annual average rate of about
500 over the decade, while the other projections indicate the required number
between 200 and 300. The difference in total HILMP required for the decade
varies from 328,000 in the MS to 64,900 under assumption C. It seems
reasonable, however, to derive from Table 4 that the required total HILMP
for the decade will be about 140,000.
6.        A ten year projection of education output at different levels
is a difficult task. First of all, the Government is uncertain about the
enrollment expansion targets for such a long period of time. Second, it is
difficult to predict changes in the pass rates, repeaters and dropouts, i.e.,
changes in internal efficiency. Given all these difficulties, the following
are assumed in the supply projection:
a)   total enrollment in secondary education would grow
at 5% for the 1976-80 period and 7% for the 1981-86 period;
b)   the output from the University would more than double
by 1985;
c)   the pass rates of day and boarding junior secondary students
would be 62% and 83% respectively, while the pass rates
of day and boarding senior secondary students would be
45% and 69% respectively; and
d)   the labor force participation rate of JC, MCE 1/ and
1/   The Blantyre Population Sample Census in 1972 showed that 100% of both
male and female MCE holders, except those proceeding to further study,
participate in the labor market.



APPENDIX I
Page 8
degree holders would be 80%, 100% and 100% except those
who would proceed to the apprenticeship programs, teacher
training colleges and the University.
Given the above assumptions, it was calculated that net incremental outputs
of degree, MCE and JC holders for the 1975-80 and 1980-85 periods would be
900 and 1,000 (degree), 12,700 and 14,700 (MCE), and 10,900 and 11,900 (JC).
The comparatively small supply of JC holders is to be noted. This is partly
due to the increasing number of boarding secondary schools where the progres-
sion rate from grade 10 to grade 11 is as high as 90%. Adding the manpower
remaining from 1971 to the new supply, the available stock of HILMP in 1980
and 1985 is presented in Table 5.



APPENDIX 1
Page 9
Table 5
Supply and Available Stock of HILMP
New           Remaining /1              Total
Supply                 Stock         Available Stock
MS     Others /2       MS      Others /2
Senior Category
1975-80                      900
1980                                  2,290       2,300       3,190       3,200
1980-85                    1,000
1985                                  3,000       3,000       4,000       4,000
Intermediate Category
1975-80                   12,700
1980                                 19,200      19,800      31,900      32,500
1980-85                  14,700
1985                                 26,500      28,200      41,200      42,900
Skilled Category
1975-80                   10,900
1980                                 31,100      33,700      42,000      44,600
1980-85                   11,900
1985                                 35,000      38,900      46,900      50,800
Total HILMP
1975-80                  24,500
1980                                 52,590      55,800      77,090      80,300
1980-85                  27,600
1985                                 64,500      70,100      92,100      97,700
/1    This stock includes expatriates, i.e., 1320 for senior category, 2500
for intermediate categorv, and 4200 for skilled category.
/2    The estimates made under assumptions A to D.



APPENDIX I
Page 10
7.        The available stock of HILMP is compared in Table 6 with the required
numbers of HILMP derived under different assumptions. Although the extent of
the supply-requirement disparity differs among the projections, l/ it is
apparent that Malawi would suffer from a HILMP shortage in the coming decade.
As possible measures to cope with this HILMP shortage, the following may be
taken into consideration:
a)   to accelerate the enrollment expansion rates at all
levels of the education system;
b)   to improve the internal efficiency by reducing the rates
of the dropouts and repeaters, and by increasing the
pass rates in the school leaving examinations;
c)   to ease the rigid assumption made for the occupation-
education matrix. It is unrealistic to assume that it
is a necessary qualification for all the office or skilled
workers to have a Junior Secondary Certificate, i.e., 10 years
of schooling; and
d)   to put greater emphasis on the development and improvement
of all forms of non-formal training.
1/   The difference of 2 to 4 times is observed in the shortages of three
categories of occupations, especially between the projections by the
1971 MS and by the C set of assumptions.



Table 6
Comparisons of Available and Required Stocks
Available Stock                      Required Stock                                                                HILMP Shortage
MS /1  Others /2     MS        A          B         C         D      --     MS                    A                    B                    C
MS  /2(l)z (2)/4    (1)        (2)       (1)       (2)       (1)        (2)       (1)        (2)
Sr. Category
1980                  3,190      3,200      4,550     3,800     3,570      3,400     4,100     1,360     1,350        610       600       380        370       210       200        910       900
1985                  4,000     4,000       7,560     5,150     4,690     4,600      5,500     3,560     3,560      1,150     1,150       690        690       600        600     1,500     1,500
Int. Category
1980                 31,900    32,500      51,900    43,600    40,200    36,100    41,400    20,000    19,400    11,700    11,100       8,300      7,700     4,200     3,600      9,500     8,900
1985                 41,200    42,900    108,100    64,400    56,900    46,600    58,700   b6,900    65,200    23,200    21,500    15,700    14,000          5,400     3,700    17,500    15,800
Skilled Category
1980                 42,000    44,600    125,300   103,400    94,100    67,400    97,400    83,300    80,700    61,400    58,800    52,100    49,500    25,400    22,800    55,400    52,800
1985                 46.900    50,800    284,400   165,800   143,500    88,600   151,800   237,500   233,600   118,900   115,000    96,600    92,700    41,700    37,800   104,900   101,000
Total HILMP
1980                 77,090    80,300    181,750   150,800   137,870   106,900   142,900   104,660   101,450    73,710    70,500    60,780    57,570    29,810    26,600    65,810    62,600
1985                 92,100    97,700    400,060   235,350   205,090   139,800   216,000   307,960   302,360   143,250   137,650   112.990   107.390    47,700    42.100   123,900   118.300
/1 MS = Manpower survey.
/2 Others = Projections made under assumptions A, B, C and D.
/ta
/3 Compared with the MS available stock.                                                                                                                                                              -v
A~ compared with others available stock.



APPENDIX II
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
The Education and Training System
Historical Background
1.        Prior to Independence in 1964, Malawi had no well-defined education
system. The missions built a few scattered schools, mostly at the primary
level, but there was no educational plan and the Government provided little
support. This lack of attention to education is reflected today in the low
proportion of "educated" people in the total population. In the "over-40-
years" age group only 1% has had eight years of education and only 5% have
had even five years of schooling. The literacy rate of 25% is another in-
dication of this past neglect. Since Independence educational development
has had high priority. In 1975 there were 606,000 enrolled in primary schools
and 14,000 in secondary schools (Chart 1 and Annex 2). Although a large
number of the schools are operated under mission auspices, most of these are
under direct Government control and supervision. The Government appoints the
teachers, pays the salaries and designates the curricula for all of the
schools. The Government, therefore, is now in a position to implement a
program of major improvement throughout the system.
Administration
2.        The Ministry of Education (MOE) has administrative, financial and
academic control of primary, secondary, technical education, and the teacher
training system and for the Malawi Correspondence College. The MOE also has
nominal responsibility for the University of Malawi and the Polytechnic
Institute but both of these are, in reality, autonomous institutions (Chart 2).
3.        In addition to the educational institutions administered by the MOE,
there are education/training programs operated by other Ministries, such as
Health, Works, Agriculture and Community Development.
4.        There are approximately 12,000 teachers in the formal educational
system, almost all of whom are paid by Government. The central staff of the
MOE totals about 200, 90 of whom are at the professional level. Generally
speaking, it is an efficient and well-organized Ministry supported by a
strong inspectorate and an active District staff.
5.        There are two primary school teacher training colleges under the
direct control of the MOE, each with an enrollment of about 500. In addition,
there are six small colleges operated under mission auspices. These colleges
are small and uneconomic and the Government plans gradually to phase them out



APPENDIX II
Page 2
and replace them as funds become available. Secondary school teachers are
trained at Chancellor College of the University of Malawi. Technical school
teachers are trained at the Polytechnic.
6.        The MOE has developed an active and effective inspectorate staffed
with trained personnel which have close links with the teacher training pro-
gram and with the District Education Officer staff. The Planning Section of
the MOE works closely with all of the other Sections and is a strong force
for continuing change and improvement in the education system.
7.        The MOE has no direct connection with the various adult education
programs operated by other Ministries. The fact that there is no agency
responsible for the planning and coordination of these diverse efforts has
resulted in wasteful and confusing duplications, and the MOE is now to play
a major role in planning and programming these efforts. The Malawi Corres-
pondence College, which is primarily concerned with in-service teacher
training, continuing education and school broadcasting, will expand its
services to include adult programs and, in addition, the MOE plans to set
up a Rural Education Center for adults in each District. These Centers
will coordinate the adult education programs and serve as focal points for
other rural development activities.
Structure
8.        The school year runs from October to August.  Primary education
begins at age six and consists of two cycles (grades 1 to 5 and 6 to 8).
While the primary school cycle is longer than advisable, reductions are not
possible at this time (para. 12). There is a large number of overage
students and the repetition rate is high (18% p.a.). The dropout rate is
also high averaging over 40% in the recent past but is now declining. One
factor contributing to the high dropout rate is that school fees double
after grade 5. In addition, the grade 5 examination acts as a further bar
to progression. The four year secondary school course is comprised of two
years to the Junior Certificate level and the second two years to the Malawi
(Senior) Certificate of Education (MCE) level. One school offers grades
13 and 14 for the Cambridge Higher School Certificate (CHSC). This
Certificate qualifies students for entry in overseas universities. All
of the school examinations, except for the CHSC, are prepared and administered
by the Government Examinations Advisory Council.
9.        Entry qualifications for vocational, nursing, primary teachers and
agricultural demonstrator training, require at least a Junior Certificate.
These are all two-year programs. Post-secondary education includes techni-
cian training, T-2 level primary teacher training, secondary teacher training,
agriculture diploma and degree training and the university. In 1975 there
were 1,200 enrolled in the university and 320 enrolled in universities
overseas.



APPENDIX II
Page 3
General Education
10.       Primary education (grades 1-5 and 6-8) is conducted in Chichewa
(or the local language) through grade 4 and in English thereafter. Total
enrollment in 1974-75 was 606,000 and represented 56% of the relevant age
group (6 to 14 including some overage students). Enrollment growth has
averaged about 13.0% p.a. for the last five years. Thirty-six percent of
the total enrollment in primary schools were girls. About 75% of the schools
are Government assisted. The central Government pays teachers' salaries and
local government provides grants for operating expenses. School construction
is the responsibility of the local communities.
11.       There are 2,000 schools and the average enrollment is about 265,
but there are wide variations in average enrollments among the Districts.
The planned student/teacher ratio is 50:1 although the present rate is
slightly above this figure. Of the present 11,000 teachers about 20% do
not have the proper qualifications by MOE standards. Present standards
require two years of teacher training after junior secondary education (T3
level) or two years after secondary education (T2 level). However, 300
teachers p.a. have been enrolled in the Malawi Correspondence College
in-service teacher training program for upgrading teachers to T3 and T2 levels,
and the number of unqualified teachers is declining. The Government also
plans to provide a third large teacher training college to supply the demand
for additional teachers to meet the needs of expansion. Eventually, this
new college, together with the two existing Government colleges, will eliminate
the need for the continuation of the missions' teacher training colleges which
now supply a large portion of the demand.
12.       In addition to the usual core courses and agriculture, the primary
school curriculum includes agriculture and domestic science in the upper
grades in most schools. Major changes have been made in the primary school
curriculum in recent years in an effort to bring the subject matter taught
more in line with the needs of the country. Since only 17% of the primary
school leavers have the opportunity to continue into secondary schools, it is
important that every possible effort be made for primary education to prepare
students for life and employment when they complete the primary school cycle.
Particular emphasis has been put on the revision of science and mathematics
courses since both are important for further education and also for preparing
students for life in a rural society. The MOE has experimented with several
primary school cycles and, in the past, has tried 5-3-5 and 7-4 year education
structure before adopting the present 5-3-4 year structure. The optimum length
of the primary cycle is still under review and is being given careful study.
A shorter cycle would be advisable but cannot be implemented at this time.
However, the design of the new mo(lel primary schools in blocks of two class-
room units provides the flexibility required to permit later adjustments.
13.       One of the principal weaknesses of the primary school system is in
the level of accommodations and school equipment provided by the villagers
themselves. The standards of design and furnishings are often not conducive



APPENDIX II
Page 4
to good educational practice. Because the villagers are often unable to provide
proper buildings constructed of good quality materials, the life of the
average school building is about five years. Desks, benches, blackboards and
other furnishings are often of poor quality or non-existent. In an effort to
assist villages to improve standards of construction, design and equipment,
the Government plans to build a model school in each District, with standard
design and equipment, which can be replicated by surrounding villages at costs
which the villages can afford.
14.       General secondary education has a total enrollment of 14,000 of which
25% are girls. There are 60 schools, 25 of which are boarding schools to cater
for the widely dispersed population. Because of cultural factors and poor
home conditions, the level of student achievement in the boarding schools is
far superior to that of the day school students. The completion rates are
above 90% in boarding schools and drop as low as 30% in day schools. Girls
are particularly responsive to these forces since 90% of the girls in boarding
schools complete the 4-year course while only about 25% complete the second-
ary school cycle in day schools, and only 10% pass the MCE examination.
15.       There are more than 700 teachers in the secondary schools, most
of whom are qualified at the diploma or degree level with 3 to 5 years of
post-secondary teacher training. As the teacher output increases the number
of expatriate teachers continues to decline. In 1974, 62% of these teachers
were Malawian while in 1966 less than 25% were Malawian.
16.       The secondary school curriculum is in the process of revision but,
in many schools, is still overly literary. In recent years, and with the
assistance of the first IDA education project (Credit 102-MAI) in 1967,
practical subjects have been introduced where facilities and teachers can be
provided. Major efforts are being made to bring the curriculum more into line
with Malawi's needs. Training in agriculture, woodwork, metalwork, commerce
and domestic science will soon be available in most schools. Appropriate
revisions in the secondary school teacher training curriculum are being
introduced. The output of school leavers from grade 12 is still well below
the needs of the labor market and the demand for qualified students to fill
post-secondary education places. These deficiencies are particularly notice-
able in the case of female school leavers because of the low completion rate
of girls in the day schools.
17.       Technical schools.  There are five technical schools, three of which
are private, which provide artisan training in a variety of trades. The entry
qualification is a Junior School Certificate. The two Government technical
schools, at Lilongwe and Soche, also provide full-time apprenticeship training
for 300 trainees in the building and engineering trades. In addition to these
schools, there are two Rural Training Centers operated under the Malawi Young
Pioneers program which offer one-year technical training courses in electrical,
construction, clerical, automotive and engineering skills. These programs
lead to acceptance into the apprenticeship plan with subsequent upgrading
possibilities through sandwich courses.



APPENDIX II
Page 5
18.       The Malawi Polytechnic, a division of the University of Malawi,
offers training in a variety of fields at the middle and higher levels.
Included are courses in business atudies, engineering, public health, labora-
tory techniques and technical teacher training. The Polytechnic also provides
in-service training for artisan apprentices to enable them to raise the level
of their craft certificates and to qualify for higher level employment. About
300 are enrolled in the regular one- to two-year programs and an additional 300
are enrolled in the short-course upgrading programs. A senior School Certifi-
cate is required for entry to mosi: of the regular courses. The output of the
Polytechnic is well below the demand for skilled employees and the institution
is being expanded under a bilateral agreement. The future role of the Poly-
technic is under review and recommendations for program revisions and ex-
pansion will be presented soon.
19.       The Government Staff Training College provides in-service training
for administrative officers, senior clerical officers and other specialized
occupations within the Government service. The higher level Government
employees receive their training through the Institute of Public Administr-
ation.
20.       Primary Teacher Training is conducted in two Government colleges
and six small mission-operated colleges. About 1,900 trainees are enrolled
in the two-year program. As summarized in para. 11 above, there are two
levels of certification: the T3 which requires two years of training following
the Junior Secondary Certificate and the T2 which requires two years of
training at the post-secondary level. Some teachers still remain in the
system with the old T4 qualification, which required two years of post-primary
training, but they are being retrained to the T3 level by the Malawi Correspond-
ence College in-service training program. Approximately 300 teachers are
enrolled in these programs each year.
21.       Secondary teacher training is conducted at Chancellor College of
the University of Malawi. This is either a three-year post-secondary diploma
course for junior secondary teachers or a five-year degree course for senior
secondary teachers. The present output is about 60 teachers p.a. Technical
teachers for secondary schools are taught at the Polytechnic in a two-year
post-secondary program. The output is about 20 teachers p.a.
22.       The University of Malawi has an enrollment of about 1,200 and offers
diploma and degree courses in various fields including liberal arts, social
studies, science, law and education. Engineering studies are done at the
Polytechnic. The expansion plans for the University are geared to the needs
for high-level manpower.
23.       Agricultural Colleges.  The Bunda College of the University of
Malawi had an enrollment of 270 in 1975, at both the diploma and degree levels,
and plans to expand to 350 by 1980. Most of the present output is absorbed
by the Government and the needs of both the public and the private sectors
in agriculture are expected to continue to expand. Discussions are underway



APPENDIX II
Page 6
with USAID to finance this planned expansion. Colby College, under the
MANR, provides agricultural training at the technician level. Plans are
underway to expand and improve this College and DANIDA has expressed interest
in funding this expansion.
Nonformal Education
24.       Adult education in Malawi consists of a wide variety of programs,
carried on separately by a number of Ministries and agencies but without any
coordinated plan. This lack of coordination and planning has resulted in
expensive and confusing duplications of programs and has reduced the effective-
ness of these training efforts. Nevertheless, the net result is a series of
programs which trains an impressive number of adults each year to reasonable
standards. The Government is aware of the benefits which might be gained by
improved coordination, and the recently created National Council for Education
and Training is exploring means by which improved planning can be achieved.
25.       The MOE has had little direct responsibility for adult education but
plays a major role in the activities of the National Council. As a first
step toward taking an active part in this field, the MOE has recently completed
plans to construct 22 Rural Education Centers, one in each District. These
Centers will become the focal points for all adult education in the country
and will make it possible for the diverse programs to share staff and facilities
and to plan and schedule these activities in a more productive manner. Among
the on-going adult education programs to be included are:
Ministry or Agency                    Training Programs
1. Community Development and            Community development leaders, home-
Social Welfare                      craft, health, nutrition, child care,
literacy, etc.
2.  Health                              Health assistants, health inspectors,
nurses, paramedics, rural health
training.
3.  Agriculture and Natural             Veterinary technicians, fisheries
Resources                           agents, agriculture extension agents,
agriculture degree programs, forestry
agents, farmer training centers, rural.
nutrition, etc.
4.  Ministry of Youth and               Technical, agricultural and clerical
Culture                             programs within the Malawi Young
Pioneers program.



APPENDIX II
Page 7
Ministry or Agency                      Training Programs
5. Malawi Broadcasting                   Adult and formal school educational
Corporation                          broadcasts.
6.  Malawi Library Service               A mobile lending library with national
coverage.
7.  Labor                                Apprentice program, leadership training,
etc.
8.  Transportation and                   Auto repair, postal and telegraph
Communications                       training, etc.
9.  Works and Supplies                   Artisan and technician training
10.  Missions                             Handicraft, homecraft, artisan and
agricultural training.
11.  The Malawi Correspondence            In-service teacher training, corres-
College                              pondence courses for Junior and Senior
Secondary School Certificates, etc.
26.       Community Development Programs.  The activities and programs under
the auspices of the Ministry of Community Development and Social Welfare
(MCDSW) have proliferated rapidly in recent years. As originally conceived,
these programs were confined only to the area of community development methods,
but the scope has widened considerably. They are now providing training in
health, nutrition, child care, homecraft and literacy, as well as in the
training of community leaders and cooperative management. These courses,
while useful, duplicate the efforts of other Ministries, particularly in areas
such as health, nutrition and chiLd care. The Ministry operates several
centers concerned with the training of instructors, field agents and village
leaders. They are responsible for the adult literacy program and annually
enroll more than 5,000 students. About 200 literacy instructors are trained
each year.
27.       Health Training.  The health services of Malawi are expanding at a
rapid rate. The Ministry of Health administers several training programs
designed to meet its staffing needs and to provide the mass education required
to provide the population at large with the elements of preventive medicine.
There are three levels of nursing training with an annual output of 120.
About 20 health assistants (paramedics) and 20 health inspectors are trained
each year.  About ten pharmacy assistants are trained each year and similar
number of laboratory assistants. These programs provide for the minimum
staffing requirements for the Ministry. A recent WHO study recommended the
establishment of network and "primary health centers" to provide preventive as
well as curative services for the population. This recommendation was



APPENDIX II
Page 8
accepted and the Government has begun to establish health clinics throughout
the country. These clinics not only provide treatment and advice but also
provide basic health and nutrition education for the rural population. Malawi
has several major disease control problems including tuberculosis, bilharzia,
leprosy and malaria.
28.       Agricultural Training.  Malawi's agricultural extension service is
one of the best-staffed in Africa. At present the national ratio of extension
agents to adult farmers is 1:2000, with many districts as low as 1:250. The
goal for the national average is 1:500. The extension staff is trained at
Colby College and the professional staff at Bunda College. In addition
to the extension program, there are 22 residential Farmer Training Centers
and 3 Farm Institutes. The Centers can accommodate 30 farmers and the
Institutes 100 for one week to one month courses. These facilities can
cater for about 80,000 farmers each year. In addition to training in basic
agricultural methods, specialized courses in animal husbandry, fisheries,
marketing and nutrition are also offered. The major effort of the MANR will
be the National Rural Development Program which will include a continuing
series of development projects, involving groups of small farmers in co-
operative farm development, introduction of modern concepts and techniques
and combining resettlement schemes, credit and marketing services and other
inputs to improve productivity. Most of these schemes will be staffed to
provide farmer training consonant with the objectives of the individual
project. About 25% of all farm families are involved in agricultural de-
velopment projects now and it is planned to reach 65% by 1985. The results
to date are encouraging.
29.       Malawi Young Pioneers.  This is one of the more effective African
programs attempting to deal with the primary school leaver problem. Most
African countries have attempted similar programs but they have not been
successful and all have been too costly to replicate extensively. The Malawi
program has an annual enrollment of 3,000 boys and girls aged 15-19 in a one-
year training program. Thirteen thousand have completed the training in the
last five years and 60% of these have gone into farming or have found wage
employment. The majority of the students are enrolled at 20 agricultural
training bases and successful students are provided with farm plots on com-
pleting the course. In addition, there are two Centers that train artisans
in construction, farm mechanics, auto repair, woodworking, metalworking,
and commercial skills. About 600 trainees are enrolled in one-year courses in
these Centers. On completion, they join the apprentice program and continue
their training with sandwich courses.
30.       Apprentice Program.  This is a well-organized program under the
Ministry of Labor. It covers a five year period and requires repeated
sandwich training courses followed by trade tests at the various levels. The
annual entry rate to the apprentice program in 1974 was 600 and this will
increase to 1,000 by 1980. There are about 6,000 registered apprentices,
at the present time, employed in 12 different trades. The program is well
planned and controlled.



APPENDIX II
Page 9
31.       In-service Training.  Several of the Ministries, most notably the
Ministries of Works, Transportation and Communication, have regular in-service
programs to train artisans and technical personnel for higher level positions.
Several hundred employees are enrolled in these courses. The Post and
Communications Training Department will soon be moving into a large modern
Training Center provided under the first IDA education project.
32.       Supporting Programs.  In addition to these specialized training
programs, there are several general programs which provide additional support.
Among these there are: (a) the Malawi Broadcasting Corporation which provides
educational broadcasts and special programs on health, nutrition and farming;
(b) the Malawi Library Service which provides a nationwide, mobile, lending
library service; and (c) the Malawi Correpondence College which provides
upgrading training for 300 teachers p.a. and correspondence course for the
various school certificates for about 6,000 p.a. The correspondence courses
are augmented by 25 Extension Centers where students can get direct assistance
from teachers.
33.       Mission Training Centers.  Many of the mission schools have supple-
mented their school facilities with training institutes of various types.
Among the skills taught are auto mechanics, building trades, and handicraft,
weaving, leatherwork and lapidary techniques. Many of these are excellent
institutions and are successful in training youths for rural employment.
Sources of Finance
34.       Primary Education.  By the Education Ordinance issued in 1962, the
local education authority in each of the 24 District Councils is responsible
for the collection of school fees and physical construction of primary
schools. The local authority administers primary schools financed by local
funds raised from fees, a small additional amount from the sale of students'
needlework products and the grants from the Government.
35.       Annual school fees are charged differently as shown below for the
students in the urban and rural areas and also by grade:
Urban      Rural
Grades 1 - 5                   MK3.00      MK1.50
Grades 6 - 8                   MK6.00      MK3.50
Several considerations which lead to this urban-rural differential in fees
include: (i) the urban-rural income disparity; (ii) the policy to discourage
urban migration of youth; and (iii) an attempt to compensate for the con-
tribution of the rural labor to school construction through self-help schemes
which take place mostly in the rural areas. The funds from school fees are



APPENDIX II
Page 10
generally used to pay for the expenses incurred in administration, transport,
texbooks, equipment and maintenance. 1/ The cost of textbooks and equipment
takes about 85% of the locally raised funds.
36.       The Government assists the local education authorities in the form
of grants and subventions which cover the payment of teachers' salaries, which
amount to more than 90% of the total cost of assisted primary schools. In
1975/76 it is estimated that out of the total assisted primary education
expenditure of MK5.1 million, MK4.9 million will be financed by the Government.
37.       The expenditure incurred for primary school building construction
is undertaken by local communities on a self-help basis with some assistance
from District Councils. In the urban areas there are some exceptional cases
in which the Government finances school construction. Little is known,
however, of the details of capital expenditures on primary education.
38.       The unassisted primary schools are almost fully financed by school
fees, but little information is available on the cost and financing of these
schools.
39.       Secondary Education and University.  All recurrent and capital
expenditures of government secondary schools are financed by the Government.
The unassisted schools which are run by either Catholic or Protestant
denominations which are responsible for financing the physical construction of
the schools, as well as the payment of teachers' salaries. The annual tuition
fee is MK15.0 for day and boarding students. A secondary school boarding
student pays NK35.0, including the cost of boarding. The fees of Government
schools are collected by the Government, while assisted schools collect the
fees themselves.
40.       The University of Malawi is supported by the Government in the form
of grants and subventions to cover recurrent expenditure. Capital expenditures
are financed by the Government and by foreign assistance.
Expenditure on Education and Training
41.       Total Expenditure.  The actual and estimated expenditure in 1970/71
and 1975/76 is summarized as follows:
1t   In 1974/75 the expenditure of local authorities on those items was
estimated at about MK 0.18 million.



APPENDIX II
Page 11
(MK Million)                      % increase
1970/'71                  1975/76         p.a. 1970-75
Rec.   Cap. /1 Total   Rec.  Cap./1 Total   Recurrent
Ministry of Education   7.96    2.85   10.81   11.87   1.79  13.66    8.3
Others                    3.44      -      3.44    4.45    -       4.45    5.3
Total Exp. on Ed. &
Training               11.40      -     11.40   16.32    -    16.32    7.5
Total Gov't Exp.         46.95   35.17   82.12   75.95  63.62 139.57   10.1
MOE as % of Total
Gov't Exp.             16.9     8.1    13.2    15.6    2.8    9.8          -
Total Ed. Exp. as %
of Total Gov't Exp.  24.3        -        -      21.5      -      -
/1   Includes government and foreign sources.
During the 1970-75 period, the recurrent expenditure of the Ministry of
Education increased at an annual average rate of 8.3% while that of the
Government grew at a higher rate of 10.1%. The recurrent expenditure of
the Ministry of Education as a percentage of the total Government recurrent
expenditure declined slightly froa 16.9% to 15.6% over the same period. The
share of the total expenditure on education and training also decreased
from 24.3% to 21.5%. In 1974 the total expenditure on education and training,
including both recurrent and capital, accounted for 3.1% of GDP.
42.       Ministry of Education.  The percentage distribution of the actual
and estimated recurrent expenditure of the Ministry of Education is shown
below, by function, for the years of 1970/71 and 1975/76:
Adm.                       Tech.    Malawi   Univ.
&   Prim. Sec.  Teach.   Voc.    Corres.    of             T o t a 1
gen.  Ed.  Ed.   Trg.    Sp. Ed.  College  Malawi   %    MK Million
1970/71   6.0  42.3  18.1   4.4        2.0      1.7      25.5   100.0       7.96
1975/76   7.8  43.4  17.9   4.3        1.7      1.8      23.1   100.0    11.87
The largest proportion of expendit:ure was incurred in primary education which
amounted to more than 40%. When the expenditures on primary and secondary
education are combined with that ior the University of Malawi, they account
for about 85% of the total expenditure of the Ministry of Education. Also



APPENDIX II
Page 12
it is noted that there has not been any significant change in the allocation
pattern of the Ministry's budget over the 5-year period except for a slight
increase in the proportion expended on primary education and a decrease in
the proportion of the University of Malawi expenditures.
43.       Teachers' Salaries.  As in most other countries, teachers' salaries
constitute the largest share of education expenses. Almost 80% of the
expenditure is for salary payment. A primary school teacher at the average
salary scale receives about 7 to 8 times more than the per capita income.
The salary scales are listed below for primary school teachers with dif-
ferent qualifications:
(Malawi Kwacha)
T2     T3      T4       T5     Temporary
Minimum         495    390      342     222         65
Average         576    762     606       -          -
Maximum        1359    981      630     276         65
T2 teachers are evaluated after four years of service (an efficiency bar)
and if they pass (almost automatic), they receive an increase to MK630. The
table above shows that T2 teachers' average salary is lower than that of T3's.
This is because of seniority. Most of T2 teachers came into service in the
last 5 years while the majority of T3 teachers started their service in the
late 1950s. T3 teachers take an efficiency bar after eight years of service
and receive an "automatic" increase to MK630. There is no efficiency bar
for T4 teachers.
44.       It is further observed that significant differences exist in the
starting salary by qualification. For instance, T2 teachers receive about
1.5 times as much as T4 teachers and 1.3 times as much as T3 teachers at their
entrance into service. This has a direct effect on the cost of primary educa-
tion since the number of T2 teachers is increasing. Financial implications
of these salary scales need to be carefully evaluated in the teacher training
policy. In 1973/74, the unit cost of primary education was estimated at about
MK11.8, but it is likely to increase because of the salary structure of
teachers and a possible lowering of the pupil/teacher ratio.



APPENDIX II
Page 13
45.       The salary scale for government and assisted secondary school
teachers is shown below:
(Malawi Kwacha)
Degree Holder            Diploma Holder
E T3       E T2    E Tl /1
Minimum           1587            1038       1587    2145
Maximum           3780            1521       2074    1709
/1   ET stands for executive teachers grouped in three levels by seniority.
A degree holder teacher is called a professional education officer whose
average salary ranges from MK1921 to MK2268; that of an executive teacher, (a
diploma holder) ranges from 11K(266 to MK1521. In 1974/75 grants for salaries
and wages for assisted schools accounted for about 76% of the total secondary
school expenditure.
Future Education Expenditure
46.       The Government's three-year development plan for the 1975/76 - 1977/78
period calls for the total capital investment of MK171.2 million, 75% of which
depends upon foreign assistance. The Ministry of Education's share will be
about 3% of the total expected investment.
47.       Given the Ministry of Finance's conservative projection that the
Government recurrent expenditure will increase at an annual average rate
of 5% (at constant prices), the share of total education and training
expenditure would increase from the present 21% to 24% by 1985/86. This
rise is partly related to the conservative nature of the forecast of the
Ministry of Finance. The Ministry's expenditure is now permitted to grow
at the rate of 10% p.a. (excluding the University of Malawi which is allowed
to increase only by 5% p.a.). But if the Ministry's average rate of
increase were maintained at 7% p.a. for the next dacade, the Ministry's share
in the total Central Government recurrent expenditure would rise from the
current 15.6% to 18.0% by 1985/86, which compares favorably with other
African countries.



REPUBLIC CF MAALAwI
SEICOIID EDUCATIOiN PROJECT
ZmpioymentZL Structure by Sector, 19M1-74
1971                    1972                      1973                      1974
No.         %            No.         %             No.         %            No.         %
Agriculture, Forestry           57400      33.3          63700       33.6          76300       35.4          77500       34.8
and Fishing
Manufacturing                   21800      12.6          23200       12.2          25600       11.9          26600      11.9
Mining and Construction        18400       10.7          19000       10.0          21900       10.2          23700      10.6
Transport, Power,               11300       6.6          12200        6.4          13400        6.2          13800        6.3
Utilities, etc.
Distribution and               15200        8.8          17300        9.2          20200        9.4          22800      10.2
Finance
Other Services                  48300      28.0          54200       28.6          57900       26.9          58500       26.2
Total
Private                    119500       69.3         130500       68.9         150100      69.7         157000       70.4
Gov-t                        52800      30.7          59000       31.1          65200       30.3          66100       29.6
Grand Total                    172300     100.0         189600      100.0         215300      100.0         223100      100.00
Total
Agr.                        57400       33.3          63700       33.6          76300       35.4           n.a.      n.a.
Non-Agr.                   114900       66.7         125800       66.4         139100       64.6
Total
Male                       159200       92.3         174200       91.7         193900       89.9           n.a.      n.a.
Female                      13300        7.7          15700        8.3          21900       10.1
L   Paid workers in the enterprises employing 20 and more.  Additional 300,000 are estimated in smaller enterDrises.
Besides, there are about 275,000 working in the neighboring countries,
Source:   NSO, Statistical Yearbook 1974 and Office of President & Cibinet.
May 1975.



REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Past and Projected Primary and Secondary Enrollment
1970/71       1972/73       1974/75        1980/81        1985/86            Average  %  increase p1a.
Primary Education
Grade          1                 98,200       148,900       190,000        227,000         263,100
2                 66,200        95,100       119,300        172,100         199,400
3                 53,900        67;8Q0        92 9g0        141,800         164,400
4                 41,000        47,300        62,800        109,200         117,600
5                 32,400        37,400        43,900         89,400         103,600
6                 23,000        28,400        32,600         68,700          79,700
7                 20,400        23,700        27,500         62,900         72,800
8                 27,500        32,800        37,100         35,800         92,200
Total                           362,600       481,400       606,100        936,900       1,092,800             13.7              5.6
Of which Assisted Schools       321,900       436,400       543,600        848,300         998,800
Unassisted Schools               40,700        45,000        62,500          88,600        103,200
Secondary Education
Grade          9                  3,800         4,100         4,300          5,100           8,100
10                  3,700         4,100         4,300          5,600          8,000
11                  2,200         2,700         2,700          4,000           5,000
12                  2,000         2,500         2,900          4,000          4,900
Total                            11,700        13,400        14,200          18,700         26,000              4.8              5.7
Source:  Ministry of Education and Bank Group staff estimates.
September 1975



REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Actual and Projected Enrollment at the University of Malawi
1973/74    1975/76    1977/78       1979/80     1985/86
Chancellor College
Total                590         610         730         790         1200
Bunda College
Degree                50          70          40          60           80
Diploma              160         200         290         290          360
Total                210         270         330         350          440
Polytechnic
Total                300         310         390         420          600
University
Total               1100        1190        1450        1560        2240
/1       The University's Committee projected the enrollment on the basis that the
total enrollment would increase by 45% over the 1973/74 and 1979/80 period.
The Bank staff extended the projection assuming that the 1973/74 enrollment
would double by 1985/86.
Sources: Report of the University of Malawi Manpower Assessment Committee and Bank
staff estimate.
May 1975.



REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Teacher Requirement and Supply. 1975-85
Primary Education
(Assisted Schools)
R e q u i r e m e n t                                              S u p p   y
Additional, 1975 - 85                              Additional, 1975-85
For                    For Replacement
1975     1985      Expansion    Attrition    of Unqualified        Total          T2       T3        Total  1/
Enrollment                           544,000   999,000
Pupil/Teacher ratio                        50        50
Teachers                               10,900    20,000      9,100         2,200           3,200           14,500       4,200    5,100        9,300
SECONDARY EDUCATION
R e q u i r e m e n t                                          S u p p I y
Additional, 1975 - 85                          Additional, 1975 - 85
For                    For Replacement
1975     1985      Expansion    Attrition    of Expatriates        Total        Degree    Diploma   Total
Enrollment                             14,200   26,000
Pupil/Teacher ratio                        20       25
Teachers                                  710    1,040         330           130             270            730            380      250        630
1/    Of these total, 1200 T2 and 600 T3 teachers are expected to be provided from the Mzuzu Teacher Training College                                         Z
included in the proposed project,  They do not include in-service teacher training which at present retrains an average
of about 300 unqualified teachers p.a.
Sources:    Ministry of Education and Bank Group staff estimates.
May 1975.



REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Central Government Recurrent Expenditure on Education and Training, 1970/71 - 1985/86
(Mk '000s)
Actual                     Rev. Est,   Estimate           Proiected              % increase p. a.
1970/71 / 1971/72   1972/73   1973/74    1974/75         1975/76    1980/81        1985/86      1970-75    1975-85
A.   Total Gov't Expenditure            46,945    50,461    56,063    61,733         72,885       75,946      97,500      124,400         10.1        5.0
B.   Total Expenditure on
Education and Training             11,398    11,838    12,812    13,426        15,222        16,317      22,000       30,100         7.5        6.3
i)  Ministry of Education           7,957      8,541      9,267    10,023      11,271       11.866       17,000       22,400         8.3        6.6
ii) Other Ministries/
Departments/Agencies           3,441      3,297      3,545      3,403       3,951        4,451       5,000         7,700         5.3        5.7
C.   MOE Expenditure as % of
Total Gov't Expenditure             16.9       16.9       16.5       16.2        15.5         15.6        17.4         18.0           -          -
D.   Total Education & Training
Expenditure as 7% of
Total Gov't Expenditure             24.3       23.5       22.9       21.7        20.9         21.5        22.6         24.2           -          _
L   The 1970/71 covers from January 1970 to March 1971 due to change in the fiscal year.
Sources: Ministry of Finance and Bank staff estimates.
May 1975



ANNEX 6
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Cost by Type of Expenditure
MK (million)               US$ (million)            % of
Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total       Total
1. Civil Works (buildings/
site works)
(a) Teaching and Communal    1.74    1.43    3.17          2.09    1.71    3.80         35
(b) Boarding                   1.06    0.86    1.92        1.27    1.04    2.31         22
(c) Staff Housing              0.73    0.60    1.33        0.88    0.71    1.59         15
Sub-total (a - c)       3.53    2.89    6.42         4.24    3.46    7.70         72
(d) Professional Services    0.34    0.22    0.56          0.40    0.27    0.67          6
2. Furniture                     0.24    0.30    0.54        0.29    0.35    0.64
3. Equipment                     0.08    0.73    0.81        0.10    0.88    0.98          9
4. Technical Assistance          0.08    0.34    0.42        0.10    0.40    0.50          4
5. Project Administration        0.15    0.07    0.22        0.18    0.09    0.27          3
(including equipment,
vehicles, vehicle operat-
ing costs and pre-
investment studies)            -        -                                              _
Total Baseline Cost              4.42    4.55    8.97        5.31    5.45   10.76        100
(September 1975,
negotiation date)
6. Contingencies
(a) Unforeseen events (9%)   0.42    0.38    0.80          0.50    0.46    0.96
(b) Price increase (28%)       1.38    1.35    2.73        1.68    1.60    3.28
Sub-total (a - b)       1.80    1.73    3.53         2.18    2.06    4.24
TOTAL PROJECT COST (1 - 6)       6.24    6.26   12.50        7.49    7.51   15.00
September 1975



.. . .... ....~~~~~~~~99999999
fi!          7m             799              D977            9999tV9-                                                7U         7977F9!    7
-7-1                                                                                                vw77 nf  nl  nr.  9799999     i
797977       .                                                                        -Tf -  7977  99  9997 77999  7999  797             7I7
mi  z~~~~~  9~~~7  ny  cyiz  -ni  fly                    999                                                                                                                                                                                                        9999999~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eeT-
-  99*9  0.999  7977*  7977997  ii9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9&99*  79997  999792    799999  9 999  99992  99999                                                                                                            9979~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... ....
-gl        YU                                                                                                                                                                      m1           T - I 9979  .99  .79 99999 9 9..999 9 9....99 9779  99r 999                                                                        . (9999 .99
7997-m979                                    --.a              7             7'!        OW            -                             -          -
797                  '9'-                                            9l             fy                                                                 -w 9 9.o9 999T
*999  9*99  99*      -                -                 -             -~         ~     ~     ~        ~       ~     ~     ~     ~ -               T99999999999    999  
'7 177 9    9     9                               9*                99              99        9999.                         99       9999        999       799L               99                          9            799       99              *-9       99999






a                                                                             +                     
i  0       +                    ++1+                                          t                I         -zo
.~~~~~~-                                         'V                      +++|~o
s  ++   +              ++                       +                 i        _',             ol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
__ .                            _O   _'                                                                                  ___a
4'          i5                                         9           :            tI                         -o
c                                                                               aa               a n                       o
3 e   g |  g   ++ s  z   +t |  t                  Z  i             i                         ol   r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a? 
99 _t                                          *04                      a  a Ca                          
a                                                          aO                       0   0S0   .5:   
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40                                                     O  .a  .                                             '  O 0  0
a            <    ~       F                                        40                    a,  a- nsgtoO9vvi             - 
. ~                                                                                                                                      --  aa O-- 
a.H   a                                                       a    -i                                             - f                    r8:
AN  .                             oS                So,  '            '                          .,    S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4' 
s~~~~~~~~~~~~ a.                                                                                                 - _a.
19        *9                              a                                    
- a                    a                                                      a S: u YD _a  _ =O   eo     o
aa                    a.f S      a                  a         a  U =+0 UM          
=     a           a                     H                                               a             sSu_ _u;.        
30~~~ ~ *                      a *  2a 2s     c**=   mo                                 l        >     
a             a                                                                            ___-






ANNEX 9
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Implementation Unit's Staff and Cost
(Length of Operations - 5 years)
Total                 Total Cost
Type of Staff                         Man-years           MK              US$
1. Technical Assistance:
1 Project Architect                   5             166,700          200,000
2 Assistant ArchitectsLi              5             166,700          200,000
1 Quantity SurveyorLA                 2              66,700           80,000
1 Procurement Specialist              0.5            16,600           20,000
Sub-total                       12.5           416,700         500,000
2. Local Staff:
1 Project Manager                     5              20,600           24,700
1 Accountant                          5              17,000           20,400
1 Executive Officer                   5              10,000           12,000
1 Clerk                               5               5,000            6,000
1 Typist                              5              10,000           12,000
3 Drivers                            15              10,000           12,000
1 Messenger                           5               1,800            2,200
Sub-total                       45              74,400          89,300
3. Equipment
3 four-wheel drive vehicles,             )
Office equipment (typewriter,            )           40,000           48,000
dublicator, photocopy machine, etc.) )
4. Operational Costs
Stationery, petroleum,                  )
maintenance of vehicles, etc.            )           27,000           32,300
TOTAL COST                     558,100          669,600
/1 Services requested through UNDP.
September 1975



ANNEX 10
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
Accumulated         Undisbursed
Quarter!l            Disbursements         Disbursements           Balance
1                      -                     -                  11.60
2                     0.09                  0.09                 11.51
3                     0.09                  0.18                 11.42
4                     0.10                  0.28                 11.32
5                     0.54                  0.82                 10.78
6                     0.70                  1.52                 10.08
7                     0.90                  2.42                  9.18
8                     0.90                  3.32                  8.28
9                     1.02                  4.34                  7.26
10                      1.02                 5.36                  6.24
11                     1.02                  6.38                  5.22
12                     1.02                  7.40                  4.20
13                     0.90                  8.30                  3.30
14                     0.90                  9.20                  2.40
15                     0.68                  9.88                  1.72
16                     0.68                 10.56                  1.04
17                     0.36                 10.92                  0.68
18                     0.35                 11.27                  0.33
19                     0.33                 11.60
20                      -                   11.60
/t Starting from date of effectiveness.
September 1975



St     199691396    I              ISGGOB                                                                  "I
66~~~~~~~~~~~~~)6'))669
SI) L96BGB.                                                                            B-66)G6GB   L999'6     
St ~ ~    ~     ~    ~                         BGO6BOLLBG'B9-                                                                                                                      699661'G
B   B)              B                (B~~~~~~C                     0             0)               G               9               I          1 9                                  .0'                                               66
r  01  (9            (9               B             lB             BC              B)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  B)          B)       LI      B          BB9                                                                                                                        IT LTB
It  GB   09                            BB            99               B               B)            B)       99      LB          99                    9                                               959d      A61B996
(96.0) )BO-G)     9B9-l')          (El'))               ..LGB     (:-C          1109            OBBB)             IB9            B-)9BG(B9)0'9B   )                             (6))                                                                   B9
99  B9         99               B)               GB~~~~~~~~   C              B..              B)                                     SCB  B 9               1L                                                                616B9G6=
LB  9GB  GB       LB            GB              B             GOB               B)              -      B)      G           96)              BOB             BBB            LB          I9GB'B'B'A'6ITS
B      AZ              SGO                GB              B: B                                        1s0                             O       BB      BB          9)B)                              BB             L          BO        B    6B96           9
-.      l               LB               GEC                                          IBBB                             )               9       G       0          BB                B9             GB1            99      ~     B                        
SBt                                                '            B              ''            6)                B9           IB BZ'                         O                   '            B             BB B G BBB O OL                          0
I  91      GOB                                B             BO~~~~~~~~~~~~A  .B..l                                         B       L        B           '                  B          69               UB          91             BBBB   G
B  GOB   '''  L  B)  GB  LOB              B)               - -           B)          B')                B')          99)             99         )9BB                  OGG19'BG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .    ..   ..
GB  BBO  '''                               '''            BOG               LB                                       99GB                 BB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!C.14  BOOI  B'         . )6            TB6GB6        BB
GO              9                 L              B               )            l                B                G            I        B       GB..'LB.GB                                 66)                Lt        IG
B  LI  9GB  GB             B             GO            IL             GOB               B)             OL       LB     LB          BB                 B')          699L           BIB          BLLB               BB69BGf'9~Ni
lB  BB  ''               lB            '''              99              B)                                         B~~~               ~~~         ~~~~~           ~~~~~ ~~~~~                     ~~IBS  CLI  99"(  GOB)  B-i  IG
II  B)  BG  699             91             B)           GOB               BL               B)           GB)      GE)-  IL)           1GB~~~~~~~~~C       C'1           LBZBB                      B1                   '69 '
-.  9619           BIG                ''~C.            S          4 GOI            ''             669               61                .          .          .LI)'                             T9)            BBB          B)                   B~ 
660  BG              BI               GB~             ~~~~ :1        9             9                 B              59             B        B       B            I I'TT9-B)                                   1911         999                ....0B0)I
SB  GOB  ''  ''  LB   '    GB              (B                                         GB)                LB           699            9('LB        9)9)          B66BGBBG.B   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..    ..              ..  ..
09)0  '9 ~     ~          ~        ~             1 I.
*        LB                               BB            00                             l               YB)           09       99)      )0          GB)                90           661 'IB1') O)GOG) G6666L
lB  GG              BC               OL~~~~~11        LB,           LB             B              ,9                '9IB                   GB     B)         )'9                  ':          GL              GBG          LSOB
O  LI  GO)  IL  '''B G             LB             661               BI            BG       9)      BB          0GB                B')          GOB)           BUG         )99)             IBGIIBIB~~~~~~~~~-C -1-
B)  BL  BBI            B)               B             B)            LB             GOB~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  lO           B         B       0        BLB                   B           CB              I9'         '9GB9091
B)  9)             '               ''          GO              ''~~~~~~i       B)              GB        96) BG b4BLOI'B                                      '             BO            9            BG                GGI
B  B)  B)  BE      B             GB           9)9              BoO               B)            BG       BG      LB          L'GB               LB  ~~~~~~~9                66'LG       BIG)               GO6BB'9  '9Ill
*  ''  ''--.                                                                       '        BLGLO   L9)BG  BGBBB         OBOB)               OIL'           BBBB            9999        BBG)                6)BBB'B                                       *G)9B6  60)  LL9L.






REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
EDUCATION PYRAMID 1973/74
As a  of     Education
Age Group     Level                                   MALE                                                                                FEMALE                                                     Totals
.                                             ~                                             112
Less than     University                                                                                                                                                                       282
1%            Years                                                                                                                                                                            362
333
1,089
1,900 J1700                                                                                      2,600
4%            Secondary                                                                     2,110   800                                                                                       2,900
Forms                                                                        2,7       1,300                                                                                   4,000
2.800     1,400                                                                                   4,200
__________________________________________________________________        13,700
22,335             g               | 8,485                                                                   -   30,820
16.3 >7 | | 7.790 24,177
19,652  10,519                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30,171
56%  Primary            24,358                                 12,924                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~37,282
56%   Grnamdresy                                  33, 169169| j  j1                     9,2         7    6                                                                    527,.445
48,8 . 32                                |                                   _ |                            E                             E | }31,205  80,037
66,141                                                          44,239                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~110,380
97,969                                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~171,989
17             99                                                                                                                                                                      5      E |E E.v 9 9; { ^ > s V m 4 0 0_ Ie37,301  
100              80               60                40               20                0               20               40                60               80               100      5
(IN THOUSANDS)
World Bank-9827






REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
EDUCATION SYSTEM
1974
SECONDARY                    OVERSEAS STUDIES
JC        MSC        HSC
Legend:
PSLC         Primary School Leaver
Certificate                               _         2    1       PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING
JC           Junior Certificate                                  T3         T2
MSC          Malawi School Certificate
HSC          Higher                                                    UNIVERSITY OF MALAWI
DIP           Diploma                                                                           CHANCELLOR COLLEGE
DIP  BA    BEd
BSsoc LLB
BA (Admin)
PRIMARY
30 4    5 BUNDA COLLEGE
PSLC                                       DIP   BSc (Agric)
POLYTECHNIC
TECHNICAL        APRNIE  DIP
SCHOOLS        5 APPRENTICES
World Bank-9820






.t1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
Aj    S   n    t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~>So  1 <    1*Lg  8~~~~~~~~~~~D   






REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Key to Map
Project Items
Code                Name of School                              Location
A-1      Primary School and Rural Education Center    Lilongwe Rural District
A-2          "       "          "        "       "        Mchinji District
A-3          "       "          "        "       "        Blantyre Rural District
A-4      Primary School attached to Project
Item B-1                                      Mzimba District
A-5      Primary School and Rural Education Center    Rumphi District
A-6          "       "          "        "       "        Chitipa District
A-7          "       "          "        "       "        Karonga District
A-8          "       "          " it                      Nkhata-Bay District
A-9          "       "          "        "                Nkhota-Kota District
A-10         "       "          "        "       "        Ntchisi District
A-il         "       "          "        "                Dowa District
A-12         "       "          "        "                Salima District
A-13                  "        "             "            Dedza District
A-14                 of         "        "       "        Mangochi District
A-15         "       "          "        "       "        Kasupe District
A-16         "       "          "        "       "        Zomba District
A-17                 "          "        "       "        Mulanje District
A-18             "              "        "       "        Thyolo District
A-19         "       "          "    "                    Nsanje District
A-20         "       "          "        "       "        Chikwawa District
A-21         "       "          "        "       "        Chiradzulu District
A-22         "       "          "        "       "        Mwanza District
A-23             "              "        "       "        Ncheu District
B-1      Primary Teachers' Training College               Mzuzu, Mzimba District
including Demonstration School
C-1      Likuni Girls' Secondary School                   Likuni, Lilongwe District
C-2      Ludzi Girls' Secondary School                    Ludzi, Mchinji District
C-3      Nkamenya Girls' Secondary School                 Nkamenya, Kasungu District
C-4      Robert Laws Secondary School                     Loudon, Mzimba District
C-5      Ekwendeni Girls' Secondary School                Ekwendeni, Mzimba District
C-6      Stella Maris Girls' Secondary School             Limbe, Blantyre District
C-7      St. Mary's Girls' Secondary School               Zomba, Zomba District



