CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 590 MAI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 24, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 590 MAI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 24, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 24, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to   Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the term "PIU" means the Project Implementation
Unit referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE Hl
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven million six hundred thousand
dollars ($11,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as


﻿4
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1981 or such later date
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of I %) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on July 1 and
January 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each July I and January 1 commencing
January 1, 1986, and ending July 1, 2025, each installment to and including the
installment payable on July 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half
per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through its PlU with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, technical and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿5
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the design of buildings and
facilities included in Parts A(iii) and A(iv) of the Project, and the preparation of
contract documents for, and the supervision of, the construction thereof, the
Borrower   shall employ    architectural  and  engineering  consultants  whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project, (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken 'll such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needled all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction (and operation) of the
facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition, evidlence satisfactory to the Association that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.


﻿6
Section 3.06. (a) For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the Borrower
shall establish and maintain within its Ministry of Education a Project
Implementation Unit which shall consist, inter alios, of (i) a Project Manager with
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to
the Association and with duties and responsibilities set forth in the Annex to
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such Annex may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, (ii) a project architect
and a procurement officer both with qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment satisfactory to the Association, (iii) two architects and
a quantity surveyor who shall be appointed, in consultation with the Association
within six months after the date of this Agreement (or such other date as may
be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association), and (iv) a project
accountant, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall cause PIU
to retain the services of such staff until the completion of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall ensure that PlU be given appropriate powers and
functions required to assure the efficient and effective implementation of the
Project.
(c)   Without any limitation or restriction upon the foregoing, the powers
and functions of PIU shall include the following:
(i)         the overall supervision of the Project;
(ii)        the supervision of the consultants employed under the Project;
(iii)       the design of buildings and facilities included in Parts A(i) and
A(ii) of the Project, and the preparation of contract documents
for, and the supervision of, the construction thereof; and
(iv)        the training of Malawian draftsmen for future employment by
PU.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause the educational institutions and
related facilities included in the Project to be efficiently operated and adequately
staffed with qualified teachers.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate


﻿7
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall continue its review of manpower training
to ensure effective manpower utilization, and shall exchange views thereon with
the Association.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its review
and comments, within one year after the date of this Agreement (or such other
date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association), a plan
of operation, including financial arrangements, for building additional primary
school facilities following the models built under the Project.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that:
(a)   PIU has been duly established in accordance with the provisions of
Section 3.06 of this Agreement; and
(b)   a Project Manager, a procurement officer, a project architect and a
project accountant have all been duly appointed in accordance with the provisions
of Section 3.06(a) of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date February 24, 1976 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿8
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Treasury
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30049
Capital City
Lilongwe 3, Malawi
Cable address:
FINANCE
Lilongwe
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the     parties hereto, acting throLIgl their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By /s / D.Y.J. Kalilangwe
Autliorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿9
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Categori.y                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works                    7,100,000           75%
(2)  Furniture, Equip-                1,600,000
ment and Vehicles
(a)   Directly                                     100% of foreign
imported                                     expenditures
(b)   Locally manu-                                100% of local
factured (ex-                                expenditures
factory cost)
(c)   Locally pro-                                 75% of local
cured                                        expenditures
(3)  Architectural and                 500,000           75% of local
Engineering Serv-                                  expenditures
ices
(4)   Technical Assistance             500,000           100% of foreign
expenditures
(5)  Project Adninistra-              200,000          75% of local
tion (including                                    expenditures
vehicle operating
cost and salaries
of local staff)
and pre-Investment
Studies
(6)   Unallocated                     1,700,000
TOTAL         11,600,000


﻿10
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories (4) and (5) of said paragraph
I on account of expenditures incurred after July 1, 1975 in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $120,000.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting


﻿11
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿12
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
A.    The construction, furnishing and equipping of: (i) 22 new prototype primary
schools which will serve as models to be replicated by local communities;
(ii) 22 new rural education centers; (iii) one new teacher training college
including a demonstration school, boarding facilities and staff houses; and
(iv) additions to seven secondary schools including boarding facilities and
staff houses.
B.    A program to train Malawian draftsmen for future employment by PIU and
a program to prepare future educational projects in Malawi.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1980.


﻿13
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Duties and Responsibilities
of the Project Manager
The Project Manager shall be the chief administrative officer of PIU and
shall, under the direction of the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, be
responsible for directing all aspects of the execution of the Project. More
specifically, he shall be responsible, inter alia, for the following:
(a)   the selection, organization, supervision and direction of all the PIU
staff in the performance of their respective duties, and the ensuring of the efficient
and effective functioning of PIU;
(b)   the selection of consultants and specialists, the approval of their terms
of reference and the administration of their contracts.
(c)   the making of necessary arrangements for briefing consultants and
specialists;
(d)   the review  and approval, or the arrangement for che review      and
approval by the appropriate authorities, of all reports, plans, specifications and
other materials related to the Project;
(e)   the making of necessary arrangements for the invitation and evaluation
of bids and the awarding of the contracts under the Project;
(f)   the coordination and integration of all the Project activities among
the ministries, authorities and agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, and the necessary coordination and liaison
between them and the Association;
(g)   the  organization  and   administration, in  consultation  with  the
appropriate authorities, of any technical assistance or fellowship programs included
in the Project;
(h)   the ensuring of the proper maintenance of the Project accounts and
the timely preparation of interim evaluation reports and financial statements;
(i)   the planning, programming and arranging for the preparation of a
Project implementation schedule and the monitoring of the actual performance


﻿14
of works against such schedule to ensure the timely execution of such works and
the meeting of the established performance standards; and
(j)   the preparation  of periodic progress reports for the Government and
the Association.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, goods, works and services shall be
procured under contracts to be awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October
1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
2.    (a) In order to encourage competitive bidding, contracts under the Project
shall be grouped insofar as is practicable.
(b)   Domestic contractors for civil works costing more than $200,000
equivalent each shall be prequalified as described in Part 2.2 of the Guidelines.
3.    Contracts for the following items shall be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with local procedures
acceptable to the Association:
(a)   civil works costing less than $200,000 equivalent each and consisting
of small units to be constructed in scattered locations;
(b)   furniture, equipment, vehicles and other items costing less than
$50,000 equivalent each; and
(c)   locally procured construction materials and in-country transportation
services costing less than $50,000 equivalent each.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids fbr Goods; Preference fbr Domestic
Manufacturers
I.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿16
2.    Goods manufactured in Malawi may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Malawi if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Malawi equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Malawi.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids fbr Civil Works; Preferences fbr Domestic
Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under Category (1)
of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Credit Agreement costing more than


﻿17
$200,000 equivalent, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2%
to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a)   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided in Part A of
this Schedule and applicants for qualification applying also for such preference
shall be asked to provide, as part of the information for qualification, to submit
together with their bids, such information, including details of ownership, as shall
be required to determine whether, according to the classification established by
the Borrower and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms
qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate
the preference and the method that will be followed in the evaluation and
comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
(b)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preftence; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/21/
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
D.    Review of Pro ctreinent Decisions by the Association
1.    Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and, where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference under Part C
above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
and for such eligioility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for
its comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Association
shall reasonably request.
2. Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.
With respect to contracts for civil works estimated to cost more than the
equivalent of $200,000    each  and   contracts for furniture, equipment and
construction materials estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $50,000 each:


﻿18
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


