Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17061
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 11.5 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF COMOROS
FOR A
SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
OCTOBER 30,1997
Human Development 2
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 1997)
Currency Unit = Comorian Franc (CF)
CF 1.00 = US$ 0.0025
US$ 1.00 = CF 400.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                      Country Assistance Strategy
CCC                      Comite Central de Coordination
CR                       ComitJ Rigional
ERR                      Economic Rate of Return
FADC                     Fonds d'Appui au Developpement Communautaire
FRR                      Financial Rate of Return
HES                      Household Expenditure Survey
ICB                      International Competitive Bidding
ICR                      Implementation Completion Report
IDA                      International Development Association
M/E                      Monitoring and Evaluation
NCB                      National Competitive Bidding
NGO                      Non Governmental Organization
NPV                      Net Present Value
PHR                      Population and Human Resources
PHRD                     Policy and Human Resources Development (Japan Grant)
SEN                      Secretariat Ex6cutif National
SER                      Secretariat Executif Regional
Vice President..    .  ................. Callisto Madavo
Country Director ......................  Michael Sarris
Technical Manager ......................   Nicholas Bumett
Task Team Leader/Task Manager ............... Eileen Murray



Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros
Social Fund Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Project Financing Data
Block A.   Project Development Objective ..........................................................2
1. Project Development Objective and key performance indicators ...........................................2
Block B.   Strategic Context ..........................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by project .......................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ..........................................................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .........................................4
Block C.   Project Description Summary ..........................................................5
1. Project components ..........................................................5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ...............................................5
3. Benefits and target population ..........................................................6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ..........................................................6
Block D.    Project Rationale ..........................................................8
1. Project Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ......................................................8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .................9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ......................................................9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ......................................................... 10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .........................................................                            10
Block E.   Summary Project Analyses .........................................................                                                         10
1        . Economic .........................................................                                                       10
2. Financial .........................................................11 
3. Technical .........................................................                                                              12
4. Institutional ..........................................................                                                         12
5. Social .........................................................                                                                 14
6. Environmental Assessment .........................................................                                              14
7. Participatory Approach .........................................................                                                14
Block F.   Sustainability and Risks .........................................................                                                         16
1. Sustainability .........................................................                                                        16
2. Critical Risks ..........................................................                                                        16
3. Possible Controversial Aspects .........................................................                                        17
Block G.  Main Loan Conditions .........................................................                                                              17
1. Effectiveness Conditions ..........................................................                                             17
2. Other .........................................................                                                                  17
Block H:  Readiness for Implementation .........................................................                                                     18
Block I:   Compliance with Bank Policies .........................................................                                                    19
List of Annexes:
Annex 1.   Project Design Summary
Annex 2.   Project Description
Annex 3.   Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.   Economic Justification
Annex 5.   Financial Summary
Annex 6.   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C. Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.   Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.   Documents in Project File
Annex 9.   Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.  Country at a Glance
MAP






Africa Regional Office
Human Development 2
Project Appraisal Document
Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros
Social Fund Project
Date: 10/30/97                                            Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Eileen Murray
Country Manager/Director: Michael Sarris                  Sector Manager/Director: Nicholas Burnett
Project ID: 44824         Sector: Hwnan resources         Program Objective Category: Poverty reduction
Lending Instrument: Specific Investmnent Loan             Program of Targeted Intervention:  [x] Yes  []No
Project Financing Data                    [  Loan        [x] Credit        [] Guarantee         [] Other [Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$ 11.5 million/SDR 8.5 million
Proposed terms:                             [    Multicurrency       [   Single currency, specify
Grace period (years):      10               [    Standard Variable    [   Fixed             [      LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:         40
Commitment fee:            0%
Service charge:            0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                 Local                Foreign             Total
IDA                                                               9.8                  1.7                11.5
Communities/beneficiaries                                         2.2                   -                  2.2
Total                                                            12.0                  1.7                13.7
Borrower: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Fonds d'Appui au Developpement Communautaire (FADC)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):         1999        2000         2001       2002
Annual                                           2.7         2.3          2.9        3.6
Cumulative                                       2.7         5.0         7.9        11.5
For Guarantees:                                      []   Partial credit     [] Partial risk
Proposed coverage: N/A
Project sponsor: N/A
Nature of underlying fmancing: N/A
Terms of
financing:
Principal amount (US$) N/A
Final maturity N/A
Amortization profile N/A
Financing available without guarantee?:                  []   Yes                 [     No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity: N/A
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee: N/A
Project implementation period: 1998-2002. Expected effectiveness date: 7/01/98. Expected closing date: 12/31/02.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 2
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros             Project Title: Social Fund Project
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The objective of the project is to address the incidence of poverty amongst the country's poorer
communities through the replenishment of a social fund designed to support demand-driven
initiatives developed by such communities and, in doing so, to create employment and improve
access to basic social services.
The communal infrastructures to be rehabilitated or constructed will benefit about 250,000
people (or about half of the population of Comoros); 200 micro-enterprises will be created or
expanded; about 1,000 persons will benefit from the programs of small loans; about 1,500
persons will be trained; and about 800 permanent jobs and 1,800 temporary jobs will be created.
Detailed monitoring targets by type of sub-project financed by FADC and by year are shown in
Table 2 of Annex 4. Since the FADC is demand-driven, those figures are indicative only; they
are subject to change according to the financing requests that the communities/beneficiaries
themselves will submit to FADC during project implementation.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Counfry Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project
(see Annex 1):
CAS document number: N/A    Date of latest CAS discussion: N/A
This project is consistent with the latest CAS, as discussed by the Board in December 1993.
Comoros has now been classified as a "D Category" country and therefore a formal CAS for the
country is no longer required for Board discussion. Three development priorities have been
identified jointly by the authorities, private sector and donors. They are: (a) poverty reduction
through sustained economic growth by creating a stable macro-economic environment,
improvement of the business context, and providing better quality infrastructure; (b) human
resource development and reduction in demographic growth--through improved literacy levels,
better family planning and more accessible health services; and (c) protection of the
environment. The project will respond directly to the first two development objectives. The
main focus of this operation is to reduce poverty, in particular in rural areas, by empowering
beneficiaries. This operation will also address human resource development by playing a key
role in the rehabilitation of social infrastructure which will have a positive impact on enrollment
rates, health center attendance, and better hygiene through the provision of safe water.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:.
The overall macro-economic context continues to be troublesome. Public finances remain weak
with an accumulation of external arrears up to US$ 43 million and civil servants salaries arrears
up to 10 months by the end of 1996. A 1997 financial program was agreed to by the IMF/Bank
for a test period for February-July 1997 with specific financial benchmarks. Financial results of
the first three months in 1997 were encouraging with major improvements in budgetary revenue
and a declining trend of wage bill arrears; civil servants have been paid on a regular basis from
January to September 1997, however it appears that there are slippages again recently, for
October 1997. Subsequent Bank and IMF support in the Government's adjustmnent program



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Page 3
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros              Project Title: Social Fund Project
would depend on a good track record. It does not appear that there will be any improvement in
the macroeconomic context in the near future.
The findings of a World Bank Poverty Assessment (FY95) indicate that the majority of the
Comorian population lives in relative or at near poverty levels. Consumption is very unevenly
distributed--the Gini coefficient is 76 percent as rural areas in all three islands house the majority
of the population (82 percent) and of the poor: the headcount index for rural areas in Grande
Comore, Anjouan, and Moheli is 92 percent, 76 percent and 85 percent respectively, while for
the country's urban areas it stands at 15 percent.
Based on results of the UNDP quantitative and qualitative surveys, the poverty line is estimated
at 165,000 Comorian Francs per year (which translates to about US$ 1.25 per day). On this
basis, it appears as though 46 percent of households (and more than 50 percent of the population)
fall below the poverty line and are affected in various degrees in all three islands in urban as well
as rural areas. The capital, Moroni, is the least affected with only 11 percent of households
falling below the poverty line. Poverty is more widespread in rural areas with 55 percent of the
population affected compared to 48 percent in urban areas. Differences can also be noticed
between islands--41 percent of the population is estimated to be poor in Grande Comore,
62 percent in Anjouan and 52 percent in Moheli. Rural areas in general and the island of
Anjouan are the most affected. The poverty incidence in the rural areas of Anjouan is estimated
at 67 percent.
The deteriorating socio-economic situation is even starting to affect urban areas due to increasing
unemployment, particularly among the youth. Thirty-seven percent of youngsters between the
ages of 20 and 24 are unemployed. The 1991 Census shows that up to 40 percent of the urban
youth are currently unemployed. In Anjouan, the situation is even more troublesome. About 60
percent of the youth is unemployed due to high drop out rates from primary school. This is one
of the main reasons for the social unrest which Anjouan is currently experiencing.
More in-depth poverty analysis shows that poor people consume less than 100,000 Comorian
Francs per year. Seventy-five percent of this amount goes towards food, 2.8 percent for energy
and 1 percent for health. Heads of households who are farmers, fishermen, housewives, or those
who are unemployed have a much higher probability of falling far below the poverty line. The
chances increase further if the household is headed by a female. Farmers without land, as is
frequently the case in Anjouan, are usually extremely poor. Also, 27 percent of poor people do
not know how to read (compared to 20 percent for the non-poor), and 35 percent of the poor do
not know how to write Comorian (compared to 27 percent for non-poor). Only 33 percent of the
poor have access to water and therefore most use public fountains.
The widespread incidence of poverty is the consequence of a number of factors, including the
lack of opportunities and facilities for the development of productive activities, and the lack of
adequate infrastructure and facilities, particularly for the delivery of education and health
services which tend to be of low quality and, at least in the case of health, poorly utilized.
Generally, the state has defaulted on its obligation to deliver basic social services to the
population, in part because of financial constraints and its inability to channel the necessary



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Page 4
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros              Project Title: Social Fund Project
resources to the social sectors. As a counterbalance, the Comorian population has a very strong
sense of community solidarity. Communities have demonstrated their cohesiveness, dynamism,
interest in the development process, willingness to pay for services, and ability to manage
effectively community development concerns.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector issues addressed by the project are the widespread incidence of poverty (particularly
outside of the capital and in the islands of Anjouan and Moheli), the failure of the state to deliver
basic social services to the population, and the lack of opportunities and facilities for the
development of productive activities. The project will continue to target poor community groups
and to support community development initiatives which appear to be the most responsive to the
population's needs since concrete positive results can be seen on the ground. The proposed
project will continue to use FADC to channel IDA funds to the communities. In order to resolve
the lack of government counterpart funds and given that the project is designed to benefit
communities, with the Government just acting as a facilitator, community contributions (totaling
between 10 and 20 percent of the cost of each sub-project) are to be accepted as Comorian
counterpart funding.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 5
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros                         Project Title: Social Fund Project
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components:
This project builds on the very successful social fund component of the on-going Population and
Human Resources Project (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown.)
Component                 Categorv       Cost Incl.     % of      Bank-       % of
Contingencies    Total   financing    Bank-
(US$M)                 (US$M)   ffmancing
(1) Rehabilitation/Construction of  Physical and        9.9         72%        7.9        67%
Communal Infrastructure: about 240    institution
sub-projects for primary schools,  building.
health posts, feeder roads, community
water supply, markets, protection of
the environment, etc. Communities
will contribute in cash or in-kind
between 10 and 20 percent of the cost
of the sub-projects.
(2) Micro-credit activities: about 205   Credit, and    0.9         7%         0.7        8%
sub-projects for income generating  institution
activities and programs of small loans   building
for individuals as well as groups
(particularly women). Beneficiaries of
income generating activities sub-
projects will contribute at least 20% of
the investment costs.
(3) Capacity Building: about 40 sub-   Training, and    0.2         2%         0.2        2%
projects for the training of FADC's    institution
partners (village committees,      building.
community groups, NGOs, small
contractors and consultants) to
improve their effectiveness in
identifying, preparing and
implementing community development
activities.
(4) FADC investment and operating    Management,        2.7         20%        2.7        23%
costs, staff training, audits and studies.  training, and
institution
building.
Total                                                   13.7        100%       11.5      100%
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project is not designed to support any key policy or institutional reform. The existing policy
and institutional framework in the sector would not inhibit project viability and sustainability.
See B.3 above for the sector issues to be addressed by the project.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 6
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros             Project Title: Social Fund Project
3. Benefits and target population:
The primary beneficiaries will be mainly poor rural communities. The types of sub-projects to
be implemented will: (a) have a direct impact on the well being of the population by supporting
innovative approaches to the delivery of basic community social services; (b) provide a
mechanism for community groups and entrepreneurs to create and develop viable micro-
enterprises; (c) support the development of local small contractors, consulting firms, and NGOs
that will become directly involved in the social fund activities; and (d) provide temporary and
permanent employment opportunities. Because the sub-projects financed by FADC will be
mostly in rural areas, the project beneficiaries will have a significantly larger proportion of poor
people than the country's population as a whole. Communities in Anjouan and Moheli which are
poorer islands will contribute at least 10 percent of the cost of each sub-project whereas
communities in Grande Comore will continue to contribute at least 20 percent.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 4 years
Executing agencv: Fonds d'Appui au Developpement Communautaire (FADC)
Project management: FADC, an "organization in the public interest with administrative and
financial autonomy", was established on January 6, 1993 by a Presidential Ordinance; a
Presidential Decree of April 13, 1993 defines its organization and management. The National
Executive Secretariat (Secretariat Exe6cutif National - SEN) and the three Regional Executive
Secretariats (Secretariat ExecutifRegional -SER) are the administrative/executing entities which
deal with the day-to-day operations of FADC on the three islands. The positions of National
Executive Director, Regional Directors and other higher level staff will be filled at all times with
personnel whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to IDA. Although the high level
staff of FADC have performed satisfactorily under the on-going project, the Government has
indicated their wish that these positions be re-advertised so that either the present candidates are
confirmed in their positions or that better candidates are recruited. The recruitment of a National
Executive Director and of three Regional Directors is a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed credit. Under a Subsidiary Agreement (referred to as the FADC Convention), IDA
funds will be channeled to FADC on a grant basis; FADC will in turn make the money available
to rural or poor urban communities also as grants (except for micro-finance activities).
FADC has clear operating procedures which are defined in a Manual of Procedures. This manual
contains, among other things, the criteria and procedures for identifying, preparing, appraising,
selecting and implementing sub-projects. FADC will review community proposals against the
criteria defined in the Manual of Procedures, including community participation, impact, and
priorities. The maximum cost of a sub-project is CF 33.75 million (about US$ 85,000
equivalent) and the maximum FADC grant for a sub-project is CF 27 million (about US$ 67,500
equivalent), with the exception of rural roads for which the maximum cost of a sub-project is CF
62.5 million (about US$ 156,250 equivalent) and the maximum grant for a sub-project is CF 50.0
million (about US$ 125,000 equivalent). Grants of less than CF 12 million (about US$ 30,000
equivalent) may be approved by the Regional Project Sub-Committee (a sub-committee of the
Regional Committee mentioned below), and those equal or greater than CF 12 million are



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Page 7
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros              Project Title: Social Fund Project
approved by the National Executive Director. Once approved by FADC, the sub-projects will be
implemented by the local communities or beneficiaries, that is in most cases by Comites de
Pilotage (village committees). These village committees are structured community groups
which work with the Regional Secretariats in identifying, preparing, and implementing sub-
projects. In accordance with the contracts that they enter into with FADC, the village
committees are also responsible for mobilizing communities to provide labor, materials, and cash
for the sub-projects. Community groups, NGOs, local contractors and consulting firms will be
FADC's partners as they will be basically responsible for the on-site supervision and/or
implementation of works and other activities.
Project coordination: The Executive Director of FADC will be responsible for the coordination
of activities.
Project oversight: The Central Coordination Committee - CCC  (Comite  Central de
Coordination) of FADC acts as a Board of Directors setting the overall policies of FADC. It is
composed of 15 members who are appointed by decree: seven representatives from Government
Ministries and eight representatives from associations (two from each island and two from
national associations). It meets twice a year. Its responsibilities are to set FADC's policies,
approve the Manual of Procedures and annual work programs and budgets, decide on the level of
the community contribution to the cost of the sub-projects, analyze the audit reports, and appoint
the National Executive Director and the Regional Directors. Regional Committees - CR (ComiM
Regional) are in place in each of the three islands. They are composed of eight members: two
representatives from the regional directorates of Government Ministries (including Finance), and
six other non-governmental members representing regional associations and are chosen on the
basis of their qualifications and their knowledge of communities. Their primary responsibilities
are to endorse the annual work programs proposed by the Regional Secretariats, approve
(through a regional project sub-committee) all grants of less than CF 12 million, and submit to
the National Executive Director for decision all proposals for grants equal or greater than CF 12
million.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: A computerized accounting system
by the name of TOMPRO, which was put in place for the FADC under the ongoing Population
and Human Resources Project, is functioning well. FADC staff are familiar with the software
and intend to use it during this project also. All audit reports under the on-going project were
unqualified. A special account will be opened and maintained with a commercial bank
acceptable to IDA. The "special account 90-day advance procedure" especially designed for
decentralized development agencies will be used in order to facilitate the functioning of the
Regional Executive Secretariats (SER) and to ensure prompt payment of contractors and
suppliers. An independent auditor acceptable to IDA will audit the use of all IDA funds,
including the special account and statements of expenditures. Audit reports will be submitted not
later than six months after the end of the financial year. The auditor's terms of reference will be
agreed with IDA during negotiations, and the signing of a contract (one year, renewable for a
maximum of three years) with the auditor will be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 8
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros             Project Title: Social Fund Project
Monitoring and evaluation (M/E) arrangements: Monitoring procedures and project progress
reports will focus on progress in and impacts of the implementation of the project, measured
against specific targets and actions set in the detailed implementation programs, all of which will
be reviewed and revised each year throughout the project life. General progress of the project
will be measured against a list of key indicators or tentative targets, which are included in the
Project Design Summary (Annex 1), the Detailed Project Description (Annex 2), the Economic
Justification Summary (Annex 4), and the Implementation Plan in the Project Implementation
Manual. The M/E of some of those indicators will be conducted through specific surveys and
beneficiary assessments. In addition, each year, the FADC will prepare work programs and
budgets for the next year, to be discussed with IDA and other donors at the annual project
implementation review that will take place no later than November 30 of each year. By
November 30, 2000, a midterm review of the Project will be carried out in accordance with terms
of reference and monitoring indicators acceptable to IDA; a beneficiary assessment will be
scheduled at that time to obtain population perspectives on the operation and impact of the
project and on community development issues.
FADC will submit to IDA agreed upon quarterly progress reports summarizing the status of each
activity and the degree of compliance with covenants in the credit agreement. Within six months
of the closing of the IDA credit, an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will be prepared
by IDA, with FADC contributing its own evaluation of the Project to the ICR. As is now being
done under the ongoing project, the Regional Secretariats (SER) in the three islands will
undertake on-site visits to monitor sub-projects progress, including beneficiary contributions,
quality of works, impact assessments, and proposed maintenance arrangements.  This
information is transmitted monthly to the National Executive Secretariat (SEN) which compiles
the data from all three islands, reviews it for consistency, and submits it to the CCC and to IDA.
This information is used to improve the efficiency of project activities. Also, it is envisaged that
"community profiles" (social indicators in communities that have an FADC project) will be
developed; these will include the type of project, approximate number of beneficiaries for each
type of project, impact on women, etc.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project atternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection:
The obvious alternative for the implementation of community development activities would be to
use the various line ministries to implement small scale projects. However, this alternative was
once again rejected since the Ministries of Education, Health, and Public Works are not geared to
focus on community development activities which appear to have the highest impact in
Comoros. In addition, political and fiscal pressures would quite possibly have an adverse impact
on project objectives if one were to judge from the Government's track record in the execution of
other key programs, coupled with the fact that civil servants are unmotivated due to the irregular
payment of salaries with many months in arrears. Communities on the contrary have shown their
commitment, seriousness, and interest in their development. This success can be attributed to the
fact that they are tightly knit and have their own strong safety nets, thereby creating foundations
for sustainable community development. Therefore, working with FADC, with its proven track
record and excellent performance, appears to be the best approach to directly empower
communities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 9
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros                         Project Title: Social Fund Project
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned):
Sector issue                      Project             Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-fnanced projects only)
hnplementa-    Development
tion Progress   Objective (DO)
(IP)
Bank-financed
Inadequate infrastructure.             Road Maintenance,           Satisfactory    Satisfactory
expected to close on
12/31/97.
Widespread incidence of poverty.       Population and Human          Highly          Highly
Resources, expected to close   satisfactory  satisfactory
on 6/30/99.
Lack of financing and facilities for the  Small Enterprise         Satisfactory    Satisfactory
development of productive activities.  Development, expected to
close on 6/30/01.
Low quality of education, poor         Education III (board          Not yet         Not yet
management of sector, and lack of facilities  presentation in FY97).  effective     effective
for vocational training.
Inadequate infrastructure.             Infrastructure, Environment
and Tourism (board
presentation scheduled for
FY99).
Low utilization of health care services.  Health (board presentation
scheduled for FY 98).
Other development agencies
Widespread incidence of poverty.       On-going operation
financed by the European
Union for micro-projects.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
This project builds on the successful results in terms of attainment of development objectives as
well as implementation progress of the on-going IDA-financed Population and Human Resources
Project (PHR). Certain lessons were learned from the on-going project and have been taken into
account when designing this project. The midterm review highlighted the need for making
greater use of local consultants, and to promote the development of local consultants and
contractors through training; it also put emphasis on increased efforts for the maintenance of
completed infrastructures and on the start of micro-credit activities in the form of "programs of
small loans" through village committees. Due to the Government's unsatisfactory track record in



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 10
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros             Project Title: Social Fund Project
providing counterpart funds, the counterpart funding contribution required will be provided by
the beneficiaries who will contribute between 10 and 20 percent of the cost of the sub-projects.
This scenario has worked well under the on-going project. The Government has a limited
implementation capacity and, therefore, a limited ability to get results on the ground as opposed
to entities outside the Government which are efficient and dynamic and have the ability to
cbannel funds directly to beneficiary communities. The project will deal directly with
beneficiaries, community groups, NGOs and private firms. NGOs, which were virtually non-
existent, are only beginning to emerge slowly, and their capacity to become full-fledged partners
in the sub-component for micro-credit activities remains limited. Therefore, the comites de
pilotage (village committees) will be used as financial intermediaries for very small loan
amounts. In any case, micro-credit activities under this project will continue to be consistent
with the Government's financial sector policies.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Experience has clearly shown that when communities are given the proper support, they become
key actors in the development process. Communities are strongly committed to the sub-projects
financed by FADC; the beneficiary assessment shows that communities do not have a problem in
contributing (in cash or in-kind) 20 percent of the cost of the sub-projects in Grande Comore, but
some poor communities in Anjouan and Moheli struggle to come up with the 20 percent
contribution. Moreover, the central government is aware of the community dynamics and,
therefore, does not interfere in the choice of sub-projects to be financed, for example.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project.:
The Bank has acquired a significant amount of knowledge during the past decade in the Latin
America, Middle East, and Africa Regions concerning the design and implementation of social
funds as mechanisms to quickly and efficiently channel funds towards the country's most
vulnerable groups. This has yielded positive results as community groups are becoming full-
fledged actors in the development process. In addition, the Bank has "fine tuned" most of the
social fund documents (e.g., the Manual of Procedures, simplified bidding documents for goods
and works, organization and management of the social fund, etc.) and therefore the cost and time
required for preparation are minimized.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[]Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$  million; ERR= % Ii] Cost Effectiveness Analysis: II] Otier
The analysis (see Annex 4) is aimed at establishing the need for direct assistance to the poor,
analyzing the choice of the social fund as the instrument, establishing the sustainability of
investments, and providing a sense of costs involved in particular sub-projects which have been
developed by FADC during project preparation. Since FADC is demand-driven, it is difficult to
determine a priori the composition of FADC's portfolio, and an overall NPV or ERR has not
been estimated. The analysis, however, draws on activities financed under the on-going project
as such information is available. Based on the preliminary results of the Household Expenditure
Survey (HES), the analysis of poverty and of the targeting of activities shows that FADC efforts
directed towards the rural areas are in the right direction. The analysis has been used in the



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page 11
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros              Project Title: Social Fund Project
design of the project, which will put more emphasis on the rural areas in the island of Anjouan.
The analysis also shows that: (i) the financing requirements that sub-projects place on
communities, for both capital and recurrent expenditures, are reasonable and moderate; and (ii)
rather than draw central government resources, the social fund often complements central
government expenditure, and sometimes serves as a substitute when communities assume
complete responsibility for some basic social services.
In the past, central authorities executed a very small percentage of planned expenditures in
education and health and those capacity and financial constraints of the central authorities have
led to a demise of basic services to the poor. This is, in good part, a justification for designing
Bank assistance in the form of a social fund. The two case studies for a school and a health post
presented in Annex 4 provide an analysis and distribution of costs and benefits. They also
illustrate that, despite the merits of the social fund as an instrument of choice, there remains a
need for selectivity and stringent evaluation for individual sub-projects on the part of the
implementing agency, so that in every case, the social fund is the best instrument to meet
communities' objectives and sustainability of the sub-project can be assured.
2 Financial (see Annex 5): NPV=US$        million; FRR=     %
The proposed credit of US$ 11.5 million would cover 84 percent of total project costs.
Communities will finance between 10 and 20 percent of the cost of the sub-projects, and this will
be accounted for as the counterpart contribution, representing 16 percent of the total estimated
costs of the project. In view of the significant contribution made by communities, the IDA credit
will finance 100 percent (net of taxes and duties) of expenditures for all disbursement categories
in the Development Credit Agreement. Once the infrastructures are completed, communities will
be expected to finance 100 percent of the cost of their operation and maintenance. FADC will
finance a training program for community groups in operations and maintenance to ensure that
these activities are undertaken efficiently, while keeping costs at a minimum by ensuring proper
preventive maintenance. The fiscal impact and sustainability of the project need to be assessed
in terms of the Government and beneficiaries contributions during the project implementation
period and of the recurrent cost implications after the project closes, including incentives for
maintaining and operating the project adequately.
Experience from the on-going project shows that communities have a high degree of ownership
of the sub-projects. They will contribute between 10 and 20 percent of the costs of the sub-
projects, and this has been factored in as the counterpart fund contribution. It would be
unrealistic to expect that the Government could make any contribution, and the investment costs
not covered by communities should be financed by IDA and other donors. The recurrent cost
implications for the Government after the project closes are virtually non-existent since the
communities are fully in charge of the operations and maintenance. For example, in the case of
primary schools, due to the Government's miserable track record in terms of financial support,
village groups in collaboration with the parent teacher associations have put in place mechanisms
to collect fees from children to maintain the schools and supplement teachers' salaries. These
communities are therefore fully engaged in ensuring proper maintenance of the community
infrastructure--as a result, there will be no impact on the Government's budget.



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page 12
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros              Project Title: Social Fund Project
3. Technical.
The project is technically sound. The project's technical design is based on the use of simple,
appropriate technologies, corresponding to the needs and capabilities (for construction, as well as
operation and maintenance) of the population. As in the ongoing project, the design of the sub-
projects will be based on the norms and standards of the technical ministries involved. Labor
intensive work will be preferred whenever proven as technically and economically efficient and
insofar as it generates employment opportunities. Innovations, such as community participation
and financing, are based on sound technical, financial and economic considerations. Investment
costs for the project are based on prevailing market unit costs, with appropriate allowance for
inflation and, whenever applicable, a reasonable level of physical contingencies.
Two technical audits by an independent consultant took place in 1996 and 1997, covering all the
sub-projects financed since FADC began its operations in 1993 (by June 1997, FADC had
completed 120 sub-projects). The various types of sub-projects have included the rehabilitation
of primary schools, feeder roads, health posts, water supply schemes, and small markets. The
main findings of the technical audits were that the works on the whole were of good quality and
procurement procedures were followed. The auditor made some specific recommendations
which FADC has begun to put into practice and which have been taken into account in the design
of the new project, including: (a) using local consulting firms to the extent possible to supervise
the works since FADC has limited staff; (b) using to the extent possible construction methods
that can utilize optimally local labor and materials; (c) training SMEs and local consulting firms
in order for them to become full-fledged partners of FADC; (d) putting in place a system to
update unit costs for sub-projects (buildings: cost/square meter; water supply: cost per person;
feeder roads: cost per Iam); and (e) being lenient in terms of delays for local SMEs that are on a
learning curve.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: FADC has demonstrated that with the collaboration and assistance of
village committees, local consultants, contractors and NGOs, it can play a very important role in
the programming, identification, preparation and implementation of community development
activities. The institutional set-up has been very successful because it was built on some very
positive characteristics of Comoros, namely the ability and willingness of the population of a
village to work together to achieve certain goals and the strong sense of solidarity that prevails at
the village level. FADC as the executing agency has neither the capacity nor the staff to
individually oversee the implementation of each of the estimated 100 or more on-going sub-
projects (in the three islands) at any given time. - Therefore, FADC will have to continue to work
closely with local contractors, consulting firms, NGOs and village committees in order for it to
effectively implement the envisaged number of sub-projects.
FADC has been efficient, in the sense that its own operating costs have represented a relatively
small fraction of the costs of the sub-projects it has financed. It will continue its efforts to ensure
that its operating ratio, defined as the ratio of operating and administrative expenses to the
disbursements for sub-projects, remains below 15 percent during project implementation. For
the purpose of calculating the operating ratio, the operating and administrative expenses include
the salaries and other employment costs of all Comorian FADC staff, office rental, utilities and



roject Appraisal Document                                                   Page 13
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros              Project Title: Social Fund Project
communications expenses, materials and other administrative costs, inter-island travel and per
diems, local training and the operation, insurance and maintenance of vehicles and equipment,
but exclude the costs of any overseas training, financial and technical audits and special studies.
Village committees (Comites de Pilotage) are FADC's main interlocutors since they represent the
beneficiaries in various villages. Community development activities will continue to be
sponsored and implemented by those village committees which in Comoros have turned out to be
dynamic entities that have been able to successfully collaborate with FADC.  For the
implementation of the infrastructure sub-projects financed by FADC, village committees will
contract the execution of most of the works to local contractors; FADC will assist the village
committees in the contracting process, and in the supervision of the works by its own staff and/or
local consultants or consulting firms employed by FADC. The success of the village committees
lies in the fact that they have managed to sustain local involvement as a way of ensuring greater
control over resources and community ownership of FADC's sub-projects. FADC's success is to
a large extent dependent on the dynamism and the support it receives from these village groups.
As a result of this, a village group development program will be put in place to strengthen their
participation and capacity in all stages of the community project cycle, and to provide them with
training in community project operations, management and maintenance.
Simplified standard bidding documents have been prepared in order to ensure that small scale
local contractors are given the opportunity to submit bids. Experience from the on-going project
has shown that there has been an emergence of local contractors which is attributable to FADC's
increased work program and, therefore, to the increasing number of invitations to bid and of
contracts. In order to develop these local capacities, FADC will provide training to contractors
in management (including bid preparation and the organization of works) and in adapted
construction techniques for civil works (particularly rural roads) using labor intensive methods.
Local Consulting Finns will perform the on-site supervision of works to ensure that the work
done by the local contractors is in conformity with the technical specifications in the bidding
documents and contracts. Experience from the on-going project shows that as FADC finances
more infrastructure sub-projects carried out by local contractors, more local consulting firms or
individual consultants will be sought to provide on-site supervision. FADC will also finance
training for these local consulting firms or individual consultants.
NGOs are just starting to emerge as a result of the political transition which has been taking
place over the last three years. These NGOs cannot yet be considered as full-fledged partners in
the development process due to their lack of expertise. The financial basis of these NGOs is
weak and they are therefore highly dependent on donor-financed projects in order to become
fully operational. NGOs could offer a mechanism to FADC to directly reach out to poor villages
and could be used in identifying sub-projects and preparing sub-project proposals in
collaboration with village committees. In addition, it is envisaged that some of the more
experienced ones could be used as financial intermediaries to channel funds to micro-
entrepreneurs for income generating activities. Training is envisaged in micro-finance, credit
management, accounting, etc.



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page 14
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros              Project Title: Social Fund Project
b. Project management: Monitoring and coordination of project activities that will be carried out
by FADC in collaboration with the various entities requires experienced individuals with proven
management skills. FADC has competent staff who meet these requirements. Periodic reports,
such as technical, institutional and financial audits, the monitoring of performance indicators,
beneficiary assessments and supervision missions would help assess the effectiveness of project
management.
5. Social:
There are no major social issues faced by this project. The project will strengthen community
development in Comoros and develop community infrastructures benefiting the entire population
of villages. The cash wages to be paid to temporary labor, and the cash generated by the micro-
credit activities, will also have an important social impact in communities with limited revenues.
This is confirmed by the preliminary results of a beneficiary assessment (financed under the
Japanese PHRD Grant) which shows that beneficiaries think very highly of FADC since it has
been able to deliver things which it had promised. Furthermore, in view of the social cohesion
that exists at the village level, there is a consensus among villagers as to what type of project
should be undertaken. Villages in Grande Comore do not have a problem in providing the
minimum contribution of 20 percent but this is not the case for poorer villages in Anjouan and
Moheli. At the same time, village committees expressed an interest in more training for the
preparation of better project requests, and on project management and maintenance issues.
Project design has taken into account these beneficiary concerns.
6. Environmental assessment:    Environmental Category    []A   []B   [x] C
The social fund will support the rehabilitation of community infrastructure by financing demand-
driven sub-projects.  These include the rehabilitation of primary schools, feeder roads,
community water supply systems, and markets. To the extent feasible, the design of all sub-
projects will include small additions to improve or protect the environment, such as fences
around wells or reforestation, which will be done by the communities and will count as their
contribution to the project cost. FADC intends to build on the excellent relations that it has
established with village committees to make the communities aware of the disastrous
consequences of deforestation and other actions that contribute to the destruction of the
environment.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: The key stakeholder groups are the village
committees, which are truly representative of the beneficiaries/communities. For communal
infrastructure, the project entails a very participatory approach, mostly of the collaboration type,
at all stages of the sub-project cycle. Through the beneficiary assessment, communities have
influenced the design of the project. Village committees participate in the decision-making
process for sub-project selection, and are in the driver's seat for sub-project implementation,
operation and maintenance.
b. Other key stakeholders: Other key stakeholders are the technical ministries concerned by the
types of sub-projects financed by FADC (education, health, public works, ...) and the NGOs
involved in micro-credit activities, for which the form of participation is information sharing and
consultation. Finally, for other stakeholders such as consultants and contractors, who benefit



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 15
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros                       Project Title: Social Fund Project
from contracts awarded by FADC or village committees and will be eligible for training under
the capacity building component, the form of participation is mostly information sharing, and
only to a limited extent, consultation.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 16
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros                        Project Title: Social Fund Project
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of FADC's sub-projects will be achieved by ensuring maximum community
involvement (including financial or in-kind contributions) at all stages of the project cycle (from
identification, to execution of the works to operations and maintenance). Experience shows that
the higher the community contribution, the more compelled the community will be to ensure
proper operation and maintenance due to the substantial up-front investment. In addition, the
project will finance hands-on training programs for the village committees and user associations
on routine preventive maintenance activities.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                       Risk Rating       Risk Minimization Measures
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
- Quality of completed sub-projects is not        M         -Training of FADC partners and staff,
satisfactory.                                               and technical audits.
- Community solidarity does not remain a high     N         -Comorian population has a very sttong
priority for the operation and maintenance of               sense of community solidarity; training of
completed sub-projects.                                     beneficiaries for operation and
maintenance.
- Technical ministries do not comply with their   M         - FADC management to ensure adequate
undertakings to provide additional inputs (such as          coordination with line ministries, either
teachers or nurses) to ensure the satisfactory              directly or through the Central and
operation of the completed communal                         Regional Committees of FADC.
infrastructures.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
- Sufficient numbers of competent consultants,    M         - Capacity building is one project
contractors, suppliers, financial intermediaries and        component. FADC will use new
trainers/training facilities are not available.             vocational training school in Comoros
and training facilities in neighboring
countries.
- Sub-projects may not be implemented in a timely  M        - Training of FADC partners and staff, in
manner and within budgets.                                  particular to better estimate costs and
construction schedules and to better
manage works.
- FADC does not maintain an operating ratio of less  H      - FADC management to control costs by
than 0.15.                                                  closely monitoring operating
expenditures.
Overall Risk Rating    M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Project Appraisal Document                                                Page 17
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros            Project Tide: Social Fund Project
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
(a) The FADC Convention has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and FADC;
(b) The Manual of Procedures has been revised and is satisfactory to IDA;
(c) The Implementation Plan has been adopted by FADC and approved by the Borrower, and is
satisfactory to IDA;
(d) Independent auditors, satisfactory to IDA, have been recruited; and
(e) The National Executive Director and the three Regional Directors have been recruited.
2. Other:
Execution of the Project (see also Sections CA4 and E-4). The Government/Executing Agencies
win:
(a) Ensure that the positions of National Executive Director, Regional Directors and other higher
level staff of FADC are filled at all times with personnel whose qualifications and experience are
satisfactory to IDA.
(b) Conduct with IDA and other donors comprehensive annual project implementation reviews
no later than November 30 of each year.
(c) Recruit an independent consultant to undertake a technical audit for FADC to ensure that
approval, financing, and procurement procedures for sub-projects were followed and to provide
an opinion on the overall quality of works.
(d) Carry-out with IDA and other donors, no later than November 30, 2000, a midterm review of
the project in accordance with terms of reference and monitoring indicators acceptable to IDA.
(e) Ensure that FADC maintains in any given year an operating ratio (defined as the ratio of its
operating and administrative expenses to the disbursements for sub-projects) of less than 0.15.
Financial Covenants (see Section CA and Annex 6 on procurement and disbursement
arrangements).
Disbursements and Special Accounts (see Annex 6 on procurement and disbursement
arrangements).



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page 18
Countiy: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros                Project Title: Social Fund Project
Procurement and Consultant's Services (see Annex 6 on procurement and disbursement
arrangements).
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation. [xl Not applicable.
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation. Standard bidding documents are included in the Manual of
Procedures of FADC.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 19
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros                      Project Title: Social Fund Project
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Eileen Murray                Nicholas Burnett                Michael Sarris
TaskTeam Leader                Sector Manager                Country Director



I



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Annex 1: Page I of 2
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros                         Project Title: Social Fund Project
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Comoros: Social Fund Project
Narrative Summary         Key Performance            Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions
Indicators               Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                    (Goal to Bank Mission)
(1) Poverty reduction    - Poverty monitoring.     Poverty assessments,     Economic and socio-
through sustained                                  and/or quantitative and  political stability, and
economic growth by inter                           qualitative surveys to   economic growth.
alia providing better                              monitor (i) the percentage
quality infrastructure, and                        of the population below the
(2) Human resource       -Monitoring of human      poverty line and (ii) human
development through inter  resource development.  resource development.
alia improved literacy
levels and more accessible
health services.
Project Development                                                         (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
To address the incidence of  - By end of project, village  -Quarterly and annual  -Empowerment of poorer
poverty amongst the      committees are operational  progress reports prepared    beneficiaries contributes to
country's poorer         in all rural areas.       by FADC.                 sustained economic
communities through the    - Number of beneficiaries:   - Annual technical audit    growth.
replenishment of a social    26,000 for schools;  reports submitted by      - Greater access to and
fund designed to support    60,000 for water supply;    independent consultants.    utilization of basic social
demand-driven initiatives   48,000 for health posts;  - Supervision mission  services has a positive
developed by such        65,000 for feeder roads;    reports by Bank staff.  impact on enrollment rates,
communities and, in doing   50,000 for other;      - Beneficiary assessments   student performance,
so, to create employment    or about 250,000 in total.   by independent     literacy levels, health
and improve access to    - Number of permanent     consultants.             center attendance and
basic social services.   jobs created: 810.                                 health status, etc.
- Number of temporary                              - Local employment
jobs created: 1,800.                               opportunities contribute to
- Number of micro                                 increased economic
enterprises created or                             activities at the community
expanded: 200.                                     level.
- Number of persons
. ______________________  trained:  1,468.



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Annex 1: Page 2 of 2
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros                         Project Title: Social Fund Project
Outputs:                                                                    (Outputs to Objective)
(1) A total of 240       (1) Numbers of communal  For (1), (2) and (3):     - Quality of completed sub-
communal infrastructure    infrastructure completed:    - Quarterly and annual  projects is satisfactory.
sub-projects completed:  - 80 by the end of 1999;  progress reports prepared    - Community solidarity
130 Schools; 40 Water    - 140 by end of 2000;    by FADC.                  remains a high priority for
supply; 24 Health posts; 26  - 205 by end of 2001;  - Financial and technical    the operation and
Rural roads; 20 other    - 240 by 6/30/2002.       audit reports submitted by   maintenance of completed
projects.                                          fnancial auditors and    sub-projects.
(2) A total of 205 micro-    (2) Number of micro-credit  independent consultants.    - Technical ministries
credit sub-projects      sub-projects implemented:   - Evaluation midterm and    comply with their
implemented: 105         - 65 by end of 1999;      completion reports       undertakings to provide
programs of small loans;    - 115 by end of 2000;  prepared by FADC and     additional inputs (such as
100 individual loans for  - 175 by end of 2001;   Bank staff.               teachers or nurses) to
income generating        - 205 by 6/30/2002.       - Supervision missions by   ensure the satisfactory
activities.                                        Bank staff.              operation of the completed
3) A total of 40 capacity    (3) Number of capacity                         communal infrastructures.
building sub-projects    building sub-projects
implemented: 25 for      implemented:
members of village       - 15 by the of 1999;
committees; 10 for small    - 25 by the of 2000;
contractors; and 5 for local  - 35 by the end of 2001;
consultants.             - 40 by 6/30/2002.
Project Components:      Inputs: (budget for each                           (Components to Outputs)
(see Annex 2 for project    component)                                      - Villages committed to
description)                                                                community development.
(I) Rehabilitation/      (1) Total cost of US$ 9.9    - Quarterly and annual  - Availability of a
construction of communal   million, including      progress reports.        sufficient number of
infrastructure.          contingencies.            - Disbursement reports.  competent consultants,
- Financial audit reports.    contractors, suppliers,
(2) Micro-credit activities.  (2) Total cost of US$ 0.9    - Bank supervision mission  financial intermediaries
million, including       reports.                  and trainers/training
contingencies.                                     facilities.
(3) Capacity building.   (3) Total cost of US$ 0.2                          - Adequate coordination
million, including                                 with line ministries, either
contingencies.                                     directly or through the
(4) FADC investment and   (4) Total cost of US$ 2.7                         CCC and CR of FADC.
operating costs, staff   million, including                                 - FADC continues to be
training, audits and studies.  contingencies.                               able to recruit and retain
high-quality staff.
- Sub-projects are
implemented in a timely
manner and within budgets.
- FADC's operating ratio is
less than 0.15.



Project Appraisal Document                                       Annex 2: Page I of 5
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros            Project Title: Social Fund Project
Annex 2
Social Fund Project
Project Description
The objective of the project is to address the incidence of poverty amongst the country's poorer
communities through the replenishment of a social fund designed to support demand-driven
initiatives developed by such communities and, in doing so, to create employment and improve
access to basic social services.
The strategv is to support community development initiatives which appear to be the most
responsive to the population's needs. FADC will address the widespread incidence of poverty,
particularly outside of the capital, and the primary beneficiaries will be mainly poor rural
communities. The project will continue the experiment successfully begun under the first project
of a participatory approach for decentralized development. FADC will build on the strong sense
of solidarity that exist in Comoros; communities have demonstrated their cohesiveness,
dynamism, interest in the development process, willingness to pay for services, and ability to
manage effectively community development activities. Village committees (Comites de
Pilotage) will be FADC's main interlocutors. The types of sub-projects to be implemented will:
(a) have a direct impact on the well being of the population by supporting innovative approaches
to the delivery of basic community social services; (b) provide a mechanism for community
groups and entrepreneurs to create and develop viable micro-enterprises; (c) support the
development of small local contractors, consulting firms, and NGOs so that they can be fully
involved in the social fund activities; and (d) provide temporary and permanent employment
opportunities. Once the sub-projects are completed, communities will be expected to finance
their operations and maintenance.
As part of project preparation, a beneficiary assessment took place during the first quarter of
1997. The main objective of this exercise was to get an idea as to what were FADC's weak
points during the first phase and give beneficiaries an opportunity to express their views as to
how FADC can be more responsive to their needs during the second phase. Ninety-six percent
of beneficiaries surveyed thought that FADC responds to their needs and consider FADC to be
the best donor financed project in the Comoros. Over 80 percent of beneficiaries surveyed want
FADC to continue because they have concrete project requests. In most villages, there is a
consensus between the village committees (Comites de Pilotage), the notables, and the
population as to what types of projects should be financed. On the whole, beneficiaries do not
mind participating in the cost of the works, but some villages, mainly in the islands of Anjouan
and Moheli, thought that the 20 percent contribution requested was high. The training issue was
brought up repeatedly. Over 75 percent of the communities would like to see FADC provide
them with more in-depth and longer duration training. The project has taken into account these
concerns in the new project design. On the maintenance side, it appears as though 85 percent of
community groups surveyed have put in place maintenance schemes for completed sub-projects.
For example, the Mremani market which was rehabilitated in 1994 has put in place a system to
collect rent and taxes from the various merchants -- this not only has enabled proper maintenance
of the facility but the receipts have also been used to install electricity.



Project Appraisal Document                                        Annex 2: Page 2 of 5
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros              Project Title: Social Fund Project
FADC's procedures are clearly defined in a manual of procedures. Sub-project selection
procedures include: (i) formation of a village committee (or availability of an implementing
agency) responsible for the overall management of the sub-project; (ii) in order to ensure
ownership, assurances that the community's contribution would not be less than 20 percent of the
total cost of each sub-project in Grande Comore and not less than 10 percent in Anjouan and
Moheli; (iii) an assessment of cost effectiveness as reflected in the cost per beneficiary; (iv) for
sub-projects involving construction, strict adherence to environmental protection (i.e., ban on the
use of corals and beach sand); (v) consistency with the sector strategies and programs, and
adherence to norms established by the technical ministries; (vi) costs of sub-projects which are
within the capacity of the population to pay its share; and (vii) provision for maintenance of
infrastructure and/or sustainability of sub-project operation beyond the project penrod, including
recovery of operating costs where appropriate. To this end, for many types of sub-projects,
FADC will require that communities provide evidence of their ability and willingness to ensure
appropriate maintenance of the sub-project beyond the period of FADC assistance as one of the
criteria of sub-project selection.
As stated in FADC's Manual of Procedures and in the Development Credit Agreement for the
ongoing project, the maximum cost of a sub-project will be CF 33.75 million (approximately
US$ 85,000 equivalent), and as stated in the Manual of Procedures the maximum FADC
financing per sub-project will be CF 27 million (about US$ 67,500 equivalent) for all sub-
projects, except feeder roads where the maximum cost of a sub-project will be increased to CF
62.5 million (about US$ 156,250 equivalent) and the maximrum FADC grant per feeder road sub-
project will be increased to CF 50 million (about US$ 125,000 equivalent).
It is estimated that FADC will finance a total of 485 sub-projects over the four-year project
implementation period: 240 communal infrastructure sub-projects, 205 micro-credit activities
and 40 capacity building sub-projects. A tentative distribution by type of sub-project and by year
is given in Table 2 of Annex 4. Those figures are indicative only; they are subject to change
based on the requests made by the communities themselves.
Total project cost: US$ 13.7 million (IDA credit USS 11.5 million and beneficiary
contributions US$ 2.2 million).
Project Component 1: Rehabilitation/construction of Communal Infrastructure - Total
estimated cost: US$ 9.9 million (IDA credit: US$ 7.9 million, and beneficiary contributions:
US$ 2.0 million).
Context
The contribution of community organizations in assessing local needs and capabilities forms an
important part of social policy, and community organizations may be best placed to implement
certain activities. In particular, the contribution of community groups can be critical to the
development of education and health institutions at a local level. After contributing their ideas
and financial resources to the construction/rehabilitation of a school or a health post for example,
community groups can play a crucial role in the sustainability of the institution by organizing and



Project Appraisal Document                                        Annex 2: Page 3 of 5
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros              Project Title: Social Fund Project
maintaining a system of financial management and maintenance. This could include cost
sharing, contributions for salaries of key personnel (e.g. teacher or nurse), maintenance
responsibilities or insurance/mutual aid. Communal infrastructure activities are designed to
complement sectoral development strategies.
Description
The vast majority of sub-projects to be financed under this component will be the rehabilitation
of essential community services (primary schools, community water supply and health posts),
but will also include the rehabilitation of feeder roads, bridges, markets, food storage facilities,
and sub-projects for the protection of the environment. Labor intensive works will be preferred
whenever proven as technically and economically efficient and insofar as they generate
employment opportunities for the poor.
It is estimated that, over the four-year project implementation period, FADC will finance a total
of 240 communal infrastructure sub-projects: 130 schools, 40 community water supply, 24 health
posts, 26 feeder roads, and 20 other types of communal infrastructure sub-projects. As
mentioned above, those figures are indicative only since the FADC is demand-driven.
Implementation arrangements
In accordance with the manual of procedures of FADC, the sub-projects will be implemented by
the local communities or beneficiaries, that is in most cases by Comites de Pilotage (village
committees). Those village committees are structured community groups which work with the
FADC's Regional Secretariats (there is one Regional Secretariat in each island) in identifying,
preparing, and implementing sub-projects. In accordance with the contracts that they enter into
with FADC, the village committees are also responsible for mobilizing communities to provide
labor, materials, and cash for the sub-projects. For the implementation of the infrastructure sub-
projects financed by FADC, village committees will contract the execution of most of the works
to local contractors; FADC will assist the village committees in the contracting process, and also
in the supervision of the works by its own staff and/or local individual consultants or consulting
firms employed by FADC. Therefore, local contractors and consulting firms as well as village
committees will be FADC's partners as they will be basically responsible for the implementation
of works and/or on-site supervision.
Project Component 2: Micro-credit Activities - Total estimated cost: US$ 0.9 million (IDA
credit: US$ 0.7 million, and beneficiary contributions: US$ 0.2 million).
Context
The ongoing project aimed at encouraging the poor to launch small-scale, viable, productive
activities in sectors where a demand can be identified or expected and which have durable real
income gains. Due to a lack of financial intermediaries in rural areas in addition to the limited
market opportunities for the commercialization of goods, FADC has taken a conservative
approach and has been more keen on getting a grip on the overall environment for successfil



Project Appraisal Document                                        Annex 2: Page 4 of 5
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros              Project Title: Social Fund Project
micro-credit activities. Actually, FADC has not financed any micro-enterprises so far and has
only recently begun financing "programs of small loans" through the village committees. It is
also in the process of undertaking a study to evaluate potential financial intermediaries, and
provide any insight on market opportunities.
Description
These types of sub-projects will enable individuals as well as groups (particularly women) to
borrow small amounts of money to cover their legitimate needs and to obtain credit for
financially viable micro-enterprises. Community groups, NGOs and any other existing
organizations that could borrow from FADC for relending to beneficiaries will be used as
financial intermediaries. NGOs, which were virtually non-existent in Comoros, are only
beginning to emerge slowly, and their capacity to become full-fledged partners in the micro-
credit component remains limited. Therefore, the comites de pilotage (village committees) will
be used as financial intermediaries for very small loan amounts ("programs of small loans").
Another approach will be for FADC to lend for income generating activities mainly through rural
savings and loan associations which are in the process of being established in Comoros. All
lending will be consistent with government financial sector policies.
It is estimated that, over the four-year project implementation period, FADC will finance a total
of 205 micro-credit activities: 105 "programs of small loans" and 100 individual loans for micro-
enterprises for income generating activities. As mentioned above, those figures are indicative
only since the FADC is demand-driven.
The IDA credit will finance no more than 80 percent of the costs of the individual sub-projects
for income generating activities, but could finance 100 percent of the credit requirements for a
"program of small loans" through a financial intermediary.
Implementation arrangements
At present, two different types of operations are envisaged. In both cases, FADC will lend
money on a short term basis to a financial intermediary which will relend to beneficiaries. Under
the first scenario, FADC will lend to a pre-determined financial intermediary for an individual
income generating sub-project appraised and approved by FADC; under the second scenario,
FADC will lend to an intermediary for a "program of small loans" and this intermediary will be
responsible for approving individual small loans (less than $500). These loans will be made for a
year with a five month grace period followed by three subsequent re-payments (the sixth, ninth,
and twelffh months). The interest rate to be paid by the beneficiaries will be at a minimum the
central bank rate (taux directeur de la Banque Centrale). For the programs of small loans,
village committees will be used as financial intermediaries. Village committees will be
responsible for administering the small loans to beneficiaries and collecting from them
repayments of principal and payments of interest, and for paying back the loan to FADC with
interest at a rate of 5 percent per annum. Under these programs of small loans, village
committees will have to agree to make at least 25 percent of the small loans to women.



Project Appraisal Document                                              Annex 2: Page 5 of 5
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros                  Project Title: Social Fund Project
Project Component 3: Capacity building - Total estimated cost: US$ 0.2 million (to be
financed by the IDA credit).
Context
Under the ongoing project, there has been an emergence of local contractors which is attributable
to FADC's increased work program and, therefore, to the increasing number of contracts for civil
works. Those works created more business opportunities for individual consultants and
consulting firms. Both contractors and consultants have weaknesses which could have a negative
impact on the quality of the works financed by FADC. Also, NGOs are just starting to emerge as
a result of the political transition which has been taking place over the last three years. These
NGOs cannot yet be considered as full-fledged partners in the development process due to their
lack of expertise. The financial basis of these NGOs is weak and they are therefore highly
dependent on donor-financed projects in order to become fully operational. Finally, village
committees have expressed an interest in training in order to be able to work better with the
FADC.
Description
One of the objectives of this component is to ensure better quality infrastructure and micro-credit
sub-projects.   The capacity building  sub-projects will assist FADC's partners (village
committees, community groups, NGOs, small contractors and consultants) to improve their
effectiveness in identifying, preparing and implementing sub-projects. This will be done through
taining programs in project preparation, evaluation, procurement (including bid preparation and
submission), management of works and contract administration, accounting and financial
management.
It is estimated that, over the four-year project implementation period, FADC will finance a total
of 40 capacity building sub-projects: 25 for village committees, ten for contractors and five for
consultants. As mentioned above, those figures are indicative only since the FADC is demand-
driven. The IDA credit will finance up to 100 percent of the tuition costs for the training and,
where necessary, a percentage (to be determined) of the transportation and subsistence costs of
participants.
Implementation arrangements
For this component, the FADC will be essentially a financing organization, since it does not have
(and should not attempt to acquire) the capability to conduct training. FADC will be involved in
the selection of the participants and the preparation of the training curriculum in order to ensure
that it is fully responsive to the needs of the participants as identified by FADC in its operations
and that it will make those participants better partners of FADC. The training itself, however,
will be contracted to consultants or training organizations, including those financed by the Bank
and other donors, in Comoros or in neighboring countries.
Note: A Project Implementation Manual, which includes the Manual of Procedures of FADC, can be found in the
project file. These documents will be used as a basis for field supervision during the project implementation phase.






Project Appraisal Document                                         Annex 3: Page I of 1
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros              Project Title: Social Fund Project
Annex 3
Social Fund Project
Estimated Project Costs
(in US$ million)
Project Component                                   Local     Foreign      Total
Sub-projects:                                   T ____r_V
Rehabilitation/construction of communal infrastructure  7.60    1.90        9.50
Micro-credit activities                              0.90        -          0.90
Capacity building                                    0.08       0.07        0.15
Total sub-projects                                   8.58       1.97       10.55
FADC:
Operation                                            1.24       0.31        1.55
Equipment                                             -         0.40        0.40
Training                                             0.07       0.08        0.15
Total FADC                                           1.31       0.79        2.10
Audits and studies                                   0.28       0.27        0.55
Total Baseline Costs                                10.17       3.03       13.20
Physical Contingencies                            0.16       0.04        0.20
Price Contingencies                               0.24       0.06        0.30
Total Project Costs                                 10.47       3.13       13.70



I



Project Appraisal Document                                        Annex 4: Page 1 of 17
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros               Project Title: Social Fund Project
Annex 4
Social Fund Project
Economic Justification
I. Introduction
The FADC is an instrument to address infrastructure needs of poor segments of the population in
a country with limited central government resources. The FADC relies on community
participation (20 percent contribution to costs) to assign ownership of investments to
beneficiaries and create incentives at the ground level for rapid project implementation. Sub-
projects often support government policies in the education and health sectors but bypass public
administration as a means of delivery in cases when such services are ineffective and when
beneficiaries are ready to assume part of the responsibility.
T'he social fund FADC will assist poor communities to finance a wide range of investments:
classroom or school construction/ rehabilitation, health posts, markets, rural roads, potable water
supply, and small credit for income generating activities. Since the FADC is demand-driven,
fmal composition of the portfolio will be based on prioritized needs of each community.
Therefore, it is difficult to determine a priori the composition of the FADC's portfolio. Based on
experience with the social fund (FADC Phase I) in the ongoing PHR project (Credit 2553-KM),
communities have highest demand for construction or rehabilitation of schools (53 percent of
sub-projects), followed by health posts (10 percent) and water supply sub-projects (10 percent).
Objectives of analysis and methodology
The analysis has been aimed at establishing the need for direct assistance to the poor, analyzing
the choice of the social fund as the instrument, establishing the sustainability of investments, and
providing a sense of costs involved in particular sub-projects. This annex also discusses
monitoring indicators for sub-projects, which have been developed by FADC during project
preparation. Owing to the broad range of activities to be financed by FADC and the lack of data,
an overall NPV or ERR has not be estimated for the project. The analysis, however, draws on
activities financed under the ongoing project as such information is available.
Demographic information is necessary to ensure effective targeting of the operation. The latest
such information is available from the Household Expenditure Survey - HES (1995); preliminary
aggregated results are available and have been used. However, thorough treatment of the data is
not complete to this date, and important information on education, health care, income
composition at the village level is unavailable yet. That information would complement the
present analysis once the processing of the HES data is completed by authorities.1
With further treatment of the data the poverty line may be redefined, but variations among regions are not
expected to change.



Project Appraisal Document                                      Annex 4: Page 2 of 17
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros             Project Title: Social Fund Project
After a presentation of FADC's achievements to date and the performance targets for the
proposed project, the analysis is organized in the following sections: (i) The section on poverty
characteristics, targeting and monitoring identifies those with greatest need to ensure funds are
appropriately directed; a poverty map has been compared with a facilities map of completed sub-
projects under FADC Phase I, to illustrate the effectiveness of the existing targeting mechanism;
(ii) The section on sustainability and fiscal impact discusses the relevant factors at the
community and central government levels; and (iii) The section on two case studies, illustrative
of sub-projects already financed under FADC Phase I, indicates the determinants and magnitude
of costs and benefits for two types of projects similar to those that may be expected under the
proposed Social Fund Project.
II. FADC Achievements to Date and Performance Targets for the Proposed Project
FADC has achieved significant results. Table 1 shows the targets achieved through June 1997.
Targets could have been considerably higher had not there been a suspension of disbursements
for about six months.
Table 1
Targets Achieved During FADC Phase I (Up to June 1997)
Number of completed projects by type  1993 |1994  1995   1996   1997    TOTAL
Primary Schools'                     8      9     12      25      10         64
Community Water Supply               5      2      3      11      7          28
Feeder Roads                         1      1      1       2      0           5
Health Posts                         1      3      2       3       1         10
Promotion of women                   0      1      1       3      0           5
Sanitation/drainage                  0      1      0       2      0           3
Markets                              1      0      0       1      3           5
Total                               16    17    19        47     21         120
Number of village committees created   183    30    36    19      4         272
Number of village committees        16    43    120    139    151
operational2
1/    The 64 sub-projects completed included the rehabilitation or construction of 203
classrooms.
2/    Operational village committees comprise only committees where there is either a
completed or an on-going sub-project.
Regarding the proposed project, Table 2 below shows a wider range of indicators which will be
used to guide FADC during project implementation. These have been developed based on the
experience of the on-going project. However, it should be mentioned once again that FADC is
demand driven and therefore these figures are subject to change as the political, social, and
economic context change and communities request different types of support.



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Annex 4: Page 3 of17
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros                        Project Title: Social Fund Project
Table 2
FADC Monitoring Targets
Sub-projects           Type          Number of sub-projects completed during project period
1998*    1999    2000    2001    2002*        Total
Primary Schools            12       25       35      40        18        130
lNFRASTRUC-    Water Supply                    5       8       10       10        7         40
TURES             Health Posts                 4       8        6        4        2         24
Rural roads                 2        6        7       6         5         26
Other                       2        8        2       5         3         20
Total infrastructures      25       55       60      65       35        240
INCOME GEN.    Micro-credit                   12      28       30       25       10        105
ACTIVITIES        Individual loans             8      17       20       35       20        100
Total Income gen. act.     20       45       50      60       30         205
CAPACITY          Village committees           3       6        7        6        3         25
BUILDING          SMEs                         1       2        2        3        2         10
Local consulting firms      I        2        1        I       0           5
Total capacity building     5       10       10      10        5          40
1/    It is estimated that 40% of sub-projects will be in Grande Comore, 45% on the island of Anjouan and 15%
on the island of Moheli.
Number of jobs created during project period
INFRASTRUC-   [Permanent jobs                 75      90       15       15                 195
TURES            [Temporary jobs             500    1 100    1 200    1 300     700      4 800
INCOME GENERATING ACTIVITIES                  60     1351    150       180       90        615
Number of beneficiaries
INFRASTRUC-    Primary Schools             2 400    5 000    7 000    8 000    3 600    26 000
TURES             Health posts             8 000   16 000   12 000    8 000    4 000    48 000
(Number of        Water Supply             7 500   12 000   15 000   15 000   10 500    60 000
beneficiaries)    Ruralroads               5 000   15 000   17 500   15 000   12 500    65 000
Other                    5 000   20 000    5 000   12 500    7 500    50 000
Total for infrastructures   27 900   68 000   56 500   58 500   38 100    249 000
CAPACITY          Village committees         160     320      320      320      160       1 280
BUILDING          SME                         18      36       40       40       18        152
(persons trained)   Loc. Cons. firms           6      12       12        6        0         36
Total for capacity bldg.  184      368      372     366       178      1 468
INCOME GEN.    Small credit (benef.)         120     280      300      250      100       1 050
ACTIVITIES        Individ. entrepreneurs      16      34       40       70       40        200
Total for Inc. Gen. Act   136      314      340     320       140       1250
Total for Inc. Gen. Act.
for Women                  27       63       70      60       28        248
Number of visits
TUNFRASTRUC      | Health posts           45      45 000 1 30 000 | 30 000   30 000    180 000
* Project period begins July 1, 1998 and ends June 30, 2002



Project Appraisal Document                                      Annex 4: Page 4 of 17
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros             Project Title: Social Fund Project
III. Characteristics of Poverty, Targeting of Activities and Performance Monitoring
Poverty and targeting
Preliminary results of the 1995 Household Expenditure Survey (HES) provide an aggregated
poverty map. The findings indicate that nearly half of Comorians live in poverty. A poverty line
at US$ 487 (CF 164,160) of per capita consumption finds about 49% of Comorians living.
beneath it. Consumption is unevenly distributed - the Gini is 33.4 for the country and rises to
38.9 in the capital Moroni. The country is predominantly rural, and rural areas -on all three
islands- house the majority of the population (82%) and of the poor. The headcount index for
rural areas is 46% for Grande Comore, 62% for Anjouan, and 59% for Moheli (see table 3).
Poverty is also deeper and more severe progressively in Grande Comore, Anjouan, and Moh6li.
Poor households tend to rely on agriculture as a sole source of revenue. The poor households
suffer from lower literacy than the average, have less frequent access to health care, live in worse
conditions as measured by housing construction, and have little access to water (most households
use a public fountain or a community cistern for water for drinking and for household chores).
The HES also confirmed the lack of social infrastructure. Most Comorian children do not attend
school and do not have access to a reasonable quality education system. Of the 40 percent of
children that do attend schools, about 80 percent are enrolled in public schools where most
recently four academic years have been lost to teachers strikes; students from higher income
groups enroll in private schools. Furthermore, those that do enter the school system do not stay
in it for long; the majority of students that stay in school through "Second I cycle" (7th class)
come from higher income groups. Evidence is that 60 percent of recipients of the Baccalaureate
come from the top 20 percent of the income distribution. The suggested low enrollments reflect
supply bottlenecks (shortage of classrooms, teachers) rather than weak demand which could have
been a consequence of low anticipated returns to education.  On numerous occasions
communities have proven their resolve to educate their children by paying for school
construction and teachers when the state fails to do so. Under FADC Phase I, more than 50% of
requests for investment projects every year since the fund came under operation in 1993 have
been for schools.
Comorians also undertake very little preventive non-emergency health care. The HES showed
poor groups using doctors almost as frequently as households in the upper income groups, at a
time when public provision of health services is substantially hampered by government
budgetary constraints.
The HES indicates that the efforts of the FADC should be directed towards the rural areas of all
three islands where education and basic health services are in shorter supply. Existing efforts
under FADC Phase I are oriented in the right direction (see table 3). A large majority of projects
are in rural areas, in all three islands, although Grande Comore has absorbed the largest share
owing in part to the initial level of readiness of the communities. The greatest demand has been
for construction of two-classroom schools (or classroom additions), health posts and water
projects (pumps and distribution systems). As a result of this analysis, more attention will be
given to rural Anjouan under the proposed Social Fund Project.



Project Appraisal Document                                       Annex 4: Page 5 of 17
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros              Project Title: Social Fund Project
MonitoningI
Monitoring of implementation progress has been robust under FADC Phase I. An elaborate
system has been developed which keeps track of the type and location of sub-projects,
investment cost, community contribution, and number of beneficiaries. The existing capacity
would serve the Social Fund Project quite well. A beneficiary assessment of activities under
FADC Phase I has been undertaken; it has been used for the final design of the proposed project
and will also serve as a checkpoint for its implementation.
Monitoring of targeting effectiveness would be aided by further treatment of HES data, although
as mentioned above, existing mechanisms have steered FADC Phase I in the right direction.
Greater detail from the HES is needed to explore possibly differing characteristics within the
rural strata of each island, as most of the population is gathered in rural areas.
Monitoring of outcomes is an area where the proposed project could make progress over FADC
Phase I. The costs associated with monitoring are critical, especially given the small size of the
social fund operation. Nevertheless, it remains important to obtain objective measures, in
addition to the favorable comments circulating by word of mouth in the Comoros, about the
impact that individual sub-projects have on the communities that requested the investment. The
FADC may consider adopting a sampling approach and monitor a small pool of each type of
sub-projects, depending on its importance in FADC portfolio. For education sub-projects,
enrollment at the village level, examination performance, or wages in subsequent years, may be
suitable outcomes to measure. For health posts, number of visits, number of patients, and
medications purchased or distributed may be reasonable. Finally, for water sub-projects,
agricultural output for irrigation perimeters, or reduced incidence of illnesses for potable water
supply could be considered. Since the objective is always to ascertain the marginal impact or
benefit individual sub-projects have on the community, some data gathering is required before a
sub-project is undertaken.
lDraws on Egypt Social Fund: Performance Monitoring, by Soniya Carvalho, PSP Dept., August 1995.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                             Annex 4: Page 6 of 17
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros                                                                   Project Title: Social Fund Project
Table 3
Poverty and Intervention Map of Social Fund I (Midterm, 1993-96)
Regional Rankings
By Headcount Index                                           Sub-projects completed by Mid-term of Social Fund I
Total   School Health   Water  Cistern  Marker Bridge Rural Training Drainage Foot-  Hand   Family
H    PG  FGT2 Gini  Interventions         Post  Supply                           Road  Center            bridge Pump  Planning
Center
Anjouan - Rural       61.9 26.5  15.1  30.6     20        10              5                1                              2       1               1
Moheli- Rural         59.0 24.7  14.5  31.9     17        14      1       1                        1
Anjouan - Urban       49.9 20.9  12.1  32.7      4               2        1                1
G. Comore - Rural    46.1  18.3  10.1  32.0     46        24     5        2       6                      3                               5        1
G. Comore -Other Urb. 44.2  15.5  7.3  29.0                      1
Moh6li - Urban        32.9  10.0  4.3  34.4      1
G. Comore - Moroni    19.0  4.6  1.5  38.6       2                                                               2
Comoros              49.1 19.8  11.1  33.4      92       49      2        9       6        2       1     3       2        2       1      5       3
Notes: H: headcount; PG: poverty gap; FGT2: Foster-Greer-Thorbecke measure.
Sources: Household Expenditure Survey 1995, preliminary results; Le FADC Nov. 1996; staff estimates.



Project Appraisal Document                                           Annex 4: Page 7of17
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros                 Project Title: Social Fund Project
IV. Sustainability and Fiscal Impact
Sustainability
The Social Fund Project places the maintenance of social infrastructure in the hands of
communities. They hold responsibility for upkeep of structures and staffing according to
original sub-project designs, and carry further responsibilities when the central government
cannot meet is own obligations.! Risks, therefore, depend on the type of sub-project and the
beneficiary community; both risks are to be assessed by FADC at time of sub-project evaluation.
Prudent management dictates that sub-projects with a low chance of sustainability would not be
undertaken and communities with poor track records of sustainability be denied financing for
additional sub-projects.
Although empirical studies of community financing for Comoros do not exist, field visits have
revealed the ability of communities to gather financial resources for priority projects. Overall,
the financing requirements that sub-projects place on communities, for both capital and recurrent
expenditures, are considered reasonable and moderate, relative to financing responsibilities
communities customarily undertake. Community financing capabilities might well be related to
the importance of community or village 'councils' in the Comoros, which have historically
exercised the primary form of governance on each island.
Fiscal impact
Experience from the FADC Phase I shows that it would be unrealistic to expect that the
Government could make any contribution either to investment costs, or to the cost of operation
and maintenance, with the exception of the assignment of some personnel such as primary school
teachers and nurses.
On the revenue side, there is an exemption from import duties and domestic taxes collected at
customs for sub-project inputs that FADC would import on behalf of communities/beneficiaries.
On the other hand, in the case of infrastructures built by contractors, government gains revenues
from taxes paid by those contractors on all the items that they import. The present analysis does
not consider tax revenues from anticipated higher income streams to sub-project beneficiaries as
part of the fiscal impact, because those benefits are expected to accrue to rural communities that,
based on reality in Comoros today, are outside the Government's tax base.
Financial predicament
In recent years, the central government has had difficulty meeting its budgeted expenditures in
education and health. Table 4 contains budgeted and actual expenditures for 1996 and illustrates
that central authorities executed approximately one-fourth of planned expenditures in education
and one-fifth of planned expenditures in health by year's end. This illustration almost 'reverses'
the question of fiscal impact of the social fund; rather than draw central government resources,
l This could happen, for example, when a teacher is not assigned to an SF financed school by the Ministry of
Education even though the position exists in the Ministry's organigram.



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Annex 4: Page8of17
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros                         Project Title: Social Fund Project
the social fund often complements central government expenditure, and sometimes serves as a
substitute when communities assume complete responsibility for some basic social services.
Herein lies the risk of the present operation -- the Government's inability to execute already low
planned expenditures in the social sectors -- and, in good part, justification for designing Bank
assistance in the form of a social fund. Capacity and financial constraints of the central
authorities have led to a demise of basic social services to the poor.
Table 4
Central Government Expenditures 1996
(percent of GDP)
Budgeted
Actual       Total       Salaries     Goods         Transfers
Education       1.0         4.1           3.3         0.5            0.3
Health          0.2         0.9           0.6         0.1            0.2
*/ Staff estimates at end 1996.
Source: Government of Comoros, various services; staff estimates.
Comparisons with other countries in the region and of similar size and income are revealing
(table 5). Although comparable budgetary expenditures for countries of similar size are not
readily available, some outcome comparisons can be made. They indicate that Comoros lags
behind or is barely better off than the lower income groups, and is much worse off than the next
highest income group.
Table 5
Social Indicators
Comoros and Comparators
GNP per    Gross        Infant                   Population
Population   Capita    Primary    Mortality     Life       Growth Rate
(1994,     1994    Enrollments    Rate    Expectancy         (/6)
thousands)   (US$)      (O)          (per      (years)
1000)
Comoros           485        510         86          89         56             2.7
Cape Verde        381        910        115          40         68             2.3
Djibouti          566        780         39         115         49             4.7
Guyana            825        530        112          48         65             0.6
Maldives          246        900        n/a          55         62             3.1
Madagascar       13,101      230         93         114         51             2.9
Mauntius          1,104     3,180       106          17         69             1.0
Low Income         -         390        101          73         62             1.8
SSA                -         500         66          99         52             2.9
Country averages.
Source: Updated from Comoros: Poverty and Growth in a Traditional Small Island Society (World
Bank).



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Annex 4: Page 9 of 17
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros                       Project Title: Social Fund Project
V. Two case studies
(1) Rationale
The objective of presenting the case studies is to illustrate the dimension and composition of the
costs, degree of burden-sharing by the communities, and the distributional impact of sub-projects
to be financed under the Social Fund Project. Two case studies have been selected, illustrative of
more than 60 percent of sub-projects expected to be financed under the project. The first is the
construction of a school in Bangoi-Hambou, and the second, the construction of a health post in
Dimboini.
A case can be made that for education and health sector sub-projects financed under a social fund
which are in support of a well-prepared governmental master plan for each sector, economic
analysis on a sub-project basis for the social fund may not be necessary. This assumes that an
optimal strategy for each sector has been worked out and economic analysis has been done at the
national level when the strategy was conceived and within it, all investments were shown to have
positive economic NPVs.
(2) Construction of a school in Bangoi-Hambou
The sub-project consists of building a school with two large classrooms and two offices,
replacing an older structure of a one classroom school. The old classroom housed two rotations
of 30 students each; about 40 of the community's students commuted up to two hours to schools
of neighboring villages where spaces were available; and 20 children did not attend school at all,
owing to the shortage of places in the local school and the relatively high transportation costs of
commuting to neighboring villages. The new construction with bigger classrooms is expected to
accommodate most of the village's school age children and improve student performance by
providing better facilities.
The incremental costs imposed by this sub-project on the Government and community are
construction of the school and extra costs of running a bigger school over the smaller one that
existed before. The school is built on the existing plot of land, where the old school was sitting;
the land is considered a sunk cost and no financial or economic value is attached to it."'2
'In a school construction project on newly acquired or donated land, economic and financial values for land would
2.
be used. The market price for land per m is approximately CF 600 in rural areas and approximately CF 3,000 in
Moroni. The plot size for a school ranges from 750m2 to 100Om2.
2An alternative 'with-out' project scenario would be for the central government to finance the complete construction
of the school in 5 years or so. However, although this might be plausible for the case of an individual school, it
does not seem plausible concurrently for all sub-projects financed by the social fund as the government's financial
position is not anticipated to improve so quickly. A second alternative may have be the construction of a private
school, but the fact that such schools have only become operational in Moroni (catering to some politicians, affluent
Comorians and foreigners), is taken as indication that such a venture would not be profitable in poor rural
communities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Annex 4: Page 10 of 17
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros                       Project Title: Social Fund Project
School construction and expansion by the FADC is in accordance with the Education Sector
Master Plan of the central government. The Master plan is supported by the Bank and other
donors. Community involvement through FADC expedites implementation of the Master Plan
as the community invests resources and takes ownership of the schools. Staffing of the schools
is a priori a responsibility of the central government, and this case study assumes an additional
teacher is hired for the purpose.
The cost of the sub-project is estimated at CF 24,500,000 by FADC. The community's
contribution is 20 percent of investment costs (excluding price contingencies and technical
assistance) as evaluated by the FADC. Construction is done by contracts. Table 6 presents
investment costs as evaluated by FADC and financial and economic costs for estimating the
project's NPV.
Financial cost include taxes, whereas economic costs remove such distortions and incorporate a
foreign exchange premium; economic costs also includes evaluation of donated labor on the part
of the community at 85 percent of the unskilled labor rate, owing to the prevalence of
unemployment in rural areas. The foreign exchange premium is estimated at approximately 15
percent. Both economic and financial analyses are conducted in real 1996 domestic border
prices, the year of the investment.
Table 6
Community School Construction Project - Investment costs
FADC Evaluation        Financial              FX3       Economic
Cost   (%)   Tax          cost    Distortions   Prem       cost
rate
Totalproiectcosts 24.500.00 100            18.718.000                         19.419.108
0 ,%
Community       4.165.000 17%o               833000                            3.822.875
Labor           3,332,000 14%    -                 0   3,019,625    -          3,019,625
Materials (dom)    624,750  3%   5%          624,750    -29,750    -            595,000
Other             208,250  1%    -           208,250               -            208,250
Government@    20.335.00  83%              17.885.000                         15.596.233
Labor           3,165,400 13%    -          3,165,400   -119,000    -          3,046,400
Materials (dom)   1,332,800  5%   5%        1,332,800    -63,467    -          1,269,333
Materials (imp)   11,662,00  48%   35%     11,662,000  -3,332,000  15%         9,579,500
0
Bldg. fixtures    499,800  2%   5%           499,800    -23,800    -            476,000
Price contingency  2,450,000 10%    -              0               -                  0
Tech. assistance   1,225,000  5%    -       1,225,000              -           1,225,000
Note: */ Average rate of excise and import duties as applicable.
+/ FX (foreign exchange) premium is I/SCF where SCF was derived based on the trade approach.
@/ IDA financing.



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Annex 4: Page 11 of 17
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros                         Project Title: Social Fund Project
Recufrent costs to the project are born jointly by the community and the Government. The
community is responsible for upkeep of the school building (including painting/white washing)
and the Government for providing an additional teacher for the extra classroom. Table 7
contains recurrent costs. Maintenance for the old school structure during the year of construction
is forgone (CF 24,000) and CF 120,000 per year is required thereafter for maintenance of the
new building; all maintenance costs are contributed by the community. Foregone income on the
part of the students is derived as 20 new students at CF 300 per day (10 months, 22 school days
per month), at slightly less than half the daily rate for unskilled labor.
Table 7
Community School Construction Project - Incremental recurrent costs
Year of project                0           1          2         3          4         5         25
Total                    -24.000   1,766.000   1.766,000  1.766.000   1.766,000 1.766.000   1.766.000
Teacher (Gov.)                 0    350,000    350,000   350,000    350,000  350,000    350,000
Maintenance (Comm.)       -24,000     96,000     96,000    96,000     96,000   96,000      96,000
Foregone Inc. (Comm.)          0   1,320,000   1,320,000  1,320,000   1,320,000 1,320,000   1,320,000
Note: Year 0 is timne of construction. No maintenance on old structure is assumed during that year.
Complete economic and financial benefits to education are often difficult to capture because a
substantial portion of the benefits to education are externalities - they are benefits to society
above those that accrue to individuals from their own education. The present analysis attempts to
capture some of the quantifiable benefits that accrue to individuals. Three types of benefits have
been identified for this sub-project, all based on discussions with education and community
officials or experiences in other countries. Empirical studies to support these hypotheses for
Comoros are currently unavailable. First, better facilities are postulated to contribute a 30
percent drop in repeater rates for the school; this translates into a savings of CF 3,917 per
student, or CF 31,333 per year. Second, approximately 40 students are expected to save time by
attending school in their own community, rather than undertake a two hour commute to a nearby
village. Valuing the opportunity cost of the commute at an hourly rate of CF 50 (based on
average potential earnings of CF 300 per day) yields CF 880,000 in annual savings. Finally, the
third source of benefits is the expected increase in farmer income as a result of receiving better
schooling. This is estimated as a 25 percent increase in income for four additional graduates a
year (starting from year 5 through 25 of the project); annual income is taken as CF 637,000, set
at a representative agricultural household income for Grande Comore engaged in planting cash
crops. Farmer's income is not assumed to be taxed.
IIncome is taken as a weighted average of farm incomes in Grande Comore based on two types of farm models:
one for crops planted in clear fields and the other for crops planted under tree cover. An alternative assumption
could have been made where the earning differential between skilled (CF 2,000 per day) and unskilled (CF 750 day)
labor could have been taken as the incremental benefit to the 20 village students that now have access to education.
This hypothesis would have more than doubled the benefit to education and have also increased the economic NPV
of the project several times over. However, as it is believed that more than just five years of schooling are required
for an individual to become a skilled labored, including training opportunities and a healthy economy to sustain
demand for services, and those two factors are not believed to be available in the Comoros. Consequently the more
conservative route of increases in farm incomes was chosen.



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Annex 4: Page 12 of 17
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros                         Project Title: Social Fund Project
Table 8
Community School Construction Project - Incremental benefits
Yearofproject         0        1       2      3        4         5               25
Totalbenefits         0 911,333 911.,333 911.333 911.333  1.548.933       14.300.933
Drop in repeater      0  31,333  31,333  31,333  31,333    31,333             31,333
rate
Smaller commute       0 880,000 880,000 880,000 880,000   880,000            880,000
Higher future inc.      0       0       0      0        0   637,600       13,389,600
Note: Year 0 is time of construction
Incremental financial costs and benefits are presented in Table 9. Student's families pay a fee to
the community to cover upkeep of the school. Communities gain student's contributions as
revenue, and benefit from lower costs owing to the drop in repeater rates. Communities, in turn,
bear part of this construction cost. The remainder of the construction cost plus the additional
teacher's salary is born by government. In all, the financial Net Present Value, estimated at a
discount rate of 10 percent for 25 years, is CF -18,042,533.
Table 9
Community School Construction Project - Summnary of incremnental financial costs
and benefits (NPV) accruing to the project entity
Community
Students   Rest   Government         Total
Incr. Benefits             0 1,131.810  3.568.017            4.699.826
Drop in repeater rate          284,414                         284,414
User fees                      847,396                         847,396
Taxes                                    3,568,017           3,568,017
Incr. Costs          84        833.000 21.061.964           22.742.360
Construction                   833,000  17,885,000          18,718,000
Teacher's salary                         3,176,964           3,176,964
School maintenance    847,396                                  847,396
Net Incr. Benefits   847396   298.810 17.493.947            -18.04233
Some information not often explicitly included in the financial flows is interesting in that it
highlights the distributional inpact of the investment. Table 10 presents the financial costs and
benefits of the construction cost. The community's contribution is used to purchase some
services from itself (CF 0.2 million) and materials from the rest of the economy (CF 0.6 million).
The Government, through the FADC, pays CF 16.7 million to an enterprise for construction, and
CF 3.7 million is allocated for price contingencies and technical assistance. Of the CF 16.7
million received, the enterprise pays CF 3.5 million in taxes, and CF 8.3 million for imports of
materials; the remainder CF 2.5 million is estimated profits. Thus of the total investment cost the



Project Appraisal Document                                               Annex 4: Page 13 of 17
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros                     Project Title: Social Fund Project
Bank is financing, about 25 percent goes to the local economy, 33 percent to purchase imports,
and 15 percent is paid in taxes; less than 1 percent goes to purchasing items from the community.
Should the community purchase own labor, rather than solicit contributions, then the share of the
cost borne by the community increases.
Table 10
Investment contributions to local economy.
(millions of CF)
Received Received Received Received Received Received
Comm    Gov./             Society           Trade     Total
Rest   FADC  Enterprise Skilled   Rest   Partners   (Paid)
Paid
Community       0.2      0.0                       0.6               .863
Gov./FADC                        16.7              3.7              20.335
Enterprise               3.5              0.7      1.7      8.3     14.280
Skilled Labor                                                        0.000
Rest Soc.                                                            0.000
Trade Partners                                                       0.000
Total
(Received)    0.2     3.6      16.7     0.7      6.0     8.3
Economic analysis of the sub-project yields a more optimistic, albeit tenuous, picture. With
forgone income as part of the costs, and an evaluation of unskilled labor donated by the
community, the economic costs of the investment amount to CF 35,425,161. The benefits
accruing to society as a whole are rather small, relative to the cost of the investment. The largest
benefit comes from incremental income gained of individuals now not participating in the school
system. The NPV, estimated with a discount rate of 10%, comes to CF 2,766,939. The
economic rate of return is 10.82%. Table 11 illustrates the results.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Annex 4: Page 14 of 17
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros                       Project Title: Social Fund Project
Table 11
Community School Construction Project - Summary of incremental economic costs and
benefits (NPV) occurring to society
Community
Students     Rest       Government        Total
Incr. Benefits      3760.290       1.131.810             0    38.192.100
Drop in repeater rate               284,414                      284,414
Smaller commute      7,987,795                                  7,987,795
Higher future Inc.  29,072,495                                 29,072,495
User fees                           847,396                       847,396
Incr. Costs         12.829.089     3.822.875     18.773.197    35A25,161
Investment cost                    3,822,875     15,596,233    19,419,108
Teacher's salary                                  3,176,964     3,176,964
School maintenance     847,396                                   847,396
Income Foregone      11,981,693                                11,981,693
Net Incr. Benefits   24,231201     19065        -18,773.197     2.766.939
Several reasons can be given for the relatively low return to this investment. First, failure to
consider broader benefits and externalities of education (such as better health for girls, etc.), due
to lack of data; second, absence of data on earnings differentials between literate and illiterate
heads of households. Finally, the pay-off from education may be low due to the lack of
economic opportunities. If jobs valuing education are few, then the return to education is low.
In this case, the high demand for education can only be seen as having some sort of utility rather
than market value, if parents believe that education is necessary, but not sufficient to guarantee,
higher future income.
(3) Construction of a health post at Diboini
Comoros has recently adopted a decentralized approach to health care. Primary features are (i)
direct central government transfers to all hospitals, ensuring a degree of autonomous
management of the facilities, and (ii) placement of health posts in remote outer regions for more
routine consultations. Health posts are supported by a variety of sources ranging from minor
financial support from government contributions to donations of medical supplies from external
sources. Staffing procedures are also not uniform across health posts. The post at Diboini is
usually staffed once a week by Sisters from Caritas-Comores, an NGO with 17 years experience
in Comoros. Operation of the health post at Diboini is representative of coordination efforts
currently required to make the health sector in Comoros function.
Construction of health posts follows the motif adopted in the school example. Table 12 presents
investment costs. Materials again dominate costs owing to their high import content. Although
a breakdown of materials into domestic and imported is not readily available because
construction is contracted out as a package, estimation of economic costs is obtained on the basis
of the school construction example: 85 percent of the cost of materials is attributed to imports



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Annex 4: Page 15 of 17
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros                         Project Title: Social Fund Project
(including taxes of 35 percent) and 15 percent to domestic materials (including taxes of 5
percent). Land (lOm x 12m) was purchased by the community before construction began. All
labor is financed by the community and includes both skilled (30 percent of labor time, 48
percent of costs) and unskilled (70 percent of labor time, 52 percent of costs) workers.
Table 12
Diboini Health Post Construction Project - Investment Cost
FADC Eval. of project      Financial Distortion   FX         Economic
s
Cost   Composition         cost      (taxes)    Prem.         cost
Total proiect costs    18.815.017      100%       19.215.017                          16.270.908
Community              3762.433         20%        4.162.433                           4.078.467
Labor                   2,760,000       15%        2,760,000                           2,760,000
Materials                631,000         3%          631,000  -143,561       15%         547,034
Other                    371,433         2%          371,433                             371,433
Land                           -           -         400,000                             400,000
Government             15.052.584       80%       15,052.584                          12,192.441
Materials              12,527,625       67%       12,527,625 -2,790,545      15%       9,667,482
Contingency             1,629,006        9%        1,629,006                           1,629,006
Technical assistance     895,953         5%          895,953                             895,953
Note: Materials include 15% domestic and 85% imported components; FX premium applied to imported
component at border prices.
Recurrent costs per health post are difficult to assess because personnel rotates over several
locations during the week. Caritas Sisters visit about 10 posts a week, and Diboini, as mentioned
earlier, is one of them; their staff consists of two nurses and three assistants. Figures provided by
Caritas suggest recurrent costs of about CF 918,181 per health post. The cost composition
comprises: staff (55%), transport (16%), medical supplies (7%), and other items (22%). Caritas
charges users, as several other NGO providers do, CF 200 per adult visit. Revenues amount to
approximately CF 134,000 for Diboini, or 15% of estimated recurrent costs.
Demandfor services
Diboini health center services the town of Diboini itself (population 700) and four other villages
(Mbambani, Milevani, Bwenindi, and Bibavu). The center provides approximately 7,056
consultations per year to a population of approximately 3,000. Table 13 below presents age
characteristics of users of the services and types of health problems encountered based on
consultations of September and October 1996.



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Annex 4: Page 16 of 17
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros                         Project Title: Social Fund Project
Table 13
Diboini Health Post: Number of consultations per year and types of incidents
Total consultations                  7.056   Other (cont.)                 NO_
Ear problems                   2
By aae and sex (% of 7,056)  Male Female   Conjunctivitis                    2
Under I year                   20      31    Dental problems                 0
Years 14                        10     21    Tuberculosis                    0
Years 5-15                       5      3   Other respiratory               11
Years 15-45                      2      5   Vascular symptoms                0
Older than 45                    1      2   Digestive symptoms               3
Roundworm                      7
Child related (% of total             (%)   Diarrhea                         2
consultat.)
Pre- and post natal consultations       4   Gonorrhea                        0
Newborns, consultation and care         80   Other urological related        I
Malaria, preventive treatment (0-5 yrs)  85   Malnutrition                   3
Vaccinations, children and adults      10   Anemia                           3
Health education sessions               0   Injuries and traumas            11
Rheumatism                     4
Other conditions                      (      General sympt. of ill           5
(% of total consultations)                   health
Malaria                                 9
*/ Categories overlap.
Source: Caritas-Comores
Table 13 indicates that the majority of health services are provided to children and expecting
mothers. It also shows the areas of intervention: malaria, respiratory diseases, and injuries and
traumas. Of interest is also the relatively low rate of visits for adults, about 700 annual
consultations, of which a portion are follow-ups, in an area of approximately 3,000 inhabitants.
The sustainability of a health post is dependent on the communities which it serves and on
external donors. Location of health posts with the objective of servicing more than one village is
reasonable, given cost considerations and low cost recovery possibilities. The present analysis
suggests that operation and financing of health posts may be tenuous because several sources of
financing must come together for the posts to be operational and sustainable. Therefore, FADC
needs to obtain commitments from the communities on resources necessary for the recurrent
costs of the health posts.
VI. Conclusion
Comoros is among the poorest countries in the world. Despite repeated efforts, the central
authorities continue to face enormous challenges in providing basic social services to their
population. In this environment, the social fund can be an effective instrument for delivery of
social infrastructure to the poor when they are ready to assume part of the responsibility for
investments. For education and health sub-projects, all construction supports authorities' sectoral
master plans, and in doing so alleviate some fiscal pressure from the central government.



Project Appraisal Document                                              Annex 4: Page 17 of 17
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros                     Project Title: Social Fund Project
Composition of the social fund's portfolio will be demand-driven and will depend on
communities' priorities. Experience from FADC Phase I indicates that education, health, and
water sub-projects have the highest priorities for communities. Two case studies of sub-projects
were undertaken, one for construction of a school, and the other for a health post. The first case
illustrates (i) that the majority of the costs are attributed to the import of raw materials and
intermediate goods (ii) in terms of distributional impact, private entrepreneurs benefit from
construction in the short term and students benefit from higher wages in the longer term, and (iii)
only a small increases in income of additional graduates is required to yield a positive ERR
(10.82%). The health post example illustrates the high level of coordination that may be required
on the part of bilateral and multilateral donors, government and NGOs for a sub-project to meet
its objectives. The observation applies not only to health posts, but also to other types of sub-
projects: despite the merits of the social fund as an instrument of choice, there remains a need
for selectivity and stringent evaluation on the part of the implementing agency for individual
sub-projects so that in every case the social fund is the best instrument to meet communities'
objectives and sustainability of the sub-project can be assured.






Project Appraisal Document                                          Annex 5: Page I of 1
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros               Project Title: Social Fund Project
Annex 5
Social Fund Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31.
(in US$ million)
Implementation Period
Calendar Year       1998     1999    2000    2001       2002    Total
Project Costs
Investment Costs           1.7     3.1      3.2       3.3      1.9     13.2
Recurrent Costs           0.1      0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1      0.5
Total            1.8      3.2      3.3      3.4      2.0      13.7
Financing Sources
(% of total project costs)
IDA                        89       84       82       82       82       84
Beneficiaries              11       16       18       18       18       16
Total            100      100      100      100      100      100
Main assumptions:
See estimates of the number of sub-projects in Table 2 of Annex 4.
On financing, beneficiaries will contribute between 10% and 20% of the cost of sub-projects.






Project Appraisal Document                                       Annex 6: Page I of 6
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros            Project Title: Social Fund Project
Annex 6
Social Fund Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
FADC which will be the executing agency for this project has been operating since 1993 under
the on-going PHR Project and is fully experienced in procurement, in particular procedures
applicable to small community contracts. During this on-going project, technical audits took
place in 1996 and 1997 and selected sub-projects were thoroughly reviewed including the
procurement procedures--no discrepancies were discovered in particular with the provisions of
FADC's Manual of Procedures, which is acceptable to IDA.
Sub-projects. Civil works and goods contracts for sub-projects involving the construction,
repair, and rehabilitation of community infrastructure including primary schools, health posts,
community water supply, feeder roads, rural markets, etc. and the purchase of school desks and
similar type furniture for other types of sub-projects costing more than $15,000 but less than
$85,000 ($155,000 for rural road sub-projects) per contract up to an aggregate amount of $5.3
million would be procured through NCB procedures described in the Manual of Procedures of
FADC. Civil works and goods contracts for sub-projects costing less than $$15,000 per contract
up to an aggregate amount of US$ 5.3 million would be procured through obtaining at least three
bids from small local contractors (civil works) and through local shopping procedures (goods), as
described in the Manual of Procedures.
Goods. Contracts for goods such as vehicles, office equipment and furniture for FADC national
and regional offices costing more than $100,000 per contract would be purchased through ICB in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(published in January 1995 and revised in August 1996). Contracts for goods available locally
for an aggregate amount US$ 200,000 which cost more than $30,000 but less than or equal to
$100,000 per contract will be procured through NCB procedures acceptable to IDA. Small
quantities of office supplies and consumable materials which are normally available off the shelf
at economical prices and cannot be grouped in packages of $30,000 would be procured through
national shopping based on price quotations obtained from three reliable suppliers provided that
the aggregate amount does not exceed $100,000.
Consultant Services. These types of services, for an aggregate amount of US $2.3 million, would
be for: (a) local FADC staff; (b) technical and financial audits; (c) design and supervision of
FADC's sub-projects; and (d) technical assistance and training support for FADC. Consultants
would be recruited in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment
of Consultants (January 1997). Consultant selection for design and supervision of sub-projects
will be addressed through competition among short listed firms in which the selection will be
based on Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS). For the financial audits ($75,000), which
will involve firms, the least cost solution will be used. Consultant services which would involve



Project Appraisal Document                                         Annex 6: Page 2 of 6
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros               Project Title: Social Fund Project
individuals will be selected on criteria based on qualifications, experience, and competence for
their assignments. Some small assignments related to technical audits and support to general
project supervision for contracts not exceeding US$ 50,000 per contract will be procured on a
single-source basis.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
IDA financed contracts above the threshold of $60,000 for works and goods will be subject to
IDA's prior review. All other goods and works contracts will be subject to post review.
However, a technical audit will be performed during each year of project implementation. About
10 percent of the on-going or completed projects (selection will be on a random basis) will be
subject to an in-depth review. This review will look into detail into compliance with the
procurement procedures utilized to ensure conformity with FADC's Manual of Procedures.
Prior IDA review for consultants will be required for: (a) all contracts for individuals costing
more than $30,000 per contract; (b) FADC's high level personnel including the national director,
the regional directors, the accountants, the engineers, the procurement and communications
specialists and similar high level cadres; (c) all contracts for the financial and technical audits;
and (d) all contracts with firms costing more than $50,000 per contract. The technical evaluation
report will be subject to prior review for contracts exceeding US$ 100,000 each. All other
contracts will be subject to post review. Once again, the technical audit will look at selected
random contracts for the recruitment of consultants.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds will be in accordance with Table C
The credit closing date is forecast at December 31, 2002, about six months after the end of the
four-year disbursement period. The 100 percent (net of taxes) financing by the IDA credit for all
disbursement categories is attributable to the fact that beneficiaries will have to contribute
20 percent of the cost of each sub-project. These beneficiary contributions are usually in the
form of materials, labor and sometimes cash. As a result, beneficiary contributions have been
estimated at $2.2 million (about 15 percent of total project costs).
Category 4 (operating expenses for FADC) includes expenditures for office rental, materials,
maintenance of equipment, administrative costs, fuel, spare parts and vehicle insurance, utility
and communications expenses, special account banking charges, inter-island travels and per
diems.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs)
A simplified format will continue to be used for SOEs in which expenditures are summarized by
category. The documentation for withdrawals under SOEs would be retained at FADC (National
and Regional Offices) for review by IDA staff during supervision missions and for annual audits.



Project Appraisal Document                                         Annex 6: Page 3 of 6
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros               Project Title: Social Fund Project
SOEs will be used for payments of contracts of less than US$ 60,000 for goods and works and
consultant contracts of less than $50,000 and $30,000 for firms and individuals respectively.
Special account
The "special account 90-day advance procedure" especially designed for decentralized
development agencies will be used in order to facilitate the functioning of the Regional
Executive Secretariats (SER) and to ensure prompt payment of contractors and suppliers.
Audit
An independent auditor acceptable to IDA will audit the use of all IDA funds, including the
special account, statements of expenditure and the systems and internal controls relating to the
90-day special account procedure through which funds flow to the SERs.



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Annex 6: Page 4 of 6
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros                         Project Title: Social Fund Project
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in USSmillion equivalent)
Procurement Method                   Total Cost
Expenditure Category                                                              (including
contingencies)
ICB         NCB         Other       N.B.F
1. Works
Sub-projects                                  3.7         3.7                        7.4
(2.9)       (2.9)                      (5.8)
2. Goods
Sub-projects                                  1.6          1.6                       3.2
(1.3)       (1.3)                      (2.6)
Equipment, furniture, vehicles   0.1          0.2         0.1                        0.4
(0.1)       (0.2)       (0.1)                      (0.4)
3. Services
Consultants & Training                                    2.3                        2.3
(2.3)                     (2.3)
4. Miscellaneous
Operating Cost                                             A                         OA
(0.4)                     (0.4)
Total                          0.1         5.5          8.1                       13.7
(0.1)       (4.4)        (7.0)                     (11.5)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofmancing
procedures, consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other
miscellaneous items). The procurement anrangement for the items listed under "Other"
and details of the items listed as "N.B.F." need to be explained in footnotes to the table
or in the text.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit.



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Annex 6: Page 5 of 6
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros                       Project Title: Social Fund Project
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure           Contract Value         Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Prior Review / Estimated
Category              (Threshold)             Method          Total Value Subject to
Prior Review
1. Works
Sub-projects           >$15,000 and<$85,000*   NCB                 >$60,000 / S 2.0 million
<$15,000               Local Shopping       None
2. Goods
Sub-projects           >$15,000 and <$85,000   NCB                 >$60,000 / $ 0 million
<$15,000               Local Shopping       None
Eqpm, furn, & vehicles    >$100,000            ICB                 >$1 00,000 / $ 0.1 million
>$30,000 and <$100,000  NCB                 >$60,000 / $ 0.1 million
<$30,000               Local Shopping       None
3. Services
Consultants & Training    Firms                QCBS, LCS            >$50,000 / $ 0.1 million
Individuals            Short-list           >$30,000 / $ 0.1 million
FADC high level cadres   Short-list         All / $ 0.7 million
Technical audits       Single source        All / $ 0.1 million
Financial audits       LCS                  All/ $0.1 million
Overseas training      Single source        All / $0.1 million
4. Miscellaneous
Operating Costs        N/A
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$ 3.4 million.
* $155,000 for rural road sub-projects.
Note on selection method for consultants:
QCBS    =       Quality- and Cost-Based Selection.
LCS             Least-Cost Selection.



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Annex 6: Page 6 of 6
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros                        Project Title: Social Fund Project
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category              Amount in USSmillion   Financing Percentage
Equipment, vehicles, supplies                          0.4             1 00%/ of amount of
Loans or Grants
disbursed.
Training, technical assistance, studies and audits      1.9            100% of amount of
Loans or Grants
disbursed.
Sub-projects                                           8.4            100%/o of amount of
Loans or Grants
disbursed.
Operating expenses                                      OA.            100%/e of amount of
Loans or Grants
disbursed.
Unallocated                                             OA
Total                                                  11.5



Project Appraisal Document                                             Annex 7: Page I of 1
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros                  Project Title: Social Fund Project
Annex 7
Social Fund Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Bank budget                                     $95,000              $95,000
PHRD Grant                                     $372,000             $200,000
B. Project Schedule                             Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     6 months             6 months
First Bank mission (identification)             11/15/96             11/15/96
Appraisal mission departure                     12/15/97            06/09/97
Negotiations                                    03/15/98             10/22/97
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   01/01/99            07/01/98
Prepared by: Fonds d'Appui au Developpement Communautaire (FADC)
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
Core team members:
Eileen Murray, AFTH2                     Task Team Leader
Bertrand Ah-Sue, AFTS2                   Senior Procurement Specialist
Raj Soopramanien, LEGAF                  Country Lawyer
Christos Kostopoulos, AFTM3              Economist
Malonga Miatudila, AFTH2                 Public Health Specialist
Hilda Emeruwa-Creppy, AFTH2              Task Team Assistant
Laura McDonald, AFTH2                    Task Team Assistant
Extended team members:
Pisei Eap, AFTM3                         Economist
Manorama Gotur, AFC08                    Operations Analyst
Philomene Lai-Cheong, AFTC2              Budget Officer
Myrina McCullough, AFTH2                 Program Assistant
David Freese, LOAAF                      Disbursement Officer
Cecilia Kennedy, LOAAF                   Disbursement Analyst
Consultants:
Paul Geli                                Social Fund Specialist
Lead Adviser:
Qaiser Khan, MNCYE                       Principal Economist
Peer Reviewer:
Maryse Pierre-Louis, MNSHD               Senior Public Health Specialist



:~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



Project Appraisal Document                                        Annex 8: Page I of I
Country: Islsmic Federal Republic of Comoros              Project Title: Social Fund Project
Annex 8
Social Fund Project
Documents in the Project Fi1e*
A. Proiect Implementation Plan
(1) Project Implementation Manual in French (Manuel d'Exicution du Projet) dated June
1997, prepared by FADC, which includes the following sections and annexes:
I. General presentation of FADC and of the FADC component of the ongoing
PHR Project
II. The Project
III. Implementation Arrangements
IV. Monitoring and evaluation
Annex 1: Program of small loans through village committees for income
generating activities
Annex 2: Training program
Annex 3: Project costs
Annex 4: Manual of Procedures of FADC
(2) Detailed Cost tables
B. Bank Staff Assessments
(1) Aide-memoire of the Bank supervision mission for the midterm  review
(November/December 1996) of the ongoing PHR project.
(2) Aide-memoire of the Bank preparation mission for the Social Fund Project (March
1997).
(3) Aide-memoire of the Bank preappraisal/appraisal mission for the Social Fund Project
(June 1997).
C.0
(1) Beneficiary Assessment - 1997
(2) Technical audit reports of 1996 and 1997
(3) Midterm review report prepared by FADC - November 1996
*Including electronic files.



\



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                                                           Annex 9: Page  I of I
Country: lslamic Federal Republic of Comoros                                                                                                                                           Project Title: Social Fund Project
Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Comoros
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between               Last ARPP
Original Amount in USS Millions                             expected                 Supervision Rating bt
Loan or   Fiscal Year                                                                                                                                    and actual         Development      Implementation
Projed U)     Credit                              Bonrower                        Purpose              1BRD          IDA         Cancellations     Undisbursed       disbursements al      Objectives          Progress
No.
Number of Cbsed Loansteredits. 9
Active Loans
KM-PE-593       C22070        1991     GOVERNMENT OF COMOROS                ROAD MAINTENANCE                  0.00         6.60               0.00              .31                   -.14        S                 S
KM-PE-606      C26320         1994     GOVERNMENTOFCOMOROS                  SMALL ENTERPRISE DEV              0.00         5.10               0,00             3.42                    .68        S                 S
KM-PE-596       C25530        1994     GOVERNMENT OF COMOROS                POP & HUMAN RESOURCES             0.00         13.00              0.00             3.83                    .82       HS                 HS
KM-PE-604       C29310        1997     GOVERNMENTOFCOMOROS                  AG SERVICES PILOT                 0.00          1.60              0.00             1.50                    .69        U                 U
KM-PE-603       CN0310        1997     GOVERNMENTOFCOMOROS                  EDUCATION M                       0.00         7.00               0.00             6.93                   0.00
Total                                                                                                         0.00        33.30               0.00            16.00                   2.04
Aetive Leans        Closed Loans              Total
Total Disxused (BRD and IDA):                            17.45                  49.80                 67.25
of which bas been repaid:                              0.00                   2.04                  2.04
Total now hded by IBRD and IDA:                          33.30                  44.26                  77.56
Asneut sold          :                                    0.00                   0.00                   0.00
Of whvic rid                                            0.00                   0.00                   0.00
Total Undisbursed                                        16.00                   0.00                  16.00
a. Intended disbursements to date minus achtll disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Foem 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter
based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfaory, U - unsstisfatoy. HU = highly unsatiafacty): see proposed Improvements in Project and
Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SewM94-901). August 23,1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



I



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                     Annex 10: Page  1 of 2
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros                                                       Project Title: Social Fund Project
Annex 10
Comoros at a glance                                                              8/28/97
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan     Low-
Comoros      Aricra  Income      Development diamond'
Population mid-1996 (millions)                        0.5       600    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                             460       490      500                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (biions USS)                               0.2       294    1,601
Average annual growth, 1910-96
Population (%)                                        2.6        27       1.7     GNP                             Gross
Laborforce (56)                                       2.8         6       1.7     per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                           capita      N                enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (X ofpopulation)
Urban population (% of total population)               28        31       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       56        52       63
Infant mortality (per 1000 five bithirst)              87        92       69              Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (%6 of children under5)
Access to safe water (% ofpopulabon)                   48        47       53
Illiteracy (X ofpopu/ation age 15+)                    43        43       34
Gross primary enrollment (X ofschool-age population)   75        72      105
Male                                                 81        78      112                Low-income group
Female                                               69        65       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995    1996
Econkomic retos
GDP (millons US$)                              "    114.5      233.2   229.7
Gross domestic investmentGDP                  ..    32.8        17.1     17.2            Openness of ecnomy
Exports of goods and services/GDP              ;.    17.0       19.3    18.4
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     ..    -0.3       -7.9    -5.9
Gross national savings/GDP
Current account balance/GDP                    ..   -12.7      -12.9     -9.8
Interest paymentslGDP                          ..     1.3        0.2     0.7      Savings                     Investment
TotaldebtUGDP                                 ..   117.2        87.2
Total debt service/exports                    ..      8.9        1.7
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..     0.0       47.2
Present value of debtlexports                 ..      0.0      181.5                          Indebtedness
1975-85  1956-9       s 1995  1S96  1997405
(average annual grovttt)                                                                - -Comomos
GDP                                 4.5      0.9      -2.3       1.0       ..   |
GNP per capita                      1.7     -1.5    -4.7        -1.2       .                Lowincome group
Exports of goods and sefvices      15.6      5.3      11.2       1;0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(-A of GDP)                                 197      1955      1s95    1996       Growth rates of output and Invetent (%)
Agriculture                                    ..    36.1       38.7    40.0      20
Industry                                              14.1      12.8    13.6      10
Manufacturing                                        3.7       5.3      4.8      o' _i                     \
Services                                             49.8       48.4    46.4    -1,            92                     De
-20
Private consumption                                  72.7       86.7    86.9     40-
General govemment consumption                 ..    27.5        21.2    19.1
Imports of goods and services                        so 50.1   44.4    41.5               -GDI    -0-GP
1975-85  1986.96      1995    1996
(average annual growth)                                                         I Growth rates of exports and Impors I%)
Agrculture                                   4.3       1.7       1.5      2.2     so
Industry                                     4.1      2.9        1.0     2.0      4     A0R
Manufacturing                               4.4      3.9       1.0      2.0         II \ I' 
Services                                     4.8      -0.2      -6.3    -0.4       c
Private consumption                          3.7      2.7        0.3     -1.2             t93                     s
General govemment consumption                3.4    -3.4        -4.2    -6.4    -20
Gross domestic investment                    3.9    -4.4        -3.4      8.8    .40
Imports of goods and services                4.3      1.2        8.6    -4.0
Gross national product                       5.7       1.1      -2.3      1.2                 rExports  -0-Iports
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estmates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Annex 10: Page 2 of 2
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros                                           Project Title: Social Fund Project
Comoros
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FIANCE
1975    1986       1995    1996
Domestic pnca                                                                    Inflation(%
(% dcange)                                                                       25
Cosunser pices                                ..       ..       0.8      2.1    20
lflWdInitGDPdeflator                           ..     7.1       7.0      0.0     1\
Goveamue et_r_xw_
(%afGO)                                                                           -s-    91Dy    93   94  9s   95
Caulwt revenue                                ..    37.4       20.8    20.5    410
C.ff.tlud bethanice                           ..    19.5       -3.9    -0.2                                 P
Overal sWusdefit                              ..   -16.5      -10.0    -6.0
TRADE
1975    1965       1995     196
(mions US$)                                                                        Ot_d  _POt  1vO  (i. US)
Totalexpots(flob)                             ..       16        11        6      o
Vanilla                                      ..      10         6        3      is
GIrole                                       ..       3         0        1      soflil
LManufactures                                ..       0         0        0      50             Ulul
Totalm ports (cit)                                     37       6e        62     40              ni
Food                                         ..       4        1 8      1 2     30111111
Fueland energ                                         3 .4                      2
Export price index (1987=100)                 ..       70        79       75         90  91  92  93  94  95  9g
Import pice index (1987 100)                  ..       67        80       78                o Exports  rr Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                     ..      104        98       96
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1985       1995    1996
(milons US$)                                                                     Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                 ..       20        45       42      4
Imports of goods and services                  ..      64       104       95      2
Resource balance                                       6 -44    -58      -53 
Net income                                     ..      -1         1        0     -2  90             93         S5
Netcunenttransfers                            ..      31         27       30      4- .            I
Current account balance,                                                          4        _
before official capital transfers            ..    -15         -30     -23    -19
Financing items (net)                         ..      21         26       32    -u2
Changes in net reserves                       ..                  4       -8 
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mi. USS)             ..       12        37       39
Conversion rate (locaK1S$)                 214.3   449.3      374.4   363.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOLRCE FLWS
(millions US$)                                                                   Cmpo n   tot dtow    , 199 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and dabwsed             5      134       203
IBRD                                        0        0          0        0                    G
IDA                                         0       20         64       68                    13
Total debt service                             1        2         1        ,,           E                    64
IBRD                                         0        0         0        0           35
IDA                                          0        0         1        1
Composition of net reso   s lows
Oflidal grants                              14        0         0
Officalcredilam                              1       22         9        1
Private creditors                            0        0         0        ..                                 3
Foreign direct investent                     0        0         2        ..D
Portfolio equity                             0        0         0                         88
World Bank program
Commitments                                  0        0         0        0      A - IBRD                   E-_lg.
Disbursements                                0        6        10        6      B-IDA    D - Ori murmtwai  F - Private
Princpal repayments                          0        0         0        0      C - IMF                    G-Short-terrn
Net fows                                     0        6         9        6
Interest payments                            0        0         0        0
Net transfers                                0        5         9        6



MAP SECTION






' a;; ; ; ; j ; ; E $ {i A N Z A~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                                         IA . )    i0EE,j  !0
~~                   /    '~~~~  TANZANIA                                             4ds
z~~~~ ~ r.                                                    r   . I                                                     Q ,c IOMRS      =i'      '
The WlWv06Ak""pID qLl*mn#"
00~~~~~~~~ontcpcnzo                                              l                 VCOMORO3S 0   viy 0f
~~                           n       I ~~~~~~~ ~     MOZAMBIQUE
-It~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1020030
Hohay~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~160                                    \         10  20o  260                          MADAGASCAR            1
NAZ IDJA                                                      MLS40
I$RANDE  360                                 N W       I
COMORr:
e
COMOROS
Milso4,dje  -                                                                        ROAS           0      TOWNS
PATHS                          CONTOUS televations in feet)
474   AIRPORTS         *     SPOT ELEVATIONS (in fet)
-120                                                                    ~~~~~         ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PORTS   ~ "REEFS
A 'A
Mtswnud
MWALI                                               - 
(MOH-fELI)
0                       ~~~~~~~~~~25  ouiaTj
MILES
5   0                    2
KILOMETERS 
;2



