                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 30851

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-30110)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$11.5 MILLION

                                      TO THE GOVERNMENT OF

                                         UNION OF COMORES

                                                 FOR A

                                        SOCIAL FUND PROJECT




                                            December 1, 2004




Human Development Group III
Afica Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective October 2004)

                               Currency Unit = Comorian Franc (CF)
                                     CF1.00 = US$ 0.0026
                                   US$ 1.00 = CF 388.00

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 -   December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



AMIE    Project d'Appui à la création et au développement des Micro- et Petites Entreprises
BDC     Banque de Développement des Comores
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CCC     Comité Central de Coordination
CP      Comité de Pilotage
CPPR    Country Portfolio Performance Review
CR      Comité Régional
DO      Development Objective
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
FADC    Fonds d'Appui au Développement Communautaire
FRR     Financial Rate of Return
HES     Household Expenditure Survey
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     International Development Association
IGA     Income Generating Activities
M/E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MSE     Micro- and Small Enterprises
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NPV     Net Present Value
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PCD     Programme de Crédits Décentralisés
PHR     Population and Human Resources
PPC     Programme de Petits Crédits
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QSA     Quality of Supervision Assessment
RWS     Rural Water Supplies
SEN     Secrétariat Exécutif National
SER     Secrétariat Exécutif Régional

                             Vice President:     Gobind Nankani
                          Country Director:      James Bond
                           Sector Manager:       Laura Frigenti
                             Task Manager:       Maryanne Sharp

                                          COMOROS
                                 SOCIAL FUND PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            27
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 28
Annex 9. Beneficiary Evaluation                                                  37

Project ID: P044824                                                  Project Name: Social Fund Project
Team Leader: Maryanne Sharp                                          TL Unit: AFTH3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 17, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Social Fund Project                                      L/C/TF Number: IDA-30110
   Country/Department: COMOROS                                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (25%); Primary education (23%); Water supply
                            (23%); Roads and highways (23%); Micro- and SME finance (6%)
                  Theme: Improving labor markets (P); Participation and civic engagement
                            (P); Access to urban services and housing (S); Small and medium
                            enterprise support (S); Other urban development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/23/1997                                     Effective: 08/04/1998                08/04/1998
     Appraisal: 10/30/1997                                         MTR:                             12/06/2001
      Approval: 12/04/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          UNION OF COMOROS/FADC - Fonds d'Appui au Développement
                                           Communautaire
                      Other Partners:      Local Communities

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto Madavo
Country Director:               James P. Bond                                  Michael Sarris
Sector Manager:                 Laura Frigenti                                 Nicholas Burnett
Team Leader at ICR:             Maryanne Sharp                                 Eileen Murray
ICR Primary Author:             Giuseppe Zampaglione


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The original Development Objective (DO) of Social Fund Project IDA30110 was to address the
incidence of poverty amongst the poorer communities in the Comoros, through the replenishment
and the implementation of a social fund designed to support demand-driven initiatives developed
by such communities and, in doing so, to create employment and improve access to basic social
services. (This project built on the successful social fund component of the Population and Human
Resources project (1993-1997) which was rated highly satisfactory both in terms of its DO and its
implementation performance).

The specific project activities were: (i) to rehabilitate and/or construct communal infrastructures;
(ii) to support micro-credit activities and in particular to provide small loans at the village level
and credits to finance income generating activities; and (iii) to support capacity building of
development partners so as to make progress on the other two project activities.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objective was not revised during project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The total project costs were estimated at US$13.7 million equivalent (SDR8.5 million IDA credit
or US$11.5 million and contributions by communities/beneficiaries of US$2.2 million). The
project comprised the following three main components:

Component 1 - Rehabilitation/Construction of communal infrastructure (US$9.9 million
equivalent or 72% of total base cost). This component would support the rehabilitation or new
construction of essential community assets (primary schools, rural water supplies and health
posts) and would also include the rehabilitation of rural roads, markets, food storage facilities, and
sub-projects for the protection of the environment. Labor intensive works would be preferred
whenever proven as technically and economically efficient and insofar as they generate
employment opportunities for the poor.

Component 2 - Micro-credit activities (US$0.9 million equivalent or 7% of total base cost).
This component would consist of two programs: (i) the program of small loans (PPC) using the
village committees as financial intermediaries and (ii) the program of decentralized credits (PCD)
to support income generating activities (IGA) promoted by individuals using rural savings and
loan associations, which were in the process of being established at the time of project appraisal.
These types of sub-projects would enable individuals as well as groups (particularly women) to
borrow small amounts of money to cover their legitimate needs and to obtain credit to start or
expand financially viable micro-enterprises.

Component 3 - Capacity building (US$0.2 million equivalent or 2% of total base cost). The
capacity building sub-projects would assist FADC's partners (village committees, community
groups, NGOs, small contractors and consultants) to improve their effectiveness in identifying,
preparing and implementing basic infrastructure and micro-credit sub-projects. This would be
done through training programs in project preparation, evaluation, procurement (including bid



                                                  - 2 -

preparation and submission), management of works and contract administration, accounting and
financial management.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were never formally revised, although the Credit Agreement was
amended to reallocate the credit proceeds. The project was approved on December 4, 1997,
became effective on August 4, 1998 and less than ten days after the Bank suspended
disbursements. (In 1976, after independence, Comoros joined the World Bank and a multi
pronged lending program was launched soon after. In 1998, Comoros fell in arrears and
disbursements were suspended in August 1998 until January 2000, when agreement was reached
on settlement of arrears). However, because the Task Team (TT) managed to open a Special
account before suspension, FADC could rely on some funds for operating expenses and could
proceed in project preparation. Given the continued relevance of the DO and of project design,
and the continuous involvement of the TT during the suspension phase, a formal revision of the
components was considered unnecessary

On January 6, 2000, following settlement of arrears by the government, the suspension was lifted
and, in March 2000, a Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) re-structured and
re-launched the Bank projects, among which the Social Fund Project. The CPPR considered the
new institutional context and renewed the commitment to immediately start sub-project
implementation. In fact, a first selection of sub-projects had already been made and the FADC
structure was still in place and with some limited adjustments ready to start. After the suspension
was lifted, the Bank agreed with FADC on a 18 months work program, which started in June
2000 and ended in December 2001 (Plan I). The years 2002 and 2003 were the second part of
the Work Program (Plan II). The amounts allocated to credit categories were revised on April
2004 as shown in the following table (in SDR). These modifications reflected the changed
environment and the price increase that took place during the period of suspension and of project
implementation.


                                  Category                   Initial amount  Revised
                                                                             amount
                    Equipment, vehicles                            300,000    330,000
                    Training, technical assistance, studies,     1,400,000  1,006,000
                    audits
                  Construction and Rehabilitation of Basic        5,300,000 5,850,000
                  Social Infrastructure
                  Income-Generating Activities                       700,000  440,000
                  Capacity Building                                  200,000  127,000
                  Operating Costs                                    300,000  747,000
                  Unallocated                                        300,000        0
                    Total                                        8,500,000  8,500,000




                                                    - 3 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Using the main criteria for quality assessment, the overall quality at entry is rated Satisfactory.

Consistency with country strategy. The project was consistent with the latest CAS (1993) at the
time of appraisal and remains even at closing very relevant taking into consideration the recent
socio-economic situation, which is still very weak and vulnerable to both internal and external
shocks.

Project design. No Quality at Entry Review was carried out. However, a Quality of Supervision
Assessment (QSA) was carried out in 2000, soon after the project became effective. On design,
the QSA commented: "The Project is designed around strong local communities that contribute
10%-20% of project costs from their own resources (often from remittances) and not from
government subsidies. It will also be critical for sustainability to advance further the institutional
development of FADC (including securing a competent Executive Director) to effectively oversee
and guide community activities as well as ensure continued effective supervision by the Bank."

The project design was appropriate to sector needs and to the evolving Comorian institutional
context. FADC relied on a decentralized structure, and this proved to be the right approach, as it
responded to the needs of and difference between the three islands. It also anticipated the new
institutional framework introduced by the new constitution (2001), which was then cemented by
the Agreement of December 2003 and the elections in April 2004. Project design also leveraged
on the sense of community and of solidarity which is very strong among the Comorian population.

The present assessment found that the design of the project with respect to the communal
infrastructure component took into consideration the lessons learnt from the first project (Social
Fund component of the Population and Human Resources project) and estimated output
indicators in a realistic way. Regarding the micro-credit component, as there were hardly any
previous experiences in this field, design of that component was more difficult. The design team
opted for two different types of credits: (i) small credits through village committees that had
performed well on communal infrastructure sub-projects and (ii) individual credits to support
income-generating activities (IGA) through a financial institution(s). Possibly, project design
could have benefited from clearer procedures, in particular on how to reuse reimbursements from
both programs and provisions on guarantees for individual credits.

Project preparedness for implementation. The project was ready for implementation as FADC
had already been established in 1993 as an autonomous institution under the Population and
Human Resources project and, by the time of this project, FADC had gained a lot of experience
and respect. Secondly, the project had as reference a well-prepared Operational Manual to guide
its operations and, thirdly, FADC had established a project management information system to
monitor progress on output indicators. Possibly, further work on baseline data to monitor
outcomes would have benefited project design and subsequent implementation.

Project risk evaluation. The PAD assessed the overall risk of the project as moderate (from
"Components to Outputs" and from "Outputs to Objective"). However, in the Project Design



                                                 - 4 -

Summary, economic and socio-political stability and economic growth were cited as critical
assumptions ("Goal to Bank mission"). From a retrospective point of view, this assumption
proved to be rather strong and preferably it should have been reflected in the critical risks table
and rated as substantial. Later, during supervision, PSRs correctly and systematically assessed the
risk of undue interference from the Government as high, which can be seen as a proxy and as an
indirect sign of overall instability. Similarly, the risk of poor coordination among line ministries
was rated as high along the course of the project.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The sector-related CAS goal was poverty reduction through sustained economic growth by inter
alia providing better quality infrastructure and human resource development, through improved
literacy levels and more accessible health services. Overall, the project was Satisfactory in
pursuing the project development objective.

Between 1998 and 2003, Comoros witnessed six years of negative per capita GDP growth and
limited progress in poverty reduction. This negative economic context was determined by a weak
governance structure, recurrent political and social instability, serious security threats with
numerous coups, and a limited resource base for economic growth. In 1996-97, based on UNDP
quantitative and quality surveys, the poverty line was estimated at about US$1.25 per day, and
more than 50% of the population was estimated to fall below it, with higher incidence in rural
areas, amounting to 62% in Nzwani, followed by Mwali (52%) and Ngazidja (41%). While the
updating of the Interim-PRSP is awaiting the results of a national census and a household survey,
some preliminary reports show the following trends:

·       During the second half of the 90s the incidence of poverty has increased reaching more
than 60% of the population in 2000;
·       During the first years of this decade, poverty incidence has somewhat declined and it is
now estimated to be at the same level of the mid-90s, at around 54% (at CF450 per person per
day, equivalent to US$1.22 at the current exchange rate) (The figure was given by the Director
General of the Ministry of Planning of Ngazidja during a workshop on PRSP held in Moroni on
October 12 and 13, 2004).

FADC has been one of the few institutions in the Comoros investing at the community level and
working as an anti-cyclical public investment mechanism seeking to maintain service delivery on
all three islands, hence mitigating the impact of successive crises on the poorest, and contributing
to limit the incidence of poverty. Other factors also explain these trends, such as the increase of
prices during the years 2000-2003 of vanilla and cloves (the major sources of foreign exchange
earnings) and the restart of exports of ylang-ylang, after the end of the embargo on Ngazidja, the
island with the largest production of this perfume essence (in 2004, prices of these cash products
have leveled off and in the case of vanilla have declined. Effects on progress at the household
level to improve living conditions may be hampered by these recent trends). The increase in
money transfers from the Comorian diaspora and the devaluation of the US dollar against the
Euro helped as well.




                                                   - 5 -

That said, there is evidence that FADC has contributed to improve the living conditions of a
significant share of the population of the Comoros. More than 380,000 people benefited (directly
and indirectly) from the sub-projects, i.e. almost 70% of the entire population. 158,000 people
(children and their families) benefited from the reconstruction and rehabilitation of schools, almost
55,000 people benefited from new drinking water supply systems, 90,000 from the construction
of new health posts and from sanitation sub-projects, and 40,000 from roads construction.

Importantly, some 3,700 jobs were created and more than 360 small and medium enterprises were
established as a result of FADC activities. Of the job created, 2,688 were permanent ­ most of
them created indirectly, under component 1 and directly under component 2 ­ and 1,029 were
temporary - the majority created directly under component 1.

Unfortunately, the inadequacy of the country's information system and the lack of follow-up
studies preclude an assessment of project outcomes such as basic health indicators (infant
mortality rate, number of malaria-related deaths, health center attendance rates). However, as
shown in Annex 1, the Net Enrollment Primary rate of the Comoros has increased from 63.2 % in
1998 to 73% in 2003. This outcome can be attributed also to the rehabilitation and construction
of 72 new primary schools financed by the project.

From these considerations, it can be concluded that the project satisfactorily achieved its
development objectives, working as a program of targeted interventions on a very large scale.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1. Rehabilitation/Construction of communal infrastructure
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

During the project implementation period (June 2000 to June 2004), FADC completed 161 basic
infrastructure sub-projects distributed over the three islands as follow: 78 in Ngazidja, 38 in
Nzwani and 45 in Mwali. These were all community-selected projects that responded to the
priority needs of the village population. In general, sub-projects have been well designed by the
FADC engineers and properly executed by small contractors, the community being responsible for
part of the works (foundation, fencing etc.). The majority (60%) of the sub-projects (see annex 1
for more details) were schools for primary education, health posts, rural water supplies and
community centers considered as a priority for most of the communities.

Two other types of sub-projects have been requested in large numbers by the communities,
counting for 30% of all basic infrastructure sub-projects executed: (i) rural roads and (ii) street
pavement in concrete including drainage to provide all-weather access. Community demand for
higher cost sub-projects (roads and drainage systems sub-projects are on average 3 times more
expensive than school buildings) has had an impact on the total number of sub-projects completed
(161 instead of the originally planned number of 240 sub-projects were implemented).

In all these sub-projects, local communities have participated significantly in all stages of the
project cycle starting from the identification phase until the handing-over and the
post-construction operation and maintenance. For the purpose of sub-project implementation,
communities have established new village committees (Comités de Pilotage - CP) or have


                                                 - 6 -

reinforced existing local organizations. FADC pursued actively the representation of all groups of
the society in village committees (women, youth). Nevertheless, village elders kept an important
role, the village chief being sometimes the president of the CP. This is consistent with the
hierarchy structure of the Comorian society. In spite of a limited number of women and
youngsters in certain CP, their presence has been influential to select sub-projects that had a
positive impact on their living conditions and in general on households as a whole (drinking water
supplies, health posts and schools). Beneficiary contributions (in cash, materials or voluntary
labor) have counted for 16% of all construction costs, which is high, considering the past (and
current) economic situation of the country. Works, that have been carried out directly by
community members as part of their contribution and which were separated from the contractor's
work, were of good quality. Despite the fact that the measures put in place for the operation of
maintenance of the completed infrastructure sub-projects are not fully optimal, it can be
concluded that this component has yielded highly satisfactory results responding in an effective
way to community needs.

Component 2. Micro-credit activities
ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory

Results obtained by the two distinct credit programs PPC (the small credit program using the
village committees as financial intermediaries) and PCD (the program of decentralized credits to
support income generating activities promoted by individuals) were overall unsatisfactory,
although the PPC sub-component had a slightly better performance then PCD. Several PCDs and
PPCs have been visited by the ICR mission of October 2004 and discussions were held with
beneficiaries of the two schemes. Discussions were also held with FADC staff as well as with
officers in charge of the AMIE project in Mwali and in Nzwani (AMIE is a UNDP/ILO supported
project, established to support the creation and the development of micro and small enterprises.)
Findings in the field were supplemented with data made available by a recent preliminary study
(June 2004) on the impact of PCD on the target groups carried out by FADC/AMIE and by an
audit report on the micro-credit component prepared by a Bank consultant (October 2004).

PCD ­ Unsatisfactory. A tripartite agreement was signed in 2000 between FADC, the AMIE
project and the Banque de Développement des Comores (BDC) specifying the role and
obligations of all parties involved in the decentralized credit program that had as main objective to
promote the emergence of SMEs. AMIE and FADC carried out feasibility studies, prepared loan
dossiers, provided training and follow-up, the loans being administered by BDC. In line with the
latest information received, 176 individuals were granted loans for a total amount of about CF242
millions in the sectors of fishing (61%), agriculture, livestock, food-processing, services, small
commerce and handicraft, resulting in the creation of about 640 mainly permanent jobs. BDC has
reimbursed CF148 millions to FADC (CF133 millions of capital and CF15 millions of interests),
of which part has been reinvested in other PCD activities, after having received a non-objection of
the Bank. According to the above-mentioned impact study (June 2004), close to 54% of the
people interviewed have difficulties to reimburse their loan on a regular basis. Another recent
report in May 2004 (Final activity report FADC II prepared by Thérèse Fergo - Follow-up and
evaluation mission May, 5 to 29, 2004), mentions that 71% of the borrowers have been classified
as moderate or high risky in terms of loan reimbursement. The main problems faced were: (i) the



                                                 - 7 -

financial institution (BDC) did not have a branch in Mwali and was understaffed in Nzwani; (ii)
loan recovering was done by AMIE instead of BDC, AMIE having already insufficient capacity to
support applications from individuals and to monitor its portfolio; (iii) assumptions in loan
applications were unrealistic (cash flows and market conditions too optimistic); (iv) AMIE has
regularly bought equipment on behalf of individuals (in-kind credit) often leading to wrong or late
purchase, assets deterioration or loss, and poor maintenance/guarantee arrangements; (v) credit
amounts were too high and repayments often unsustainable.

The main problem of many potential entrepreneurs has been the search for a public employee
willing to act as a guarantor for the loan, a pre-condition set by BDC. The result of this
obligation has been that several groups (women, young adults and vulnerable people) haven't had
fair access to obtain a loan. The preliminary impact study (June 2004) reveals that only 17% of
the borrowers were female and that 54% were older than 40 years. The credit has also served
primarily to expand existing activities (54%) instead of creating new activities (46%).

PPC. Satisfactory. In the small credit program, credits were first awarded to village committees
(CP), responsible to grant on their turn small loans to poor people enabling them to start small
businesses. In that way, FADC has financed 179 small loans generating in total 1,443 activities,
40% being run by women. In certain communities, between 30 and 40 activities have been
developed with two credit installments provided by FADC. The total credit granted to CP
amounts to CF102 millions. Individual loans, varying between 5,000 and 200,000 CF, were used
to purchase goats, seeds, fruit trees, goods to be sold in small shops, knitting, distilleries, etc..
Referring to the latest FADC report, 91% of the total credit amount has been reimbursed.
According to this preliminary impact study (June 2004), 26% of the people interviewed had either
failed or gone through a crisis because of limited market for produce, strong competition,
inappropriate equipment, bad paying clients etc.. The same study reveals that 99% of the
borrowers interviewed want the program to be continued.

Positive results of the PPC sub-component were recorded in Nzwani, were communities were
properly trained by FADC to adopt policies and procedures, and to use management tools such as
forms and reports. Targeting of the most vulnerable groups was also achieved, and this is
demonstrated by the relatively small loan size (in some cases as low as CF5,000) and by the short
repayment period (in many cases after a month only). On the negative side, the PPC scheme was
relying on the CP, which was often not fully representative of the community, had limited if no
rotation of its leaders, and was not fully transparent in selecting borrowers.

Between the start of this component in 1997 and the current situation, the availability of savings
and credit facilities has improved. Sanduks (popular banks) as well as MECKs (Mutuelles
d'épargne et de credit) have been established on all islands and a law on micro-finance was
passed recently, giving regulating and supervision authority on these activities to the Central Bank
of the Comoros. These are important developments, which will improve the enabling environment
for micro-finance operations, and to which FADC has certainly contributed.

Component 3: Capacity Building
ICR Rating: Satisfactory



                                                  - 8 -

To achieve its objectives related to the first two components, FADC has organized training for its
staff who have then trained village committees, technical staff of small contractors, users'
associations in operation and maintenance of completed infrastructure and entrepreneurs in
improving the management of their businesses. In total, 45 modular sessions have been organized
during Plan II, 38 have benefited CP and 7 have benefited small entrepreneurs or local
consultants. For example, two members per CP were trained in the management of small loans,
supervisory staff was trained in the supervision of infrastructure projects, members of water users'
associations were trained in the operation and maintenance of drinking water supplies etc.. During
FADC II, staff of SEN and SERs was trained in the use of software such as TOMCREDIT for
IGA, TECPRO (project monitoring) as well as contract procedures.

One of the positive effects of FADC II, is the emergence of small-scale contractors on all three
islands, thanks essentially to the large number of contracts that have been awarded to this
category of contractors by FADC and the additional training provided. Interviews held with some
contractors during the ICR mission reveal that they have been able to purchase construction
equipment from abroad with the benefits made resulting in higher productivity and better quality
of works.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
At appraisal, the NPV and ERR were calculated for two case studies related to the construction
of a health post (Diboini) and of a community school (Bangoi-Hambu). The economic rate of
return of the second project was 10.82%. The PAD also mentioned that the pay-off from
education may be low due to the lack of economic opportunities. The ICR mission concluded
that indeed this was the case, mainly because of the protracted economic and socio-political crisis,
and to other factors affecting project costs.

In terms of sub-projects cost-effectiveness and considering that there were and still are few if no
alternatives to a community-driven approach, the PAD had no in-depth cost-benefit analysis for
the different facilities to be built by FADC. Ex-post, at ICR, the cost of the FADC implementation
method, characterized by a high community contribution combined with the use of local
small-scale contractors and expected to be the least-cost, was checked, by comparing average unit
costs of FADC projects with unit costs of similar projects implemented by social funds in other
countries. The main findings of this comparison are presented hereunder:

·       The average unit cost for new school buildings ranges from US$218/m² in Nzwani to
US$314/m² in Ngazidja and US$341/m² in Mwali. In comparison with average unit costs of
schools built through the Madagascar Social Fund (around US$180/m²), this seems rather high.
This is explained by several factors: most of the construction materials (cement, steel bars, etc.)
have to be imported, local material is scarce and expensive (sand, aggregates) and unskilled labor
costs twice as much. Cement is 50% more expensive than in Madagascar, aggregates 380% and
sand 220%. Therefore, average unit construction costs for new buildings are still reasonable.

·       For Rural Water Supplies (RWS), the investment cost per capita is often taken as key
indicator. In the case of FADC, RWS by pumping in Ngazidja costs around US$23/capita and
cost of gravity-fed RWS varies from US$6/capita in Nzwani to US$39/capita in Mwali. These are


                                                 - 9 -

very reasonable unit cost for RWS when compared with similar schemes elsewhere. For example
in Yemen, which has comparable labor costs, the average unit costs for gravity-fed RWS and
RWS by pumping are respectively US$41/capita and US57$/capita.

·       Finally, concrete street pavement and rural roads projects (double surface dressing) cost as
much as US$26/m², which again is expensive because the high unit costs of imported and local
materials. Because of the high rainfall and steep sections, no alternative solutions are technical
sustainable.

For the above reasons, although unit costs are on average higher than those of similar
infrastructure in the region, the cost effectiveness analysis is conclusive and leads to a satisfactory
rating of the project in this area, also in light of the overall satisfactory achievement of DO as
measured by key indicators.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The contribution of the project to building capacity of FADC is modest as it was already
established in 1993 as part of the Population and Human Resources project, with executive
secretariats in all three islands. On the contrary, at the time of the launching of the Social Fund
project, income generating schemes were a new activity for FADC, and it was only well into
project implementation that FADC staff and village committees were trained in the management
of loans, and not that effectively.

This project had the merit to strengthen FADC and to make it the most efficient platform for local
public investments in the Comoros. FADC has also been an important institutional mechanism to
keep the voice of communities alive, around its main governance mechanisms, namely the CCC,
CRs and the CP.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The Social Fund project was implemented during a period of continuing political and institutional
strife and socio-economic difficulties which have hindered implementation. However, suspension
of the project (for non-payment of arrears), did not delayed that much its restart, but limited
additional financing from other donors. During the last half-year of Plan II of the project, the drop
in the value of the US dollar vis-à-vis the Euro, to which the Comorian Franc is pegged, has
aggravated the problem of resource availability, as it is estimated that the financing available in
local currency was reduced by almost 10%.

The New Constitution of December 2001 and the New Agreement of December 2003 introduced
major institutional changes in the Comoros. Overall, there was no need to substantially revise the
DCA, as the project was already highly decentralized and consistent with the new institutional
structure introduced by those acts. Nevertheless, the Operational Manual was amended, so as to
mention the establishment of the Union of Comoros. The composition of the CCC (Central
Coordination Committee) and of the CR (Regional Committees) were also adjusted.


                                                     - 10 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
FADC, just like all other Social Funds, has been established with a large autonomy to guarantee
an efficient implementation of sub-projects demanded by the population and to limit political
interference. However, there is clear evidence that both in Ngazidja and in Nzwani some sectors
of the government (both of the Union and of the islands) could have kept a more hands off
approach on the operations of FADC, in line with the Operational Manual and the Credit
Agreement. For example, during mid-2001, the Commissariat Général au Plan firmly opposed
the decision of the CR of Ngazidja not to reconfirm its Regional Director and to select a new one
through a competitive process. This decision was entirely within the authority of the CR, and it
was confirmed by the CCC on July 31, 2001. On the day of the opening of the candidatures, the
government interference went as far as physically obstructing CCC members from Mwali to fly to
Moroni in order to participate at the selection meeting. Eventually, they hired a boat that
transferred them to Moroni to attend the meeting. However, when the envelopes were open, the
army interrupted the session, which CCC members then decided to reconvene outside of the
premises of SEN. During the following months, the situation degenerated with a series of
decisions from the Government side, which were all in contrast with the spirit and the mandate of
the Credit Agreement and of the Operational Manual. After a specific mission of the Bank to
address the crisis and after the Bank challenged the Government to suspend project activities in
Ngazidja, in December 2001 a new Regional Director was appointed and all staff illegally
suspended during those months were reintegrated into FADC. This prolonged an unauthorized
interference on project management, caused significant disruption of FADC regular operations,
delaying the implementation of some sub-projects and creating an unstable working environment
in FADC.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The high level of commitment exhibited by the FADC staff, working in difficult circumstances,
has contributed to the satisfactory results of the project.


5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost was estimated at US$13.70 million of which US$11.50 million was to be
financed by IDA and the remaining US$2.20 million equivalent by beneficiaries and communities
(in cash or in kind). The credit has been closed on June 30, 2004. On request of the Ministry of
Finance, accounting ledgers have been left open until October 31, 2005 to pay for works, goods
or services that were completed latest at the date of closure of June 30, 2004.

As of October 23, 2004, cumulative IDA disbursements totalled US$11.18 million (8.26 million
SDR equivalent) or 97.2% of the credit. This amount includes US$0.175 million that is still in
payment pipeline. Contribution from beneficiaries and communities is estimated at 16%.

FADC investment and operating costs, staff training, audits and studies were at 22% of the total
project cost, i.e. slightly higher than the percentages agreed at appraisal (20%). This percentage
is justified by the difficult logistic conditions, the protracted institutional crisis which extended the
period of project life and implied an up-front cost in re-starting the project once operations were



                                                    - 11 -

resumed, and by the increase of prices during such period.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
As a rule of thumb, all development projects in the Comoros are unlikely to be sustainable. This
because of the highly volatile political context, the lack of firm commitment on the government
side to design and implement strong overall macroeconomic policies to reduce poverty and
improve social services delivery, and because of the structural lack of budget resources to this
end.

In the specific case of this project, however, the ICR team rated project sustainability as likely.
The rationale of this rating should be examined from two perspectives: (i) the sustainability of the
different activities put in place by FADC and (ii) the sustainability of the institutional
arrangements.

(i)     The sustainability of the sub-projects is likely mainly for two reasons: on one side the
overall good quality of construction of infrastructures; on the other side the strong sense of
ownership and participation which will help long term usage of the infrastructure. During its
mission, the ICR team had the opportunity to check on the sustainability of 37 completed
sub-projects. The quality of construction and of material used in sub-projects is good. Street
concrete pavement and drainage channels in masonry have been constructed so as to require little
maintenance (self-cleaning because of gradient). The same applies to rural roads constructed in
the last couple of years with a double surface dressing. Also for school buildings and water
supply systems, the quality of works was on balance good. On maintenance and operation, in
addition to assist CP, FADC has established and trained users' associations. Apart of some rare
exceptions, all buildings (schools, health posts, etc.) are fully used and maintained at least at the
minimum level required for uninterrupted operations. Certain CP have collected money to repaint
the walls while other CP have opted to use their resources to start the construction of some extra
classrooms (on CP activities beyond FADC supported sub-projects see also Annex 9). Water
users' associations have been established for the operation of water systems, collect water fees at
the end of the month to cover minor repairs, and in some cases collect extra money if major
repairs are needed. While the quality of maintenance activities, on which sub-project
sustainability is largely relying on, can differ from one village to another, on balance the ICR team
has assessed it as good. Ultimately, this rating is explained by the strong sense of community
ownership and participation which is so diffused in the Comoros in general and in the island of
Nzwani in particular. Concerning the sustainability of income generating activities and
micro-finance activities, the emergence of local savings and credit institutions (Sanduks and
MECKs) will facilitate the replication of such activities.

(ii)    The sustainability of the institutional arrangements. The sustainability of FADC as a tool
to improve living conditions of the Comorian people, depends on the ability of FADC to continue
attracting resources from its funding partners, as at this stage contributions from the Government
are rather unlikely. The fact that FADC has been the only mechanism able to disburse on social
projects at a satisfactory level, both in terms of volumes and quality, and that it has been running
now for more than ten years despite the various political attempts to capture its functioning, is its



                                                   - 12 -

very strength. It is precisely on this strength that the Bank has managed to continue working in
the Comoros, by supporting a FADC III project, under the recently approved Services Support
project. The more FADC is able to preserve its status and its governance arrangements, the more
likely it is that it will attract additional resources and will continue to be the main viable institution
to provide support to poor communities.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
There is no need for transitional arrangements for the basic infrastructure sub-projects since the
assets created under the project were handed over to the local authorities and/or the users'
associations in charge of maintenance and operations.

For the income generating projects, PPC activities should be supported by enforcing management
tools, tighter monitoring activities, and more capacity building. Recovered funds should be used
for a revolving fund for future lending under better targeting arrangements and tighter
management and supervision arrangements. The PCD component should either be closed or
transferred to another institution.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in preparing the project was satisfactory. The Bank identified the
project as a follow up action of the highly successful social fund component of the previous
Population and Human Resources project. Project design benefited from improved governance
arrangements of FADC and from strengthened emphasis on community participation for
sub-project identification and implementation. The project was consistent with the previous CAS
and with the limited ability of the government to provide counterpart funding, to get results on the
ground, and to work with communities directly. The TT provided support in project design on all
major relevant aspects such as technical, financial, economic, and institutional. The Operational
Manual which was reviewed by the Bank for no-objection was sound and appropriate in its
complexity, structure and internal consistency to support the PDO and components' outputs. In
retrospect, project design could have benefited from greater clarity on implementation
arrangements of the Micro-credit component, especially on procedures for individual credits to be
approved, disbursed and recovered. Also, re-investment of credit reimbursements could have
been discussed at greater length in project technical documentation, as part of a broader strategy
to reinforce the financial system of the Comoros, ensure that credit reaches the poorest groups of
the population, and keep transaction costs as low as possible. The problem related to the "exit
strategy" of FADC while not impellent at project design could have been discussed at greater
length.

7.2 Supervision:
Implementation and supervision support from the Bank's Task Team was remarkable for its
frequency, responsiveness to both technical and institutional problems, and for its regularity.
During project life, three task managers took responsibility and transition was smooth and
effective. QAG gave the following assessment of the Task Team (in 2001): "This was an
exemplary supervision effort, adapting to difficult and changing conditions and remaining engaged



                                                    - 13 -

during a lengthy suspension of Bank disbursements to the country. During the 18-month
suspension (to January 2000), the supervision team kept the client engaged and the
implementation team by-and-large together (in part by ensuring the Special Account was
established and funded before suspension). Once the suspension was lifted, the supervision team
worked aggressively with the client to implement the pipeline of sub-projects that had been
developed during the hiatus". Subsequently, the Bank continued to provide timely support to
FADC, to approach technical problems, disbursement issues and solve other procedural issues. In
2001 the TTL and Bank senior management intervened very effectively to preserve the
institutional arrangements of the project, in particular the autonomy of FADC from government
interference.

Although during project implementation, the Implementation Progress and DO were rated as
Satisfactory (see Annex 4), the project was continuously affected by factors likely to bring about
an eventual unsatisfactory outcome. Beside PSRs correctly reporting Unsatisfactory or Highly
Unsatisfactory ratings of procurement schedule, or financial covenants, or implementation of
some project components and/or of selected critical risks, the structural poor governance in
Comoros has systematically put the project outcome at risk. (As discussed in the Transitional
Support Strategy for Comoros (February 2004 update), poor governance is here measured by the
Governance Research Indicator Country (GRIC) which from 1996-2002 shows that Comoros
compared poorly to the regional average on five out of six measures of governance).

For the above reasons the ICR TT confirms the initial assessment of the QSA and rates Bank
supervision as highly satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The ICR mission rates the performance of the Bank as satisfactory because of the remarkable
results obtained by the project under extremely difficult circumstances, and the strong
commitment of the Task Team soon after effectiveness (and immediately after suspension) to
remain engaged in the Comoros, provide support to FADC in finalizing institutional arrangements
for effective program implementation and in preparing work plans. This engagement allowed
prompt start up of the project once disbursement resumed. During project implementation the
Task Team provided continuous advice and support to FADC and to stakeholders in the
implementation of components. This proved to be crucial during two crisis (2001 and 2004)
which threatened to limit the autonomy of FADC by bringing it under direct Government control,
and by so doing infringing project procedures as stated in the DCA and in Operational Manual

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
As a follow-up project, Borrower performance was satisfactory. The borrower was involved in
preparing the overall project design and in particular of the components on
Rehabilitation/construction of communal infrastructure and Micro-credit activities. Possibly, in
preparing the Micro-credit sub-component on individual credits, the options of working with
other micro-financing institutions should have been pursued to a greater extent. Similarly, the
issue of credit reimbursements and their subsequent use should have been addressed in the
Operational Manual more clearly. This could have prevented the current situation of a significant
unused balance at the Banque de Développement des Comoros.



                                                - 14 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The PAD, the Operational Manual and all subsequent project documents define the role of the
Government as one of overall supervision, and give no authority to the government to change the
project governance structure. However, at least in one occasion during the project life, the Union
Government has tried to change the composition of the FADC governance bodies. In turns, this
has caused significant disruption on the work of FADC, its effectiveness, and has delayed the
implementation of sub-projects. In another occasion, the Government of Nzwani tried to change
the SER composition, against the procedures as stated in the OM and agreed upon with the Bank.
This attempt was neutralized by the firm reaction of FADC Regional management backed also by
the Bank. Moreover, the Government did not deliver in full on its main commitment of financing
its share of recurrent costs of the infrastructures built under FADC. The salaries of many teachers
and medical staff in schools and health posts constructed by FADC were not paid for many
months and this has certainly limited the potential project outcome. For the above reasons the
Government implementation performance is rated as unsatisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The overall performance of FADC was highly satisfactory despite some isolated delays in
project implementation and scattered evidence of some weaknesses in shielding sub-project
identification from political sponsoring and patronage, beyond the demand generated by
communities.

Project planning respected the clauses of the DCA, with both the annual work plans and budgets
and any subsequent modifications submitted to the TT for non objection.

The required periodic project reports were prepared and annual reports were made available. A
final report was prepared in September 2004, which is in Annex 8 of this ICR. Though not every
financial audit was completed within the timeframe of the DCA, financial management was
satisfactory and allowed the project to remain within budget even with a weakening US dollar
over the final half-year of the project.

Procurement planning and implementation were also satisfactory

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance was rated satisfactory, especially given the ongoing
politico-institutional conflict. The institutional problems and related disturbance to project
implementation generated by some sectors of the Government to control management decisions of
FADC were more than counterbalanced by the strong commitment that FADC and other sectors
of the Government had in preserving the independent nature of FADC activities. Strong
leadership of FADC during the various project phases was also instrumental for project success as
well as its efforts to undertake organizational and management changes.

8. Lessons Learned

Involvement of development stakeholders during period of crisis is important for effective
re-engagement. In the aftermath of crises, for governments, development partners and local
communities alike, it is fundamental to intervene as quickly as possible to alleviate the economic



                                                  - 15 -

and social consequences of the crises on the poorest groups of society. Benefiting from the
unmatched experience accumulated during the pre-suspension and suspension phases, FADC
managed to restart project operations swiftly after the suspension. The Bank TT supporting the
project played a major role in this by staying involved even when operations were brought to an
halt by the crisis. In fact, the TT managed to keep the Bank engaged in a continuous dialogue
with the authorities and with FADC in particular, also by leveraging on some funds available in
the special account, and thanks to its indefatigable and perseverant commitment to get the project
restart as soon as the conditions allowed. This is probably one of the clearest lessons emerging
from this project; one which can be of great relevance for other World Bank projects in countries
affected by similar institutional and political instabilities. Moreover, thanks to its inherent
flexibility, hence its ability to respond to the emergency, the project was successfully restarted and
implemented. Equally, the project restart benefited from the impellent needs of communities and
from their willingness to counter fight the crisis by using their skills, commitment, involvement
and funding, albeit limited.

Independence, decentralization, and strong technical leadership of implementing agencies,
are key factors of success of Social Fund implementation. As from the start of the Social
Fund component under the Population and Human Resources project, FADC was designed as a
decentralized agency enjoying a large autonomy, having on each island a Regional Committee
overseeing the activities implemented by a Regional Executive Secretariat (SER). Their respective
roles are laid out clearly in the Operational Manual, which needed only minor revisions when the
Comorian constitution was changed. The Operational Manual, being approved by the National
Executive Secretariat (SEN), helped also to keep the project on track each time sectors of the
government tried to interfere. Decentralized structures such as FADC, are appropriate in
responding to the needs of regions as diverse as the three islands members of the Union. Even, in
contexts which are not as geographically and logistically separated as the Comoros, the
decentralized structure is of relevance. However, the issue of limiting the operational costs of
decentralized structures remains a challenge.

Implementation of micro-credit activities should be kept separate from community
infrastructures or service/capacity building sub-project operations. Bank experience in other
countries and contexts, indicates that Social Funds have achieved only few successes in
micro-credit operations. The experience of FADC II confirms this general finding, although it has
had the merit of having tried out two different schemes (small loans through village committees
and individual credits through a bank) which produced mixed results overall and different results
per island. However, one of the main lesson from this Social Fund, as well as from similar
projects, is that successful management of micro-credit schemes requires specific skills and ad hoc
implementation and governance arrangements. These are rather distinct from those needed in a
social fund aiming at rehabilitating or constructing small local infrastructures and providing
community services. For this reason, future projects of this kind should either not include a
micro-credit component or have funds earmarked for this purpose to be managed by a totally
separate institution, one specialized in the field of microfinance.

If well supported, communities are more than ready to take over the implementation of
local economic and social development project. This project shows, once more, that



                                                  - 16 -

empowerment of communities at all stages of the project cycle is the best approach to achieve
lasting results in local development projects. This requires a strong and dedicated staff at the
centre (at the agency level) willing to empower and support communities in their development
experience. Delegating, transferring authority and resources, introducing a balanced set of
incentives and disincentives in local development, leveraging on the sense of belonging, solidarity
and partnership that is inherently present in many communities and cultures are key ingredients for
success. Inspired leadership of the FADC was also key in this effort as well as its independence
from self-interest and political pressure.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Commissariat Général au Plan, contributed with the Evaluation Report: Document
d'Evaluation Effectué par le Commissariat General au Plan sur FADC (Octobre 2003). The
report provides some information on FADC I and on FADCII and gives some very broad
indications on how to structure FADCIII. The main conclusion of the report is that the FADC
approach to community development is appropriate and that it is widely accepted and appreciated
by beneficiaries. The report calls for a stronger strategic approach in supporting CP by: (i)
reducing their number, (ii) strengthening their training, (iii) promoting the collaboration between
CP, and (iv) having them structured from and organized around the already existing administrative
entities. The report also recommends increasing the involvement of the Comorian diaspora in the
design (and financing) of local economic and social development plans.

At the end of September 2004, FADC contributed to this ICR by submitting a Completion
Report. (Edited version in Annex 8). The Report describes the main features of the project, the
context of its operations, its objectives and approaches (Chapters II and III); the main project
data, by component between 2000 and 2004 (Chapter IV-A), and the overall results and impact of
the project (Chapter IV-B). Chapter V discusses the contribution of the World Bank to project
implementation, and Chapter VI has some concluding remarks, which confirm the ICR overall
Satisfactory rating for this project. The full report was discussed at length by the ICR Team and
FADC, and the ICR reflects many of the findings of the report and of the conclusions from those
discussions.

As part of the ICR process, the TT shared the draft ICR report with FADC and with Government
authorities. FADC confirmed the findings of the report and informed the Bank that it had no
comments on the draft. The Government did not provide any comment.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

None.




                                                 - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Sector-related CAS Goal



Indicator                        PAD     Plan I   Plan II  I and II   Actual

Poverty reduction by providing     54%       60%       NA        NA         54%
better quality infrastructures

Improved literacy                 63.2%       NA       NA        NA         73%

More accessible health services      NA       NA       NA        NA          NA


Project Development Objectives


Indicator                        PAD     Plan I   Plan II  I and II   Actual

Coverage Comité Pil.              100%        NA       NA      100%       73.3%

Total Beneficiaries              250,000  256,684  118,441   375,125     384,201

For schools                       26,000  108,154   49,321   157,475     158,835

For water supply                  60,000   39,750   14,840    54,590      54,578

For health posts                  48,000   65,035   26,396    91,421      89,430

For feeder roads                  65,000   23,733   10,560    34,293      40,590

For other                         50,000   20,022   17,324    37,346      40,768

Permanent jobs                       810      NA       NA        810       2,688

Temporary jobs                     1,800      NA       NA      1,800       1,029

Micro-enterprise created             200      NA       NA        200         364

Persons trained                    1,468      NA       NA      1,468       2,051


Outputs by Component ­ Communal infrastructure


Indicator                        PAD     Plan I   Plan II  I and II   Actual

Total number of communal             240      122       64       186         161
infrastructures

Number of schools                    130       54       21        75          72

Water supply                          40       20       12        32          24

Health posts                          24       18        7        25          27

Rural roads                           26       23       14        37          23

Other projects                        20        7       10        17          15




                                           - 18 -

Outputs by Component ­ Micro-credit (AGR)


Indicator                             PAD         Plan I      Plan II        I and II      Actual

Total micro-credit                        205           NA            NA           409               364

Small loans program                       105            82           97           179               179

Individual loans                          100           NA            NA           230               185


Outputs by Component - Capacity building


Indicator                             PAD         Plan I      Plan II        I and II      Actual


Total number of Sub-projects               40            19           NA             19               45

Comité de Pilotage                         25            19           NA             19               38

Small contractors                          10           NA            NA           NA                 3

Local consultants                           5           NA            NA           NA                 4


Notes: Data on poverty are from : Rapport National sur les Objectifs du Millénaire ­ PNUD, Novembre 2003.
Data on education from : Ministère de l'Education, Tableau de Bord 2002/200. Under Health posts, also
Sanitation sub-projects are included.




                                                     - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     Appraisal        Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                      Estimate          Estimate             Appraisal
                         Component                                   US$ million       US$ million
A-CONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION OF                                     9.90                 8.86                   89
BASIC SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE
B-INCOME GENERATING ACTIVITIES                                           0.90                 0.76                   84
C-CAPACITY BUILDING (CP, NGO, SME,                                       0.20                 0.17                   85
CONSULTANTS)
D-PROJECT MANAGEMENT - INCREMENTAL                                       2.70                 2.76                  102
COSTS, INVESTMENT COSTS, AUDITS, STUDIES
AND SERVICES

Total Baseline Cost                                                     13.70               12.55
                            Total Project Costs                         13.70               12.55
                    Total Financing Required                            13.70               12.55




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                2.50               5.00              0.40             0.00              7.90
                                       (2.42)             (4.98)            (0.29)            (0.00)           (7.69)
2. Goods                                0.25               0.10              0.10             0.00              0.45
                                       (0.24)             (0.06)            (0.11)            (0.00)           (0.41)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00              2.14             0.00              2.14
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.99)            (0.00)           (1.99)
4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              1.01             0.00              1.01
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.09)            (0.00)           (1.09)
5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                                2.75               5.10              3.65             0.00             11.50
                                       (2.66)             (5.04)            (3.48)            (0.00)           (11.18)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                       - 20 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                  Percentage of Appraisal
      Component            Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
                        Bank       Govt.     CoF.      Bank      Govt.       CoF.  Bank   Govt.   CoF.
A-CONSTRUCTION AND      7.90                 2.00      7.69                  1.17  97.3            58.5
REHABILITATION OF
BASIC SOCIAL
INFRASTRUCTURE
B-INCOME                0.70                 0.20      0.56                  0.20  80.0           100.0
GENERATING
ACTIVITIES
C-CAPACITY BUILDING     0.20                           0.17                        85.0
(CP, NGO, SME,
CONSULTANTS)
D-PROJECT               2.70                           2.76                        102.2
MANAGEMENT -
INCREMENTAL COSTS,
INVESTMENT COSTS,
AUDITS, STUDIES AND
SERVICES




                                               - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

See section 4.3




                                      - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/10/1997                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              October 1997

 Supervision

              07/23/1998                1    TTL (1)                          S               S
              06/30/2000                4    SR OPERATIONS OFFICER            S               S
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1); FIN
                                             MANGT SPECIALIST (1)
              10/18/2001                2    TTL (1); HEALTH SECTOR (1)       S               S
              03/28/2002                4    TTL (1); PROCUREMENT             S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); PROGRAM
                                             ASSISTANT (1); ENV.
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

              Mid-Term Review
              12/06/2001                7    TTL (1); SR OPERATIONS           S               S
                                             OFFICER (1); FIN MANGT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                             (2); CONSULTAMT (1)


              Supervision
              09/12/2002                2    TTL (1); CONSULTANT (1)          S               S
              09/27/2003                2    SR. FINANCIAL MGMT SPE           S               S
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              05/29/2004                4    SR FINANCIAL MNGT SPEC           S               S
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT SPEC (1);
                                             MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                             PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1)

 ICR
              10/18/2004                3     SR. OPERATIONS                  S               S
                                              OFFICER (1);
                                              CONSULTANT (1);
                                              PROCUREMENT
                                              SPECIALIST (1)




                                              - 23 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             NA                         48,242
  Appraisal/Negotiation                  NA                         48,243
  Supervision                            NA                        232,844
  ICR                                      5                        32,000
  Total                                  NA                        361,329




                                            - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Bank project documents

- Aide-Memoire of Appraisal mission, World Bank (1996)
- Aide-Memoires of Supervision missions, World Bank (2000-2004)
- Project Appraisal Document, World Bank (1997)
- Project Status Reports (PSR), World Bank (2000-2004)

Other Bank documents

- ICR on Health project (IDA 30430)­ Union of the Comoros, draft
- PAD on a proposed credit to the Union of the Comoros for a Service Support Project, February
4, 2004
- MOE on a Transitional Support Strategy Updated for the Union of Comoros, February 11, 2004

Other documents

- AMIE, Rapport Trimestriel D'Activités, 1 Avril ­ 30 Juin 2004
- AMIE/FADC, Rapport Préliminaire d'Impact, Juin 2004
- FADC, Audit of micro-finance operations­ PPC and PCD (2004)
- FADC, Etude Institutionnel pour la préparation du Projet Transitional Support Investment
Credit, Décembre 2003
- FADC, Enquête auprès de Bénéficiaires, Décembre 2001
- FADC, Evaluation of FADC activities for the 2nd half-year of 2000
- FADC, External audits (2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003)
- FADC - Design and implementation of a computerized management information system
(2001-2002)
- FADC, Design and implementation of a website (2004)
- FADC, Technical audit of sub-projects (2000-2002)
- FADC, Technical audit of sub-projects(2002-2004)
- PNUD, Rapport National sur les Objectifs du Millénaire pour le Développement, Novembre
2003
- Présidence de l'Union, Commissariat Général du Plan. Document D'Evaluation Effectué par
le Commissariat Général au Plan sur Fonds Appui Développement Communautaire, Octobre
2003
- Présidence de l'Union, Commissariat Général du Plan, UNFPA, Direction Nationale du
Recensement: Projet COI/03/P04 ARGPH "Appui au Recensement Général de la Population et
de l'Habitat rapport d'activités Année 2003 (déc. 2003) »




                                              - 27 -

Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution
(Prepared by FADC and edited by the ICR TT)

           Introduction

           Après la clôture de la première phase du projet FADC, dont l'objectif était d'accompagner les profondes
réformes structurelles en vue du redressement des Finances Publiques engagées en 1992, le Gouvernement
Comorien avec le concours de la Banque Mondiale a mis en vigueur la deuxième phase du projet « Fonds d'Appui au
Développement Communautaire ». Son objectif est de lutter contre la pauvreté en soutenant de manière continue un
système d'activités de Développement Communautaire fondées sur la demande et donnant aux populations pauvres
des zones rurales et urbaines défavorisées les moyens nécessaires pour entreprendre des sous-projets leur
permettant : i) d'accéder facilement aux services sociaux de base et d'optimiser leur utilisation par un renforcement
des capacités des bénéficiaires ; ii) de créer des emplois permanents et temporaires et de mettre en place des
micro-entreprises viables.

           L'accord de crédit négocié à Washington entre le 22 et le 24 octobre 1997, a été mis en vigueur le 30 juin
2000, trente mois après, et à la suite d'une revue du Portefeuille des projets financés par l'IDA organisée à Moroni.
Cette revue a marqué la reprise des négociations avec les Institutions de Breton Wood et la levée de la suspension
des décaissements qui a perdurée environ dix huit mois.

II- Cadre institutionnel et mode de fonctionnement

          Le FADC (Fonds d'Appui au Développement Communautaire) est un projet régi par ses textes juridiques et
statutaires (Ordonnance n°93-001/PR du 6/01/93 et décret n°93-068/PR du 13/04/93 portant création, organisation et
Fonctionnement du FADC), le Fonds est assimilé à un organisme de financement d'intérêt public, doté de l'autonomie
administrative et financière et jouissant de la personnalité morale. Son siége est à Moroni, la capitale, et intervient sur
trois îles de l'Union des Comores : Anjouan, Ngazidja et Mohéli.

           La structure organisationnelle du FADC comprend deux niveaux :

- un niveau central composé d'un organe délibératif qui est le Comité Central de Coordination (CCC), et d'un organe
exécutif et de supervision qui est le Secrétariat Exécutif National (SEN). Le C.C.C fait office de conseil
d'administration, qui trace la politique générale du FADC, tandis que le SEN est chargé de la gestion administrative et
financière et de la coordination des activités du Projet.

- un niveau régional composé d'un Comité Régional (CR) et d'un Secrétariat Exécutif Régional (SER), opérant sur
chacune des trois îles. Le CR assume les fonctions de supervision et de contrôle, alors que le SER constitue l'organe
administratif et d'exécution qui assure la gestion quotidienne de ses opérations au niveau des îles.

           A la base, ce sont les CP qui assurent le rôle d'organes intermédiaires entre la population et le FADC.
Chaque CP constitue la cellule de base responsable de l'exécution des sous-projets au niveau de la communauté.

           Les modalités de fonctionnement et de gestion du FADC sont régies par un Manuel de Procédures qui a été
élaboré durant la phase préparatoire et approuvé par le C.C.C et l'IDA. Il présente le cadre général, décrit la structure
organisationnelle, définit les conditions de financement, d'éligibilité et de sélection des sous-projets. Ce manuel définit
également les procédures de soumission, d'évaluation, d'approbation et d'exécution ainsi que celles de la passation
des marchés, la gestion financière et comptable, le suivi et l'évaluation à posteriori des sous-projets. Le Manuel de
procédures a fait déjà l'objet d'une révision en novembre 2000. Les amendements proposés ont visé à prendre en



                                                          - 28 -

compte l'expérience accumulée pendant la première phase du projet. Certaines prérogatives jusque là exercées par
le SEN ont été transférées aux SER. Les modalités de fonctionnement du CCC et des CR ont été plus codifiées pour
plus d'efficacité et de démocratie.

          En 2001 le pays est régi par quatre textes constitutionnels dont la caractéristique principale est qu'ils
confèrent aux îles une large autonomie. Il en résulte que la plupart des prérogatives jusque là exercées par le
gouvernement central dans la conduite des programmes de développement reviennent désormais aux
gouvernements des îles autonomes. Le Gouvernement central était représenté jusque là au CCC, par 7 membres
issus des différents départements ministériels directement concernés par les programmes du FADC. La plus haute
autorité de l'Etat était représentée par la Primature qui n'existe plus dans le nouveau cadre organique de l'Etat. La
plupart des ministères qui étaient représentés au CCC ont disparu en tant que tels au niveau du gouvernement
central.

          Au niveau des trois îles les gouvernements mis en place n'ont pas la même structuration. Ils ne répondent
pas au même schéma organisationnel. Le Décret Présidentiel N° 03 - 013 _/ PR est signé le 28 janvier 2003 pour
porter modification de certaines dispositions du Décret N° 93 ­ 068 _/PR du 13 avril 1993, portant création,
organisation et fonctionnement du Fonds d'Appui au Développement Communautaire. La nouvelle composition
proposée est basée sur les principes directeurs suivants :

Ø         Faire représenter les plus hautes autorités de l'Union et des îles au niveau du CCC ;
Ø         garder la supériorité numérique du mouvement associatif par rapport à la représentation de l'Administration
pour garantir la stabilité du système;
Ø         améliorer la cohésion entre la représentation au niveau du CCC et au niveau des CR (chose qui n'existait
pas auparavant) ;
Ø         intégrer une représentation des opérateurs économiques du Secteur privé, partenaires du projet ;
Ø         intégrer au niveau des CR une représentation des associations/ONG ayant vocation à agir au niveau de
l'ensemble de l'île pour enrichir la représentation    du mouvement associatif à vocation locale.

          Conformément aux directives de l'IDA, le FADC a été soumis à un audit financier annuellement effectué par
les Cabinets indépendants, De Chazal Du Mée pour la première année et le Groupement Ernest&Young -
Mpanazava pour les trois dernières années du projet. Ces cabinets d'audit ont été chargés d'examiner les comptes
financiers et d'évaluer les performances du projet. En outre, un audit technique a été également effectué par un
Consultant indépendant, une fois tous les deux ans, pour vérifier si les infrastructures financées ont été construites
selon les normes techniques et les standards établis par les autorités comoriennes et aussi vérifier si les procédures
de passation de marchés sont respectées.

          Enfin, les chargés du Projet à la Banque mondiale ont assuré une supervision générale et permanente du
déroulement du projet en particulier, grâce à des visites périodiques associant des consultants de la Banque selon
les besoins.    Durant cette deuxième phase du projet, il a été mis en place un Système Intégré de Gestion
informatisée utilisant un progiciel multisite appelé TOMPRO, agréé par la Banque Mondiale. Ce logiciel qui intègre
plusieurs modules : de comptabilité, de gestion des marchés publics, de gestion des AGR, de gestion des stock, et de
suivi évaluation est réputé par son efficacité et sa rapidité en matière de programmation et de suivi des opérations
budgétaires et comptables. Il permet également la sortie automatique des Etats Financiers et des RSF (Rapport Suivi
Financier). Cependant il présente des imperfections sur les modules relatifs au suivi-évaluation et aux activités
génératrices de revenus.

III - Objectifs et Approche méthodologique

A.        les objectifs du FADC sont :




                                                          - 29 -

-         de valoriser les ressources humaines au niveau rural par la participation des communautés villageoises
dans le processus de développement local, à travers l'identification et l'exécution des projets qu'elles jugent
prioritaires en matière d'infrastructures de base.

-         de lutter contre la pauvreté en favorisant la croissance économique, notamment par la mise en place d'un
système de « petits crédits » et de crédit décentralisés destinés à stimuler des activités génératrices de revenus
(AGR), tant en milieu rural que dans les zones péri-urbaines défavorisées.

-         le champ d'action du Fonds touche principalement les infrastructures de base telles que les locaux
scolaires, l'approvisionnement en eau potable, les pistes de désenclavement rural, les postes de santé et les
infrastructures de protection de l'environnement ... etc.

B.        Approche méthodologique

          Cette approche d'essence participative, consiste à cibler toute intervention en fonction des demandes
émanant des populations elles-mêmes, par le biais de leurs comités de pilotage juridiquement constitués et mandatés
par l'ensemble de la communauté. Le cycle d'un sous-projet implique directement les bénéficiaires, dés lors qu'ils
s'approprient la philosophie participative du FADC et que le projet envisagé remplit les critères d'éligibilité et de
sélection, allant de l'identification à l'exécution en passant par la conception du dossier technique.

IV - Données globales sur les réalisations des sous-projets et Impacts du projet

          Sur un réseau de 338 comités de pilotage créés, et dans le cadre de ses programmes annuels de la période
de juin 2000 à juin 2004, le FADC a identifié à ce jour, 272 localités ayant formulé une requête pour le financement
d'un sous-projet.

A.        Activités du FADC et l'évolution des réalisations de 2000 à 2004

          D'un point de vue quantitatif, le rapport d'évaluation du projet avait fixé comme objectif de réaliser 40% des
sous-projets à Ngazidja, 45% dans l'île d'Anjouan et 15% dans l'île de Mohéli. C'est d'ailleurs sur la base
d'indicateurs de performance quantifiés et revus annuellement, que se fonde le mécanisme de suivi et d'évaluation
de la stratégie de développement communautaire initié en 1993 par le FADC.

          Deux Plans d'action ont été élaborés dans le cadre du programme de la phase II et mis en oeuvre de juin
2000 à décembre 2001 pour le premier Plan, et de janvier 2002 à décembre 2003 pour le second. Ces deux Plans
d'action prévoyaient la réalisation de 476 sous projets dont : 186 sous projets d'infrastructures de base (IDB), 271
d'activités génératrices de revenus (AGR) et 19 de renforcement des capacités des partenaires du FADC. Deux
Plans de passation de marchés ont été établis également pour un meilleur suivi de l'exécution du volet IDB. Ces deux
Plans ont permis :

          - au Projet de programmer et de suivre le cycle de réalisation des sous-projets, du lancement des appels
d'offres jusqu'à la réception
          provisoire de l'ouvrage;
          - et aux différentes structures concernées de disposer d'un outil de planification et de suivi des activités.

          Ces plans d'actions s'étalaient sur 72 semaines entre juin 2000 et décembre 2001 pour le premier Plan et
48 semaines pour le second entre janvier 2002 et décembre 2003. Le coût total des plans d'action est estimé à 5,6
milliards FC, la part de financement du FADC est évaluée à 4,6 milliards FC pour une population bénéficiaire de
374.040 habitants, soit 68 % de la population totale de l'union des Comores.




                                                            - 30 -

1.        Volet Infrastructure de base

          De juin 2000 à juin 2004, le FADC a achevé 161 sous-projets IDB ainsi répartis - Ngazidja 78 (48%) ;
Anjouan 38 (24%) ; Mohéli 45 (28%). La disparité des réalisations par île par rapport aux prévisions par île, est liée
d'une part, aux conséquences de la crise séparatiste qu'a connu le pays pendant près de quatre ans, ayant
occasionné un démarrage tardif des activités dans l'île d'Anjouan (février 2001 au lieu de juin 2000), et aux difficultés
d'ordre techniques et financières rencontrées par les Entreprises Anjouanaises : i) Les entreprises étaient en
cessation d'activités et n'étaient plus crédibles à la Banque Commerciale. ii) Aucune centrale de concassage de
matériaux de construction ne fonctionnait ; d'autre part, à la mise en concurrence des communautés qui a permis aux
CP proactifs de bénéficier le maximum d'infrastructures.

          Les prévisions de 1997 avaient programmé une quantité importante des petites infrastructures sociales de
base tels que les postes de santé et les infrastructures scolaires qui coûtent relativement moins chères et moins
d'infrastructures de désenclavement et d'adduction d'eau qui coûtent trois fois plus chères que les précédentes :
Seuls 5 sous projets de postes de santé sur l'ensemble des trois îles ont été exécutés à la demande des
communautés alors que les prévisions de 1997 prévoyaient 24 infrastructures sanitaires. En revanche, les
communautés bénéficiaires ont exprimé un besoin d'infrastructures onéreuses pour leur désenclavement et leur
approvisionnement en eau potable. Par conséquent, certains projets sont suspendus pour insuffisance de crédit. Les
deux plans d'action qui ont conduit l'action du FADC en matière de réalisation physique avaient prévu 186 sous
projets d'infrastructures de base pour un coût estimatif de 4,6 milliards FC. La part des communautés était estimée
à 927 millions FC.

          Au cours des 3 dernières années, 161 sous projets sont achevés dont 78 sous projets au bénéfice de l'île
de Ngazidja, 38 pour l'île d'Anjouan, et 45 pour l'île de Mohéli. Le taux d'exécution des plans d'action du FADC est
aujourd'hui à 87%. La ventilation sectorielle des sous projets achevés se présente comme suit : 72 constructions ou
réhabilitation d'écoles, 24 systèmes d'adduction d'eau et citernes, 5 postes de santé, 23 pistes de désenclavement
rural, 22 ouvrages d'assainissement, et 15 ouvrages d'appui à la production.

          A la date du 31 août 2004, tous les sous projets sont achevés.

          Les engagements contractés s'élèvent à 3.948 milliards FC soit plus de 99% du montant prévu pour les
IDBs durant 4 ans par l'accord de crédit : 5.850. 000 DTS.

          D'une façon générale, depuis juin 2000 à août 2004, 161 sous projets d'infrastructures de base sont
achevés.     Le coût total des réalisations est de 4.591 milliards FC        tous financements confondus (FADC et
communautés). En matière d'environnement, le FADC a mis l'accent sur la protection des enfants dans les écoles en
clôturant l'enceinte de chaque établissement en accord avec la communauté. Des digues de protection côtière ont
été réalisées dans les îles pour épargner les villages en milieu marin de l'agression maritime sans cesse montante.

          En accord avec la Banque Mondiale des mesures d'atténuation environnementales ont été établies pour
prendre en compte l'aspect de dégradation de l'environnement au cours de l'exécution des travaux. Ces mesures
concernent la protection des sites pour le prélèvement des gisements et le facinage des talus dans le cas des pistes
rurales, la gestion des déchets de soins pour les postes de santé, la protection des périmètres de sécurité pour les
sources d'eau potable et l'élimination de l'érosion pour les sous projets d'assainissement. Un cadre de gestion
environnemental et social et un cadre de politique de réinstallation ont été établis dans les perspectives de mise en
oeuvre de la nouvelle phase du projet.

          Les Activités Génératrices de Revenus (AGR)

          Depuis la mise en vigueur de la deuxième phase, le FADC a démarré le volet des Activités Génératrices de



                                                         - 31 -

Revenus destiné d'une part, aux comités de pilotage et d'autre part aux promoteurs individuels.

          La composante AGR comprend deux programmes : le programme des petits crédits et le programme des
crédits décentralisés.

          2.1      Programme des petits crédits (PPC)

           Ce type de crédit est accordé aux comités de pilotage qui ont la charge de répartir ces ressources aux
populations les plus démunis pour la création d'activités de petits commerces et artisanales. Ce programme a joué
un rôle déterminant dans la lutte contre la pauvreté au niveau des villages. Il a favorisé l'insertion des femmes dans
la vie active. Le document d'évaluation avait prévu la création de 105 activités de micro crédit. Le FADC a financé
179 micros crédits informels. Sur les 179 crédits octroyés, 1.443 activités sont crées. Près de 40% de ces activités
sont gérés par des femmes.


                               REPARTITION DES PRETS PPC PAR SECTEUR             Pêche
                                               D'ACTIVITE
                                                                                 Épicerie

                                                                                 Couture
                                             1% 6% 3%
                                      17%                                        Agriculture
                                                                42%              Élevage
                                      7%                                         VM
                                         19%         5%                          Distillation

                                                                                 Autres


                                       Répartition des prêts du PPC par activité

A ce jour, 102.000.000 FC sont déboursés aux communautés dans le cadre du programme des & Citernes On
compte 24% à Anjouan, 41% à Ngazidja et 35% à Mohéli.

          Le montant total des remboursements des PPC s'élève à 96.029.885 FC, capital plus intérêts, soit 91%. Les
services AGR du FADC ne ménagent aucun effort pour recouvrer les 9% d'impayés qui s'élèvent à 9.799.315 FC.

          2.2      Programme des crédits décentralisés

          Afin de faciliter la création et le développement des micros et petites entreprises (MPE) dans le but de
promouvoir aux Comores la création d'activités génératrices de revenus économiques rentables, une convention
tripartite de financement a été signée le 19 avril 2000 entre le FADC, la structure AMIE (Appui à la création et au
développement des micros et petits entreprises) et la Banque de Développement des Comores (BDC). Cette
convention prévoit le financement par le FADC, à hauteur de 70% des crédits aux bénéfices des promoteurs
individuel. Le complément de 30% est assuré par AMIE ;

          A la clôture du projet, près de 242.086.718 FC de crédits sont distribués aux promoteurs individuels qui ont
fait la demande. Les études de faisabilités, le suivi et la formation sont assurés par AMIE et les services du FADC
tandis que la gestion du prêt est à la charge de la BDC. Le FADC transfert ses Fonds à la BDC à un taux de 5%, et la
BDC ajoute 6% pour la gestion du crédit. Ainsi le Promoteur reçoit son crédit avec un intérêt de 11%. Les crédits sont
approuvés en Commission d'Accompagnement Bancaire (COMAB) dont siège le FADC, la BDC, AMIE, Le Ministère
de l'Economie et le PNUD. Ce montant est reparti dans les îles comme suit : 71% à Ngazidja, 11% à Anjouan, et 18%
Mohéli.




                                                          - 32 -

          La répartition par secteur d'activité place en première position la pêche avec 61%, l'agriculture 6%, le
secteur financier 13%, les autres secteurs suivent avec l'élevage 5%, la production , les petits métiers et artisanat
9% , et l'agroalimentaire 6%.


                                                                                 Pêche

                                          9%
                                                                                 Agriculture

                                  13%
                                                                                 Elevage

                                6%
                                                                                 Agroalimentaire
                                 5%                       61%

                                    6%                                           Financier & services


                                                                                 Produc, petits metiers&
                                                                                 artisanat


                              Répartition par secteur des activités financées en PCD


          Le programme a facilité la création de plus de 640 emplois permanents et temporaires dont 63% sont crée
à Ngazidja, 17% à Mohéli et 18% à Anjouan. A ce jour, on compte près de 257.838.350 FC versés par le FADC à la
BDC. Ce pendant, seul 242.086.718 FC sont débloqués aux promoteurs. On constate, alors un disponible de
15.751.632 FC. Le montant versé aux promoteurs a facilité la création de 185 activités (134 à Ngazidja, 21 à Anjouan
et 30 à Mohéli).

          Sur les 185 sous projets financés, on identifie 27 activités gérées par des femmes soit 15%, dont 22 à
Ngazidja, 4 à Anjouan et 1 à Mohéli         Seulement 147.765.512 FC est versé à ce jour par la BDC au FADC
(133.306.422 FC de capital et 14.459.091 FC d'intérêts).

          Dans les perspectives du nouveau projet du FADC, la Banque Mondiale a recommandé la réalisation d'un
audit technique des micros crédits. Le contrat avec le consultant est déjà signé et l'audit débutera avant la mise en
vigueur du nouveau crédit. Les conclusions de l'Audit technique permettront au gouvernement et la Banque Mondiale
d'envisager un amendement à l'accord de crédit pour continuer cette activité si elle se révèle avoir un impact positif
sur la réduction de la pauvreté.

2.        Renforcement des capacités

          Le volet renforcement des capacités est destiné aux comités de pilotage bénéficiaires des projets qui
manque de connaissances sur les procédures FADC pour pouvoir mener à bien le processus d'identification,
d'élaboration et de financement de leurs projets et sur la gestion et l'entretien des infrastructures. Une formation en
divers modules est systématiquement dispensée aux membres des Comités de Pilotage , en vue d'assurer aux
projets réalisés la pérennité voulue, et renforcer les capacités locales notamment en matière de gestion des
ressources humaines, financières et matérielles mises à leur disposition.

          Au cours de la phase II plus de 41 sessions modulaires dont 36 au bénéfice des comités de pilotage et 5 aux
promoteurs individuels sont organisés.

          Ces modules sont déstinés à plus de 1.939 bénéficiaires directs pour un montant de 50.218.677 FC dont
39% à Ngazidja, 32% à Anjouan et 29% à Mohéli.




                                                          - 33 -

         Les Formations dispensées aux divers comités de pilotage par des ONG locaux étaient surtout axées aux
domaines suivants :

·        Formation en Administration des projets communautaires, Analyse du manuel de Procédure, Comptabilité et
suivi budgétaire
·        Formation et sensibilisation en gestion des déchets d'activités des soins hospitaliers (Ramassage, sélection
des ordures, stérilisation et incinération)
·        Formation en communication (Problématique, Analyse du processus de communication)
·        Formation en gestion et entretien des Infrastructures hydrauliques pour les comités de pilotage ayant
bénéficié d'Infrastructures hydrauliques
·        Formation des contrôleurs de chantier dans les domaines des travaux routiers à Ngazidja, celle-ci était
assurée par le Bureau d'Etudes
         DINIKA INTERNATIONAL.

         En outre, d'autres formations ont été assurées par les communicateurs et Responsables AGR portant sur :

·        La Gestion des apports communautaires (gestion des stocks, des ressources humaines et financières) ;
·        Formation et sensibilisation sur l'établissement du rapport mensuel ;
·        La gestion comptable et financière des petits crédits, tenue des cahiers caisse, fiche de remboursement ;
·        Formation portant sur les outils comptables et financiers de la gestion des crédits individuels par le Projet
AMIE et la Responsable AGR de Ngazidja.

        L'activité de renforcement de capacités est une des composantes phares de la nouvelle phase. Un manuel
de procédures spécifique complété par un plan de renforcement de capacité est établi afin de mieux définir les axes
de renforcement. Un service de renforcement de capacité est aussi crée au FADC national et régional pour mieux
organiser et coordonnées les activités de formation et d'Information Education Communication (IEC).

B.       Résultats globaux et impacts du projet

         1- Les acquis du projet

         1-1 L'importance de la participation communautaire

        Le succès obtenu par le FADC tout au long de ces dernières années est dû en grande partie à l'utilisation du
concept de participation communautaire et à la stratégie de développement durable. Les populations villageoises ont
donc pris conscience de la nécessité de prendre en charge une part non négligeable du financement de leurs projets
de développement par la mise en place des comités de pilotage sur le modèle vulgarisé depuis fin 92 par le FADC.
Sur la base des données recueillies à ce jour par le FADC, près de 80% des localités, même parmi les plus reculées
du pays ont créé leur comité de pilotage. Et chacun de ces C.P a pu identifier 2 à 3 projets prioritaires à réaliser dans
le domaine des infrastructures de base. Ainsi, sur 331 localités, le FADC a créé 338 comités de pilotage dont 198 à
Ngazidja, 105 à Anjouan et 35 à Mohéli. Ceci représente donc une couverture nationale de 73,33%. Mohéli est
couverte à 100%, cependant il reste encore des localités non pourvues de comités de pilotage à Anjouan et à
Ngazidja.

        Compte tenu du fait que certaines Communautés ont dans leur actif deux à trois sous projet, pendant que
d'autres n'ont rien bénéficié du FADC, il importe d'attacher une importance particulière aux Communautés non
proactives, dans la perspective de la nouvelle phase.

        En effet, il serait impensable qu'une infrastructure quelconque financée par le FADC soit réalisée sans que
les bénéficiaires ne soient impliquées ou n'aient pas apporté leur contribution. Cette dernière est fixée à 20% du



                                                         - 34 -

montant total du sous-projet sous différentes formes : main d'oeuvre, matériaux ou espèces. Toutefois, cette
contribution peut être baissée à 15% pour les villages les plus pauvres.

          Rappelons que pour les 161 sous-projets achevés, l'apport réel de la participation communautaire est
évalué à 672 millions FC soit 15% du coût des sous-projets.

1.2       Effets durables sur le développement et l'environnement

          - Dans le domaine des infrastructures de base, le FADC a permis la création des petites et moyennes
entreprises (PME) et le développement des ateliers de menuiserie et du second oeuvre qui génèrent des emplois.

          La consommation importante des matériaux de construction pour la réalisation des sous-projets, a amené le
FADC à attribuer divers marchés à certains fournisseurs locaux.

          A titre indicatif, le FADC a travaillé avec 60 PME et 23 ateliers de menuiserie nationaux. Plus de 68% de ces
entreprises ont démarré avec les activités du FADC. Elles ont permis la création de 400 emplois au cours de la
phase II. De plus, pour les travaux communautaires, le FADC fait appel à des consultants locaux pour les études
techniques, le contrôle et la supervision des travaux.

          - Dans le cadre des AGR, on note une amélioration du revenu familial par le développement de ces petites
activités génératrices de revenus (épicerie, élevage, cultures maraîchères, pêche, artisanat, services... etc.).
          - Concernant la formation des membres des C.P, une amélioration de la qualité des ressources humaines
est constatée dans les villages.
          D'autres organismes et ONG s'appuient sur le réseau de Comité de pilotage du FADC pour d'autres projets
de développement du village.
          - Enfin, les projets environnementaux ont eu comme impact de sensibiliser la population sur la protection de
l'environnement. Des comités de gestion          des infrastructures acquis, comme les ouvrages d'adduction d'eau, se
réunissent pour faire adopter des chartes de l'eau afin d'assurer la durabilité
          et la protection de cette denrée.

2-        Faiblesses et problèmes rencontrés

2.1       Le caractère limité de nos ressources par rapport aux requêtes formulées par la population mérite d'être
cité. La demande par rapport aux besoins prioritaires des populations est plus forte que l'offre. Certaines requêtes
peuvent souffrir jusqu'à deux ans avant que la réalisation ne soit effective. Certains sous projets dont le processus de
passation de marché a déjà été entamé ont été suspendus pour insuffisance de financement. Il faudra donc plus de
moyens et de ressources financières pour faire face aux défis de la pauvreté.

2.2       Le second aspect a été de ne pas impliquer le maximum de femmes rurales pour jouer son rôle dans le
développement communautaire. Mais, il convient de noter que les populations ont privilégié les infrastructures au
détriment des programmes IEC pour cette sensibilisation.

2.3       Souvent des problèmes peuvent se poser lors de l'exécution des sous projets :

o         problèmes d'approvisionnement (rupture de stock, retard dans l'approvisionnement.....)
o         problème de retard dans les travaux dû essentiellement à l'entrepreneur (non respect des délais
d'exécution, pénurie de matériaux de construction,        malfaçons.....)
o         En matière d'AGR, le suivi des micro-crédits destinés à des promoteurs individuels n'a pas été si simple.

2.4       Le Projet a été victime de deux crises, respectivement en 2001 et 2004, prenant leur origine dans les



                                                            - 35 -

modalités de fonctionnement de la structure du projet. Le FADC est doté d'une autonomie administrative et financière
qui le protège des influences et ingérences de l'administration publique. Toutefois deux tentatives de bafouement des
procédures ont failli amener le projet à des suspensions de décaissements. Mais heureusement, grâce à la
persévérance du CCC et à la bonne compréhension des Autorités politiques, vis-à-vis du respect des procédures, le
projet a fini par atteindre ses objectifs sans connaître la moindre suspension de décaissement.

V - Impact de la Banque Mondiale sur le projet

          La Banque Mondiale a soutenu les Comores à bénéficier les crédits et optimiser l'emploi de ces crédits
ouverts pour la réduction de l'incidence de la pauvreté dans les pays en voie de développement. Nombreux sont les
missions de supervision effectuées par la Banque pour identifier, évaluer et transférer l'expérience aux cadres
nationaux en charge de la gestion de ces fonds.

          Lors de la préparation de la 3ème phase, les chargés de mission de la Banque Mondiale ont pris en compte
les doléances des agents du FADC, des Communautés et du Gouvernement Comorien en fonction de l'expérience
acquise et des besoins manifestés, pour améliorer les performances du projet.

           Sur demande de la coordination du projet, la Banque a accordé une dérogation pour les secteurs eau et
pistes de désenclavement, où le montant maximum des subventions est porté à 75 millions FC par sous-projet
(comparé à un montant maximum de 27 millions par sous-projet pour tous les autres secteurs).

          Par ailleurs, certains critères sur les procédures de l'IDA en passation de marchés, ne sont pas toujours
avantageux pour une bonne mise en oeuvre des sous-projets. Le fait d'attribuer toujours le marché au moins disant
au lieu du mieux disant n'a pas été favorable aux bonnes performances du projet.

V - CONCLUSION

          Durant ces quatre dernières années, la poursuite de l'expérience de développement communautaire aux
Comores entamé en 1993, est entrain d'atteindre les objectifs de réduction de l'incidence de la pauvreté qui lui sont
fixés. Le Fonds social a permis la construction et la réhabilitation de nombreuses infrastructures de base. Celles-ci
ont largement amélioré les conditions de vie des populations bénéficiaires qui peuvent accéder aux services sociaux
indispensables à tout être humain.

          Le projet a favorisé la création d'emplois permanents et temporaires dans les communautés par les AGR, le
recrutement des chefs de chantier, contrôleurs des travaux et l'embauche par les entreprises du BTP .

          Le succès du FADC auprès des bénéficiaires tient surtout au fait que les populations sont parties prenantes
à tous les stades du processus de décision et de mise en oeuvre de leurs projets, ce qui garantie la viabilité des
équipements réalisés par une meilleure prise en charge locale de leur exploitation et de leur entretien.

          Grâce à cette synergie, les communautés sauront mieux identifier leurs besoins et avoir la maîtrise du
mécanisme de planification et de gestion qui soit le plus simple et le plus adapté au contexte local. Il est donc normal
que les actions de proximité du FADC tiennent compte des disparités du niveau de développement, selon le profil
socio-économique des régions ou localités ciblées.

          L'impact du FADC est donc significatif et durable, car il a stimulé une compétition entre les communautés qui
veulent chacune réaliser un projet de développement dans leurs localités.

          Mais malgré les faiblesses citées ci-dessus, toutes les actions entamées pour rapprocher les populations
rurales des services sociaux de base ont été achevées à la satisfaction des bénéficiaires.



                                                            - 36 -

Annex 9. Beneficiary Evaluation
(From: Beneficiaries' assessment ­ FADC ­ December 2001)

        A survey that has evaluated the beneficiaries' perception of the project has taken place in
November 2001. Thirty-two CP (Comités de Pilotage) have been interviewed on the three
islands. It's clear that the CP exist as structures, that they have an internal organisation with legal
and statutory elements. Besides, CP seem also to be sustainable. After having been established for
the implementation of a FADC sub-project, 46% have implemented another activity, and 67%
have benefited from a funding from another development partner who starts to use the FADC
structure and CP to implement their activities. It has to be underlined as well that all CP have
respected their obligations in terms of beneficiary's contributions. As owner of the sub-project,
CP have also asked to be reinforced. For example, they want to be in charge of the retention
money released to contractors. They also wish that FADC give them a financial incentive when
they attend meetings. Other CP wish that the level of their counterpart contribution be reduced.

        The survey reveals in general that the villages do not have a vision at medium term of their
priority activities requiring a funding and benefiting the whole village population. At this moment,
only a limited number of villages have a local development plan. Villages consult each other to
prepare project requests that are funded in the immediate future and for partners, in a position to
provide funds, with which they have already established contacts. FADC, in collaboration with
other interested partners, could envisage an awareness campaign at CP level to prepare coherent
village development plans (or communal development plans where indicated), which could be
used by other development partners for the funding of village activities at short or medium term.

        CP wish that FADC finances priority activities in the field of rural electrification,
agriculture, sports and storage facilities. Concerning rural electrification, if this is considered as a
priority for the villages, and if FADC is in a position to propose a strategy appropriate to the
Comorian context, the portfolio of FADC activities could be expanded to respond favourably to
this type of requests.

        At the time of the Beneficiary assessment, a World Bank mission recommended a
systematic involvement of CP in all phases of sub-projects: preliminary design, preparation of final
design and tender documents, site supervision during construction and finally operation and
maintenance. Besides, the Bank also recommended that CP become member of the tender
evaluation and award committees and sign the tender evaluation report. However, CP should not
take over the role of site supervisors and the SEN should ensure that their respective roles are
clearly defined in writing.




                                                  - 37 -

- 38 -

