Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3011-COM
Development Credit Agreement
(Social Fund Project)
between
ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 30, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 3011-COM 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 30, 1997, between ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE 
COMOROS (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Fonds d'Appui au Développement 
Communautaire (FADC) with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such assistance, 
the Borrower will make available to FADC the proceeds of the Credit as provided in 
this Agreement; 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and FADC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations."
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read: "Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the 
Association.  If (a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a 
continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Association determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (c) at any time, the Association determines, with respect to any contract 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices 
were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit 
during the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (d) at any time, the Association determines that the procurement of any 
contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the Credit Agreement and establishes the amount 
of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association 
may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such amount 
of the Credit shall be canceled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"Beneficiary" means beneficiary of a Loan, Subloan or Grant; 
(b)
"Beneficiary Contract" means any contract referred to as such in 
paragraph 4 (f), 5 (f) or 6 (e) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; 
(c)
"FADC" means Fonds d'Appui au Développement Communautaire, an entity 
established and existing pursuant to the Borrower’s Presidential Ordinance No. 
93-001/PR, issued on January 6, 1993;
(d)
"FADC Convention" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and FADC pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the FADC 
Convention; 
(e)
"Franc de la République Fédérale Islamique des Comores" or "KMF" means 
the currency of the Borrower; 
(f)
"Grant" means a grant made, or  to be made, out of the proceeds of the 
Credit to finance a Subproject under Part A or Part C of the Project; 
(g)
"Implementation Plan" means the implementation plan referred to in 
Page  3
paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, as same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Implementation Plan; 
(h)
"Income-Generating Activity" means an income-generating activity, having 
a projected financial rate of return deemed acceptable to the Association, in terms of 
criteria acceptable to the Association and specified in the Procedures Manual; 
(i)
"Loan" means a loan made, or  to be made, out of the proceeds of the 
Credit to be used to make one or more Subloans under Part B of the Project;
(j)
"NGO" means a non-governmental organization; 
(k)
"Operating Costs" means the incremental operating costs  incurred under 
the Project by FADC on account of (i) local contractual staff salaries, benefits and 
other incidental employment costs,  (ii) travel costs and allowances, (iii) insurance, 
operation and maintenance of vehicles and equipment, (iv) banking charges, and (v) 
office rent, utilities and communications charges;
(l)
"Procedures Manual" means the Procedures Manual of FADC, dated February 
12, 1994, and referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, 
as same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Procedures Manual;
(m)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and FADC 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(n)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(o)
"Subloan" means a loan made, or to be made, out of the proceeds of a Loan 
to finance an income-generating activity under Part B of the Project; 
(p)
"Subproject" means an activity under Part A, Part B or Part C of the 
Project, in respect of which a Subloan or a Grant, as the case may be, has been, or 
may be, provided to a Beneficiary. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eight million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 8,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and 
(ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) on account of 
withdrawals made for the benefit of a Beneficiary under a Loan or Grant to meet the 
reasonable cost of eligible expenditures related to such Loan or Grant, and in respect 
of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
KMF a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
Page  4
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 1 and November 1 commencing May 1, 2008 and ending November 1, 2037.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 2017 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. FADC is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
Page  5
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the Project and 
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause FADC to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency, and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, environmental and technical 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) For the purposes of Parts A, B and C of the Project, the 
Borrower shall conclude a convention with FADC (hereinafter referred to as the FADC 
Convention), whereby it shall agree to transfer to FADC on a non-reimbursable basis: 
(i)
in the case of Part A of the Project, an amount of the Credit not 
exceeding 
such amount as may be allocated from time to time to 
Category (3) (a) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, to be used to provide 
Grants to Beneficiaries to finance 
Subprojects on the terms and conditions 
specified in 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, and on such 
other 
terms and conditions as shall be acceptable to the Association; and 
(ii)
in the case of Part B of the Project, an amount of the Credit not 
exceeding 
such amount as may be allocated from time to time to 
Category (3) (b) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, to be used to provide 
Loans to Beneficiaries on the terms and 
conditions specified in paragraph 5 of 
Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement, and on such other terms and conditions as 
shall be acceptable 
to the Association;
(iii)
in the case of Part C of the Project, an amount of the Credit not 
exceeding 
such amount as may be allocated from time to time to 
Category (3) (c) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, to be used to provide 
Grants to Beneficiaries to finance 
Subprojects on the terms and conditions 
specified in 
paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, and on such 
other 
terms and conditions as shall be acceptable to the Association. 
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the FADC Convention in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the FADC Convention or any provision 
thereof. 
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by FADC 
pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.  
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate 
to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with 
performance indicators referred to in paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof.
Page  6
(b)
The Borrower shall, not later than November 30 of each year, beginning 
November 30, 1998, undertake, in conjunction with the Association and FADC, a joint 
annual review of the Project or, in the case of the review to be undertaken not later 
than November 30, 2000, a mid-term review, during which they shall exchange views 
generally on all matters relating to the progress of the Project and the performance 
by the Borrower and FADC of their respective obligations under this Agreement, or 
arising thereunder, and, in particular:
(i)
the progress achieved by the Borrower and FADC, having regard to 
indicators 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and paragraph 2 
(a) of Schedule 1 
to the Project Agreement; 
(ii)
a review of the proposed work plans and budget for the forthcoming 
fiscal year; 
 
(iii)
a review of the progress achieved in the implementation of 
Subprojects, and an 
assessment of the impact of such Subprojects; 
and 
(iv)
a review of the level of involvement of Beneficiaries, and the 
status of 
maintenance of completed works.
(c)
Not later than one month prior to each review, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association, for its comments, a report, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the progress and status of the Project, and giving 
details, in particular, of the various matters to be discussed at such review.
(d)
Following each review, the Borrower undertakes to act promptly and 
diligently in order to take, or cause FADC to take, any corrective action deemed 
necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, or to 
implement, or cause FADC to implement, such other measures as may have been agreed 
upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall 
cause FADC to:
(a)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(b)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(c)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(d)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of the Project Agreement, and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
FADC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement or the FADC Convention; 
Page  7
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that FADC will be able to perform its obligations arising under the 
Project Agreement or the FADC Convention; 
(c)
the Borrower’s Presidential Ordinance No. 93-001/PR establishing FADC, 
issued on January 6, 1993, or Presidential Decree No. 93-068 establishing the 
organizational structure and procedures of FADC, shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
FADC to perform any of its obligations arising under the Project Agreement or the FADC 
Convention; 
(d)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of FADC, or for the suspension of 
its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of Association within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a)
the FADC Convention has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and FADC; 
(b)
the Procedures Manual has been duly amended, pursuant to paragraph 2 (b) 
of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, to take account of the specific objectives of 
the Project; 
(c)
the Implementation Plan has been duly approved by the Borrower and the 
Association, and adopted by FADC; 
(d)
FADC has recruited auditors, in accordance with Section II of Schedule 2 
to the Project Agreement, to audit the accounts of the Project pursuant to Article IV 
of this Agreement and Article IV of the Project Agreement; and 
(e)
the National Executive Director and Regional Directors referred to in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement have been recruited, in accordance 
with Section II of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by FADC, 
and is legally binding upon FADC in accordance with its terms; and 
(b)
that the FADC Convention has been duly authorized or ratified by and is 
legally binding upon FADC in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04 The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit 
Page  8
Agreement shall terminate or on the date fifteen years after the date of this 
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this Agreement, the 
Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower  
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministère des Finances, du Budget et du Plan
B.P. 324
Moroni
Comores
Telex:
245-MIEF-CAB KO
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
By /s/ Mohamed Ali Soilihi 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Michael Sarris 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
Page  9
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the Credit 
   % of
Allocated (Expressed 
Expenditures
Category
in SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)  
Equipment, vehicles
300,000
100%
and supplies
(2)
Training, technical
     1,400,000
100%
assistance, studies
and audits
(3)
Loans/Grants:
100% of amounts
of Loans or Grants
(a) under Part A 
     5,300,000
disbursed
of the Project
(b) under Part B 
700,000
of the Project
(c) under Part C 
200,000
of the Project
(4)
Operating costs
300,000
100%
(5)
Unallocated
300,000
_______
TOTAL             8,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower ;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
 in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement
(b)
in respect of a Loan or Grant, unless the Loan or Grant has been provided 
in accordance with procedures, and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to, in this Agreement and the Project Agreement. 
4.
It is understood that the percentages in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule have been calculated on the basis of the provisions in Arrêté No. 
97-231/CFB-DGCRC, of the laws of the Borrower, which exempt the goods and works to be 
financed from taxes and customs duties levied by the Borrower. If any change is made 
to said Arrêté which has the effect of levying taxes or customs duties on such goods 
or works, the percentages referred to above shall be decreased in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions. 
5.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and works under 
contracts not exceeding $60,000 equivalent, consultants' services (firms) under 
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, consultants' services (individuals) under 
Page  10
contracts not exceeding $30,000 equivalent, operating costs, Loans and Grants, under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to address the incidence of poverty amongst 
the Borrower’s poorer communities through the replenishment of a social fund designed 
to support demand-driven initiatives developed by such communities and, in so doing, 
to create employment and improve access to basic social services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Construction and Rehabilitation of Basic Social Infrastructure
Provision of grants for the benefit of communities, particularly in rural areas, 
to finance the construction and rehabilitation of basic social infrastructure needed 
to restore essential community services 
Part B:
Income-Generating Activities
Provision of loans to village committees, NGOs and other financial 
intermediaries to be used to provide subloans to finance income-generating activities 
for the benefit of the beneficiaries of such subloans.
Part C:
Capacity Building
Provision of grants to finance training programs in the preparation and 
evaluation of Subprojects under Parts A and B of the Project, implementation of 
labor-intensive works, procurement activities, works management, contract 
administration, and accounting and financial management, for the benefit of 
communities, village committees, NGOs, and prospective consultants and contractors.
Part D:
Project Management
Provision of technical advisory services, and acquisition of equipment and 
materials, to strengthen the capacity of FADC to implement the Project, and undertake 
the monitoring and evaluation of Subprojects. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project, as well as amounts 
paid or to be paid under Loans, Subloans and Grants, to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
KMF 450,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to KMF 225,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from 
the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
Page  11
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of  SDR 2,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of, each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of the Project Agreement, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
Page  12
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
