Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6795
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
FIRST SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT (SMI I)
(CREDIT 942-CE)
May 22, 1987
ISESIW CORIES
AVAJ LAI3LE
INS THdIS
IDF Division                                           RLP    
South Asia Projects Department
This documnent has a restrictesd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
ADB     -   Asian Development Bank
BOC     -   Bank of Ceylon
BRI         Building Research Institute
BTT     -   Business Turnover Tax
CBOC    -   Commercial Bank of Ceylon
CBSL    -   Central Bank of Sri Lanka
CISIR   -   Ceylon Institute for Scientific and Industrial Research
DFCC    -   Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
DSI     -   Department of Small Industries
EPR     -   Effective Protection Rates
FIAC    -   Foreign Investment Advisory Committee
GCEC    -   Greater Colombo Economic Commission
COSL    -   Government of Sri Lanka
HNB     -   Hatton National Bank
ICICI   -   Industrial Credit & Investment Corporation of India
IDB     -   Industrial Development Board
IPZ     -   Investment Promotion Zone
MISA    -   Ministry of Industry and Scientific Affairs
MRI     -   Ministry of Rural Industrial Development
MTI     -   Ministry of Textile Industries
NAB     -   National Apprenticeship Board
NDB     -   National Development Bank of Sri Lanka
NERD    -   National Engineering Research Department
NIBM    -   National Institute of Business Management
NIM     -   National Institute of Management
NSB     -   National Savings Bank
PCI     -   Participating Credit Institution
PMB     -   Paddy Marketing Board
RRI     -   Rubber Research Institute
SMI     -   Small and Medium Industries
UNDP    -   United Nations Development kE ogramme
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Sri Lanka - January 1 to December 31
Commercial Banks           -  January 1 to December 31
NDB                        -  January 1 to December 31
DFCC                       -  April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. DC 20433
USA
Otlice ot lCte<t-Genetal
Opeamicns EvaiuatioUn
May 22, 1987
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND TiE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Sri Lanka - First Small and Medium
Industries Project (SMI I) (Credit 942-CE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Sri Lanka - First Small and Medium Industries Project
(SMI I) (Credit 942-CE)" prepared by the South Asia Projects Department.
Under the modified system for project performance auditing further evaluation
of this project by the Operations Evaluation Depaitment has not been made.
Yves Rovani
By Ram K. Chopra
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Sri Lanka Rupee
Sri Lanka has a floating exchange rate. Since 1980 the annual average
rate has been:
1980 - US$1 = Rs 16.5; 1981 - US$1 = Rs 19.3;
1982 - U,9$1 = Rs 20.8; 1983 - US$1 = Rs 23.5; and
1984 - US$1 = Rs 25.5.
As -of December 3i, 1984, US$1 = Rs 26.3
As of December 31, 1985, US$1 = Rs 27.4
The following rate is used in this reort:
US$1          = Rs  27.4
Rs 1          = US$0.036
Rs 1 Million   US$36,000



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
FIRST SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT (SMI I)
(Credit 942-CE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ***e* *q*#.ee,§......eq...oq*e o***e*.e.^,.                              i
BASIC DATA SHEET ..........  .............................                     ii
HIGHLIGHTS  ............... ....                                               iv
I.  INTRODUCTION  o................                                                  1
II.  THE SECTORAL ENVIRONMENT ........ .....             ..........**.....  ..         2
A.  Economic Setting  ..., ...........          ..............                   2
B.   Industrial Structure and Performance ...............                       3
C.  Characteristics and Role of SMIs                  .......................   4
D.  Financing SMIs ................,,*............*.......                      6
E.  Technical Service Agencies  .............................                   8
III.  THE PROJECT'S OBJECTIVES AND STRUCTURE                     ...... .. .....        9
A.  Evolution of the Project  ...............................                    9
B.  Objectives, Scope and Institutional Arrangements  .......                   9
IV.  UTILIZATION OF PROJECT PROCEEDS ............. ..........                         11
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .. ...............................                       12
A.  Sub-projects ...................................#....                      12
B.  Institutional Aspects  ... .... .....  .... et ...         *      ...      15
C.  Technical and Marketing Services   . ...............*......                18
VI.  THE ROLE OF IDA ................ 4 ..o.................                         19
VII.   CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED ...,...................                         20



TABLE OF CONTENTS (corit'd)
LIST OF ANNEXES
1      Estimated  vs.  Actual  Disbursement   ........                    ..................         24
2      PCI  Refinance  Activities ...................................                                26
3      Subsectoral Distribution   .               ..................................                 27
4   Geographical Distribution ...................................   28
5      Dispersion  of  Financial  Assistance ..........................                              29
6      Operational  Performance  NDB  - FY81-FY85 ......                       ...............       30
7      Analysis  of Arrears  1982-85   ..............38..................                            38
8      Collection  Perfcrmance  FY82-FY85 ...........................    39
ATTACHMENT I
Correspondence  Received  from the  Borrower   .....                        .............    41



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA - FIRST SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT (SMI 1)
CREDIT 942-CE
PREFACE
1.      Starting in 1979, the development of Small and Medium Industry (SMI)
in Sri Lanka has been supported by two SMI projects. The first SMI I
(Cr. 942-CE) was appraised in March 1979 and became effective on October 23,
1979. The original closing date of the Project was June 30, 1984 but this
was subsequently extended to June 30, 1985 to allow for disbursement of
unutilized funds which was completed by December 31, 1985. The Second SMI
Project (Cr. 1182-CE) was appraised in February 1981 and became effective in
May 1982. The original closing date was December 31, 1986 but this has
subsequently been extended to December 31, 1987. In December 1985, US$2.4
million and US$1.3 million of eligible project and technical assistance
expenditure under SMI II (Cr. 1182-CE) was transferred to SMI I to utilize
available funds. However, due to delays in recruiting suitable consultants
it was necessary to cancel a total balance of $922,000.
2.      SMI I was committed more rapidly than expected and to meet credit
demand SMI II was appraised and became effective befors any real lessons
could be learned from the implementation of SMI I. While this report is the
PCR for SMI I, given the close interrelationship between the two projects,
the common objectives and institutions, this report has treated the two
projects as one in order to draw conclusions as to the effectiveness of IDA
assisted SMI development.
3.      Apart from providing credit to finance SMI investment, the major
objecti'- of the SMI Projects was to address the constraints hindering the
rapid gtowth and productivity improvement of SMIs particularly in the areas
of agro-industry, construction and building materials, garment production and
the development of rubber products. This Report focusses on achievements
under the SMI Projects until December 31, 1985 and the relationship of the
Bank Group with the various implementing agencies.
4.      The report was written by staff of the South Asia IDF Division,
and was updated following a supervision mission to Sri Lanka in August
1986. Staff of the SMI Fund within NDB provided data for incorporation in
the Report. The Report is, however, the sole responsibility of IDA staff
based upon information provided by NDB, the Participating Credit Institutions
(PCIs), technical assistance agencies and GOSL officials. A draft of the PCR
was submitted to NDB and GOSL for review in early 1987 and both indicated
that they had no detailed commentss. A file index of source material, which
is part of the Project Implementation File, is held in the South Asia
Information Center.
This project has not been audited by the Operations Evaluation
Dhepartment.



- ii -
PROJECI COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
FIRST SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT (SMI I)
(Credit 942-CE)
BASIC DATA SHEET
(US$ Million)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Item                                                     US$ Million
Credit Amount                                            16.0
Disbursed                                                15.1
Canceled                                                  0.9
Planned Commitment                                       FY84
x Actual 'ommitment                                       77
Actual Commitment                                        FY86
Z Actual Commitment                                       94
Economic Rate of Return (Subprojects)                    15%-55% (estimated)
Fiancial Performance    (             )                  15%-30% (estimated)
Institutional Performance (PCIs)                         Improved
Impact of TA                                             Mixed
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original         Actual
Project Preparation                                                06-00-78
Negotiation                                                         05-23-77
Board Approval                                                      06-26-79
Credit Agreement                                                   07-24-79
Effectiveness                                                       10-23-79
Final Subproject Submission                       12-31-83          12-31-84
Closing Date                                      06-30-84          12-31-85
Borrower                         Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Executing Agencies               National Dev7elopment Bank (NDB), Ministry of
Industries and Scientific Affaits (MISA)



Mission Data
No. of    No. of    Staff        Report
Date       Week       Year      Weeks       Date
Preparation  1                  05-78       3          2          6        06   -78
Preparation  2                  12-78       4          7         28         2- 6-79
Appraisal                       03-79       3          6         18        06- 8-79
Supervision  1                  06-79       2          1          2        08- 8-79
2                08-79       2          2          4        09-26-79
3                11-79       1          1          1        02-19-80
4                04-80       1           1          1       04-28-80
5 1/             02-81       4          3         12        03-26-81
6 I/             11-81       3          4         12        01-14-82
7 _/             04-82       3          2          6        04-17-82
8 1/             08-82       1          1           1       08-07-82
9 1/             11-82       1          1          1        11-13-82
10 1/             03-83       2          1          2        04-19-83
11 1/             10-83       2          1          2        19-28-83
12 1/             05-84       1          2          2        05-14-84
13 1/             07-84       2          3          6        09-10-84
14 1/             05-85       2          2          4        06-14-85
15                11-85       2          1          2        12-26-85
1/  Joint supervision SMI I (Cr. 942-CE and SMI II-Cr. 1182-CE).
2/ Cr.942-CE was also supervised during the appraisal of the First and
Second Industrial Development Project (Cr. 1401-CE and Cr. 1612-CE).
Staff Input
(S.W.)
FY78  FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86   Total
Preparation       7.5    -       -     -      -     -      -      -     -       7.5
Appraisal        36.0   8.0    -       -      -      -     -      -     -      44.0
Negotiations       -    6.0    -       -      -      -     -      -     -       6.0
Supervision 1/    -       -   25.7  16.0   5.7   4.8   5.2   8.8   6.1    72.3
43.5  14.0  25.7  16.0   5.7   4.8   5.2   8.8   6.1   129.8
1/  From FY82 onwards this project was supervised in conjunction with Cr.
1182-CE--SMI II.
Follow-on Projects
Following the rapid commitment of SMI I, SMI II-(Cr. '182-CE) for
US$30.0 million was approved in September 1981 and became effective in May
1982. NDB and the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC), which
participated in both SMI projects also participated in Cr. 1401-CE for
US$25.0 million approved in June 1983 and will participate in Cr. 1692-CE
for US$20.0 million approved in May 1986.



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
FIRST SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT (SMI I)
(Credit 942-CE)
hIGHLIGHTS
1.      Until 1979, Bank Group support for the industrial sector in Sri Lanka
had comprised three loans and three credits to the Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC), IFC equity in DFCC and an IFC loan to the Bank
of Ceylon (BOC). ADB Funding had also been provided to DFCC. These projects
had been designed primarily to meet the needs of medium to large private
industry units, although 25% of the IFC loar. to the BOC was allocated to
firms defined as small scale. SMI I provided an opportunity to foster the
development of small scale industry which was seen as a key element in the
industrial development of Sri Lanka and to focus on a number of policy and
procedural constraints to the growth of SMI operations (paras. 5.02 and 5.09).
2.      The principal objectives of SMI I were to address constraints
hindering the rapid growth and productivity improvement of SMIs in order to
increase their contribution to efficient and low cost employment generation,
export expansion and economic growth. The credit provided US$16 million;
US$12 million for partial refinance of term loans made to SMIs, and US$4
million to finance (a) services to SMIs in selected subsectors, (b) training
and advisors to build capabilities of credit and SMI technical service
institutions, and (c) policy studies on issues affecting expansion, export
and efficiency prospects of SMIs. The project had major institution-building
objectives. To increase viable SMIs' access to credit, an SMI Fund was
established within the newly-created National Development Bank (NDB); five
major credit institutions were to develop or expand the SMI units at
headquarters and in key branches with trained, specialized staf F in SMI
project appraisal and supervision; and high spreads and a modified credit
guarantee scheme were provided to increase incentives for credit institutions
to expand SMI lending activity. Under the project, selected technical
service agencies were to focus on providing effective technical, marketing
and management services to SMIs in subsectors with expansion potential. Of
these the Industrial Development Board (IDB) was to upgrade its regional
extension network, start a subcontracting exchange to link small
l/ Given the overlap of Cr. 942-CE and Cr. 1182-CE the findings and con-
clusions in the report draw on implementation experience under both
projects.



manufacturers with public procurement and private contracts, and build
subsectcr-specific schemes, staff and technical facilities in three major SMI
subsectors. Three other technical service agencies were to implement
discrete subsector-specific components and provide management training
(paras. 1.02, 3.03 and 3.04).
3.      The resource transfer was achieved more rapidly than was anticipated,
notwithstanding later withdrawals from the project. The subprojects approved
were mainly in traditional subsectors - rice milling, coconut processing,
building materials, wood products and light engineering/metal products - and
the project did not - contrary to expectations - finance any significant
numbers of non-traditional subprojects in the agro-industry, construction or
export oriented subsectors. This reflects more a misreading of the level of
pent up demand for project financing in traditional products than in any
inappropriate selection process on the part of the PCIs, On project
completion, 1746 subprojects had been financed with mixed results. Long
implementation delays with consequent cost overruns and lower than expected
operating results plagued many of the projects financed. Major factors
influencing implementation were both internal and external. Internally many
projects were hampered by poor preparation and sponsor inexperience.
Externally the effects of local and international economiic developments were
misjudged at the time of PCI appraisal. A major disrupting influence on many
projects were the ethnic disturbances which wracked Sri Lanka from July 1983
onwards. Paradoxically, rapid commitment of the project, coupled with the
internal/external implementation difficulties resulted in a significant level
of arrears which affected the financial viability of the PCI SMI portfolios.
However, steps have been taken to address these concerns and to ensure that
arrears and infected loans are adequately provided for. These actions have
resulted in a gradual reduction in arrears (paras. 4.01-4.03, 5.02-5.09,
5.16, and 5.17).
4.      The institutional objectives of the project were achieved
satisfactorily. A well staffed and managed SMI fund was established to
administer SMI refinancing operations, and with GOSL support NDB and the PCIs
became an effective group of SMI financing institutions. Within the PCIs,
SMI financing units have been established and the standards of appraisal have
been gradually improved. However, staffing of PCI operations has beer.
erratic and a cause of much of the increase in portfolio infection.
Training/staffing programs have been initiated to address this issue and SMI
staff levels have stabilized. Notwithstanding the poor repayment performance
of many of the subprojects, PCI participation in the project has been
encouraging and PCIs are now seeking to diversify their SMI clientele.
(paras. 5.10-5.15).
5.      Achievement of the objectives of the technical assistance component,
which focussed on upgrading technical, marketing and management support for
SMI operations, was less than satisfactory. It was expected that
implementation of the various TA programs would take a considerable time to
complete, but delays in rectuiting appropriate advisors and local staff,



- vi -
finding suitable sites for service centers and constructing facilities went
far beyond the lag expected. Thus although the project became effective in
October 1979 and was initially fully committed within two years it was not
until late 1982/early 1983 that the various service centers were in a
position to provide any tangible support to SMI.  Even after establishment
of the service centers and initiation of the Industrial Development Board
(IDB) and Export Development Board (EDB) assistance programs, the impect on
SMI operation was limited due to the considerable difficulties of both
organizations in retaining trained staff. Of the service centers, the
Clothing Industry Training Institute performed well and established a sound
institutional and physical structure which should ensure its survival (paras.
4.04, 5.18-5.21, 7.11 and 7.12).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI IAN4KA
Y'IRO,T SMALIL AND  I).IUM INDUS'TRIES PROJECrrT (SMij I)
(Credit 902-CE)
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01    Until March 1979 the Bank Group's involvement in industrial
development had been limited to the provision of four lines of credit/loans
totalling US$24.5 million to DICC for medium and large scale industrial
project financing. However, by 1978 GOSL's policy reforms and increased
emphasis on expanding the private sector had created a climate in which the
prospects for efficient SMI development could be exploited.  Reviews of the
main SMI subsectors and institutions supported this assessment ot potential
and in November 1978, an IDA project preparation mission reached
understandings with relevant ministries and potential implementing agencies
on the design and organization of an SMI project which w uld address the
major constraint affecting the development of SMI. Negotiations for the
project were completed in May 1979 and the project became effective in
October 1979.
1.02    Under the project, US$12.0 million was provided for partial
refinancing of SMI term loans, while US$4 million was provided to finance
(a) services to SMIs in selected subsectors, (b) training and advisors to
upgrade PCIs and technical service institutions, and (c) reviews of GOSL
policy affecting expansion, export and efficiency prospects of SMIs. The
project also had major institution-building objectives. To increase
availability of credit, an SMI fund was established within the newly-created
National Development Bank (NDB) to recycle the repayments from short-term
lending under the project. Five major credit institutions with SMI
activities were selected to participate in the Project subject to developing
or expanding their SMI units at headquarters and in key branches with staff
specialized in SMI project appraisal and supervision. Large spreads and a
generous credit guarantee scheme were provided as incentives for the PCIs to
expand this SMI lending activities. Under the project, the >;sociated
technical service agencies focussed on providing effective technical,
marketing and management services to SMIs in subsectors with expansion
potential. The IDB, a key technical service and development agency, was to
upgrade its regional extension network, start a subcontracting exchange to
link small manufacturers with public procurement and private contracts, and
develop and staff subsector-specific service centers relating to three major
SMI subsectors. Three other technical service agencies were to implement
discrete subsector-specific components and provide management training to SMI
Entrepreneurs. Since success of the project depended upon the capabilities



-2-
and motivation of key personnel in the credit and technical service
organizations UNDP allocated US$175,000 from its Multi-Sectoral Facility to
fund short term training of selected staff prior Lo the implementation of the
Project.
1.03    This PCR reviews the experience of IDA and NDB, through the SMI Fund,
in the implementation of the Project. It focuses on the impact of the
subprojects financed under Cr. 942-CE and on the institution building
activities initiated under the project and supported through the technical
assistance component of the Credit.
II. THE SECTORAL ENVIRONMENT
A. Economic Setting 1/
2.01    Real GDP in Sri Lanka grew by 2.7% p.a. during 1970-1976, due to a
combination of a policy framework unconducive to growth or efficiency, poor
weather conditions which affected agricultural growth adversely and the sharp
rise in the cost of fuel. In late 1977, the newly elected Government
initiated a liberalization strategy with the objective of increasing the
growth rate of production and employment, savings and investment and
exports. 2/ To achieve these objectives, the Government introduced policies
which included exchange rate unification and depreciation, import trade
liberalization, interest rate increases to encourage savings, full cost
pricing for most imported commodities and the establishment of a free trade
zone to attract export oriented foreign private investment. The economy
reacted vigorously to these changes at the beginning, with real GDP growth
accelerating to an average of 7.3% p.a. during FY77-79, but it slowed down to
5% in FY81-85. The main areas of growth have been agriculture, services,
garment exports and construction, all of which benefited from liberalization,
the increased level of investment and other incentives. With assistance from
foreign donors, fixed investment has risen from about 15% of GDP in the early
1970s to 26% in FY84.
1/  For a comprehensive analysis of the Sri Lankan economy, see Report
No. 6176-CE - Sri Lanka: Current Economic Situtation and Outlook dated
May 13, 1986.
2!  This program of reform was introduced in agreement with the IMF in
support of a standby facility and subsequently, in January 1979, an
Extended Fund Facility.



-3-
2.02    Some of the policie; which made these achievements possible, however,
also led to serious financial imbalances. As the public investment program
gained momentum, it grew bteyond tLle country's resource availabiliLies,
contributing to unsusrainable budgetary and balance of payments deficits and
to undesirable levels of foreign commercial borrowing. More importantly, the
imbalance in the budget and in the balance of payments were aggravated by an
inadequate resource mobilization effort by the public sector and by the
existence of a policy environment which, was not conducive to exports due to a
lack of adjustment in the exchange rate and high protection which created a
bias toward import substitution. With significant increases in public sector
investment and a disappoiniting revenue effort, the budget deficit increased
from 11% of GDP in FY77 Lo 23% in FY80, declining to 14% in FY83, fell
temporarily to 10% in FY84 but increased to 13% in FY85. Due zo this
budgetary deficit, external developments and an incentive structure biased
against exports, the current account deficit increased to 19.8% of CDP in
FY80, declining to 12.4% in FY83 and to 3.7% in FY84. After several years of
precarious financial conditions, FY84 saw a significant reduction both in the
external and internal deficits. While these achievements were partly the
result of Government policy, including the adoption of restrictive credit
policies towards the private sector, the introduction of new revenue raising
measures and the containment of public spending, the dominant factor in
explaining these developments was the growth in Government and export
earnings from tea, which contributed to an increase in net international
reserves of US$305 million in FY84. The sudden decline of tea prices in
1985-86 and the increasing level of ethnic disturbances, with their
consequent impact on budgetary resources, underscored the continued
vulnerability of the Sri Lankan economy and the need for diversification.
B. Industrial Structure and Performance
2.03    Although Sri Lanka has a limited industrial base, the manufacturing
sector accounts for about 14% of GDP and 45% of exports. The structure of
the sector has remained relatively unchanged over the past decade. Large
enterprises, mainly public sector corporations, are concentrated in textiles,
sugar, cement, ceramics, chemicals, petroleum, steel and wood products.
Currently, the manufacturing sector consists of 20 medium- to large-sale
corporations under the control of MISA; about 50 corporations supervised by
other Ministries; about 400 large-scale registered private factories mainly
in Colombo; 5,000 small and medium registered private factories; and about
25,000 dispersed unregistered small and cottage units concentrated in
handicrafts and services. Additionally, there are about 100,000 small scale
industrial units employing less than five people. The private sector employs
90% of industrial workers and accounts for about 60% of manufactured value
added.
2.04    Government policy has had a significant impact on industrial
performance. Liberalization of trade and industrial policies in 1977, the
lifting of foreign exchange restrictions and growing commitment to the
private sector as a basis for industrial development contributed to strong
industrial growth of about 8% p.a. in FY78. However, after this initial
improvement, the rate of real growth in industry slowed to an annual average



-4-
real rate of 4.6% in FY79-85. The appreciation of the exchange rate after
FY78 adversely affected the production of traded goods. Furthermore, import
tariffs were maintained to provide significant levels of tariff protection
for manufacturers vis-a-vis other sectors. However, the growth opportunities
created by this policy were limited due to the small size of the local
market. While overall growth in industrial output from FY79 to FY85
increased to 4.6% per annum in constant prices, output of the Public
Manufacturing Enterprises (PMEs) essentially stagnated with a growth rate of
about 1%-2%. Private sector companies dominate production of food,
beverages, tobacco, chemicals, rubber and plastic products for the domestic
market, and textiles and garments for export which increased from US$12
million in FY77 to more than US$320 million in FY85. Despite the growth of
the private sector, PMES remain important, accounting for about 50% of
industrial investment and contributing about 40% of value added in the
non-petroleum manufacturing sector.
C. Characteristics and Role of SMIs
2.05    Definition.  For the purpose of fiscal incentives, GOSL originally
defined SMIs as enterprises with less than Rs 1 million (US$46,000) in plant,
equipment, land and buildings, valued at original costs. GOSL through MISA
subsequently changed this definition to Rs 1 million (US$46,000) excluding
investment in land and buildings.  This increase was considered justified and
provided a sound definition for the SMI target group of the proposed
project 1/ since:  (a) cumulative inflation over the past years made a
definition of Rs 1 million in total fixed assets too restrictive for
efficient operations in some SMI product groups; (b) expansion of existing
SMIs would be encouraged; and (c) SMIs with up to Rs 1 million in plant and
equipment were judged to be those for which simplified appraisal techniques
and outside technical services were relevant. Based on this new definition,
the SMI sector includes some 90% of registered private firms and all
unregistered firms and accounts for about three-quarters of industrial
employment in Sri Lanka and contributed over one-half of industt al value
added. The same definition was also appropriate for SMIs in construction
contracting and quarrying, which are not covered by fiscal incentives.
2.06    Geographical Distribution.  At the outset of the project, about
70% of the registered SMIs were in and around Colombo, with secondary
concentrations in the Kalutara, Kandy, Matara, Jaffna, Galle and Kurunegala
districts. Unregistered small and cottage industries were more widely
1/ For the purposes of Cr. 942-CE, SMIs included those in manufacturing,
quarrying, construction. agroprocessing, cottage industries and certain
industrial services. SMIs eligible for subloans were those with original
cost of plant and equipment below Rs 2 million. This limit was sub-
sequently increased to Rs 4 million.



-5-
dispersed among small towns and villages, with the Colombo district
representing about 30% of the total. Regional industrial dispersal is one of
the prime objectives of the present Gnvernment. However, the potential for
SM1 development in rural areas is limited largely to agro-indLstries,
construction, and some cottage industries; the potential in secondary towns
wz.s considered greater if access to institutional finance and technical and
marketing services could be increased.
2.07    Subsectoral Distribution.  The principal SMI subsectors, which
together accounted for 88% of employment and 84% of investment in registered
SMIs, were textiles and garments, light engineering, paper products, rubber
and chemical products, food manufacturing and wood products. Subsector
distribution of unregistered small and cottage industries was similar
although their products are simpler, e.g. handloom textiles, jaggery, bricks,
pottery, wood and coir items. SMIs presently account for about 80% of
employment and 70% of investment in private construction contracting.
2.08    Performance and Efficiency.  in 1977, SMIs made gross earnings
equivalent to 34% of total sales and 40% of total investment.  In the
principal subsectors, SMIs compared well with larger private and public firms
in terms of efficient use of capital an' labor with lower capital/labor
ratios and higher value added per unit of labor and capital. In the area of
exporting SMIs also performed well; while non-traditional industrial exports
in 1978 accounted for 9% of the total value of exports an increase from the
6% in 1977; the share of SMIs increased from 7% in 1977 to 10% in 1978.
However, while many SMIs produced goods which could be internationally
competitive, they found it difficult to establish direct contacts with
foreign buyers and to obtain adequate information on direct/indirect export
market requirements. Nevertheless, many SMIs needed to upgrade productivity,
product quality and capacity utilization to operate profitably in the
liberalized environment. For this purpose, SMI required better access to
credit for inputs and fixed investments; and technical assistance to plan
investments, improve production methods and take advantage of domestic market
opportunities.
2.09    Expansion and Export Potential.  Based on export demand assessments
and increased domestic demand for consumer goods and construction materials,
significant expansion opportunities existed for SMIs in most subsectors.
With the anticipated higher rates of economic expansion, prospects in several
SMI subsectors with growth potential were linked closely with other sectors
of the economy. Thus, potential for significant expansion of agro-processing
activity was linked to increased paddy production and availability of coconut
husks and seafood. Similarly, the extensive public investment in agriculture
was expected to generate qdditional demand for tools, spares, repair services
and construction contracting. Subcontracting between SMI firms and larger
private and public sector enterprises, which is less developed, also had
considerable potential.



-6-
[). Financing SMIs
2.10    Following import liberalization, demand for credit by all sectors
of the economy increased rapidly. During FY78, total credit by the banking
system rose by 44%, whereas total deposits increased by only 30%. In
addition to the sharp increase in the financing needs for trade and imports
of raw materials and intermediate goods, delays in disbursements from th2
Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) refinancing scheme and the contractionary
effect of government operations contributed to a significant liquidity
squeeze in the second half of FY78. As a result, the banks' loan/deposit
ratio increased from 0.85 at the end of FY77 to 0.94 at the end oi FY78 with
most banks exceeding their credit ceilings with the CBC. In FY78, industrial
credit expanded sharply and accounted for 27% of total credit. However, due
to heavy bank lending to PMEs, lending to private industry decreased from 55%
of total industrial credit in FY77 to 45% in FY78.
2.11    Of the institutional finance in Sri Lanka, about 85% of industrial
lending was provided by commercial banks, and 15% by DFCC and the smaller
finance companies. Of the 11 commercial banks operating in Sri Lanka, 4 are
domestic and 7 are foreign. 1/ The two state-owned commercial banks, Bank of
Ceylon (BOC) and People's Bank (PB) have extensive branch networks and
account for more than 90% of industrial credit by the banking system. The
two principally private domestic banks, Hatton National Bank (HNB) and
Commercial Bank of Ceylon (CBOC), are smaller but expanding. Most of the
ndustrial credit was in the form of short-term loans and overdrafts, with
medium and long-term lending accounting for 20% of the total.
2.12    With respect to SMI lending, there had been the usual problem of
limited access to institutional credit. To remedy this, from FY76 BOC and
PB participated, with varying degrees of investment, in a Joint Credit Scheme
for SMI lending with the Industrial Development Board (IDB). Under this
scheme, IDB formulated and appraised SMI projects, and recommended them for
bank financing. While the scheme helped to improve access to credit by a
number of SMIs, it was not satisfactory. Since they carried the risk on the
loans, the banks were critical of the lack of objectivity and thoroughness of
IDB's appraisals. Most commercial bank lending to SMIs was independent of
the IDB Joint Scheme. In their own lending decisions, the commercial banks
used fairly conservative lending criteria based more on collateral than on
project evaluation. As a result, SMIs had difficulties in securing credit.
Due to its limited rupee resources and lack of a branch network, DFCC
concentrated mainly on lending foreign exchange resources to the larger firms
although DFCC had been increasing its SMI lending activities. The scheme was
terminated with the initiation of SMI I.
1/ The foreign banks concentrate mainly on foreign trade financing.



-7-
2.13    In FY78, GOSI, established the National Development Bank of Sri Lanka
(NDB) to (i) evaluate PME project proposals and where appropriate provide
pcoject financing, (ii) promote SMI lending, and (iii) review appraisals and
provide refinance for SMI loans by the PCls. The Chairman and General
Manager had been appointed and were working on organization, staffing and
operational policies and on selecting key managerial and technical staff.
The proposed project was; designed to assisl NDB in developing its SMI
refinancing activities an(i overall operations.
2.14    In response to the liberalized investment environment, credit to
SMIs, which accounted for about 7% of lending to private industry, increased
by some 50% in FY78, mainly for working capital. An estimate of potential
demand for financing by SMIs was made based on conservative assumptions
regarding the rate of growth of the sector (6.5% p.a.), the incremental
capital/output ratio (ICOR) and permanent working capital requirements.
Total investment requirement; by SMIs tor FY79-83 was estimated at Rs 2.8
billion.  Taking into account anticipated levels of international and
domestic inflation, credit demand by SMIs was estimated at US$12 million per
year in current prices.  Hlowever based on prior year transactions, credit
institutions would provide only about 35% of this financing requirement, with
a traditionally high percentage of the remaining requirements funded through
self-finance.
2.15    In FY78, the commercial banks and DFCC lent about US$4.5 million in
term credit to SMIs. However, the banking system's resource constraints and
increased requirements for other purposes limited its ability to sustain a
significantly higher level of SMI lending in the medium-term, par.icularly
since it would take time to change conservative banking attitudes and
increase SMI project appraisal capabilities. On the basis that the banking
system would maintain its existing level of financing in real terms from its
own resources, the projected financing gap was about US$7.5 million per year,
or US$22.5 million over FY80-FY82. The project provided US$12 million to
co-er part of this potential financing gap until the banks built up their
confidence and capacity to finance a higher level of SMI operations.
Subsector analysis indicated that most demand for credit would be generated
in construction and building materials, metal and rubber products, and
agro-industrial SMIs.
2.16    Interest Rates and Inflation.  As part of GOSLs FY77 policy reforms,
interest rates were raised substantially to prevent possible capital outflow
after the liberalization of foreign exchange controls, to reflect the higher
rates of inflation expected during the transition to a more open economy and
to stimulate medium-term private savings. Commercial banks paid 7.0% on
savings deposits and 8.5% to 15% on time deposits. Due to liquidity problems
and rising cost of funds, most banks increased their effective lending rates
during FY78, to 13%-18% on industrial term loans, including loans to SMIs.



-8-
2.17    Based on the CBSL index, between December 1977 and December 1978 the
inflation rate was 14%, mainly reflecting the reduction in food subsidies,
relaxation of domestic price controls, and increased cost (if some imporLs
following the devaluatiori of Lhe rupee. With further price adjustments on
the producer and cons-mer levels and subsidy reductions planned by the
Government for FY80-FY87, it was expected that the annual rate of inflation
would decline gradually to international  levels by FY81.  At the projected
rates of inflation, the on-lending interest rates of the major credit
institutions would remain positive in real terms.
E. Technical Service Agencies
2.18    Although Sri Lanka had a number of public sector institutions
providing managerial, technical, and training assistance to SMIs, the
effectiveness of these agencies was cons,rained by unclear assignment of
responsibilities, shortages of trained personnel, and inadequate operating
facilities. The IDB, 1/ an agency of the MISA, was the principal SMI
development institution responsible for promoting and assisting all SMI
subsectors other than textiles and cottage industry. IDB was a
long-established agency, but needed to strengthen its promotional activities
and subsector services at headquarters and key districts, moving from a focus
on loan-related activities to promotion. The Department of Small Industries
(DSI), an agency of the MRI, was responsible for cottage industry
development. However it needed to improve its impact by providing services
to craftsmen rather than limiting its efforts to DSI-owned production
facilities. The Ministry of Textile Industries (MTI) was responsible for
formulating policy and implementing programs in the textile and garment
subsector. Under its control the Department of Textile Industries (DTI) was
responsible for developing the handloom industry and for increasing
collaborative arrangements with private exporters although little had been
done in this area. Training programs were concentrated in two main agencies:
the National Institute of Business Management (NIBM), under MISA, providing
production and financial management courses; and the National Apprenticeship
Board (NAB), under the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Employment, arranging
supervised, paid apprenticeships with private industry in a range of trades.
However the effectiveness of all these agencies was poor and considerable
upgrading was considered necessary before they could provide support to SMI.
1/ IDB has since been transferred to the Ministry of Rural Industrial
Development (MRI).



-9-
IlT.  TILE PROJ ECT OBJECTIVES AND STRUCTURE
A. Evolution of the Project
3.01    Prior to the mid-1970s Lhe Bank. Croup had an ongoing involvement in
the industrial sector through a number of operaLion involving DFCC and BOC.
The Bank has made two loans and two credits Lotalling US$24.5 million to
DFCC, while IFC had provided a US$2.0 million line of credit to BOC.
Additionally, IFC had an equity participation in DFCC and nominated a Board
representative. In each case, the lending operation was for the financing of
medium-large scale enterprises. Parallel to the Bank operations, the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) and other bilateral agencies also provided funding to
DFCC for medium-large scale industrial investment. However, the policy
reforms enacted by GOSL in FY77 changed the economic climate that had
previously prevailed. Increased emphasis was given to the role of the
private sector and to the development of efficient SMI operations. The
potential for industrial development through SMI activities was confirmed by
Bank Group missions in FY78 and FY79 an., the Bank assisted GOSL in the
preparation of the Project. Development of the Project provided the Bank
Group with the opportunity to broaden its industrial financing operations to
cover the whole of the industrial sector and to become involved with more
institutions in the financial sector through initial steps to strengthen
their term lending operations. Specialist consultants in light engineering,
agro-industries, and building materials were hired for preparation and
appraisal missions. An expert in rubber products, working for UNDP in Sri
Lanka, was borrowed for full-time participation in preparation and appraisal
mission. Strong secondary information was used in garments. The Project
development also provided the Bank with the opportunity to initiate the basic
analytical work necessary to support needed changes in the trade and
industrial policy regime.
B. Objectives, Scope and Institutional Arrangements
3.02    The principal objectives of the project were to address constraints
hindering rapid growth and productivity improvement of SMIs, particularly in
the key subsectors of agroindustry, construction and building materials,
garments, and rubber products; and increase their contribution to efficient
and low cost employment generation, export expansion, and economic growth.
To meet these objectives, the project had two major components, an IDA Credit
of US$12.0 million for term financing and US$4.0 million for technical
services.



-10-
3.03    Credit Component.  Under the credit component, responsibility for
subproject appraisal, on-lending and supervision was delegated to five
participating credit institutions (PCIs): two public commercial banks, BOC
and PB; two locally controlled private commercial banks, HNB and CBOC; and
DFCC. Under the project, their SMI activities were to be encouraged and
supported by:
(a) providing of US$12 million to help fill the gap between projected SMI
term lending requirements and available resources;
(b) creating a separately managed SMI Refinancing Fund within NDB to
review subprojects, and providing partial refinancing of subloans
made to SMIs which met financial and economic eligibility criteria;
(c) improving the capabilities of project lending institutions to do
appraisal-based lending by: assigning SMI specialists to
headquarcers and key branches; providing SMI specialists and
management with training in simplified SMI appraisal and supervision;
and introducing systems and tools to facilitate this work; and
(d) providing inducements to increase financing of viable SMIs, through
provision of attractive spreads, a credit guarantee scheme and a
special capital facility for entrepreneurs unable to meet the normal
equity requirements but with subprojects of strong economic merit.
3.04    Technical Assistance.  Under the TA component funds were provided to
employ local/expatriate advisors to:
(a) assist COSL to carry out general policy studies on aspects of export
incentives and the tariff system, which affect industrial efficiency,
expansion, and export prospects;
(b) reinforce IDB's promotion and technical service programs for SMIs by
improving it's regional extension network, starting a subcontracting
exchange, and establishing staff training and technical facilities
for rubber products, building materials, foundries and light
engineering subsectors;
(c)  improve the focus and effectiveness of other SMI technical service
agencies by providing finance for (i) programs in garment training;
(ii) extension programs in white coir extraction and processing; and
(iii) an export organization for handloom products; and
(d)  assist NDB and the PCIs to improve their SMI and general lending
operations.



-11-
IV.  UTl L ZAT ION OF PROJECT PROCEEDS
Resource Transter
4.01    The Credit Component.  Initial commitment of the credit component was
rapid.  By December 1981, the crediL component had been full y commi t fd aInd
there was a significant number ot subproject application lodged with (thc l'CIs
for which no financing was available.  Hlowever, because of exchange rate
changes and withirawals of approved subprojects from the project, previously
committed funds were released for new commitment and these were not fully
utilized until December 1984. In total, 1746 subprojects 1/ were approved by
the Project closing date.
4.02    While commitment of the project was rapid, disbursement of subproject
loans proceeded slowly. 2/ Full disbursement had been projected tor the
third quarter of 1983 (Annex 1), but this was not achieved until eighteen
months after the original project closing date. Several factors led to the
slowdown. Elections in the early part of 1982 with the possibilities ot
violence and a change in Government caused many sponsors to delay
implementation of their projects. With the passing of the election, sponsors
resumed implementation; however, the ethnic di';turbances in 1983 halted the
momentum of disbursement; from March 1983 to September 1983 only US$200,000
was disbursed. Lack of infrastructural facilities also delayed
implementation and disbursement as did the lack of equity resources. The
impact of these delays was such that, as of December 31, 1985, only US$9.0
million of the US$12.0 million component had been disbursed. To reduce the
level of possible cancellation, US$2.4 million of subproject disbursements
were transferred from SMI II (Cr. 1182-CE). The balance of US$0.6 million
was cancelled.
4.03    The pattern of SMI lending by the PCIs was roughly in line with the
levels forecast at the time of appraisal (Annex 2). As expected BOC and the
PB accounted for 77% of project lending. However, CBOC was more active than
anticipated and utilized 13% of the Credit vs 9% at appraisal. Because of
the lack of a branch network to generate projects, DFCC was able to utilize
only 1% vs 11% expected at the time of appraisal.
4.04    Utilization Technical Assistance.  The technical assistance component
which had been seen as a key factor in increasing the role of SMI in
industrial development had considerable implementation problems which
affected significantly the rate of disbursement. By the original closing
date of June 30, 1984, only US$1.7 million (or 43%) of the original
allocation of US$4.0 million had been disbursed. By December 31, 1985,
1/ The final number of subprojects under the project was 1741 as five
subprojects were withdrawn on closure.
2/ As of December 31, 1986, Rs 293 million had been committed. With
cancellations actual Rupee disbursement was Rs 229.5 million.



-12-
through prepayment and expansion of service e1igibiliLy, disbursements were
increased to US$3.1 million. To minimize cancellation of funds, US$586,000
of TA disbursements under SMT 11 (Cr. 1182-CE) were transferred to SMI I
bringing total disbursement to US$3.6 million; the balance ot US$0.4 million
was cancelled on February 4, 1986.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.  Sub-Projects
General
5.01    Although there were subsequent cancellations, the rapid commitment
of the credit component reflected (i) the existence of a considerable pent-up
demand for SMI term financing, (ii) the relative attractiveness to sponsors
of the 20% equity financing requirement, (iii) the simplified procedures
developed for processing subproject applications, and (iv) initial
competition by the PCIs to use the line of credit to expand their activity in
the area of medium term foreign currency credit, integrating the activity
with their short term working capital operations. While the availability of
credit under the project met some of the initial credit demand, the
uncertainties of elections and the disrupting effects of the ethnic
disturbances in 1982 and 1983 respectively led to a slowdown of credit
demand.
5.02    By supporting 1,746 sub-projects with a total investment cost in
excess of U.S$30 million, the project contributed about 60% to the cost of SMI
fixed assets during the period of implementation. In turn, actual
disbursements under the credit refinanced about 80% of the foreign and local
exchange needs of the sub-projects during the same period. About 10% of the
output of the SMIs financed is expected to be exported helping to generate
needed foreign exchange and consolidate Sri Lanka's presence in foreign
markets in such sectors as garments and ceramics goods. Preparation and
implementation of the project increased GOSLs awareness and understanding of
SMI development problems as well as stimulated and streamlined the activity
of the Sri Lankan Einancial institutions in the sector. An important
contribution of the project was the positive impact it had in stimulating the
mobilization of additional resources for SMI financing. Although actual
utilization of the funds has been hampered by the country's economic
downturn, the increasing interest shown by foreign collaborations in SMI
development particularly in the garment sector is bound to have a lasting
impact on the future of the sector.
5.03    Subsectoral Distribution.  Annex 3 details subproject distribution.
Major subproject concentrations were in food processing (27%), construction
materials (16%), metal products (12%), wood products (10%) and
agro-industries (7%). The balance was spread over a larger number of
miscellaneous subsectors. This pattern has continued under SMI II and



--i3-
Iotlows the pattern of raw material availability and the structure ol
exisLing SMI operations in the cotuntry.  Little investment has taken place in
subsectors which coul d be regarded as non-l-' rad t i oilai or sign I i cant I y (export
oriented.
5.04    Geographical Distribution.  The wide branch networks of the NCBs
used under t Pte pro p'c Is ha: be en part i(:i ar y etfecti ve iln  Chi evi ngl   i
geographical dispersion, albeit that ther(e has been a tendency I or the larger
SMI projects to be located in  he major urban areas.  Under SMI 1 50% of t.he
subprojects were located in tihe major urban connurbations within the Colombo,
Calle, Gampaha ana Kurunegala districts. Under SMI 11 this concentration has
increased to 58% (Annex 4). The balance of subprojects, which tend to be the
smaller subloans, are decentralized over the remaining 21 districts of the
country. The poor performance in channeling resources for industrial
investment away from the urban area of Colombo is mitigated by the
subo-projects conltributioni lo thh  ab';orpLi on ot Col1ombo's growing labor force.
Also, although conspicuous, the number t suot1pro jtcts fi nanced in Colombo was
proportionally less than the sharc; or SMIi already IocaLed in the area
with respect to the rest ot the country, thus at least indicating a
decentralization trend. In retrosp)ect the attempt to achieve regional
development objectives under the project was too ambitious. These objectives
could be more effectively pursued through other government actions such as
industrial incentive legislation and provision of infrasLructure and
services.
5.05    Size of Subproject and Subloan (Annex 5).  Of the subprojects
approved under the Credit, 92% were for less than Rs 500,000 (US$200,000)
with the average subloan being Rs 168,000 (US$67,200). Of the subloans
approved under the Credit, 1608 (or 92%) were below the free limit of
Rs 750,000; 138 subloans which were above the free limit were reviewed by the
SMI Fund and by IDA. At the time of appraisal it was estimated that about
150 subprojects would be subject to a detailed review by the SMI Fund and
IDA. With the increase in the limits of subproject eligibility under SMI II
to Rs 4.0 million there has been a considerable change in the dispersion of
subloans; under the project, 65% have been for subloans below Rs 500,000.
Sub-Project Implementation
5.06    To determine the effectiveness of project implementation, the PCIs
surveyed a 7.5% sample (133) of the portfolio. This indicates that about 82%
of the subprojects had been completed and were still operational although
many had suffered from implementation delays. The main causes reported by
project sponsors were (i) administrative constraints e.g. processing of
construction permits, utility connections, (ii) procurement e.g., price
changes, adjusted delivery schedule, change in suppliers, (iii) institutional
e.g. requirements for disbursing the credit proceeds and providing additional
credit to finance cost overruns, and (iv) personal e.g. limited time to
follow-up the project or participates in project operations. Analysis of PCI
supervision records indicates that delays in the implementation of
subprojects could have been limited by more detailed project preparation



-1 4 -
and more  reuet)t Si L ? su;pori ti   n   1'rm jec tC ; under dli ;bursement were
frequent 1y nut properly supervised and release of funds were not. always made
to coincide with Lhe plias;inyg ,,t impi;o,en tai ii)n.  In ;e,,or'a  (a;t!!,, funds were
released di rectly to the subborrowers and not to lhe buildinp, contracturs or
equ1pmeilt suppliers.
5.07    Cost lEst imat's.  Of tlie p)ri. jet-; surveyed and compl et el , 144. werl
implemenited witj   cost overrun,, -'J% were implemented within the original
cost estimptes and £% were completed with some savings.  Thle acLual posilion
could not ascertaincd for the balance.  1'he range of cost; overruns is broad,
with overruns ol from 1% to rnore than 200% of the original project cost
estimates. The overruns originate mainly fr-,,, construction costs (including
site preparation), underestimaLed procuremenit costs and installation charges
and, most frequently, undere-timation of working capital needs.  Cost
overruns correlated closely with delayed implementation caused largely by
insufficient /inexperoenced project preparat ion ai.d iol l w-up.  UniL, in the
metal produtts , wood urodot:t .* luud procelissin?-, and misce11 aneous subsectors
were most atfected by cost overruns.
5.08    Subproject Viability.  Analysis of the subprojects in operation shows
a very mixed performance with few subprojects achieving results in line with
those anticipated at the time of appraisal. Subpro,ect nerformance was
affected significantly by a number of fac.ors ranging from changes in the
economy and political disLurbances to inadequate project implementation. The
elections of 1982 and the ethnic disturbances in 1983 created uncertainty in
the minds of many sponsors, causing them to halt implementation and delaying
further inve.tment in their projects.  The adverse developments in the
international economy in the early 1980s added to the already difficult
economic problems within Sri Lanka increasing the costs of foreign inputs and
affecting the availability of domestic resources for equity/b4orking capital
financing. Other factors adversely affecting project performance included
sponsors inexperience and sponsors indifference and the impact of GOSL's
trade and industrial policy liberalization which lowered tariff barriers on
imports. With regard to sponsor attitudes, many inexperienced sponsors found
it difficult to adapt to the changing economic environment and this in turn
led to sponsor indifference.  Internal financial rates of return for larger
subprojects were esLimated by the PCis at the time of appraisal and ranged
from 15% to 50% with an average rate of 30% (Annex 4).  Poor account
recording by sponsurs has limited the ability to determine accurate ex-post
financiaL ratios and IFRR.  NDB and the PCIs have subsequentLy implemented
a projecL monitoring system to provide this data. However, based on analysis
by NDB staff ex-post IfRRs have ranged from 15% to 30%; with the higher rates
achieved in BMR and expans on projects.



5.09    Economic Impact.  Excluding the cost. of land included in the
sponsor's conLribution to project costs, the 1,746 subprojects financed under
Lhe Credit generated about 17,500 jobs at. a job cost,/ratLin of about
US$1,000. 1/ Supervision reports for projects in operation indicate that Lhe
average incremenLal employment is 7 in Lhe case of subloan under Rs 100,000,
17 for subloans under Rs 500,000, and about 22 for projecLs above this
amount. .As expected a tlhe i ime to a,pprai !ial , most of the pro lects are
locaLed in the Colombo aren an)d in t.ho smcondary urban areas helping to
relieve Lhe employment, problem in these areas.  But the Project has not
contributed significantly to the development of industry (particularly
agro-industries) in the rural and lI developed areas. Given the size of
che subprjects, ERRs were not compuLed. An objective of the credit was to
foster exports. In this regard, the project has had limited success. Only
20% of the credit funds were used for subprojects which were directly or
indirectly export oriented. No significant data is available on actual
export sales and productivity.
B. InstiLutional Aspects
The National Development Bank!SMI Fund 1/
5.10    As the coordinating agency for SMI term lending under the Project,
-DB has developed into a sound financial institution with a wide range of
activities. In 1979, when NDB was created, there were expressed concerns as
to its role and its eventual contribution to industrial development. ln
seven years it has established itself as a well-respected, although somewhat
bureaucratic, institution which has not only contributed to industrial
development, but has also played a key role in the training of staff from
other institutions. In close collaboration with IDA, NDB has become
significantly involved in the discussion and analysis of policy issues
affecting the development of SMI. NDB's efforls in this area have resulted
in a number of changes in instruments and control affecting SMI operations.
In defining the role of SMI in the economy, NDB has been less successful and
needs to strengthen considerably its in-house sector work and improve the
coordination between its research and operational staff.
5.11    NDB has made considerable efforts to establish a strong operational
management, and to build-up a core of experienced officers through
recruitment and training. It has also devoted considerable efforts, with
the help of expatriate advisors, to provide private entrepreneurs with
comprehensive project identification services. In the area of SMI
1/ On the basis of total project cost (i.e. land, buildings and equipment)
the cost per job was about US$1,600.
1/ For a detailed analysis of NDB's operation see Annex 6.



-16-
operations, NVB's management has worked hard Lo establish the SMI Fund as a
strong operational unit. The task has however been difficult due Lo the
shortage of experienced sLaff in Sri Lanka and Lo the greater appeal of NDB
(and PCI) term lending operations which have attracted the staff recruited
and trained for SMI operations. The unexpectedly high volume of refinancing
activities also created problems of morale in a situation of less than
adequate staffing.  To a large extent these problems have now bein resolved.
Additional staff have been recruited and the SMI Fund now operates as a
sound, efficient unit within NDBs overall operations.
The Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs)
5.12    Institution building in the PCIs has been a major part of the SMI
Fund activities. Through substantial and systematic efforts, the PCIs have
established a satisfactory organizational framework for processing SMI
subloans, and considerable progress has been made in improving appraisal
standards and procedures.  As of July 31, 1986 about 1,150 PCI otficers had
been trained in project appraisal and supervision techniques. However, this
training has not been sufficient to staff adequately the headquarters/branch
operations of the PCIs, particularly in the BOC and PB. While increasing
volumes of SMI operations have contributed to the situation, promotion and
the standard process of reassignment of officers within the PCIs as part of
planned career progression have created some staffing problems and made
continuous training programs necessary. Minimum staffing levels have been
agreed with the PCIs for SMI operations and for the most part these levels
have been achieved.
5.13    With assistance from IDA, the PCIs have developed and introduced a
comprehensive quarterly reporting system which focusses on the main aspects
of SMI operations. The reports provide data on key activities such as
staffing, sectoral distribution of lending, project appraisal pipelines, and
most importantly details of collections and arrears. However because of the
large branch networks of the PCIs, collection and processing the data within
the PCIs has been considerably delayed and has resulted in a significant time
lapse between the actual transaction and the reporting. To overcome this
situation, PCI branches submit their SMI data directly to the SMI Fund for
collating and subsequent distribution to the PCI headquarter staff. This
process is demanding for NDB/SMI Fund staff and was never expected in the
project design. The process is also a financial burden on NDB which bears
the full cost of data collection and processing with no interest spread on
SMI operations. The need to maintain and improve the data flows is a major
concern and is necessary to focus greater attention on project monitoring and
implementation particularly where there is a need to improve collection
performance.
5.14    The major achievement in institution building under the SMI projects
has been the introduction of sound SMI project term lending by PCIs based on
good project appraisals with little or no application of the collateral
requirements of short term lending operations. Earlier weaknesses in
estimating financing requirements, determining working capital needs,



-17--
reducing collateral requirements and setting grace periods have largely been
addressed. However, there is a constant ebb and flow in improvements. The
continuous training program strengthen the appraisalisupervision techniques
of the PCI staff, the constant sLatt. turnover and reassignments erode the
gains.
5.15    While sound appraisal standard have been developed in the PCI';, only
two of the five PCIs which participated in the SMI I credit program played a
meaningful role in terms of number oL SMI operations and volume ot SMI
lending. The same trend prevails under SMI II although DFCC has increased
its participation. To encourage SMI operations the credit program was opened
to all interested commercial banks to stimulate competition during the latter
phase of project implementation and possibly increase the number and type of
users of the credit facilities. However this approach hampered the
achievement of a uniformly high standard of subprojecL appraisal and
supervision because of the inability of the banks with low level activity to
organize adequately for SMI lending. Limiting the participation Lo the
credit program to the PCIs which can guarantee a significant level of lending
and meet clearly stated eligibility requirements (i.e. staffing) would
facilitate and improve future SMI operations and ensure greater compliance
with policy objectives.
Portfolio Management
5.16    By December 31, 1982 the collections of principal and interest on the
SMI portfolios had declined significantly. After the offset of collections
against interest, remaining collections were only equal to 66% of principal
due and 68% of all subloans were infected by arrears which represented 33% of
the outstanding loans portfolio. Site visits for supervision indicated
however that a substantial number of subprojects were operating profitably
and were able to service their loans. Arrears due to wilful default were
estimated at 30%, while tardy repayment by sponsors accounted for about 25%.
The continued shortfall in collections exacerbated the level of arrears,
which increased from 33% of the portfolio in FY82 to 75% in FY85 (Annex 7).
5.17    With the deterioration of the SMI portfolio and the implementation of
SMI II in 1982, the PCIs and IDA adopted a two-phased program to control and
reduce the level of arrears. Phase I consisted of visits by PCI headquarters
staff to key branch/district officers to (i) analyze the arrears,
(ii) identify causes, (iii) examine the standards and procedures in use,
(iv) motivate managers/SMI staff, and (v) develop a detailed medium-term
action program to address the causes of the deterioration. Phase If
consisted of the implementation of the program and provided for specific
action against wilful defaulters, more frequent follow-up, the imposition
of penal interest rates to bring the SMI rates into line with prevailing
commercial rates which were 4%-6% higher, rescheduling and further assistance
to the SMI unit where necessaty. This has resulted in a gradual increase in
the collection rate from 66% in 1982 to 70% in 1985 under SMI I and an
average collection rate of 73% under SMI II with current individual PCI
collection levels of up to 88% (Annex 8). However because of the inherent



-18-
weaknesses in many of the earlier projects increases in the collection rate
for SMI I have been achieved slowly and IDA has insisted on appropriate
provisions for bad debts and these have been made by the PCIs.
C. Technical and Marketing Services
Background
5.18    Apart from the provision of credit for SMI operations, the major
objective of the SMI Projects was to address specific technical, marketing
and management problems of SMIs in subsectors with significant expansion
potential and economic impact such as agroindustries, construction/building
materials, garments and handlooms, and rubber products. Allied to these
objectives, the projects aimed to improve the management of institutions
serving SMI such as the IDB, EDB and MISA. To monitor and coordinate the
action programs of the various implementing agencies an SMI Coordinating
Committee chaired by the Secretary-MISA was established and scheduled to meet
once a month, Under SMI I and II IDA financed equipment, advisors and
training for public and private agencies to assist the selected subsectors
through provision of service facilities, process and product development and
general promotion and extension services.
5.19    As expected, the technical services component took a considerable
time to implement and the SMI I components were still incomplete at the time
of closure. Implementing agencies had to locate appropriate advisors and
local staff, find suitable sites for the service centers and construct the
facilities. In the case of the IDB, the various service centers did not
become fully operational until 1983. The first light engineering extension
service became operational in February 1982, but because of difficulties in
locating a suitable site at Jaffna (and the subsequent ethnic disturbances)
the establishment of the second center was significantly delayed. The
establishment of a sub-contracting exchange was not completed until late
October 1982. The Rubber Products Center became operational a year behind
schedule and with considerable cost overruns for the operating equipment
which was not commissioned until early in 1983. Having worked hard to
establish the centers, IDB faced considerable difficulties to continue their
operation due to the high turnover of staff. Action under SMI II addressed
in part the causes of the high turnover, but IDB is still faced with a
turnover problem as staff move to higher paid positions in the private sector
after they have been trained.
5.20    As with the other TA components, difficulties in recruiting
consultants and local staff to set up the Clothing Industry Training
Institute (CITI) was a major cause of the delay in implementation and it
was not until 1984 that CITI became fully operational. However, since its
establishment, CITI has made significant progress and is now a major force
in the training of staff for the industry and in developing international
quality control standards. A significant part of the operating costs of the
Institute are now met from fees and these should increase as the range of



-19-
technical assistance is expanued. A parallel program to establish a private
sector company to foster the production and export of high quality handloom
cloth did not achieve the same success.  While both GOSI, and the private
sector exporters considered the idea sound, it could not be translated into
reality as the exporters were reluctant to take up equity in a company which
woulP then be in direct competition with their own operations. After a
number ot efforts by IDA and MTI to develop an alternative concept thfe
component was dropped and the TA funds reallocated.
5.21    Coordination and Monitoring.  The project achieved the main
objectives of institutionalizing the Government's capability to deal with
the SMI sector, providing technical assistance to SMIs and setting up an
effective system to provide loan financing for their development. This
achievement is evident in the creation and development within MISA of a
permanent structure (the SMI Coordinating Committee) coordinating services
and promoting the development of SMIs, the development within NDB ot a well
structured Fund specifically responsible for coordinating and monitoring
overall SMI lending in Sri Lanka, and the organization within the PCIs ot
individualized operational structures Lo deal with SMI lending exclusively.
However, considerable difficulties were encountered by the project in
streamlining the policy making activity of MISA. These could have been
limited and the results enhanced if project formulation had taken into
account the unavoidable limitations of operating within a ministerial
department (salary levels and organizational structure). In retrospect, it
would have been preferable to entrust some of the technical functions
expected from MISA/IDB (e.g. studies, promotional ctions), to NDB and rely
on its capability of transferring the results to MISA for final decision and
action. This approach is presently being followed with regard to the
implementation of SMI II.
VI. THE ROLE OF IDA
6.01    Since 1978 IDA has devoted a considerable amount of direct and
indirect staff effort to the project; firstly in the form of an industrial
subsector review and preparation mission and subsequently in the appraisal
and supervision process. The involvement has been through provision of
technical assistance, frequent supervision, and more recently in developing
arrears recovery program to improve the level of collections under the
project. IDA's efforts have had some success. NDB and the PCIs have
developed into active promoters of SMI development, a situation which SMI II
has continued to support.
6.02    As the economic downturn of the early 1980s, and the or.going recent
ethnic disturbances have affected the economy, the development of SMI
operations has slowed and the weakness in many of the earlier SMI projects
has become apparent, being manifested by declining capacity utilization/
profitability and increasing arrears. With the slowdown in use of SMI funds,
IDA has taken more initiative to ensure implementation of TA components



-20-
designed to foster new SMI operations and to improve the efficiency of
existing units. The initiative has met with some success, but more work is
needed. With hindsight, IDA's impact could have been greater. By 1982-83,
most of the TA components were significantly behind schedule and it is now
obvious that IDA and COSL should have ensured that key elements of the TA
programs were in place prior to effectiveness or disbursement of the Credit.
VII. CONCLUSION AND LESSONS LEARNED
7.01    Performance under SMI I was mixed.  While the project achieved its
term financing objectives satisfactorily, most of its sectoral, institutional
and operational objectives fell somewhat short of their objectives
particularly in the case of the complex TA component. Hiowever, the project
represented a major source of financing for SMI development, supporting the
creation/expansion of relatively small and labor intensive enterprises in
most of the industrial sectors. The project was very successful in creating
employment, a primary objective of the loan. It also had a positive impact
on the modernization of SMIs. In general, the project helped in upgrading
Government capability to deliver technical assistance to SMI investors and
operations; developing NDB into an effective apex institution geared to
administer SMI term credit; inducing four commercial banks to promote,
appraise and supervise SMI investment projects; and finally, increasing
cooperation between the various government agencies responsible for the
development of SMIs and the financial institutions lending to them.
7.02    The project had been less successful in promoting a government
coordinated policy framework responsive to SMI needs and in ensuring a
satisfactory quality and level of activity by all the commercial banks
participating in the credit program. Other more specific areas in which the
project did not meet its original expectations were: the achievement of a
more balanced regional distribution of SMI investments, and the targeting of
a larger part of the credit to more export oriented enterprises. The
implementation of the credit component also presented a number of operational
problems. Some of them were corrected during project implementation (e.g.
documentation of subproject expenditures), while others were corrected under
SMI II. Through frequent supervision IDA found that progress on
implementation depends upon (i) a continued commitment by the Borrower to
fulfill the component, (ii) the design of the component, (iii) the
implementing capacity of the Agency, and (iv) the continuity of parties
involved on the component. Of these factors (i), (ii) and (iv) have been key
in influencing implementation progress under the Project and those which have
occupied most of the supervision/technical issistance effort.
Lessons Learned
7.03    Experience in the implementation of SMI I and the ongoing
implementation of SMI II which cover some 3100 subprojects have highlighted a
number of aspects which should be reflected in any new SMI operation.



- 2 I-
7.04    Eligibility and Subproject Size.  The evidence seems to show that the
flexible approach on eligibility limits adopted under SMI I and II helped in
channelling subloans to those who have previously had difficulty in obtaining
access to institutional finance rather than just to a particular size group.
The eligibility limits took into account the efforts of lending institutions
to minimize administrative Cr-Lr'3 and ri ;lk; and were consistent with the aim
ot providing finance to as wide a group (it small enterprises as possible.
Flexibility in eligibility criteria helped also to reduce reluctance of
dynamic SMI firms to expanding for fear of losing special benefits.
7.05    Analysis shows clearly that while the PCI were risk takers under
SMI I, the high rate of default caused them to become very cautious in
lending under SMI II where there is a considerable reduction in the number of
projects established by new entrepreneurs and new enterprises were more often
established by seasoned entrepreneurs. Under a new SMI Project special
promotion efforts should be made to direct part of the project to first-time
borrowers and to new entrepreneurs as well as new enterprises.
7.06    Subsectoral Distribution.  Experience indicates that unless special
stipulations are introduced into the project agreement (limits on the
proportion of the Credit that can go to one or specified subsectors, or
specification of priority subsectors), the Credit distribution tends to
follow the pattern of the subsectoral breakdown of existing SMI enterprises
in the country. In turn, stress on the geographical decentralization of
subprojects appears to lead to an increase in the number of subprojects in
the areas of services and basic consumer products (bakeries, food and
agroprocessing, furniture, repair shops, printing, etc.).
7.07    Geographical Distribution.  Under the two projects there is a
tendency for major subprojects to be located in the larger urban centers.
Thus the smaller a project's average subloan size, the greater the
decentralization achieved, although this was somewhat limited. However a
major factor in achieving significant geographical dispersion has been the
choice and organizational structure of the intermediaries. The wide branch
networks of the commercial banks have been particularly effective in this
respect.
7.08    New Enterprises.  The choice o2 intermediary has a significant
influence on the type of subborrower and the purpose of a loan (start-up,
expansion, or modernization). Where DFCC was used, there was a greater
readiness to take risks, and the proportion of new enterprises was higher.
The commercial banks were more cautious and tended to favor loans for
expansion to subborrowers who already had manufacturing experience or track
records as successful businessmen. In those cases where the NCBs were
willing to lend to new enterprises, borrowers were either established traders
setting up manufacturing enterprises or artisanal family businesses borrowing
for the first time. There appears to be a close relationship between the
arrears and default record of the lending institutions on the one hand and
the proportion of loans going to new enterprises on the other. Under SMI I



-22-
about 50% of the loans were to new enLrepreneurs which now have a high level
of arrears. In this regard the NCBs now appear to be making reasonable
judgment on risk and creditworthiness. We should therefore be cautiolus in
encouraging them to increase the share ot lending to new clients.
7.09    Financial Intermediaries,  While the participation of the NCBs in
refinanced lending for SMI is encouraging, these institutions have gerierally
adopted a cautious approach that tavors lending to applicants with collateral
and, usually, previous business records. DFCC generally take more risks;
in most, but not all cases, its actions lead to new enterprises being
created. For successful SMI lending programs to be developed, special
departments or divisions are needed in the lending institutions; these must
be adequately staffed and capable of providing advice and limited
nonfinancial assistance.
7.10    Within broad limits, the level of the interest raLe alone is not a
major factor inhibiting the demand for SMI subloans. The success of a scheme
is usually based on a number of factors, including the interest rate,
repayment and grace periods, collateral requirements and processing time.
There is strong evidence that the availability of subloans at interest
rates substantially lower than commercial rates encourages investment in
underutilized equipment, produces a bias towards capital-intensive
technologies, and introduces distortions in the use of available financial
resources.
7.11    Technical Assistance.  Under both SMI I and II, the technical
assistance arrangements do not appear to have achieved any significant
success or were not properly implemented. This inadequacy is probably
reflected in other, less obvious features of the projects, such as the
limited extent to which finance is available to entrepreneurs without
previous business experience and the degree to which subprojects are confined
to traditional SMI subsectors; in some cases the effect is seen in a high
rate of arrears.
7.12    The use of public institutions as delivery systems under the two
projects encountered the inherent problems of bureaucracy--low staff
motivation and morale, inexperienced personnel, management and staff
turnover, and political pressure--though not necessarily all at the same
time. These are common and endemic, rather than just local, features. Not
all of these problems will be resolved, but better results might have been
achieved if smaller, independent, local or subsectoral organizations or units
had been used, with the concentration being on outreach programs and closer
formal and informal links with banks, industrialists, professional
associations, technical institutes, local private consultants, and large
industries--from the district wherever possible, but outside the region when
referral is necessary. Despite the limited experience and professional
skills available in Sri Lanka more could be done to hire personnel with
effective industrial experience; if necessary on a part-time basis.



-23-
The FuLure
7.13    While SMI I defined the Iramework of an integrated approach to SMI
development in Sri Lanka, the Second is testing its adaptability to changes
in the economic environment (slowdown in industrial investment), in the
financial sector (relative availability and cost of financial resources),
and in governmert socio-economic prioriLies (public expenditure limitations
due to budgetary constraints). The combined experience of the two projecLs
indicates that:
(i) SMI development in Sri Lanka deserves priority support for it can
generate substantial employment at very low cost and with limited
government intervention and subsidies;
(ii) the institutional framework for SMI development established under
the first project and further experimented under the second has nol
generated a significant level of new enterprise investment or
technology transfer; and
(iii)  the capability of private sector institutions concerned with SMI
development should be enhanced.
7.14    The latter objective could be achieved by improving coordination
among public and private sector institutions and by assigning to NDB and the
Coordinating Committee a more important role in reviewing and proposing SMI
development policies. In this respect, the areas which require most
attention in view of the pending completion of SMI II are: (i) the
development of a program to assist enterprises financed under the project to
streamline their initial operations (thus avoiding the deterioration of the
PCI portfolio); (ii) the development of a program to promote the use of SMI
credit in the changed economic environment (extension and modernization of
existing enterprises rather than the creation of new ones); and (iii) the
study of measures to make SMI financing more attractive for the commercial
banks (interest spread, more secure guarantees on bad loans, and enhanced
technical assistance from the technical and marketing agencies). This would
imply that the cost of finance is brought more into line with the commercial
risks of lending to SMI.
October 1986
Revised:  May 1987



ANNEX 1
- 24 -                               Page 1 of 2
SRI LANKA
FIRST SMALL AND MEDItM INDUSTRY PROJECT (SMI I)
(CREDIT 942-CE)
Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(Us  I   )
Estimated                   Actuals
Per          ula-    Refinance    TO       Total    Cumula-   % of
Qwarter  tive                                       tive       total
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _- _tal                   loaz
Year s 1979
4th ,uarter      180         180         5,8                 5.8        5.8      0,00
Year : 1980
1st Qaarter      8C0         98C       1c5,6      29*4    135.0       140.8     0.8S
2nd :4.erter    1000        ¶980       252.4      76.8    329.2       470.0     2.34
3rd ;arter      120C       51iG        733,9      80.5    864.4      1334*4    8&34
4th  warter     1200        4380      1404.0      57.4   1461.4      27958,   17.41
Year s 1981
ict  arter      1500       5880       1155.6      88,3   1243*9      4039-7    25.25
2nd Q6arter     1500       7380       1575.4     105.8   1681.2      5720.9   35.76
3rd Warter      1500        8880      1245*6     128.0  1373.6       7094.5   44.34
4th 4arter      1500       10380      1357.9      129.1   1487.0    8581*5    53,63
Year s 1982
ist Qxarter     1400       11780       867.9      58.8    926.7      9508.2   59.43
2nd Quarter     1200       12980       70689      6409    773.8    10282.0   64.26
3rd 4i3rter     1100       14080       221.8      95.7    317.5    10599*5    66.25
4th 4iarter     1100       15180       310.9    196*6    507.5    11107,0   69.42
Year s 1983
1st Qpsrter      340       15520       329.3      57.3    386.6    11493.6    71.84
2nd Quarter      300       15820       116.4      17.9    134.3    11627*9    72.67
3rd  parter      180       16000       227.8      68,9    296*7    11924.6   74,53
4th Qiarter       -          -         225.2     101,6    326.8    12251*4    76.57
fear t 1984
1st qparter                 -          165.8      28.7    194.5    12445,9    77,79
2nd (;arter                            246.2      43,9    330,1    12776,0    79*85
3rd jarter        -         -           63.0      27.8      90.8    12866,8    80.42
4th 4iarter       -                     84,0    221,8    3(5,8    13172.6   82.33
Year S 1985
lot  xarter       -         -          139.2    146.5    285*7    13458.3    24.11
2nd Quarter       -         -           11,2    140*5    151,7    13610.0   85.06
3rd Qwter                   -            8.4     177.1    185.5   13795.5    86.2.-
4th Qprter        -          -           -       941.2    941.2    14736,7    92.10
U2-utiUzed baloace
of SmI (I) Loan                          388,0    87503   1263c3    16000.0   100,00



PROECTED A" ACAL LENDING OPERATIONS (RS. IV KILLION)
1979            1980            1981            1982             1983            1984
Proje  Actual  Proj.  Actual  Proj. Actual   z-oj. Actual  Proj. Actual  Proj. Actual
Subloan  .pmrovals       4mt.  Ainte Amt   Aint,    Amt.  bAt*            Amt, e at. *     At e   Amt.   AJt *   kit
Domestic Currencr
loans              3.5      .8   86.3   146.1   143.2  127.4  124.6         _      23.8    22.4      -       -
(04)           (993)            (660)                          (118)
Refinanoe Loan
Comuitments
Do2estio Currency
L*ans              2.8       6    69.0   116.8    114.6   101.9    99.6            19.1    18.0      _       _
Refinance
Disbursemento
Doambtio Currency Loans  -        -      -      43.4      -      101.8    -      43.6     -      22.0             14.0
o t
0
to



- 'I' -                      ANNEX 2
SRI LANKA
FIRST SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY (SMI) PROJECT
CR. 942-CE
Refinance Activities
(Rs millions)
Cr. 942-CE                     Cr. 1182-CE
PCI                     No.    Z    Amount    x       No.    Z    Amount    %
Bank of Ceylon          663    38    110       38      736    54     236      42
Comm Bank of Ceylon    115      7      38      13      48      3      27       4
DFCC                      7     1       1       -      142    1C     128      23
Hatton National          65     3      29      10      61      4      31       6
Peoples Bank            896    51    116       39     392    29       41      25
1746   100    293      100    1379   100      563    100



ANNFEX 3
27
SRI LANKA
FIRST SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY (SMI) PROJECT
CR. 942-CE
Sectoral Distribution
(Rs Million)
Cr, 942-CE                      Cr. 1182-CE
No.    Z    Amount    Z        No.    %    Amount    %
Food Processing               473    27    71.6       24    370    27        166      29
Construction Material         273    16    54.8       19      95      7       42       7
Other Agro-Industries         120      7    13.0        4     98      7       39       7
Rubber products                29      2     8.8        3     46      3       27       5
Metal products                217    12    29.7        10    121      9       38       7
Construction Contracting    11         1     6.2       2       6      -        7       1
Wood products                 177    10    25 7         9    101      7       24       4
Garments                       89      5    12.0       4      87      6       26       5
Textiles                       52      3    10.0        3     27      2       14       2
Repair workshop                51      3     5.1       2      71      5       18       3
Miscellaneous                 254    14    56.2       20    145    11         7i      13
Leather & Allied Products                                     15      1        5       1
Plastic products                                              22      2       16       3
Printing & Paper products                                     82      6       42       7
Other Comm. Transfer           _                              93      7       28       6
1746   100   293.1    100   1379   100         563    100



ANNEX 4
- £8 -
SRI LANKA
FIRST SMALL AND MEDILtM INDUSTRY (SMI) PROJECT
CR. 942-CE
Geo raphical Distribution
(Rs Million)
Districts                  Cr. 942-CE                       Cr. 1182-CE
(by location of Project  No.    Z    Amount    %          No.    Z    Amount    %
Colombo                    402    23   108.2    36         391    29    194       35
Puttalam                    147     8    19.8       6       84      6     28       6
Gampaha                    217    12    38.4    16         174    14      82      15
Kandy                       152     9    11.7       4       57      4     17       3
Kurunegala                  178    10    16.4       5       85      6     38       7
Calle                        76     4      9.6      3      153    11      46       8
Matale                       53     3      5.9      2       14      1      5       1
Kegalle                      29     2      5.6      2       71      5     23       4
Jaffna                       51     3    15e3       5        7      -      5       1
Hambantota                   37     2      5.6      2       30      2      8       1
Ampara                       19     1      2.7      1        1      -      1       1
Badulla                      68     4      6.1      2       24      2      5       -
Kalutara                     67     4      9.4      3       42      3     26       1
Ratnapura                    22     1      2.6      1       53      4     21       4
Matara                       92     5    14.6       5       63      5     27       4
Polonnaruwa                  36     2      4.8      2       30      2      8       5
Batticaloa                   22     1      4.6      2        4      -      2       1
Trincomalee                  08     1      2.6      1        2      -      1       -
Moneragala                   03     -      0.2      -       18      1      3       -
Anuradhapura                 46     3      4.7      2       59      4     18       -
Mullaitivu                   03     -      0.4      -                              3
Nuwara Eliya                 09     1      0.8              16      1      4
Vavuniya                     06     1      1.1               1      -      1       1
Mannar                       03     -      1.6
TOTAL                     1746   100   293.1   100    1379   100    563    100



ANNEX 5
- 29 -
SRI LANKA
FIRST SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY (SMI) PROJECT
CR. 942-CE
Dispersion of Financial Assistance
(Rs Million)
Cr. 942-CE                      Cr. 1182-CE
No.    %    Amount    %        No.    %    Amount    %
Nature of Projects
New                    883    51    192.6    66    568    41    244            43
Existing               863    49    100.5    34    811    59    319            57
Total                 1746   100    293.1   100   1379   100    563           100
Size of Loan
Rs
0 - 50,000       834    48       19.3      6    207    15        6         1
50,000 - 500,000       774    44    161.9    55    780    57    152            27
0.5 mln- 1.0 mln       138      8    111.9    39    225    16    147           26
1 mln  - 2.0 min        -       -       -       -    139    10    189          34
2 mln  - 4.0 mln        -       -       -        -     28      2      69       12
Total                 1746   100    293.1   100   1379               563      100
Repayment Period
1 - 3 years            583    33      32.6    11    298    22
3 - 5 years            999    57    192.3    66    330    24
5 - 7 years            121      8      45.6    16    580    42
7 - 10 years            43      2      22.6      7    171    12
Total                 1746   100    293.1   100   1379   100    563           100



- 30 -                        ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 8
SRI LANKA
FIRST SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT (SMI I)
(Credit 942-CE)
National Development Bank of Sri Lanka (NDB)
1.      Background,  NDB was established in January 1979, 1/ with the prin-
cipal objectives of providing medium- and long-term credit to private and
public industries and mobilizing internal and external resources, including
stimulation of capital markets. NDB is empowered to offer a wide range of
financial services, including direct lending, refinancing, underwriting and
financing equity and debenture issues, providing guarantees, accepting
deposits and issuing letters of credit. NDB's authorized share capital is
Rs 2 billion (about US$73 million), of which Rs 600 million has been paid
up. 2/ Although NDB's Act makes provision for issuing shares to the public,
the initial issue was taken up by COSL (67%), CBC (17%) and by People's Bank
and the Bank of Ceylon (8% each). NDB enjoys the full support of GOSL, its
major shareholder. In accordance with the NDB Act, COSL bears the exchange
risk on NDB's external borrowings, has granted NDB a tax holiday for the
first ten years of operation and guarantees NDB's borrowings from internal
and external sources. NDB is under the general supervision of the MOFP and,
although its administrative budget is subject to the approval of the Minister
of Finance and Planning, it has been given full autonomy for its operations.
2.      Institutional Aspects.  NDB's operations are controlled by its Board
of six Directors, all of whom are appoinued with the concurrence of the
Minister of Finance and Planning. The Board presently comprises the
Secretary MOFP (ex-officio), one director appointed by the Monetary Board,
one director appointed by the Board of the People's Bank, one director
appointed by the Bank of Ceylon and two directors nominated by the Minister
of Finance and Planning. The Chairman of the Board is appointed by the
Minister for a period of four years. The Board meets regularly to set NDB's
overall operational policies and role in the financial sector as well as to
approve all direct lending proposals. The Chairman also acts as Managing
1/ Under the National Development Bank of Sri Lanka Act of 1979.
2/ Of this amount, Rs 450 million was in cash and Rs 150 million in
promissory notes of the NCBs.



ANNEX 6
Page  2 of 8
Director. Four Assistant General Managers for Operations, Administration
and Finance report to the General Manager. The GM has been supported by
expatriate advisors for Project Promotion, Operations and General Banking.
As part of the process of developing an operational stratvgy for the next
three years (1986-1988), NDB is reviewing its client services and area of
possible product diversification, operational structure and staffing
requirements.
3.      As of December 31, 1985, NDB had 163 staff including 79
professionals, Staff turnover was low from 1980-1983 due to the oppor-
tunities for prontotion in a new, growing institution and the strong reputa-
tion NDB built in its initial years of operation. However, during 1984
turnover rates for professionals rose from 11% to 15%, due largely to the
GOSL controlled salary levels and the attractive benefits offered by private
banks and industrial firms. With the sharp increase in staff turnover, the
need for manpower planning, salary adjustment, and in-house training became
acute. In October 1984, a Manpower Planning and Training Unit was estab-
lished to reinforce NDB's use of internal and external training. Initially,
the Manpower Planning Unit has focused on staff training for commercial bank
officers participating in the SHI Refinancing Scheme. NDB has programmed
staff participation in a number of local and overseas courses during
1986-1988.
4.      Strategy, Policies and Procedures.  NDB's Policy Statement, approved
in April 1981, established clear guidelines for direct project financing,
refinance and equity activities and specified prudent financial exposure
limits for equity and term lending operations. Supplementing the Policy
Statement is a detailed operational program for 1985-1986 which provides a
basis for NDB's short term operations but does not give a longer term
perspective of NDB's strategy, areas of diversification and priorities. Both
NDB's Strategy and Operational Policy Statements are being revised by NDBs
management to reflect strategic options for the medium term (1986-1988).
5.      In the areas of operational standards and procedures, NDB's
appraisals are sound, providing adequate coverage of technical, market and
financial aspects. For all projects receiving direct assistance, NDB
calculates the financial rate of return and for subloans of over US$400,000
equivalent computes the economic rate of return, based on the World Bank's
guidelines for calculating economic rates of return and-domestic resource
costs (DRC). While most projects have higher economic rates of return, 15%
is used as the normal minimum acceptance cutoff point. Appraisals and
management review are completed in four to six months which is satisfactory
for large-scale projects. With TA under Credit 1401-CE, NDB has strengthened
its Project Identification and Promotion activities and'has modified its
appraisal format and procedures to accelerate processing of smaller equipment
loans to become more competitive with leasing companies. During project
implementation and end use operations, projects are visited every six months
with more frequent visits to complex or problem projects. NDB's procurement
standards are satisfactory with all foreign exchange related procurement for
major projects made through international competition bidding (ICB) and
international shopping for limited supply or spare part procurement in
accordance with the World Bank's procurement guidelines. UDB's accounting
procedures and standards are satisfactory and are subject to an adequate



- 32 -                       ANNEX 6
Page  3 of 8
annual audit by the auditor General or an independent auditor acting on his
behalf.
6.      Operational Performance and Impact.  Since its establishment in 1979,
NDB has supplemented its initial equity base (Rs 600 million) with the mobi-
lization of Rs 1.3 billion, through borrowings from CBC, ADB and IDA of
Rs 415 million (33%), internal cash generations Rs 401 million (31%), port-
folio recoveries Rs 330 iillion (26%) and general funding Rs 123 million
(10%). In turn these resources have been used to fund disbursements of
Rs 1.4 billion (US$52 million) against NDB's net approvals of Rs 1.8 billion
(US$67 million) to about 2,400 projects. Direct loans to 184 large scale
projects accounted for Rs 1.7 billion (US$62 million), or 77% of NDB'$ total
approvals; refinance for about 32% of the total large scale project costs.
Metals and chemical units accounted for 25Z of total approvals; other main
areas were hotels (18%), industrial services (17%) and rubber products (10%).
Average loan size on direct f'nancing during 1980-1984 was about Rs 15 mil-
lion (US$547,000), with the largest loan being US$43.3 million which was
NDB's share of a syndication of US$25 million. About 60% of NDB's financing
was for BMRE activities, with the major concentration in the Western region
in and around Colombo. The weighted ex-ante average financial rate of return
of projects approved for direct loans since 1980 is 18% with a range of 11%
to 46%. Estimated ERRs of recent large projects range from 18% to 502,with a
weighted average of 32%. These investments are expected to earn or save
about US$30 million in foreign exchange annually and are expected to create
some 4,700 jobs. Average fixed asset costs per job are about US$21,000; this
ratio reflects NDB's concentration in capital intensive investments in the
chemical sector (e.g. Ceylon Oxygen) and hotels and the relatively high
proportion of BMRE lending with low incremental job creation in NDB's
portfolio. Since 1983, NDB has given greater attention to subsector analysis
and project development. NDB has established a Project Identification and
Development Unit, and with the assistance of an advisor funded under IDP I,
has built up a network of contracts with the private sector, investment
promotion agencies and the Government. NDB also has made good in slow use of
a UNDP Project Development Facility of US$750,000 for consultancy services to
carry out feasibility studies and to assist in project implementation.
Investments of US$70 million (including US$35 million for the Colombo Dry
Docks) have resulted from the 30 studies carried out.
7.      Portfolio Management.  As of December 31, 1985, NDB's portfolio had
increased from Rs 260 million (1980) to Rs 1.3 billion; with light engineer-
ing loans accounting for 31%, hotels 24%, food and beverages 13%, textiles
8%, rubber products S%, agro-industries 8% and miscellaneous 8%. Prom
January 1979 to date, total arrears have increased from Rs 7 million to
Rs 118 million, or 9% of the total portfolio with textiles and ready-made
garment units accounting for the mounting arrears. In line with GOSL's
policy NDB has rescheduled its hotel sector loans. With the increasing
arrears, collections as a percentage of interest and principal falling due
decreased from 90% (1982) to 69% (1983) and to 60% (1984) although with the
rescheduling of hotel arrears and implementation of a portfolio arrears
recovery program, NDB's collections have increased to an annual rate of 69%.
To reduce the level of arrears and portfolio infection, NDB is implementing a
detailed portfolio restructuring program for all projects (e.g. with cost
and time overruns within the repayment grace period). NDB's loans are fully



- 33 -                        ANNEX 6
Page 4 or 8
secured by charges on the assets of projects and provisions, and capi. 1 and
reserves of Rs 1.1 billion (US$40 million) are adequate to cover any poten-
tial write-offs.
8.      Financial Performance.  NDB's profitability has grown consistently,
with net profits increasing from Rs 80 million in 1980 to Rs 112 million in
1985, or at an average annual rate of 7.5%. In 1983 and 1984, income from
project operations accounted for 66% of revenue, with income from deposits
and miscellaneous operations 34%, a reversal of the revenue mix in 1981 and
1982. Increased cost of funds has led to a decline in its earnings spread
from 12.0% (1980) to 10.5% (1985). These patterns and an increasing level of
NPAs have constrained NDB's profit growth although its profitability is still
satisfactory. NDB is exempt from taxation until 1989 and has paid only a 6%
dividend on share capital. Reserves and retained earnings, which are now
Rs 536 million, have contributed substantially to NDB's total resources.
NDB's total assets have grown from Rs 0.7 billion (1980) to Rs 2.0 billion
(1985), or by 23% p.a. Initially, the asset mix was 75% deposits and 25%
loans; now deposits are 40% and loans 60%. With the change mix in
operations, the increasing level of NPAs and the fall in overall collections
(paragraph 4.22), the return on assets (ROA) has dropped from 12% (1980) to
6% (1985). The overall ratio fer 1985 has subsequently improved sig-
nificantly following GOSL's refinancing and rescheduling of hotel loans.
NDB's debt:equity ratio is 0.72:1 and its debt service coverage ratio is
presently 4.5:1, bbth highly satisfactory.
9.      Prospects and Kev Ratios.  Given political stability, the investment
climate and business prospects for NDB are satisfactory, although close
attention will be needed to ensure viable operation of ongoing subprojects.
During 1986-1990, NDB expects to increase its direct lending operations by
10% p.a., with total net approvals mostly to the private sector projected to
be Rs 6.2 billion (US$226 million) in current prices during the period.
Direct finance loans would account for 64%, SKI refinancing 28% and equipment
financing and equity participation 8%. Foreign exchange loans are expected
to account for 52% of annual lending with funding provided by IDA, ADB and
guro/Japanese Syndications. Net profits are projected to increase from
Rs 115 million (1984) to Rs 219 million (1990). However, with the need for
increased borrowings to service the projected level of operations and rising
costs of funds, NDB's net interest spread is projected to fall from 6% (1985)
to 3% (1990), a level which will require optimal collection and performing
assets. With the increased profitabi.ity, ROA is projected to increase from
6% (1985) to 10% (1990), while NDB's DSCR is expected to decline from 4.5:1
(1985) to 2.7:1 (1990).



MM MMWRI Er Piiwcn  Mffxris Vrqu
AuMte In 3. oh
VW                1981              192                1983              1984              1985              7A1
Auowt            Auwt               Amount            Asomnt            Amunt              Aaomt 
'wtk              t t      malty                *t P[u r  I  um                      tpity  s  [ m    pt*     t        "tr  i
ad ¶c                                                20.30        5.3 66.59  1.35  26.0  49.6         9.3  45.63       7.9   3A    2.35 S.?
3,$bdi sIm15.90                                   2.3  3.40         10.4 27.U9 25.00 15.2  33.72         6.4  41.90       742  I.,l  29.  ?,J
Wpo 9abW 
ad Fidwy
AkW1           14.00         4.9  66.65 6.20 29.3  29.9   3.00 9.7  5.46            1.6  44.42 o.55  6.6  73.50        12.6  2".OS  go" 10.3
2        .                                                                                                                                        t
0*.0         2.9                                      5.20         1.5  16."          3.6   7.11       1.2   M.U           1.
5. t a
Prw_mtu         9.00         2.0  30.30 3.00 13.4  53.70  5.99 15.' 1."   0.45   3.6  £0.35 0.5  13.3  35.72 25.70 10.4   M.M    J  10.)
4. 1
ChwAa1e ad
F.tro fa    1077Q           316  4190          16.3  124.90  3.69 3.9 5.45  7.31 17.9 111.6s  1.23 21.5  62.23 5.91 15       5.0 S434 Xg3
7. R1s            79.00  2.50 20.4  91.20 S.   34.6  66.5   0.93 7.7 61.17  2.00 18.3  23.59           4.5  16.14        2.0*   MAD ".o*  24e.
11. Oo1cs
!zrtaswA       6*3.W   3.75 23.5                     31.40       0.3 47.10        13.6 126.66 26.00 29.1 100.0        17.2   MM  29.75 so'
.9e nI.i11                             9.00        3.6                    5.00  3.00  2.3  19.90         3.0 147*95       29.5  IU.5   3A.0  1*
SLm          120.20  6.25 100  234.9  14.25  100 3.9  13.1 100 306.17 39.11  100 495.93 2.2X 10549.16 31.61 too  22.3 1                   . l low
oQ
It .j



SIZE 0F APPROVALS
(Rs MIUIn1)
19t0         1981         1982         1983         19B4          198S         TOTAL
No Anount   No Awmot   No Awmot.  N4o Amount   No Amowmt   No Amout   No Amunmt
Below Rs 10 Miilon    07  39.65   10  78.20   15 105.81  29  114.00   58 192.50   81 22770   200  757.86
BNotwe  Re 10-25fMlhin m06   83.80   08 131.00   14 215.70  09  181.28   13 213.46   13 168.02    63  99.26
Almv Re 25 Milian    04 163.00   01  40.00   02  58.00  01  50.00   02 118.25   05 185.07    15  614..V
Tot                    17 286.45   19 249.20   31  379.51   39 345.28   73 524.21   99 580.79   278 236%5.
(DM
oN_ 



NaTIOML a2VELr BaN  Utt 1
ae P  a5srrTrt            or D1RT? VPNwIn   APMWL3
1960          1961           1962           1963          1964           19e5
o    Ret   No  fi at   no   Re               no   ao   Itoo      of   M         Re uS   *3   Ds _
IL Quted Public Ltd Coupenine
I  VUhae 6 ftiw.  stw             -          -    I    9.00       1   14.00    6   61.10    3  100.95    2   15Si   13  30.05
Pwiwf 64El                         3    40.25    5   82.25    7  107.57    8  212.91   16  116.3S   14  1486.0    S3  $16-4
9e m  glw*      Uc Ld  1O   -
UL 1e a ftOu sector         -          -    -        -      1    5.40    -         -    1   12.00    -          -    2   17.0
Wtwe1a 3a-,                       1      12o00    S   60.3n      -        -    2    3.74    6    31.81    4    33.95   16   141C.
3. lPglwte Utl cmwA
Xd PFUe6 aprivate s0tm             3    91.70      1   20.00      1   21.00    1   20.00    4   22.69         3    70.27  13  24S.M
fr1Fte  SB                         4    34.70    S   29.60    12   91.04    i9  104.70   35  183.66   55   196.95  130  632.6?
4.ftl~ h4p                                 1      2.00    -        -    -         -     1    s.o0     4   12.7S    9    24.41  1S   44.16
S. &1.        t      I                              _    _         -     1    4.30      -        -    1    S.00      S    11.73   7   21003
*. PW&l a Cputas                           2    S3.00    -         -     4   92.40    2   29.63    2   27.61         S    30.64  1is  2-.
7.        i*     d  lsis    Uwta&ing   3    52.90    2   49.00           3   29.30    -         -    1    3.37       2    S7.52   11  190.99
so 8 ts                                    -           -       -         1   14.5       -       -    -         -    -              -    1    4.90
lam                             17   296.4S   19  249.20    31  379.51    39   345.2S  73  524.21   95   5W.9 27M  2366.44
1960           \961          1982           I963           1984           1965
no,       Iwrt        AnewA*    ft.  )Wt"    no*   Jnt   .1"D.   Ilut    No.  hm            1.  am_
11*W 1@1 t% M mm (s                          25    36.9        10   19.3      23  32.1         S   6.3       4   5.9        7  15.2       9 17.9 l  I  
wto    -          to)                        71    63.1        90   60.7      77  67.9        95  91.7      96  94.1    193  64.         91   62.1    X
oaN
0



OPERAtIONAL PWOJ3tCTIOS 1900 - Iv0
(As MIl11lore)
Ctowth
Actual               P ROJ CTE                             EaCTS-@@
I1gas          1960I lgW7                                  5
A.  Local Curroeey
Loons                            335            65           613            673            36
Equity psrticipatlon              32             22             24            26            -
Total                           30?             660           03?            699           30
D. Foreign Currency
Loons                           207             261           312            343            22
SRI Refinanes                   273             32S           350            37S           12
Total                           fo0            Se6            662            71e           1?
C.  Combined (6.0)
Loons                           542            899            92S          1,016           29
SRI Refinonce                   273             325           350            375           12
Equity participation             32              22 2?                        26
Totel                           64?          1,0X6          1,299         1,617            22
0-



SRI LANKA
FIRST SMALL AND MET)TIM INDUSTRY PROJECT (SI41 I)
(Credit 942-CE)
Analvsis of ARriears
lLi ec. 1922  Dec. 1923      Lec. 1984     Dec. 1985
Loan8 in arrears
Total no.of loans in portfolio (released)                      19656           1,713          1,731         1,745
No.of loans in arrears under 3 months                            398             289            197           102
As % of total loan portfolio                                      24              17             11             6
No.of loans in arrcars over 3 months                             724             750           698            638
An % of total loan portfolio                                      44              44            40             37
Total no.of loans in arrears                                   19122           1,039            895           738
An % of total loan portt'olio                                     68              61            51             43
Principal affected by arrears
Total principal outstanding                       (Ra.in M.)  209.4            184.8          149.8         123.2
Prinoipal affected by arreare under 3 mths.       (Rz.in M.)   25.2             18.3           13.9           7.0
An % of principal outstandiiie                                  12              10             9              6
Principal affected by arrears of 3 to 12 ntha;.  (Rc.in M.)   40-3              30.7           23.8          13*5
As % of principal outstanding                                   19              17            16             11
Principal affected by arrears ovur 12 iriths.    (Ri;. i zj t .4)   85.2        78.0          85.0           82.2
An % of principal outstanding                                   41              42            57             67
Total principal affected by arrears               (Rc.in M,)  150.8            127.0          122.7         102.7
As % of total principal outstaiding                             72              69            82             83
Actual amounts in arrears
Arrears under 3 monthc;                           (Rs.in M4.)    1.8             1-5            1.4           0-7
As % of principea outstarsding                                   7               8             10            10
Arrears between 3 to 12 nionthu                   (Iiu.in 14.)    8.9            5.6            5.2           4.2
As % of principal outstanding,                                  22              18            22             31
Arrears over 12 mor.tI  (r,                           iu l;.)    21.8           45-9          59.8           69.6
An % of principal outstandint;                                  26              59            70             85
Total arrears                                     (fc.in T.)    32-5            53.0          66.4           74.5
As  % of total principal oututardiine                           16              29            44             60



- 39 -                             ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
SRI LANKA
FIRST SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY (SMI) PROJECT
CR. 942-CE
PCI Collection Performance
% Collection Ratio             % Accruals
PCIS                            FY82    FY82    FY84    FY85             FY85
BANK OF CEYLON
SMI I                             67       69       72       73            63
SMI II                             -       71       67       78             3
Sub-total                         67       71       72       74            17
PEOPLE'S BANK
SMI I                             60       59       60       65            67
SMI II                             -       63       68       72             2
Sub-total                         60       61       61       66            28
COMMERCIAL BANK
SMI I                             71       72       69       65            46
SMI II                                              32       43            11
Sub-total                         71       72       56       63            31
HATTON NATIONAL BANK
SMI I                              -       88       84       81            43
SMI II                             -       97       84       85             6
Sub-total                          -       89       84       81            19
D F C C
SMI I                             48       41       40       27            62
SMI II                                              81       92             6
Sub-total                         48       41       42       83              1
ALL PCIs
SHI I                             66       66       67       70            60
SMI II                             -       74       68       76             3
GRAND TOTAL                         66       66       *67      71             19



- 4o -                               ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
SRI LANKA
FIRST SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY (SMI) PROJECT
CR. 942-CE
Collection Performance: FY82-FY85
(Rs Killion)
FY82       FY83      FY84       FY85
1.  Balance B/F                  14.2       32.4       52.9        66.4
2.  Amounts Due CY               60.0       67.2       59.2        55.0
3.  Total Due                    74.2       99.6      112..1      121.4
4.  Recoveries                   41.8       46.7       45.7        47.0
5.  Balance C/F                  32.4       52.9       66.4        74.4
2 Collections - 2                69.5       69.5       77,2        85.5
X Collections - 3                56.0       46.9       40.7        38.7



- 41 -                         ATTACHMENT I
CORRESPONDENCE RECEIVED FROM
THE NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF SRI LANKA
V:tCAI 249
24H423 WOKt 111HANK
Flh  . .hAL.X:XANIE:R NW,AX(,KI
LhT  ('HXFF  PFWRATIONS h V)N   t)h1 LUATN ).i:EP)
RS. (R PG:R FOR (:XF:r; v ',MX 'l ( .PREC t  (MIR 942 CF, )
I HVl NO (C(1MMFN;TS  TI MAKF THERFO)N,
fil t17' W 113 t(,KCRAjMAS; X N;7 IIMM):lB
2 1. .A I  N.1'4    (: E
2484123 W(JRU.)PANK
N 5)Y 1J111
,YNj



