Document of
The World Bank                             n
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-25 94-CE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT
June 14, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1            =   Rs 15.6
Rs 1               US$0.064
Rs I million    =  US$64,102
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DSI      -  Department of Small Industries
IDB      -  Industrial Development Board
NDB      -  National Development Bank
SMI      -  Small and Medium Scale Industries
Umbrella -  UNDP Multi-sector Program of Project
Preparation
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:               The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Beneficiaries:          National Development Bank - Small and Medium
Industries (SMI) Fund; Bank of Ceylon, People's
Bank, Hatton National Bank, Commercial Bank of
Ceylon and Development Finance Corporation of
Ceylon; and small and medium industries receiving
credit through the credit institutions.
Amount:                 US$16.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                   Standard.
Relending Terms:         Government would relend about US$12.0 million equiv-
alent to the National Development Bank for the account
of the SMI Fund on the following terms: (i) 9% interest
per annum; (ii) repayment on the basis of a fixed
amortization schedule over a 13 year term including 4
years grace; and (iii) Government to bear foreign
exchange risk. The SMI Fund would provide refinancing
to credit institutions for small and medium industry
loans on the following terms: (i) refinancing up to
80% of loan amount; (ii) interest per annum of 10% for
loans up to Rs 100,000, 11% for loans over Rs 100,000
to Rs 500,000, and 12% for loans over Rs 500,000 to
Rs 1,000,000; and (iii) term of refinancing would be
parallel to the term of the individual loans, expected
to average 5-7 years. The credit institutions would
provide term credit to small and medium size industries
on the following terms: (i) uniform 15% interest per
annum; (ii) term of the loan determined as appropriate
for each loan, but in no case for more than 10 years,
including 2 years of grace; and (iii) minimum of 20%
equity contribution.
Project
Description:          The proposed project would provide improved access to
credit for a wide range of small and medium scale
manufacturing and service industries by providing a
structure and additional resources for refinancing
and by developing the appraisal and supervision capa-
bilities of the major credit institutions. The proposed
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performane
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank auth-;izal;n.



- ii -
project would also strengthen the promotion, technical,
marketing and management services for SMIs, by develop-
ing subsector-specific programs, extending the coverage
of existing technical services and training programs,
and improving the coordination among service agencies.
It is expected that the 1,000 subprojects to be
financed would result in incremental direct employment
of at least 20,000, with the coverage of the improved
technical services to reach about 1,500 firms. The
risks inherent in establishing the new organization
for the NDB-SMI Fund have been minimized by the actions
taken to ensure that key staff are in place and pro-
vided with training and institutional support through
the UNDP Multi-sector Program of Project Preparation
("Umbrella") for Sri Lanka and under the proposed
project.
Estimated Cost: /a                                     US$ Million Equivalent
Local Foreign Total
Credit
Term Credit for SMIs          10.73   10.72   21.45
Special Capital Facility       0.51      -      0.51
National Development Bank
Administration                0.79      -      0.79
Subtotal              12.03   10.72   22.75
Technical Services             0.58    1.31    1.89
Service Agencles
Technical Assistance and
Training                     0.09    1.90    1.99
Policy Studies and Other       0.48    0.79    1.27
Subtotal               1.15    4.00    5.15
Total              13.18   14.72   27.90
(of which taxes and duties)  2.50       -       2.50
Net Project Cost              10.68   14.72   25.40
Financing Plan:                                       US$ Million Equivalent
Local  Foreign   Total
IDA                            1.28   14.72   16.00
Government/NDB                 2.45      -      2.45
Credit Institutions            3.00      -      3.00
Beneficiaries                  6.45      -      6.45
Total              13.18   14.72   27.90
/a Price contingencies are included in project costs.



- 111 -
Estimated
Disbursement:                             US$ Million Equivalent
IDA FY        1980   1981   1982    1983    1984
Annual         2.0    5.4    5.6       2.8     0.2
Cumulative    2.0    7.4   13.0    15.8    16.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:              No. 2485-CE dated June 8, 1979.
Map:                     No. IBRD 3839R2



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for the
equivalent of US$16.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Small
and Medium Industries (SMI) Project. Of the proceeds of the credit, US$12.0
million would be relent to the National Development Bank (NDB) for the account
of the Small and Medium Industry Fund at 9% interest per annum, with repayment
over a period of 13 years, including 4 years grace, on the basis of a fixed
amortization schedule.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic report, "Development in Sri Lanka:  Issues and
Prospects" (Report No. 1937-CE, March 22, 1978) was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on March 23, 1978. Country Data are provided in Annex I.
3.        Sri Lanka has achieved social progress far beyond that of other
countries with comparably low per capita incomes. Literacy, health, and life
expectancy are high; nutrition is adequate, and mortality and population
growth rates have been declining. These impressive gains have been achieved
despite generally low output and employment growth. Per capita GDP growth
was only 0.9% per annum in the 1948-60 period; it accelerated to 2.1% in
the 1960s and then declined to 1.3% per annum in the 1970s. Throughout the
1960s and through much of the 1970s, these modest output gains were eroded
by adverse terms of trade trends. This disappointing performance has been
accompanied by a disturbing increase in the level of open unemployment. In
the 1970s, while the labor force has been growing at about 125,000 per year,
employment has been rising by about 85,000, much of it in the form of unpro-
ductive jobs. The number of unemployed has, therefore, been rising, and open
unemployment is estimated at over one million or 20% of the labor force.
4.        The gains in the social field were made possible by favorable ini-
tial conditions. Compulsory primary education was introduced as early as 1901.
The food ration was introduced in 1942. Thus, at the time of Independence
in 1948, Sri Lanka already enjoyed high levels of adult literacy and life
expectancy. These initial gains were consolidated and expanded in the post-
Independence period through large expenditures on social services and the food
subsidy, which accounted for two-fifths to one-half of government revenues in
1/   This part is substantially the same as Part I of the Report and Recom-
mendation of the President to the Executive Directors on a proposed
credit to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for an Agri-
cultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project (Report No. P-2569-CE,
dated May 31, 1979).



- 2 -
the 1960s and 1970s. These expenditures have been financed by harnessing the
surpluses of Sri Lanka's three major tree crops (tea, rubber, and coconut),
which provided the Government with both an easy revenue source and foreign
exchange earnings.
5.        There were both measurable and non-measurable socio-economic benefits
flowing from these improvements in health, nutrition, and education, such as
the decline in fertility and the relatively low rate of urbanization. At the
same time, there were significant costs arising from the firm commitment of
successive governments to maintain these social gains. The fiscal burden of
these expenditures imposed a high degree of inflexibility on Sri Lanka's
policymakers in their attempts to accelerate long-term growth. That inflex-
ibility increased over time as growth slowed down and in particular, the
ability of the tree crop subsector to provide the resources for the social
programs weakened as commodity prices kept falling and productivity suffered
due to inadequate incentives. Moreover, the gains in education had a nega-
tive impact in the form of large numbers of educated unemployed who posed a
challenge to the established political order. With political parties com-
peting with each other to offer inducements to the electorate, governments
have failed to focus social expenditure programs more narrowly on specific
groups living in poverty, making these unnecessarily costly.
6.        In the 1960-77 period, gross domestic product at constant prices
rose by 3.8% per annum. This performance masks a marked deceleration in the
growth of the productive sectors of the economy between the 1960s and the
1970s. GDP growth slowed down from 4.4% per annum in the 1960s to 3.0% in
the 1970-77 period. Growth fell from 3.4% to 1.9% in agriculture; from 6.2%
to 2.3% in manufacturing.
7.        The key to the slowdown in GDP growth lies largely in the slow
growth of agriculture, which accounts for over one-third of GDP and four-
fifths of export earnings. Tea and coconut output has been declining steadily
from the mid 1960s; rubber, after showing a rapid increase in the 1960s,
stagnated in the 1970s. Erratic weather conditions, declining commodity
prices, a rising effective tax burden, and low producer returns combined with
the uncertainties caused by a long, drawn-out land reform (1972-75) depressed
producer incentives and, hence investment and production, to new lows. These
problems were aggravated by a dual exchange rate, introduced in 1968, which
discriminated against traditional exports and in favor of food imports.
8.        Paddy production, which grew at 7.4% per annum in the 1964-70
period, and at 4% during the 1960s as a whole slowed down to 0.7% per annum
in the 1970-77 period. The decline in yields and cropping intensities is
attributable principally to a sharp deterioration in the institutional sup-
port for production programs. The only bright spot on the agricultural scene
has been the rapid increase in output of subsidiary food crops in the 1970s.
This represents gains in acreage rather than yields and is in response to the
improved incentives arising from a 1970 ban on imports of these crops.



- 3 -
9.        Manufacturing output in the 1970s also decelerated due to the cumu-
lative impact of declining investment levels, severe foreign exchange short-
ages that necessitated import rationing (with serious consequences for a
sector in which imported raw materials account for 70% of the value of raw
materials used), the exhaustion of import substitution possibilities, and
inefficiencies in management of the public sector, which now accounts for
66% of the gross value of production in organized industry.
10.       In general, economic growth was constrained by a persistent foreign
exchange shortage throughout the 1960s and 1970s, inadequate levels of saving
and investment, and the low efficiency of resource use. Sri Lanka's terms of
trade have deteriorated steadily since the early 1960s and worsened sharply in
the mid 1970s following increases in the price of imported food, fertilizer,
and petroleum. The share of these three items in Sri Lanka's total imports
jumped from about 50% in 1972 to 70% in 1975. This sharp increase has, to
some extent, offset the improvement in export prices (particularly of tea)
since 1973. Trade policies that discriminated against exports and encouraged
import substitution caused a slow growth in exports of 2.5% per annum between
1960 and 1976, which acted as a significant constraint on growth for an econ-
omy in which exports account for nearly one-third of GDP.
11.       The share of consumption in GDP has remained relatively stable and
high (at 86%) over the last decade and a half. Domestic savings, when
adjusted for the dual exchange rate, averaged 11.5% of GDP in 1966-70 and
10.5% in 1971-75. Public savings averaged a mere 1% of GDP in the 1960s,
shrinking rapidly in the 1970s, and eventually becoming negative. This poor
performance is attributable to the large and growing burden of subsidies and
transfers, which worsened in the 1970s because of the increasing disparity
between import costs and officially determined prices. Private savings were
adversely affected in the 1970s by political uncertainties, a confiscatory
tax burden, and falling real interest rates.
12.       Gross investment has averaged 16% of GDP at current market prices
in the 1960-76 period. In real terms, investment has been declining, and
there has been persistent failure throughout this period to raise the level
of public investment (around 6-7% of GDP), while private investment in produc-
tive activities was, on the whole, given little encouragement. The efficiency
of investment has also been rather low due to both neglect of some key sectors
and a failure to exploit the full potential of past investments.  Much of the
investment in agriculture was directed to paddy; but the tree crop subsector
was neglected, resulting in an erosion of the latter's production base. In
the manufacturing sector, capital-intensive import substitution was pursued
to the neglect of labor-intensive export-oriented production. Utilization
of the potential already established has been uniformly low. This has been
reflected in low cropping intensities and yields in the agricultural sector,
and low-capacity utilization in manufacturing.
13.       In the elections of July 1977, the eighth since Independence, the
United National Party won a large majority. In the relatively short period



that it has been in office, it has embarked on a major reform of political
institutions and economic policies. A new constitution has been enacted
introducing a presidential form of government. Proportional representation
has replaced the first-past-the-post voting system. A new District Minis-
terial system has been established and District Ministers have been appointed
to each of the 24 districts in Sri Lanka to help increase local level partici-
pation in district planning and administration, and improve implementation of
development programs. District Ministers are appointed by the President from
Members of the Parliament and function as ex officio Deputy Ministers to all
development-oriented ministries for development programs in their respective
districts. The District Minister presides over a development council com-
prising Members of Parliament from the electorates in the district and others
nominated to the Council. The Secretary to the District Minister is also the
Government Agent for the District. The development councils are entrusted
with the tasks of planning, coordination, implementation and evaluation of
district programs and allocation of the district's share of funds from the
decentralized budget.
14.       The policy changes introduced by the new government are designed
to address the economic problems described in paras 3-12 above. The Govern-
ment identified its objectives as the revival and resuscitation of the
economy and increased employment through (i) increased capacity utilization
in the productive sectors, (ii) stimulation of savings and investment, and
(iii) efforts to encourage exports and import substitution in foodgrains.
A program of policy reforms has been developed in close consultation with
the IMF. Its principal aim is to dismantle controls over resource allocations
and initiate price adjustments with a view to establishing more realistic
relative prices. These reforms were supported initially by an IMF standby
arrangement covering 1978 for SDR 93 million. On January 26, 1979, the
Fund's Executive Board approved an SDR 260 million Extended Arrangement
covering the 1979-81 period.
15.       The policy reforms introduced so far include:
Exchange Rate Reform: The exchange rate was unified on November 16, 1977,
and allowed to float at a depreciated rate of Rs 16 = US$1.00. This implied
a depreciation of 46% against the official rate prevailing prior to unifica-
tion, 11.2% with respect to the Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificate
rate, and 29.5% with respect to a transactions-weighted average rate of the
two markets. 1/
Import Liberalization: The trade and payments regime has been liberalized.
With the exception of foodgrains and petroleum products, public sector import
monopolies have been terminated. Prior licensing of imports has been abol-
ished for all but a handful of commodities. The tariff structure has been
revised and simplified.
1/   Prior to unification, all exports other than tea, rubber and coconut
products and all imports other than food, fertilizers and drugs were
channelled through the certificate market. Since November 1972, the
FEEC rate was maintained at a 65% premium over the official rate.



- 5 -
Interest Rate Reform: To encourage financial savings and discourage
speculative imports, interest rates have been raised sharply.
Price Controls. These have ended for most commodities.
Budgetary Policies: The unification and depreciation of the exchange rate
caused tree crops export tax revenues and the cost of food, fertilizer and
petroleum subsidies to rise sharply. Export tax rates on tree crops were
raised further to mop up windfall profits while attempting to leave adequate
producer margins. Business Turnover Tax rates have been substantially lowered
and rationalized to be consistent with the new import tariff and exchange rate.
To limit the growth in food subsidies, the rice and sugar rations were confined
to the poorer half of the population and the subsidy on imported wheat flour
was reduced through adjustments in the domestic price. To offset the adverse
impact of these changes, public sector wages have been adjusted upwards on two
occasions, and an income supplement has been introduced at Rs 50 per month to
benefit the poorest households in which one or more persons has no gainful
employment. Public corporations have been asked to pass on cost increases,
except in the case of fertilizer, petroleum, milk, and public transport, where
price increases were initially deferred to cushion the impact on consumers.
The Government has subsequently made some adjustments in bus fares, petroleum,
and fertilizer prices. These changes, taken together, have enabled an increase
in public savings and contributed, together with higher aid receipts, to a
sizable step up in capital expenditures.
Tax Reform: The tax structure has been rationalized and simplified with a
view to increasing the elasticity of revenues. The burden of personal and
company taxation has been lowered.
Agricultural Pricing Policies: The domestic procurement price for rice has
been increased by 21%. With the related increase in flour prices, incentives
for paddy and other flour substitutes have been improved. Fresh coconut
prices have recently been increased by 30% and the export duty on coconut
products has been appropriately adjusted.  The unification of the exchange
rate also ends discrimination against tree crops; however, the increase in
export taxes takes away a substantial part of these gains. These reforms
constitute only a beginning, and the Government anticipates the need for
further price adjustments designed to reduce the continuing large burden
of subsidies and current transfers (currently at over one-third of govern-
ment revenues).
16.       The economy's response to the policy reforms has been encouraging.
Real gross national product in 1978 is estimated to have increased by 8.2%.
The improved availabilities of inputs following import liberalization, an
increased role for the private sector in distribution, and good weather helped
attain a record paddy harvest. Industries, other than tree crop processing,
benefited from the removal of price controls and increased access to imported
raw materials and spare parts. Output of manufacturing industries is estimated
to have risen by 8%, and electricity consumption by 13%, in 1978. After an
initial slow start, private investment has also responded well to the reforms.
This is partly reflected in the near threefold increase in capital goods



-6-
imports from US$83 million in 1977 to an estimated US$230 million in 1978.
Transport operators, in particular, have rushed to modernize their antiquated
fleets, resulting in sizable imports of transport equipment. Others have
taken advantage of accelerated depreciation provisions to replace worn out
machinery and equipment. Applications for new investments have been encourag-
ing. Public investment has also shown a major increase in 1978, resulting in
a total investment level of 20% of GNP.
17.       Despite the ending of price controls, policy induced price increases,
and related wage increases, inflation in 1978 is estimated at 14%. Money
supply growth has slackened, and the budget has had a contractionary effect
due to under-expenditure on capital account. Interest rate reform has ensured
positive real interest rates, contributing to a shift in asset preferences and
easing the task of managing the balance of payments.
18.       With import liberalization, merchandise imports in 1978 rose by
40% to US$1,009 million. Merchandise exports rose by 13% to US$847 million.
Thus, the current account deficit swung from a surplus of US$77 million in
1977 to a deficit of US$116 million in 1978. However, since aid disbursements
also rose sharply, net foreign exchange reserves rose by US$94 million in
1978. Gross foreign exchange reserves rose to US$397 million, or 4.5 months
of imports. Thus, despite import liberalization, Sri Lanka's balance of
payments remained well in control. The exchange rate averaged Rs 15.60 =
US$1.00 during 1978, appreciating modestly against the dollar and depreciat-
ing against currencies of Sri Lanka's major trading partners.
19.       While the overall performance of the economy has been good, there
remained several underlying weaknesses, particularly the inadequacy of incen-
tives and the poor quality of management of the tea estates, severe managerial
problems in the State industrial corporations, shortages of skilled manpower
and inadequate construction capability. The Government is aware of these
weaknesses, and technical and financial assistance programs are in the pro-
cess of being developed to address some of these problems.
20.       The economic reforms have been accompanied by a major effort at
stepping up public investment. In this context, the Government attaches the
highest priority to three major new programs: (i) Accelerated implementation
of the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program involving telescoping construction
of key remaining works of the 30-year Master Plan for Sri Lanka's largest
river into a 7-10 year period. (Three major reservoir projects are to be
launched with international assistance in 1979 and 1980 at a cost of over
US$1,000 million (in 1978 prices), to be spread over eight to ten years.
When completed, these projects will irrigate 215,000 hectares of new and
existing land in the dry zone and generate 390 MW of power.) (ii) A 200
square-mile free trade zone north of Colombo, under a newly constituted
Greater Colombo Economic Commission. (The first Investment Promotion Zone
near Colombo's international airport, Katunayake, is off to a good start, and
some 50 proposals involving a total investment of US$100 million have been
approved by end-December, 1978.) (iii) A housing and urban renewal program
with its main focus on the Colombo metropolitan region.



21.       Recognizing the enormous financial and manpower burden of these
schemes, the Government has, in consultation with the Bank, begun preparation
of a medium-term public investment program which will attempt to ensure con-
sistency between the multiple objectives of Government policy and the finan-
cial, administrative and manpower resources available for attaining those
objectives. An initial outline of the program, incorporating the capital
budget for 1979, was presented to the May/June 1979 Aid Group meeting. The
program itself is to be completed in late 1979. It is seen as a rolling
program, emphasizing the annual capital budget, and making such adjustments
in objectives and content as are deemed necessary by short-term developments
and opportunities that present themselves.
22.       The Government has identified three major policy objectives in the
medium term: (i) the creation of over one million new jobs between 1979 and
1983 to absorb the 630,000 expected additions to the labor force and make a
significant dent in the backlog of the unemployed; (ii) acceleration of eco-
nomic growth to 5.5% per annum; and (iii) structural improvement in the bal-
ance of payments through reduced dependence on tree crop exports and import
substitution in food. The program envisages a total public investment of
Rs 46 billion over the 1979-83 period ($2,900 million), some 60% of total
(gross) investment. Investment is expected to average 24.5% of GNP in the
1979-83 period, as against 16% in the 1971-76 period. To enable this increase
to materialize, domestic savings are expected to average about 14% of GNP, a
substantial improvement over the 10.5% recorded in the 1971-75 period. The
program, however, relies heavily on a substantial increase in net external
inflows, which are estimated to average 11% of GNP throughout the period,
as against an average of 2.3% in the 1970-76 period. These external flows
will finance over two-thirds of the public investment program.
23.       The underlying public investment strategy is to balance the large
investment requirements of the Government's high priority program against the
urgent rehabilitation and fresh investment needs in other sectors. The main
thrust of the public sector program is to lay the foundation for longer term
development, both by improving the efficiency of use of existing infrastruc-
ture investments and by expanding the longer term growth capacity of the
economy. The strategy thus implicitly relies on the private sector to respond
to the economic reforms and the stimulus of the public sector investment pro-
gram, and provide much of the short-term growth.
24.       The success the Government enjoys in attaining its medium-term
development objectives is dependent on the further reforms needed to improve
price and export incentives, and management in the public sector.  It is also
dependent on additional efforts to mobilize domestic resources and address
absorptive capacity constraints such as manpower shortages and planning and
implementation capability.  However, success is ultimately contingent on a
well-designed program of external financial and technical assistance. This
is particularly because the proposed increase in investment, together with
the new import liberalization policy will cause imports to grow much more
rapidly than in the past. Moreover, Sri Lanka's terms of trade are expected
to worsen over the medium term, due in the main to an expected decline in real
tea unit values, and an increase in foodgrain import costs. Thus larger aid



- 8 -
flows are needed to ensure that an ambitious development program, with a
strong rehabilitation component, can be implemented within the framework of
a liberalized import regime. Such assistance will also help finance about
two-thirds of the public investment program. In this context, local cost
financing will be needed to support this effort, particularly in the early
years, as domestic resource mobilization efforts begin to gather momentum.
25.       Aid donors have responded enthusiastically to the new policy envi-
ronment in Sri Lanka. Aid commitments in 1978 from members of the Sri Lanka
Aid Group totalled $353 million, an increase of 57% over 1977. At the 15th
Meeting, held in Paris on May 31 and June 1, 1979, donors also expressed firm
support for the accelerated Mahaweli Program (para 20). The grarnt element of
aid commitments is currently around 63% and is expected to improve further.
The debt service ratio in 1978 stood at 10.0%, declining from 15.0% in 1977,
due to improved export earnings and the decline in outstanding short- and
medium-term borrowings. The ratio is expected to drop further to 8.9% in 1979.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
26.       Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, the Bank
Group has made eight loans totalling US$73.4 million (net of cancellations)
and seventeen credits totalling US$199.2 million (net of cancellations and
exchange adjustments) in support of 25 projects. About 56% of Bank Group
assistance has been for agriculture (irrigation, agricultural, and dairy
development), 22% for power, and the remainder for development finance company
operations, highways, a program credit (mainly involving the import of raw
materials for industry), and water supply. Seven loans and five credits
(including cancellations) have been fully disbursed so far. During FY78,
IDA credits for a total of US$33.5 million were approved for a Tree Crop
Rehabilitation (Tea) Project, a Tree Crop Diversification (Tea) Project and
a credit line to DFCC. IDA credits in the amount of US$20.0 million for a
Rural Development Project, US$16.5 million for a Road Maintenance Project and
US$15.5 million for a National Extension and Adaptive Research Project have
been approved in FY79. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group
operations as of April 30, 1979, together with notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
27.       An IFC equity investment of about US$100,000 equivalent in DFCC and
an IFC non-revolving line of credit of US$2.0 million to the government-owned
Bank of Ceylon for on-lending to private small- and medium-scale industrial
enterprises were also approved in FY78. An investment of US$3.25 million to
the Pearl Textile Mills, Ltd. (Ceylon) was approved by IFC's Board of
Directors in 1970, but cancelled the same year because Government approval
for the project was withdrawn. IFC has also recently approved an investment
of US$3.32 million in a synthetic textile mill, and US$986,000 in a polypro-
pylene bag manufacturing plant.
28.       The Bank Group's current strategy is focused on the agricultural
sector to support Government efforts to increase food production and reduce



- 9 -
its dependence on food imports, and to raise productivity, employment, in-
comes and living standards of the rural population in Sri Lanka. Projects to
support industry and basic infrastructure are also included. The Bank Group
has agreed to assist the Government of Sri Lanka to accelerate the development
of the Mahaweli Ganga development areas by helping to develop an implementation
strategy and to coordinate external assistance for project preparation and
implementation. It is expected that significant investment opportunities for
IDA and other sources of external aid will be associated with this effort.
Projects in other fields, including water supply and sewerage, tree crop reha-
bilitation (rubber), road transport, rural development, and telecommunications
are also being prepared for possible IDA financing.
29.        The Bank Group presently accounts for 10.3% (IBRD 3.3%; IDA, 7.0%)
of Sri Lanka's total debt outstanding and disbursed, and 6.5% (almost totally
Bank) of debt service. It is projected that the Bank Group's share in total
external debt will increase to 16% by 1985 (with the Bank's share declining
to 0.7%). The Bank and IDA shares in the debt service are expected to decline
to about 4.4% by 1985.
PART III - THE SECTOR
30.        The industrial sector in Sri Lanka contributes about 13% to GDP
and about 10% to total employment. The sector is composed of 29 public
sector enterprises, about 7,700 registered private firms, and some 20,000
unregistered small and cottage industries, with each group contributing about
one-third of total industrial value added. However, about two-thirds of total
employment in the sector is derived from the unregistered group of industries.
The largest subsectors within the industrial sector are textiles, food pro-
cessing and chemicals. After a period of high growth in the 1960s based
mainly on import substitution, manufacturing output grew by only 1.8% annually
in real terms during the 1970-77 period, while construction output declined by
about 2.6% annually. Factors which contributed to this stagnation included:
(i) constraints to further growth in viable import substitution; (ii) foreign
exchange scarcities that led to severe import restrictions; and (iii) poor
management in the public sector. Furthermore private enterprise was adversely
affected by the foreign exchange controls, which gave priority to the public
sector. The economic reforms initiated in mid 1977 have led to a major indus-
trial resurgence. Output in 1978 is estimated to have grown by about 8% in
real terms, and imports of machinery and equipment to rehabilitate and expand
capacity increased three-fold over 1977. The potential for industrial expan-
sion, especially in export-oriented activities, is good; a 9% annual growth
in real terms is possible, provided the economic reforms are continued and
extended, public sector management improves, and priority is given to the
development of labor-intensive and export-oriented industries.
Characteristics and Role of SMIs
31.        For the purpose of providing fiscal incentives, the Government cur-
rently defines small and medium industries (SMIs) as enterprises with an



- 10 -
original cost of plant, machinery, land and buildings of less than Rs l mil-
lion (US$64,000).  However, the Ministry of Industries and Scientific Affairs
proposes to raise this ceiling to Rs 1 million (excluding land and buildings).
This provides a sound basis for defining the target group for SMI activities
since: (i) with inflation, costs of replacement equipment are high; (ii) SMIs
should be encouraged to expand production and increase efficiency; and (iii)
firms with plant and machinery of up to Rs l million are suitable for simpli-
fied appraisal techniques and similar types of outside technical services.
According to this definition, the SMI sector would include over 90% of all
registered private firms and all unregistered firms, account for about 75% of
industrial employment, and constitute about 50% of industrial value added.
32.       The six largest SMI subsectors - textiles and garments, light engi-
neering, wood products, rubber products, food manufacturing and paper pro-
ducts - account for over 90% of the employment and 76% of the investment in
registered SMIs. In these subsectors, SMIs are relatively efficient users of
capital and labor, capable of competing with larger private and public firms.
There is significant potential for expanding production in these subsectors
for both the domestic and export markets in which SMIs should be able to share,
provided they have increased access to credit and services to help improve
productivity and product quality. There is also potential for SMI development
in rural areas in agro-based industries and construction. At present, most
SMIs are located in the Colombo area and to a lesser extent in secondary towns,
where credit, markets, and technical services are more readily available.
Policy Framework
33.       The development of industry, and specifically SMIs, is an integral
part of the Government's medium-term development strategy. Accordingly a
number of incentives have been introduced including: (i) a tax holiday for
new SMIs established outside the main metropolitan areas; (ii) a tax holiday
for new export firms; and (iii) a duty rebate on imported components of
exported items. To help realize the large potential of SMI development, the
Government proposes to study the feasibility of extending the present system
of fiscal incentives to existing SMIs and to local manufacturers supplying
components of finished products to manufacturers and commercial exporters.
Intensified promotion efforts are also being considered to encourage direct
and indirect SMI exports; the recently established Sri Lanka Export Develop-
ment Board is expected to have wider powers and more staff and financial
resources than the Export Promotion Secretariat it replaces.
34.       As part of the 1977 economic reforms, foreign exchange rationing
was dropped, and most quantitative import restrictions removed. The principal
means of protection shifted to tariffs. SMIs have done well in this liberal-
ized environment, with better access to imported raw materials and equipment,
and the more buoyant domestic market has compensated for any necessary reduc-
tions in output prices to compete with imports. Nominal rates of return in
most cases have exceeded 25% before tax, suggesting that further reductions in
protective tariff rates may be feasible. In late 1978, the establishment of



- 11 -
a Presidential Tariff Commission was approved by the Cabinet; one of the
Commission's objectives is to design an appropriate tariff system based on
the concept of effective protection.
35.       The Industrial Development Board (IDB) is the major technical
service agency for SMIs. Other institutions providing technical and training
support to SMIs include the Department of Small Industries, the Department
of Textile Industries, the National Institute of Management, the National
Apprenticeship Board, and agencies that provide specific assistance to agro-
industries. While all these services are useful, the effectiveness of these
services could be improved by refocussing of programs and responsibilities,
training of personnel, and improving physical facilities. A program to
address these needs would be mounted under the proposed project.
Financing SMIs
36.       The credit institutions financing industry include the two state-
owned commercial banks (Bank of Ceylon and People's Bank), the two largest
private commercial banks (Hatton National Bank, and the Commercial Bank of
Ceylon), and the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC). The com-
mercial banks account for some 85% of industrial credit; DFCC and smaller
finance companies, for the remainder. Traditionally, however, much of private
industry in Sri Lanka has had to rely to a large degree on self-financing.
Most commercial bank credit is short-term, and in their limited longer-term
lending decisions, credit institutions tend to be conservative, lending
mainly against collateral rather than on the basis of project evaluation.
For the past three years, the People's Bank and the Bank of Ceylon have been
financing SMIs through a Joint Credit Scheme with the IDB, which appraises
projects and recommends them for bank financing. To encourage credit insti-
tutions to participate in the IDB Joint Scheme, the Central Bank has offered
a Small Industries Credit Guarantee Scheme for projects prepared under the
Scheme. Although the Scheme has helped SMIs obtain credit, most SMI lending
continues to be undertaken outside of the Joint Scheme. The IFC has opened
a US$2.0 million line of credit with the Bank of Ceylon for on-lending to
small and medium industries (para 27 above). This loan provides financing
for firms with assets up to Rs 6 million and will be used mainly for the
larger range of medium-sized industries. IFC is also providing assistance
to the Bank of Ceylon to improve its organization, procedures, and informa-
tion systems. The Government has recently established the National Devel-
opment Bank (NDB); its first operation will be to launch the refinance
scheme for SMI lending by the credit institutions.
37.       Import liberalization has led to a large increase in demand for
credit in all sectors of the economy, and despite substantial increases in
interest rates for both lending and borrowing, the liquidity position of the
banks is strained. Presently, the banks charge 13%-18% on industrial term
loans, including loans to SMIs. These rates are marginally positive in real
terms, and are expected to remain so for the next few years. Based on conser-
vative assumptions, estimated future investment by SMIs could result in average
term credit demand of some US$12 million per year for the 1980-84 period.
Assuming the banking system will be able to maintain its present level of SMI



- 12 -
financing in real terms from its own resources (about US$4.5 million equiva-
lent in current prices), there would remain a financing gap of about US$23
million over the 1980-82 period.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       The proposed project was identified by an IDA Industrial Sector
Mission and was prepared by a SMI task force composed of Government agencies
and public and private credit institutions, with IDA assistance. The project
was appraised in February/March 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington,
D.C., May 23 to 25, 1979. The Borrower's delegation was led by Dr. W. M.
Tilakaratna, Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning. A Staff Appraisal
Report (Report No. 2485-CE, dated June 8, 1979) is being distributed separate-
ly to the Executive Directors. A timetable of key events relating to the
project and special conditions of the credit are given in Annex III.
Project Objectives
39.       The principal objectives of the proposed project would be to assist
in the development of small and medium industries in Sri Lanka. By addressing
constraints hindering growth and productivity improvements of SMIs, particu-
larly in selected subsectors with significant expansion potential, SMIs would
be able to increase their contribution to efficient and low cost employment
generation, export expansion, and economic growth. To meet these objectives,
the project would:
(a)  increase SMIs access to credit;
(b)  provide effective promotion and technical, marketing,
and management services to SMIs; and
(c)  encourage policy modifications in areas which affect
expansion, export prospects, and efficiency of SMIs.
Project Description
40.       The proposed project consists of two major components - credit and
technical services. The main elements would be:
(a)  a program by the National Development Bank through the
SMI Fund to refinance loans by participating credit
institutions to small and medium size industries;
(b)  strengthening of managerial, technical, marketing and
other general and specific subsector services principally
for small and medium size industries through provision of
staff, training, equipment and facilities for the major
technical services agencies;



- 13 -
(c) improvement of staff and operational systems of the
National Development Bank and participating credit
institutions through the training of staff and devel-
opment of operating procedures and systems; and
(d) undertaking studies to assist in the development of
appropriate fiscal incentives and tariff structures.
41.       The Project would be national in scope (Map No. IBRD 3839R2).  While
attention would be given to strengthening support for SMIs outside Colombo, a
significant portion of the growth is expected in Colombo and secondary indus-
trial towns. New and existing SMI firms engaged in a wide variety of manu-
facturing, processing and industrial services would be eligible for credit.
It is expected that about 1,000 loans would be made under the project; sub-
sector distribution is likely to be roughly: 30% for construction and build-
ing materials, 30% for agro-industries, 15% for metal products, 10% for
export-oriented garment ancillaries, 10% for rubber products, and about 5%
for others. Promotional efforts and technical and management assistance
would concentrate on SMI subsectors with significant expansion potential.
Credit and Credit Institutions
42.       The proposed project seeks to improve the credit system in Sri
Lanka to enable credit to be made available to economically and financially
viable SMIs, on the basis of project evaluation rather than collateral. To
do so, the project addresses major credit constraints to effective SMI lending -
ability of credit institutions to expand credit, higher risks and administrative
costs associated with lending to SMIs, shortage of suitably trained staff,
and operational procedures in the credit institutions which are not fully
appropriate for SMI type lending. To fill the projected financing gap, (para
37) the National Development Bank (NDB) is establishing a SMI Fund to provide
refinance facilities for loans made to SMI firms by credit institutions
(Section 3.02(b) of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA)). The Fund would
be managed by a separate SMI Department, and would have an initial capital
of Rs 20 million. A draft statement of policies and procedures, which is
satisfactory to the Association, has been prepared and reviewed by NDB's Board.
Staff of the SMI Department would include about 13 professionals to administer
the SMI Fund and one to handle the administrative arrangements for the tech-
nical services component of the proposed project. The NDB is actively recruit-
ing staff for the SMI Fund and has already identified suitable candidates,
including staff with project review and refinance experience now employed in
the Refinance Department of the Central Bank. It would be a condition of
credit effectiveness that the Government had entered into a subsidiary loan
agreement with the NDB for the use of the funds available under the Credit and
completed arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, for the establishment,
staffing and operation of the SMI Fund (Sections 6.01(a) and (c) of the DCA).
The NDB would apply procedures and criteria satisfactory to the Association
in its review of project appraisals by participating credit institutions for
loans to be refinanced by the SMI Fund (Section 3.07(a) of the DCA), and
would refinance loans on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
(para 53 and Section 3.07(b) of the DCA). The structure of the refinancing



- 14 -
rates would be established to provide a slightly higher margin to the credit
institution for lending to the smaller SMIs, and thereby enable them to cover
the higher relative administrative costs of such lending. Five credit insti-
tutions (Bank of Ceylon, People's Bank, Hatton National Bank, Commercial Bank
of Ceylon, and the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon) would partici-
pate in the proposed project (Section 3.09 of the DCA) through their access to
the SMI Fund to refinance loans made to SMI firms. It would be a condition of
credit effectiveness that at least two participating credit institutions had
signed participation agreements for access to the SMI Fund (Section 6.01(d)
of the DCA).
43.       In order to encourage credit institutions to undertake lending to
SMIs, the Central Bank would offer a Credit Guarantee Scheme. It would be a
condition of effectiveness that the existing credit guarantee scheme, which is
also administered by the Central Bank and is currently restricted to projects
which were prepared under the IDB Joint Scheme (para 36), would be modified to
accommodate the lending to be made available under the proposed project
(Sections 3.08 and 6.01(b) of the DCA). Under the modified scheme, the IDB
recommendation would not be required for access to the guarantee facility.
The participating credit institutions would be able to obtain a guarantee to
cover the loans refinanced by the SMI Fund of up to 60% of the loan amount or
Rs 400,000 (whichever is lower) for a premium, which would be borne by the
credit institution out of its spread, of 1% per annum.
44.       The Government proposes to establish a Special Capital Facility
within the NDB, from its own contribution to the NDB, to assist extrepreneurs
who are unable to meet the minimum equity requirements for loans from the
credit institutions. The facility would be used only in exceptional cases
for projects of high economic or financial merit to supplement the financing
available from the credit institutions and would cover up to 10% of the total
project cost. The terms of lending would be 15% interest per annum, with
maximum maturity of 10 years, including a maximum of five-year grace period
during which time interest could be capitalized.
45.        Initial short-term training for credit institution staff has begun,
financed under the UNDP Umbrella for which the World Bank acts as executing
agency. The National Institute of Banking Management of India is conducting
training sessions in Colombo on SMI project appraisal and supervision tech-
niques for about 100 officers of the five credit institutions. In addition,
orientation courses for branch managers will be conducted. Twelve staff
members of the credit institutions' head offices will also receive training
and apprenticeship in SMI appraisal and supervision techniques at the State
Bank of India. Overseas training is being arranged under the Umbrella
for six staff members of the SMI Fund at the Industrial Development Bank of
India. Similar training activities to be undertaken during project implemen-
tation would be financed under the proposed project, including overseas
training for 3-5 SMI Fund staff per year.
46.       The proposed project would also provide consultancy services for
improving the general operation of the NDB and the credit institutions and
for the SMI Fund. It is proposed to utilize the expertise of experienced



- 15 -
institutions in India to assist NDB in setting up procedures, and establish-
ing systems for finance, supervision, management information, and project
appraisal. A senior adviser for about two manyears and 24 man-months of
short-term consulting assistance have been included under the proposed
project. The proposed project would also provide an adviser to the head of
the SMI Fund for about two manyears. The two state-owned banks, People's
Bank and Bank of Ceylon, are expected to account for the major portion of the
lending operations to be refinanced under the SMI Fund facility. The Bank
of Ceylon is improving its overall organization, procedures, and information
systems with the assistance of the IFC (para 36). Under the proposed pro-
ject, studies on personnel policy, planning and management information
systems (about 12 man-months) would be financed for assistance to the other
credit institutions.
Technical Services
47.       The proposed project would build on existing programs of SMI tech-
nical services agencies, refocussing and upgrading their programs to provide
more effective services to priority subsectors. The Industrial Development
Board (IDB) is the major SMI technical service agency, with responsibility
for most subsector-specific promotion and extension schemes. As part of the
proposed project, the IDB would reorganize at headquarters along subsector
lines and would increase and upgrade its technical staff. The IDB would also
relinquish its responsibilities for appraisal work under the IDB Joint Scheme
and focus mainly on extension work. Short-term overseas training for some
technical officers, and consultancy services (about 6 man-years) would be
provided to help implement the subsector schemes. Multipurpose service
centers would be established for rubber products, building materials, and
metal products; these centers would provide backup, testing, development,
and common service facilities for the specialized extension programs. IDB
would also establish a subcontracting exchange to assist SMI's in obtaining
procurement and private subcontracting orders. On the basis of the expe-
rience in the IDB Joint Scheme, IDB would prepare project profiles outlining
the standard appraisal requirements for the major subsectors, which would be
used by credit institutions in their project appraisals.
48.        Improved technical services for the garments and handlooms sub-
sectors would be provided through the Department of Textile Industries (DTI)
in the Ministry of Textile Industries. DTI proposes to establish a garment
training center to provide training and plant-level technical assistance to
small, medium and large garment units in cutting and pattern making, produc-
tion supervision, and quality control. About six manyears of expatriate
specialist services would be provided under the proposed project. The
Ministry of Textile Industries also plans to be a founding member of a private
limited handloom production and export company, which would have majority
private shareholders from the leading companies in the handloom subsector.
This company would provide a mechanism for extending marketing and technical
expertise of the leading handloom exporters to the rural areas. The Depart-
ment of Small Industries (DSI) of the Ministry of Rural Industrial Development
is responsible for cottage industry development. Under the proposed project,
DSI would strengthen its extension services to the white coir industry, by



- 16 -
redeploying its staff, providing training for demonstration units, and uti-
lizing the services of an expatriate coir products expert to assist in the
development of demonstration programs. Initial training for demonstrators
has been financed under the UNDP Umbrella and additional staff training would
be provided under the proposed project.
Policy Studies
49.       The proposed project would also provide assistance to the Government
to undertake studies to assist in the development of appropriate policies of
particular relevance to the efficient expansion of the SMI sector. About one
manyear of consultancy assistance would be provided to analyze the administra-
tive and technical feasibility of extending fiscal incentives to industrial
enterprises which expand and those providing components to exporters. About
two manyears of assistance would also be provided for the Presidential Tariff
Commission to assist in the development of a tariff system based on the prin-
ciples of effective protection. The Government would consult with the Asso-
ciation regarding the findings and recommendations of these studies, (Section
3.10 of the DCA) and the Government and the Association would exchange views
from time to time regarding the development of incentives affecting small and
medium size industries (Section 4.03 of the DCA).
Implementation
50.       The proposed project would be implemented over a four year period.
The implementing agencies would carry out their specific activities and
responsibilities autonomously within the broad framework of objectives,
guidelines and procedures agreed between the Government and the Association.
In view of the complementary nature of the various project components (e.g.,
extension work to firms in the rubber subsector and the proposed bank lending
to these firms to expand their activities), district level coordination of
activities would be achieved through regular meetings of bank staff, regional
managers of IDB, and field staff of the other relevant agencies. A SMI
Coordinating Committee would be established (Section 3.02(a) of the DCA),
comprising at least the Additional Secretary, Ministry of Industry and
Scientific Affairs; General Manager, NDB; Director of Planning, Ministry of
Finance and Planning; Chairman of IDB; and a representative of the private
SMI sector. The Committee would review the quarterly progress reports to be
prepared by NDB, IDB, and other agencies and make recommendations for the
improvement of project implementation. Consultants, with qualifications and
terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Association, would also
be engaged to assist in the implementation of the various project components
(Section 3.04 of the DCA).
Monitoring and Evaluation
51.       Annual work programs would be prepared by the implementing orga-
nizations and forwarded to the Association by November 1 of each year for
review and comment (Section 3.11(a) of the DCA). Monitoring of the project's
progress would be through quarterly reports prepared by the staff of the
various implementing agencies (Section 3.11(b) of the DCA). The SMI Fund



- 17 -
Reporting and Liaison Section would monitor SMI lending activities of the
participating credit institutions, whereas the Analysis and Review Section
would maintain supervision of the SMI sector through the refinancing activi-
ties. The credit institutions would be responsible for assessing the eco-
nomic viability of the projects to be financed. For smaller project from
the more common subsectors, the credit institutions would use standard pro-
ject profiles prepare by the IDB (para 47), which include an economic justi-
fication for investment in the subsector. The NDB would be responsible for
reviewing these project profiles and would also conduct economic subsector
analysis on its own. The SMI Fund would review in detail all the appraisals
made by the credit institutions of projects requiring loans in excess of
Rs 500,000 (US$32,000). In addition to the regular reporting requirements,
the Association would also review the project appraisals and review memoranda
for loans in excess of Rs 750,000 (US$48,000), expected to amount to about 40
loans over the four year implementation period. A project completion report
would be prepared not later than six months after the closing date of the
proposed IDA credit (Section 3.06(c) of the DCA).
Costs and Financing
52.       The total project cost is estimated at US$27.9 million equivalent 1/,
including US$22.8 million equivalent for investment in SMIs and US$5.1 mil-
lion for technical services. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
US$14.7 million or about 53% of the total project cost. Price contingencies
have been estimated assuming annual inflation of 7% for foreign costs and 14%
for local costs in 1979 and 1980 and 10% thereafter. The total cost of indi-
vidual consultants' services is estimated at about US$1.8 million, or about
US$6,800 per man-month, including salary, allowances, travel, and miscella-
neous expenses. The proposed IDA credit of US$16.0 million equivalent would
finance the full foreign exchange cost of the project and about US$1.3 mil-
lion equivalent of the local costs, or about 63% of the total project cost
(net of taxes and duties). Beneficiaries of loans would provide US$6.45
million equivalent as equity in their own investment proposals. The credit
institutions would contribute about US$3.0 million from their own resources,
representing 20% of the loan amounts. The Government would contribute the
remaining US$2.45 million equivalent.
53.       US$12.0 million of the proposed credit would be on-lent by the
Government to the NDB via a subsidiary loan agreement for the account of the
SMI Fund on the following terms: (i) loan denominated in Sri Lanka Rupees,
with Government bearing the foreign exchange risk; (ii) 9% interest per annum;
(iii) fixed amortization schedule over 13 years, including four years grace
(Section 3.03 and Part A of Schedule 3 of the DCA). The SMI Fund would pro-
vide refinancing to credit institutions for eligible SMI loans on the follow-
ing terms: (i) refinancing up to 80% of loan amount; (ii) interest per annum
of 10% for loans up to Rs 100,000 (US$6,400), 11% for loans over Rs 100,000
up to Rs 50u,000 (US$32,000), and 12% for loans up to Rs 1,000,000 (US$64,000);
(iii) term would be parallel to the term of the individual loans, expected to
average 5-7 years (Part B of Schedule 3 of the DCA). The average spread for
the SMI Fund would be about 2%. The credit institutions would provide credit
1/   This includes an estimated US$2.5 million equivalent in taxes and duties.



- 18 -
to eligible small and medium industries on the following terms: (i) maximum
project size of Rs 2 million; (ii) maximum loan size of Rs 1 million; (iii)
15% interest per annum; (iv) up to 10 years maturity, with up to 2 years grace
period; and (v) minimum equity contribution of 20% (Part C of Schedule 3 of
the DCA).
54.        Inflation over the past four years is estimated at 12-15%.  There
is no evidence to indicate that the annual rate of inflation will change sub-
stantially over the next twelve months. Unlike the inflation prior to 1978,
which was mainly caused by excessive budgetary deficits fuelling money supply
expansion, the current inflation is largely a result of policy-induced price
adjustments, which are designed to produce a major restructuring of relative
prices in the economy (see para 15 above). These price adjustments are an
integral part of a program of policy reforms introduced by the new Government
and are expected to be substantially completed by the end of 1980. The Sri
Lanka authorities anticipate production to respond positively to these price
changes, and, together with a continued tight rein over government budgetary
deficits, to cause a slow down in the rate of inflation by 1981. Therefore
the interest rate to the final borrower should remain significantly positive
in real terms.
Procurement
55.       Through the participation agreements with the credit institutions,
the NDB would ensure that procedures are established to ensure that: (i) the
goods procured locally for the projects to be refinanced under the SMI Fund
would be purchased at reasonable and competitive prices, and (ii) the con-
tracts for goods procured outside of Sri Lanka and estimated to cost
Rs 160,000 (US$10,000) or more would be let through international shopping
procedures on the basis of at least three price quotations (Section 2.03(a)
of the DCA). The SMI Fund, in its review of loans above Rs 750,000
(US$48,000), would also review this aspect of the procurement. SMI Fund
staff and IDA missions would review these procedures as part of the regular
supervision of the project. Procurement of equipment, vehicles, materials
and consultants and technical services for the technical services components
would be in accordance with Government procedures, which are satisfactory to
the Association.
Authorization and Disbursement
56.       Disbursements would be made for:  (i) 100% of the portion of the
loan amounts refinanced by the SMI Fund; (ii) 100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures ex-factory, or 80% of other local expenditures
for equipment, vehicles, and materials for the technical services component;
and (iii) 100% of total expenditures for consultants' and technical services
and overseas training. Disbursements under (i) would be made against state-
ments of expenditure for all refinanced amounts not exceeding US$40,000. The
records evidencing the expenditures on account of which withdrawals are re-
quested on the basis of statements of expenditure would be retained until one
year after the closing date of the IDA credit (Section 4.01(b) of the DCA),
and the annual report of the auditors would include a separate opinion in



- 19 -
respect of expenditures and relevant withdrawals from the credit made on the
basis of statements of expenditures (Section 4.01(c)(ii), (B) of the DCA).
All other disbursements would be made against full documentation. It would
be a condition of disbursement of funds under the IDA credit for expenditures
in respect of the handloom company (para 48) that the company had been estab-
lished to the satisfaction of the Association (para 3(b), Schedule 1 of the
DCA). Prior to submitting the relevant disbursement requests, the Government
would submit for review and authorization by the Association: (i) a summary
description of each project for which a loan would be refinanced under the SMI
Fund; and (ii) a summary description of expenditures to be financed and their
intended uses under the technical services components (Section 2.02(b) of the
DCA).
Benefits and Justification
57.       The proposed SMI project would address major constraints hindering
expansion and productivity improvements by SMIs by providing suitable access
to credit, by strengthening supporting services, and by encouraging policy
improvements in the sector. In this way access to credit would be increased
for a wide range of economically and financially viable small and medium size
manufacturing and service industries (para 32). It is anticipated that about
1,000 projects would be financed with project costs, including sponsors'
equity, totalling Rs 335 million (US$21.5 million), with an average loan size
of Rs 200,000 (US$11,800). Since incremental fixed costs per job are well
under US$1,000 in the priority subsectors to be assisted under the proposed
project, these loans to SMIs are expected to result in incremental direct
employment of at least 20,000. Although the technical, marketing and manage-
ment service components are expected to have a significant impact on growth
and productivity of SMIs in priority subsectors, benefits are difficult to
quantify. In the case of the IDB, it is likely that some 600-1,000 rubber,
engineering and building materials firms would benefit from specialized
services and the subcontracting exchange, with an additional 1,000-1,500 firms
benefitting from improved production, technical advice and district level
extension network. The handloom export company is expected to result in
significant increases in earnings for at least 2,000 rural weavers. The
Garment Training Center would provide training for over 900 production
supervisors, cutters and pattern-makers in three years.
58.       Finally, the project would improve the capability of five major
credit institutions to promote economically and financially viable SMIs.
The project would provide advisers to help NDB establish procedures for its
overall operations and to improve management information systems and personnel
policies for participating credit institutions. The SMI technical service
agencies would also be strengthened through the provision of training and
improved facilities.  Thus the project  wouldl yield far-reaching institution
building benefits.
Risks
59.       The risks inherent in establishing a new organization have been
minimized by actions already taken by the NDB to ensure that key staff are



- 20 -
in place and provided with training and institution building support.  The
participating credit institutions, as well as representatives of the various
concerned government agencies, worked with the project preparation task
force to assist in shaping the SMI Fund into an organization which would
function well in the current economic and institutional context. Provision
is also made for the Project Coordination Committee to review project imple-
mentation and progress and to recommend improvements.
60.       Another possible risk is that the credit institutions will be slower
than expected in moving from collateral to project appraisal-based lending and
that access to credit, particularly to smaller borrowers, will be limited.
However, the structuring of differential spreads giving a greater margin for
the smaller-size loans, the scope of the credit guarantee scheme, the emphasis
on short-term practical training for branch-level staff and the diffusion of
simplified project profiles should help increase the credit institutions'
willingness and ability to make small project loans.
61.       Successful implementation of the subsector schemes w-ill require
reorientation and expansion of activities by the IDB and the other service
agencies. However, specific subsector programs have been developed by the
responsible agencies and these efforts have been focused on a limited number
of important subsectors. Finally, the rapid development of SMIs envisioned
with the proposed project depends on the continuation of the present liberal
private investment environment.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRIJNENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Association and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
63.       Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of credit effectiveness would be that:
(i) the Government had established the SMI Fund, with capitalization, operat-
ing policies and procedures, and required initial staffing, satisfactory to
the Association (para 42); (ii) the Government had entered into a subsidiary
loan agreement with NDB for the use of the funds available under the proposed
credit (para 42); (iii) NDB had completed participation agreements with at
least two participating credit institutions for access to the SMI Fund
(para 42!; and (iv) that the credit guarantee scheme had been appropriately
modified (para 43).
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 21 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 14, 1979



-22 -                                             Annex I
Page 1 of 6 pages
TABLE 3A
SRI LANKA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
SRI LANKA                                                    /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL               65.6                                                       SAME          SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL        24.2                                   MOST RECENT       GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      70.0        120.0      200.0             167.4       182.9        432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        107.0        153.0       127.0             65.7         88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                            9.9         12.5       14.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9             22.0       25.2              12.8        15.0         24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                         151.0        191.0       213.0             85.2        46.8          42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    507.0           518.0      579.0             322.6        254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            41.5 /f      40.0        39.0             44.0        43.6          44.9
15-64 YRS.                            54.3 If      56.0        57.0             52.9        53.3          52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      4.2 If        4.0        4.1              2.9          2.9          3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 2.6           2.4        1.7              2.2          2.4          2.7
URBAN                                 4.8           4.5        3.7              4.2          4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRTH Ra.TE (PER THOUSAND)       37.6          33.1       27.4              45.1        44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RJ,TE (PER THOUSAND)       10.7           8.0        7.9              17.3        19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2.5           2.3        2.0               3.2         2.9          3.2
PAMILY PLANNIIUG
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..         55.3       113.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..              8.0        9.9              13.7        14.6         14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970=100)                86.6        100.0       109.1             95.6         96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                      92.0        101.0        97.0             91.1        92.3          99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             45.0          50.0       48.0             49.6         50.0         56.8
OF WHICH PNIMAL AND PULSE          15.0         16.0        15.0             12.6         13.9         17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE           ..           ..       16.8                ..          ..           7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    60.5             65.8       67.8              43.1        45.8         53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              52.0          50.0       51.0              99.5       102.7         82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..         21.0       19.0              30.0        26.4         31.1
URBAN                                   ..         46.0       36.0             66.3         63.5         68.5
RURAL                                   ..         14.0       13.0              17.2        14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..         64.0       59.0              15.7        16.1         37.5
URBAN                                  ..          76.0       68.0             66.9         65.9         69.5
RURAL                                   ..         61.0       55.0               2.5         3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             4500.0            ..    4010.0             8830.8    13432.7        9559.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        4170.0        2730.0    2280.0            8479.3       6983.3       2762.5
POPULAIION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               330.0         330.0      330.0            1624.5      1157.6        786.5
URBAN                                  ..         130.0      140.0                ..       183.3        278.4
RURAL                                   ..        570.0      600.0                ..      1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..         54.0       51.3                .-        19.5          19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.4 /f        5.8         ..                ..         5.2
URBAN                                 6.3 1f        6.3                                      4.8
RURAL                                 5.2 If        5.5                                      5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  2.0 /f       2.5
URBAN                                  2.1 If       2.7                                      1.8           2.3
RURAL                                  2.0 If       2.5         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  7.5 /f       9.0         ..                ..        25.9          28.3
URBAN                                 35.9 If      34.5         ..
RURAL                                  2.3 7?       2.8         ..                ..         8.7          10.3



- 23-                                            Annex I
TABLE 3A                                       Page  2  of  6 pages
SRI LANKA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
SRI LANKA                                                 /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b      1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb       REGION Le   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  95.0         99.0       77.0             59.1         62.9         75.8
FEMALE                90.0         94.0       77.0              38.4       45.9          67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  27.0         51.0       54.0             19.9        14.4          17.7
FEMALE                16.0         51.0       55.0               9.9         8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)   ..             1.0       1.0               1.5         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             31.0           ..       22.0              38.2        38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                             ..           ..         ..             23.5        19.8          23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         61.0          77.6      78.1              35.6        36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           8.0          7.0        6.7               2.2         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          36.0           ..       37.0              14.9        31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..          ..         ..                ..        2.8          14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   36.0          49.0         ..              6.4         6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0              ..       3.9                ..         1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3500.0 /f   4100.0    4707.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    22.6         23.7       28.5              21.3        24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               56.3         52.0       55.0              62.8        60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  13.5         14.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 34.3         33.5       34.6              35.8        39.8         37.8
MALE                                   50.8         49.2      48.2              52.4        53.3         50.3
FEMALE                                 16.2         16.5      20.3              15.6        19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.5          1.4        1.2              1.3         1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.4            18.8      18.6              18.6        20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  52.1           45.6       42.8              42.8        45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.5            7.4        7.3               7.3         5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.7           17.9       19.3              19.3        16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..       68.0              80.2        88.5        155.9
RURAL                                  ..          ..       76.0              67.2        71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                ..       100.8        143.7
RURAL                                  ..          ..       59.0              39.8        42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                                       26.0              50.3        46.0         22.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..       22.0              44.6        48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    South Asia;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita,
1976);   /f  1963.
September, 1978



- 24
Annex I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                      Page   3  of   6  pages
Note:  The ad,usted group averages fur each indicator are popolation-weighted g-ometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.   .e to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thouanod sq. km)                                                            Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and coral - Population (total,
Iotal - Total ourface area comprising land area and inland caters.                      urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital bhds
Agriculcural - Most recent estinate of agricultural area used temporarily                available in public and private general and specialieed hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                  habilitatien centers.  Hospitals are establinhments permamently staffed by
Ion fallow.                                                                           at least one physician.  Establishments prnviding principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
hiP FiR CAPITA (100) - GNP por capita estimates at corrent market pr-ces,                 cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (bht by a nedical as-
calcuaated by  sane conversion method as World lank Atlas (1975-77 bausi);            sistant, ma-se, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient acroeeodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                            provide a lumitod eange of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                   from  h_spitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and ligoite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) io khlograms of coal equivalent per capita.                  ROUSING
Average sioe of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STAIISTICS                                                           A hbusehold consists of a grosp of individuals win share living quarters
Total population, pld-year (nillions) - As of July 1; if not available.                 asnd their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may o1 may not be included in
average of two end-pear estimates; 1960, 197,. and 1977 data.                         the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitioas of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of orban to total popula-                   hold nary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas nay affect comparability                 Average number of Derons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average nun-
of data among countries.                                                              her of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                       dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings enclude non-ermanenc structures and
Per  sq. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                 unnoccpied parts.
Of total area.                                                                      Access to electricilty (pement of dwelliogs) - toRta,  rban, and rural -
Per so. he. agric. tore land - Computed as above for agricultural land                 Conventional dwellIngs with electricity in living  quarters an percentage
only.                                                                                 of total, urbhn, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age stroc tare (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), anu  retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-            EDtCATION
year population.                                                                   Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth r.,te (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                Primary school - total, and female - Total and fem.le e.rolloent of all ages
growth rates of tc.tal and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                    at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary schooR-age
1960-70, and 1970- 75.                                                                populatiuo-; normally includes children aged 6-11 yearn but ad-usted for
Crude birth rate (per thousasd) - Annual live births per tuon.and of                    different lengths of primary education; for countries with oniversal edu-
id-pear pnpulati-n; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                  cation enrollment map enceed  ll0 percent since none pupils are below or
1970 and five-yea     - average ending ih  1971 fr most ret n.t estimate.             above the official schoni age.
Crude dea~th rate (per thousand) - Annual  deanhs per thousand of mid-                Snuondary schoo  -  n , and femle - Computed an abov; secondary edoca-
year populhatio;   tnyeariarithmetic averagen ending in  960 and 1970                 tio  require  aestl t four years of approved pimas ry istructieon; pr-
and fie-year ave'age ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                         ndes general vocational, or toucher training in-tructions for pupils
Irons reproduction  -ate - Average nomber of daughtera woman will bear                  usually of 12 to 17 years of age; c-rrespondence  cou s are generally
ic bet normal cep-od-oti-e period if she experiences present age-                     excluded.
specific fertilit3 rates; Usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                Vocational onrollment (percent of neaneduryl - Cocational inntitcttons is-
1970, and 1971.                                                                       dlude technical, indcstriol, or oiher programs which operate independently
Psmily planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                      or an departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birtf-control devices under auspices of national family               Pupil-teacher  ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrclled so
planning program.                                                                     prinary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Fanily planning - users (peroent of married women) - Percentage of                       sponding leveRs.
married women of child-bearing age (15-i4 yours) who use birth-cotrol             Adu1t literacy rate (percent) - Literate adulct  (able to read and wrion) ao
devices to all macrid women in same age group.                                        a percentage of total adult popalation aged 11 pears and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                   CONSLRPTION
Indes of food prod-ction per capita (197D100) - Iden comber of per                  Passonger  tars (per thousand population) - Pansenger cars comprise motor cart
oapita amnual production cf all food coemodities.                                   seating less than  eight persons; excludes ambiances, hearses and rilit-ar
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Cnmputed from               vehicles.
energy eqsivalent of net food nupplien available in country per capita             Radio recoivers (per thousand population) - All types of rnceivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports ioss             broadcasts to general public per thouannd of populationi; ecludes unlicetned
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,            re"Iioersincountrien and in years when vogistratio  of radio sets was Os
quantities uoed in food procesning, and losses in distribution.  Re-                effece; data for recent yearn nay not be comparable since moss countries
quir-tents were ennimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-              abolished licensing.
eel activity and health consider ing environmental temperature, body               TV receivers (per thousand p-oluation) - TV receivers for broedcast to generai
weights, age and        distribtion   f pplatin,  an llod ir.g 10 pen-                public p_e thousand population; excludes unlicensed 7'1 receivers cv coot-
cent for waste at household level.                                                    tries and in years wh-n registration of TV' sets was in efiect.
Per capita  supply  of protei  (rams per day) - Protein content  f per               Newnpapercir ul7oon (per thousand populatipon   - iws te aerage circula-
copita net supplp of food per day, lt upply of food is defined as                     tion ofdiy gnera neetnwppr,define`d  supriadical publoi
above.  Requirements for all countries established by VitA provide foe                catio  devoted primarily to recording general news.  it is considered to
anminium   allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                be  daily" if it appears at Inane four rives a week.
of aninal and pulse protein, of which I  grams should he animal protein.          Cinena aenual atondance per ca-ita per year - Baed on the number of tickets
Those at-sdards are lower th-a those of 71 grass of  toral protein and                sold during the year, includiog udtiesioss to drive-c-  cinenau aod  bole
23 grans of snimal protein as an average for the  -orld, proposed by                  omits.
FAO in the Third World Pood Rurvey.
Per capita protein supply from animal an         6 - Protein supply of food         EMPLOYPCENT
derived firo  animals and pols i  graman pePr day.                                 Total  abor force (thousanon) - Economically actors pesons,  ixcludoog armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                fr-c-s and serpl y..d bht  -ocluding housewives, students, ec.  Deini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                            tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force us percentage v  tnral lahcr icece
HEALTH                                                                                  alt    (ppecn  ern   -Labor force in farming, forestr,  urting aend fiohoog
Life nopectancy at birth  (years) - Averagn number nf years of life                      as p-rfnnagm nf total labor force.
remaining at birth;  _soully five-year averages ending is 1960, 1970,              Industre (percent) - Labor force in minieg, coestructios, manufacturing cnd
and 1975.                                                                             electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                Participatin rate (perceet) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                              'emule labor  ore as percentagcs of these respective popat ilons.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                 Those are ILO's adjusted povticgpuriop   rates redS ecrn-  age-see
Number of people (atotl, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                   otructure of chr populatio-. end 10ng rive tend.
safe water supply (inolodos treated surfane waters or untreated but                Economi^ drpendenco ratic - Rator of populatio- cnder 15  nd 65 and  vercie
uncontaminaced water such as that fron protected boreholes, springs,                   the labcr force in age group of 15-64 pears.
and sanitary cello) an sercentagos of their respective populations.
Is an urban area.au pblic founnain or stamdpost located  not nore                 INCOME DI1TRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered an being within rea-                Percentage of private income (both oi cash and kiod) received by richest 5
sonable access of than house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                  percont, richest 20 percert, poorest 20 percent. and poorest 40 pecce-c
inply that the housewife or nenbers of the household do nor have to                   no hoseSlds
spend a disproportionate part of the day it fetching the famly's
cater needs.                                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Aucess on ex-reta disposal (perento of population) - total, urban, and               Eitimated absolute poverty income loo1 ('.S5 per capit.a) -uroan and coral -
vrurl - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) nerved by e.cresa                     Absolute pov..py inccme lnvet is that income level below which a vcnoeal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                      nutritionally adequate diet plus essentia' mon-food  recuire.ents in now
disposal nay include the collectio  and disposal, with or without                      affordabl.
tresonoet, of human excrets and waste-water by water-borne systems                 Intimated relative poverty income level (US5 per capita) - urban and cural -
or the use of pit pr-vien end similar installations.                                  Ri.cni-e poverty income le-el is that income level less than one-third
Populacion pee physician - Population divided by number of practicing                    per capita per soal income  f the coont r.
physicians qualified from a medical school or university Level.                     istimated population belo  pvrt  i           l       (per ot)  - rban and meal 
Population per nursing person - Populaticn divided by number of                          teroer of population (urban and rural) who are either "absointe poor" 
practicin.g male and fmale grodust  nunsen, psactical nurses, and                      "relative poor" whichever is greater.
asuistant nurses.
E.onomic and Social DIta liviocon
Econoic Analysis and Projectiors Depactoret



Annex 7
-, 25   -                              Page 4 of 6 pages
SRI LANKA
E C O N O M I C    D E V E L O P M E N T    D A T A    S H E E T S
A C T U A L                         EST.
1965        1970        1976         1977        1978
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (1)
(MILLIONS OF US$ AT   1975  PRICES)
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT                   1783,0      2354.0      2747.3       2811.4      3020.7
GAINS FROM TERMS OF TRADE                 539.7       242.2        185.1       413.4       362.6
GROSS DOMESTIC INCOME                   2322.7       2596.2      2932.4       3224.8      3383.3
IMPORTS                                 1189.8       1017.3       913.5        999.3      1272.8
EXPORTS - VOLUME                         -670.2      -662.9      -660.5       -694.5      -754.8
EXPORTS - TT. ADJUSTED                 -1209.9       -905.1      -845.6      -1107.9    -1117.4
RESOURCE GAP - TT. ADJUSTED               -20.1       112.1        67.9       -108.6        155.4
TOTAL CONSUMPTION                       2055.9       2239.0      2563.6       2648.2      2891,1
INVESTMENT                               246.8        469.4       436.8        468.0       647.6
NATIONAL SAVINGS                          244.3       297.9       350.7        570.6       511.1
DOMESTIC SAVINGS                          266.9       357.3       368.9        576.6       492.3
GOP AT CURRENT USS                       1686.6      1870.6      2424.2       2821.3      2546.3
SECTOR OUTPUT
ISHARE OF GDP AT   1975  PRICES)
AGRICULTURE                              0-444        0.422       0.376        0.387       0.384
INDUSTRY                                 0.171        0.211       0.217        0.201       0.202
SERVICES                                 0.385        0.367       0.407        0.412       0.415
PRICES (  1975  = 100)
EXPORT PRICE INDEX                       65.65        56.86       95.16       119.13      125.63
IMPORT PRICE INDEX                       36.37        41.64       74.33        74.67       84.86
TERMS OF T'RADE INDEX                    180.52      136.55      128.02       159.53      148.05
GDP DEFLATOR (USS)                       94.59        79.47       88.24       100.35       84.30
ANNUAL AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATE               4.76        6.85        10.88       11.06
Growth Rates           1976
SHARE
1965             OF
1977            GOP
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (i)
(MILLIONS OF US$ AT   1975  PRICES)
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT                      3.9            100.0
GAINS FROM TERMS OF TRADE                                    6.7
GROSS DOMESTIC INCOME                       2.8            106.7
IMPORTS                                    -1.4             33.3
EXPORTS - VOLUME                            0.3             24.0
EXPORTS - TT. ADJUSTED                     -0.7             30.8
RESOURCE GAP - TT. ADJUSTED                                  2.5
TOTAL CONSUMPTION                           2.1             93.3
INVESTMENT                                  5.5             15.9
NArIONAL SAVINGS                            7.3             12.8
DOMESTIC SAVINGS                            6.6             13.4
GDP AT CURRENT US$                          4.4
PRICES (  1975  = 100)
EXPORT PRICE INDEX                          5.1
IMPORT PRICE INDEX                          6.2
TERMS OFD TRADE INDEX                      -1.0
GDP DEFLATOR (US$)                          0.5
SElECTED INDICATORS                      1965-77
ICOR                                      4.37
IMPORT ELASTICITY                        -0.39
AVERAGE NATIONAL SAVINGS RATE              0. 11
MARGINAL NATION4L SAVINGS RATE             0.32
IMPORTS/C;DP                              0.44
INVESTMENT/GDP                            0.16
RESOURCF GAP/GOP                           0.04
(1) CUMPONENTS MAY NOT ADD UP BECAUSE OF ROUNDING



-26  -                                       Annex I
Page 3 of 6 pages
SRI LANKA
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
1973        1974        1975        1976        1977        1978
A C T U A L                            E S T
SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ Million)
1.  EXPORTS (INCLUDING NFS)              424.3       570.4       628.2       628.5       827,3       948.2
2.  IMPORTS (INCLUDING NFS)              445.3       731.7       798.8       679.0       746.2       1080.1
3.  RESOURCE BALANCE                     -21.0      -161.3      -170.6       -50,5        81i1      -131.9
4.  NET FACTCR SERVICE INCOME            -17,3       -16.6       -18.4       -20.1       -15.0       -11.0
.1 NET INTEREST PAYMENTS                -14.7       -14.7       -15.9       -18.6       -14.0       -10.0
OF WHICH ON PUB M&LT LOANS           -15.5       -16.5       -20.6       -23.1       -22.1       -22.8
.2 DIRECT INVESTMENT INCOME              -2.7        -2.0        -2.4        -1.5        -1.1        -1.2
.3 WORKERS REMITTANCES (NET)               .0          .0          .0          .0          .0          .0
5.  CURRENT TRANSFERS (NET)                  .2         -.2        2.8         6.6         10.5       27.1
6.  BALANCE ON CURRENT ACCOUNT           -38.1      -178.1      -186.2       -64.0        76.6      -115.8
7,  PRIVATE DIRECT INVESTMENT                .5         1.3         -.2          .0         -.3         2.0
8.  GRANTS & GRANT-LIKE FLOWS             13.0        42.0        77.0        58.0        60.8        57,9
PUBLIC M&LT LOANS
9.  DISBURSEMENTS                         83.8       146.3       157.4       210.4        150.1      260.7
10. AMORTIZATION                         -39.1       -52.4      -117.7      -103.8      -101.9       -72.1
il. NET DISBURSEMENTS                     44.7        93.8        39.7       106.7        48.2       188.6
OTHER M&LT LOANS
12. DISBURSEMENTS                           .0          .0          .0          .0          .0          .0
13. AMORTIZATION                            .0          .0          .0          .0          .0          .0
14. NET DISBURSEMENTS                       .0          .0          .0          .0          .0          .0
15. USE OF IMF RESOURCES                  -1.4        33.3        27.9        11.1        46.9           .0
16. SHORT-TERM CAPITAL
TRANSACTIONS                          -9.8        13.2        -2.8       -22.6         6.5        -3.0
17. CAPITAL TRANSACTIONS NEI              28.2        62.3       -12.0       -31.8       -56.9       -35.8
18. CHANGE IN RESERVES
(- = INCREASE)                       -37.1        56.8        56.6       -57.4      -183.0       -94.0
19. NET FOREIGN EXCHANGE   (1)
RESERVES (END OF PERIOD)             -11.0       -67.8      -124.4       -67.0       116.0       210.0
GRANT AND LOANS COMMITMENTS (US$ Million)
1.  OFFICIAL GRANTS                       21.1        37.0        76.0        53.1       104.3       123.7
2,  TOTAL PUBLIC M&LT LOANS               92.1       233.1       285.8       221.8       167.6       324,9
.1 IBRD                                    .0          .0          .0          .0          .0          .0
.2 IDA                                    6.0        24.0        29.5          .0        41.2        25.5
.3 OTHER MULTILATERAL                     2.8         2.5        30.0         8.1        49.7        83.2
.4 GOVERNMENTS                           58.4        72.9       196.6       140.9        69,7       192.8
.5 OF WHICH CENTRALLY PLANNED
ECONOMIES (2)                          2.6        21.4        56.1         4.2         1.7        10.0
.6 SUPPLIERS                             25.0       133.6        29.7        72.7         7.0        23.4
,7 FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS                  .0          .0          .0          .0          .0          .0
.8 BONDS                                   .0          .0          .0          .0          .0          .0
.9 PUBLIC LOANS NEI                        .0          .0          -O          .0          .0          .0
3.  OTHER M&LT LOANS (WHERE
AVAILABLE)                              .0          .0          .0          .0          .0          O0
MEMORANDUM ITEMS
1, GRANT ELEMENT OF TOTAL
COMMITMENTS                         45.000      27.100      55.700      39.800      64.400      62.686
2.  AVERAGE INTEREST RATE                  .037        .051        .029        .040        .021        .024
3.  AVERAGE MATURITY (YEARS)            23.700      13.600      28.800      20.500      35.400       29.529
1/ NET FOREIGN ASSETS: US$ EQUIVALENT OF LINE 31, IFS.
2/ INCLUDES CMEA COUNTRIES, PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA. NORTH
KOREA, NORTH VIFTNAM.
DATE OF LATEST UPDATE 05/04/79



- 27                                        Annex I
SRI LANKA                       Page 6 of 6 pages
D E B T    A N D    C R E D I T W O R T H I N E S S
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1973       1974        1975        1976       1977        1978
A C T U A L                           E S T.
MEDIUM AND LONG TERM DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)
TOTAL DEBT OUTSTANDING (DOD
END OF PERIOD)                        484.8       587.3      598.0       702.3       787.0       974.5
INCLUDING UNDISBURSED                   680.1       875.7      997.0      1103.8      1217.9      1428.1
PUBLIC DEBT SERVICE                     -54.6       -68.9      -138.4     -126,8      -124.0       -94.9
INTEREST                              -15.5       -16.5       -20.6      -23.1       -22.1       -22.8
OTHER M&LT DEBT SERVICE                     .0         .0          .0          .0         .0          .0
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                      -54.6       -68.9      -138.4     -126.8      -124.0       -94.9
DEBT BURDEN
_____ ___ _
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                       12.9        12.1        22.0       20.2        15.0        10.0
DEBT SERVICE RATIO (1)                   13.5        12.4        22.4       20.4        15.1        10.1
DEBT SERVICE/GDP                          2.7         2.7         5.2        5.2         4.4         3.7
PUB. DEBT SERVICE/GOV. REVENUE           15.7        10.0        19.0       20.0        23.5        14.7
TERMS
INT. ON TOTAL DOD/TOTAL DOD               3.2         2.8         3.4        3.3         2.8         2.3
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE/TOTAL DOD             11.3        11.7        23.1       18.1        15.8         9.7
DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR M&LT DEBT
GROSS DISB./IMPORTS (INCL,NFS)           18.8        20.0        19.7       31.0        20.1        24.1
NET TRANSFER/IMPORTS(INCL.NFS)            6.6        10.6         2.4        12.3        3.5        15.4
NET TRANSFER/GROSS DISB.                 34.9        52.9        12.1       39.7        17.4        63.6
EXPOSURE
IBRD DISB./GROSS TOTAL DISB.              6.5         3,4         3.6         1.6        1.3          .7
BANK GROUP DISB./GROSS TOTAL
DISBURSEMENTS                          12.4        10.9        12.2        4.0         8.7         5.6
IBRD DOD/TOTAL DOD                        6.6         5.8         6.1        5.1         4.4         3.3
BANK GROUP DOD/TOTAL DOD                  9.5        10.0        12.5        11.3       11.3        10.3
IBRD DEBT SERVICE/TOTAL DEBT
SERVICE                                 8.0         7.4        4.0         4.7         4.9         6.1
BANK GROUP DEBT SERVICE/TOTAL.
DEBT SERVICE                            8.1         7.5         4.2        5.0         5.2         6.5
OUTSTANDING DEC, 31. 1977
EXTERNAL DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)                                AMOUNT    PERCENT
IBRO                                                             34.3        4.4
BANK GROUP                                                       89.0        11.3
OTHER MULTILATERAL                                               43.8         5.6
GOVERNMENTS                                                     574.9       73.0
OF WHICH CENTRALLY PLANNED ECONOMIES (2)                       52.8        6.7
SUPPLIERS                                                        79.2        10.1
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS                                             .1          .0
BONDS                                                              .0          .0
PUBLIC DEBT NEI                                                    .0          .0
TOTAL PUBLIC M&LT DEBT                                          787.0       100.0
OTHER PUBLIC M&LT DEBT                                             .0          .0
OTHER M&LT DEBT                                                    .0          .0
TOTAL PUBLIC DEBT (INCLUDING UNDISBURSED)                      1217.9       154.8
TOTAL M & LT DEBT (INCLUDING UNDISBURSED)                      1217.9       154.8
DEBT PROFILE
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE 1978-82/TOTAL DOD END OF 1977                 63.5
1/INCLUDING NET DIRECT INVESTMENT INCOME
2/INCLUDES CMEA COUNTRIES. PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA,
NORTH KOREA, NORTH VIETNAM.



- 28 -                  ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of April 30, 1979) /a
US$ Million /b
Loan or                                                      Amount (net of
Credit                                                       cancellations)
No.   Year   Borrower             Purpose              Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Seven loans and five credits fully disbursed             58.9   42.0
653     1970   Sri Lanka         Mahaweli Ganga
Development I        14.5              2.4
504     1974   Sri Lanka         Dairy Development                9.0     7.5
566     1975   Sri Lanka         DFC - Industrial III             4.5     0.8
595     1975   Sri Lanka         Agricultural Devel-
opment                       25.0      6.6
666     1976   Sri Lanka         Tank Irrigation                  5.0     4.6
701     1977   Sri Lanka         Mahaweli Ganga
Development II               19.0    18.9
709     1977   Sri Lanka         Water Supply                    9.2      9.0
742     1977   Sri Lanka         DFC - Industrial IV             8.0      6.0
818     1978   Sri Lanka         Tree Crop Reha-
bilitation (Tea)             21.0    21.0
819     1978   Sri Lanka         Tree Crop Diver-
sification (Tea)              4.5     4.5
891     1979   Sri Lanka         Kurunegala Rural
Devel. /c                    20.0    20.0
Total,                                                   73.4  167.2   101.3
of which has been repaid                               37.6    -
Total now outstanding                                    35.8  167.2
Amount sold,                               3.6
of which has been repaid                 3.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a                        35.8  167.2
Total undisbursed                                         2.4   98.9   101.3
/a   Does not include Road Maintenance (USb16.5 M) and National Extension
and Adaptive Research (USa15.5 M) approved by the Board in May and June
1979.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustments.
/c   Not yet effective.
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of April 30, 1979)
Amount of US$ Million
Year        Obligor                Type of Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1977  The Development Finance   Development Banking
Corporation of Ceylon                                -     0.1       0.1
1978  Bank of Ceylon              Development Banking       2.0     -        2.0
Total Commitment now held by IFC                      2.0    0.1       2.1



_ 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Ln. No. 653 - Mahaweli Ganga Development (Irrigation/Power) Project;
US$14.5 million of January 30, 1970; Effective Date:
April 30, 1971; Original Closing Date: June 30, 1976;
Revised Closing Date: July 31, 1979
The project, now complete, is about two years behind appraisal
target. Delays were due mainly to foundation problems at Polgolla power
house and a slow start at Bowatenna diversion dam. After overcoming these
problems, the construction progressed satisfactorily. Good progress has been
recorded to date on agricultural extension and research in the project area.
The Credit (174-CE) associated with this project has been fully disbursed.
An unallocated amount of US$2.0 million from the loan is being utilized for
the procurement of badly needed vehicles and equipment. This procurement
is underway. The closing date of the loan has accordingly been extended to
July 31, 1979.
Cr. No. 504 - Dairy Development Project; US$9.0 million of August 9, 1974;
Effective Date: February 10, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The original project, as appraised in 1973, was designed to increase
milk production on about 2,400 dairy farms covering 42,000 acres in the Coco-
nut Triangle and Mid Country of Sri Lanka by providing credit, technical
assistance and a strengthened milk collection, transport and marketing system.
Complementary objectives were to establish pilot units for commercial calf
rearing and pasture management systems; and provide processing equipment to
the National Milk Board. However, progress was severely constrained by the
poor supply of cattle available for onlending to project borrowers. The poor
supply of cattle was due to import problems and an over-estimation of the
national herd at appraisal stemming from unreliable Government statistics.
Moreover, unrestricted slaughter of cattle was stimulated by a rapid increase
in concentrate feed prices which made milk production unattractive plus the
relatively high consumer price of fish and poultry meat. It, therefore,
became necessary to reformulate the project. The revised project, still under
discussion with the Government, would focus on what was a small component of
the original project-support to dairy cooperatives. Under this component,
dairy farmers would be organized in a manner similar to the successful Anand
pattern of Dairy Cooperatives in India. The Government has requested the
I/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30
ANNEX II
Page 3
National Dairy Dc-)elopment Bcard (India) to help evaluate the potential of
suerc an  app :oacn en c i n-oirman of NDDB -visited Sri Lanka in December 1978
Lo evaluate Sri .anka's Lechimica1 assistance needs for the proposed approach.
Consequently, the su pl-  of inputs and services would become key activities
of the revised pro4ect, 3 jhich would include provision of technical assistance
and credit t  farmer,  and support for milk collection, transport and marketing.
Preliminary proposals h-e already been received and accepted by IDA to expand
the successful ongoing calf/heifer rearing and pilot Dasture programs. The
number of benefii-arv far7m ffamilies would be substantially increased (current
escimate approg1raetel- 109000 vs. 29400 in the original project) and the
project y-oul d o ntrib.te t a considerable increase in income of existing
landiess an- sm31l f.-er dairy producers.  Government's commitment to the
proposed re-rised pr3lect approach is e-videnced by the recent Cabinet approval
to provice adequate incentives to dairy production in Sri Lanka.
Cr. No. 566    Third Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon Project;
US$4.5 million of June 27, 1975; Effective Date:
August 22, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1979
The credi, was designed to meet the estimated foreign exchange
requiremenCs of t.he D'eveloD7ment Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) for
lending mainly to expcrt industries and tourism. The credit has been fully
committed and is li7sely to be fully disbursed by the closing date.
Cr. No. 595 - t'.  nuural Development Project; US$25.0 million of
-Esnoer 2-, 1975; Effective Date:  March 1, 1976;
Original Cl-osing Date:  June 30, 1978; Revised Closing Date:
September 30. 1979
The crigginal closing date of June 30, 1978 was extended to allow
full utilization oL credit funds.  Disbursements continue to be slow and only
if the Project Coordinacing Committee and the participating agencies take
quick actions as agreed with IDDA will it be possible to commit the remaining
US$4.9 M OU  5    tctal of US$'-.b M undisbursed before the new closing date.
Funds still a ]   >hle are for import of spare parts for machinery rehabilita-
Lion programs ?' t-ne Departmeat of Agriculture and the Department of Machinery
and Eouiorenr  ,        the imaportation of about 300 tractors for farmers and 75
4-wheel drive -vehicles for the two estate corporations' field supervisory
work,
Cr. No. (b5  -  'ank 1,rrgation Modernization Project; US$5.0 million of
januaryv l, 1977; Effective Date:  April 12, 1977;
Gllosing Dat'e   June 30, 1981
-,,-i; ~-~c'c of the first two tanks is now about one year behind
schedule but cor-rction equipment has arrived and construction progress has
begun tc pick-  , 3  rii  nt        Unfortunately, quality control has been neg-
lectea  and so?me  I- -e co-mTletqed works are poorly constructed.  Some of these



-3L  -
ANNEX II
Page 4
works will have to be reconstructed or water losses and O&M costs will be
unacceptably high. The Government has agreed to take action to improve quality
control and closely monitor future work and will reconstruct those facilities
which do not function properly after operation commences. In this regard, a
quality control training program was provided by the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation
in the USA for three Irrigation Department engineers during November-December
=            1978 and it is hoped that construction quality will improve to the levels
required. A well-qualified Water Management Specialist has arrived (part-time)
to set up a water management training program for Irrigation Department staff
and farmers and much improvement is expected in this area. A full-time
resident Project Manager has been appointed and coordination and construction
progress are expected to improve. Project completion is expected to be
delayed about one year.
Cr. No. 701 - Mahaweli Ganga Development II Project; US$19.0 million of
of April 21, 1977; Effective Date: December 29, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Government has undertaken development of the project on an
accelerated basis and had planned to complete the project within one year.
This proved to be an overly optimistic target and the Government now is
striving to complete the project by end 1979. Unfortunately, in its haste
to meet set target dates, Mahaweli Development Board (MDB) initiated work in
all areas of the project on an ad hoc basis, by-passed certain work required
in preparing lands for settlement, sacrified construction quality standards
and practices requisite to works of good quality, changed portions of the main
canal alignment where difficulties were encountered and embarked upon settle-
ment actions without ensuring that necessary support programs and infra-
structure development would be in place when settlement of the lands was
done. The Government has agreed to take action to improve quality control
and closely monitor all work in the future. In this regard, a quality con-
trol training course was provided by the US Bureau of Reclamation in the USA
for four MDB engineers during November/December 1978 and it is hoped that
constructior. quality will improve to the levels required. A resident Project
Manager has recently been appointed, filling a vacancy that has existed for
more than a year, and project implementation and coordination activities are
expected to improve considerably. Project completion may be advanced by
about 1-1/2 years earlier than estimated at appraisal.
Cr. No. 709 - Water Supply Project; US$9.2 million of May 10; Effective Date:
February 9, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Good progress has been made in implementing institutional changes,
introducing a new bulk water tariff, establishing new accounting procedures
both in the National Water Supply and Drainage Board (WDB) and in local
authorities. Despite initial delays, the WDB has made excellent progress
during the past year, particularly in procurement. Thirty three contracts
have been awarded. At present, the disbursement level is low, but is
expected to rise rapidly by the end of calendar year 1979.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 742 - Fourth Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon Project;
US$8.0 million of September 30, 1977; Effective Date:
December 16, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This credit will meet a substantial portion of DFCC's estimated
foreign exchange requirements for lending to private sector industrial
projects and tourism. Subprojects for US$4.1 million have been authorized.
DFCC remains a competent institution, with a rapidly increasing level of
activity, which could increase further provided that DFCC's staffing problems
are overcome as well as the constraint caused by the low equity base.
Cr. No. 818 - Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea) Project; US$21.0 million of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project progress is satisfactory. Procurement is getting under
way; all tender documents have been issued. In the case of housing, awards
have been-made and construction is starting. In the case of tractors and
vehicles, award proposals were cleared by IDA this month and vehicles and
tractors should be delivered by July 1979. In the case of factory equipment,
tenders should be awarded by August 1979 and delivery is expected in December
this year. Field works, replanting and infilling, are on schedule. All other
project components, namely health component, training component and tea area
measurement, are progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 819 - Tree Crop Diversification (Tea) Project; US$4.5 million of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: December 15, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The National Agricultural Development and Settlement Authority, the
project executing agency, has developed into a mature development organiza-
tion which is operating efficiently under capable management. Despite some
delay in procurement of equipment, progress in field work is impressive.
Cluster selection and homestead and farm demarcation are nearly complete
and soil conservation work (bench terraces, lock and spill drains, graded
stone terraces) well under way and accelerating. Foundations for about 500
houses have been laid.
Cr. No. 891 - Kurunegala Rural Development Project; US$20.0 million of
April 26, 1979; not yet effective
The project aims to assist the development of the District of
Kurunegala in an integrated manner for purposes of raising productivity,
employment, incomes and living standards and to develop a replicable model
for rural development for other districts in Sri Lanka. The project will
provide for rehabilitation of existing irrigation schemes accompanied by
improved water management practices to fully exploit the irrigation potential,
and for programs for replanting/underplanting, intercropping and fertilizing



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
of smallholder coconut plantations. The project will all strengthen agricul-
tural extension services, improve the supply of input services such as fertil-
izer distribution and seeds supplies, and lay the foundation for a viable
agriculture credit system. These directly productive investments will be
complemented by investments in transportation, health, education, water supply
and rural electrification.
Cr. No. 900 - Road Maintenance Project; US$16.5 million
The project was approved by the Executive Directors on May 1, 1979.
Cr. No.     -  National Extension and Adaptive Research Project;
US$15.5 million
The project was presented to the Executive Directors on June 12,
1979.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SRI LANKA
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the Couutry to prepare the project
4 months
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
SMI task force composed of Government agencies
and public and private credit institutions, with
the assistance of an IDA mission.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of the
first mission to consider the project
April 1978 - November 1978
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
February 1978
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
May 25, 1979
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 1, 1979
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The NDB would apply procedures and criteria satisfactory
to the Association in its review of project appraisals
for loans to be refinanced by the SMI Fund (para 42);



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(b)  The Government and the Association would exchange
views from time to time regarding the development of
incentives affecting small and medium size industries
(para 49); and
(c) Conditions of credit effectiveness:
(i)  the Government had entered into a subsidiary
loan agreement with the NDB for the use of
funds available under the proposed credit
(para 42);
(ii)  the SMI Fund would be established within NDB,
with capitalization, procedures and policies,
and initial staffing, satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation (para 42);
(iii)  the NDB had completed participation agreements
with at least two participating credit institutions
for access to the SMI Fund refinance facility
(para 42); and
(iv) the credit guarantee scheme had been appropriately
modified (para 43).
i



IBRD 3839R2
82' FERUAtY 1978
Kankesansorot    ,,
1<g S '\'                                                                              SRILANKA
.   4   $    + 9 X                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~National roatds
,r. ?   ->,Xt  Xs ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+\&.                               .   ., ~~~~~~~~Railwavys
____ \   N-  t bcoundaries
Rivers
,-3  ~  ~     ~     ,,~<,-<Agrtn clmotic zone
Elevaotio (in feel):
o too
r   .             \                      \                                 =    100- 500
tLX      \                                    SOO ~~~~~~50-3000
)ioloimonnar     |                    9$aMonkuom               i                               _ 3000-5000
I                    /<Sn .'  .   '. .: <: >                          <Over5000
Mooo~~~~~~~~~~                                              9          20        49       9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  80
0'. --- .O p   20       30      40      sp
MI LES
t  = X   ~~~~~~~ gVa~~~vumyf             -l\
,.comoe            Bay  of eengcl
Ig t \> t N~~~~~~Medawcchchiyc  / 
/n da n n
0   c  e   a                                                                            bu-ntl
';I_ ff X                   tA  Sw f   WS 0A A C
N< Nnqonn ~ ~ Kuru ego a
Lf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a KC0                                                     .                   '                                    10 .
Kotuooy                    r-
89wrcoewerb,                                             hwPe  rg9Irittuvit
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       7
dmomffwsormntismp   C                      cLnOMr                    --O'  Nuworo      -           r                t '-2
lb.mp a    prapanad -nPtrt
PA     not tST -  tins   tN A
5 arr   a      6     /                                                                             n  dt ita  n       O c e  a  n
<      SRd LANKA
atnd tcon on att atOnatat                                    N rnar                             1                                                          ,



