CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 942 CE
Development Credit Agreement
(Small and Medium Industries Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 24, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 942 CE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 24, 1979, between DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as - if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "NDB" means the National Development Bank of the
Borrower established under the National Development Bank Act,
No. 2 of 1979;
(b) "SMI Fund" means the Small and Medium size Industries
Fund established pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) of
this Agreement;
(c) "IDB" means the Industrial Development Board, a body
established within the Borrower's Ministry of Industries and
Scientific Affairs, or any successor thereof;
(d) "MTI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Textile Indus-
tries or any successor thereof;
(e) "DSI" means the Department of Small Industries within
the Borrower's Ministry of Rural Industrial Development;
(f) "Participating Credit Institution" means the Peoples'
Bank, Bank of Ceylon, Hatton National Bank, Commercial Bank
of Ceylon, Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon or any


﻿-2-
other state or privately held credit institution established
or operating under the laws of the Borrower, which has entered
into a participation agreement with NDB pursuant to Section 3.09
of this Agreement;
(g) "small and medium size industry" means any enterprise,
privately or cooperatively owned, with plant and equipment valued
at original cost (excluding land and buildings) of less than
Rsl,000,000, prior to the granting of a Sub-loan, which is engaged
or intends to engage in manufacturing, mining, construction,
agro-industry, fish processing, handicraft production, or indus-
trial service activities;
(h) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
by a Participating Credit Institution in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement and which is or proposed to be
refinanced by the proceeds of the Credit;
(i) "Sub-project" means a sub-project for which a sub-loan
is made or proposed to be made by a Participating Credit Insti-
tution under the Project;
(j) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement entered
into between the Borrower and NDB pursuant to Section 3.03 of this
Agreement, as the said agreement may be amended from time to
time with the consent of the Association; and
(k) "Rs" means Rupees, the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equi-
valent to sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation, for: (i) Sub-loan disbursements under Part A of the Project
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made); and (ii) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and


﻿-3-
services required for Parts B, C and D of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Notwithstanding provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 above, no withdrawals shall be made for expenditures under
the Project unless the Association shall have authorized such
withdrawals. Each request by the Borrower for authorization
to make withdrawals in respect of a Sub-loan under Part A of
the Project shall be accompanied by: (i) a summary description
of the Sub-project including a summary description of the expendi-
tures proposed to be financed; and (ii) such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. Each request by
the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals in respect
of Parts B, C and D of the Project should be accompanied by:
(i) a summary description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed and their intended uses; (ii) such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods under the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be as follows:
(a) under Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall cause
NDB to establish procedures to ensure that: (1) the goods procured
locally shall be purchased at reasonable and competitive prices,
due account being taken also of other relevant factors such as
time of delivery, quality and reliability of the goods and avail-
ability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor; and
(2) the contracts for goods procured outside the Borrower's
territory and estimated to cost Rsl60,000 or more shall be let
through international shopping on the basis of at least three
price quotations; and
(b) under Parts B, C and D of the Project, goods shall
be procured in accordance with the procurement procedures of
the Borrower acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 1989, and ending Febru-
ary 1, 2029, each installment to and including the installment
payable on February 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLF III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the PrDject or
cause the Project to be carried out, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and industrial practices, and shall provide or cause to
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, staff, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. For the purposes of carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall:
(a) establish and maintain a Project Coordinating Committee
having such terms of reference as shall be satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association;
(b) cause NDB to establish and maintain a SMI Fund with
(i) an initial capitalization of not less than Rs20,000,000, (ii)
an initial number of staff with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to NDB and the Association, and (iii) accounting
procedures and a statement of policies and operating procedures
satisfactory to the Association; and
(c) cause NDB, from time to time, to: (i) provide such
additional capitalization funds to the SMI Fund; and (ii) increase
the number of staff of the SMI Fund, as may be required to meet
the operational needs of the SMI Fund.


﻿-5-
Section 3.03. In order to carry out Part A of the Project,
the Borrower shall relend to NDB for the account of SMI Fund,
the equivalent in rupees of such amounts as shall be withdrawn
from the Credit Account under Category (1) of the table set
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, under a
subsidiary loan agreement on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association including those set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.04. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Parts B, C and D of the Project, the Borrower shall employ or
cause to be employed consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
under Part B of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transpor-
tation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a cur-
rency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the CrediL to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for Parts B, C and D of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable or cause to enable the Association's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be


﻿-6-
furnished to the Association at regular intervals all such infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish or
cause to be prepared and furnished to the Association a report,
of such scope and in such detail as the Associaticu shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause NDB to:
(a) apply procedures and criteria satisfactory to the
Association in NDB's review of a Sub-project appraisal by a
Participating Credit Institution for a Sub-loan to be refinanced
by the SMI Fund under the Project; and
(b) approve and refinance a Sub-loan on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including those set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause the existing Small
Industries Credit Guarantee Scheme of the Borrower's Central
Bank to be amended to include Sub-loans for small and medium
size industries refinanced under the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause NDB to enter into
a participation agreement with each Participating Credit Insti-
tution, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall ensure that the terms of
reference of the special studies to be carried out under Part D of
the Project are satisfactory to the Association and shall consult
with the Association regarding the findings and recommendations
of these studies.


﻿-7-
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall cause:
(a) an annual (January 1 to December 31) work program on the
Project to be prepared and furnished, not later than November 1 of
the year prior to the year in which the work is to be carried out,
to the Association for comment; and
(b) a quarterly progress report on the Project to be pre-
pared and furnished, not later than two months after the end of
the quarter under review, to the Association for comment.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained: (i) the accounts and financial statements of NDB;
and (ii) records and separate accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, all expenditures
not exceeding the equivalent of $40,000 to refinance a Sub-loan
under Category (1) (a) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expendi-
ture.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, or cause to be retained,
until one year after the Closing Date, all records (orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expen-
diture and shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall:
(i) cause an annual audit satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation to be made of the accounts and financial
statements of NDB and of the separate accounts
referred to in Section 4.01 (a) above for each
fiscal year, in accordance with appropriate audit-
ing principles consistently applied, by independent
and qualified auditors;


﻿-8-
(ii) furnish or cause to be furnished to the Associ-
ation, as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such
year:
(A) certified copies of the accounts and financial
statements of NDB and said separate accounts
for such year as so audited; and
(B) the report of such audit by such auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested,
including without limitation to the foregoing,
a separate opinion by said auditors in respect
of the expenditures and records referred to in
Section 4.01 (b) above as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the
Credit Account on the basis of certificates
of expenditure have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided; and
(iii) furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association
such other information concerning said separate
accounts, records and expenditures and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain or
cause to be taken out and maintained with responsible insurers, or
make or cause to be made other provision, satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower and the Association shall exchange
views from time to time regarding the development of incentives
affecting small and medium size industries.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that:


﻿-9-
(a) the National Development Bank Act, No. 2 of 1979, shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as, in the judgment of the Association, to materially affect
the carrying out of the Project or the operations or financial
condition of NDB;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement without the Association's consent; and
(c) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of NDB or SMI Fund, or for the suspension of the operations
of NDB or SMI Fund.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, any events specified in para-
graphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that:
(a) the SMI Fund shall have been established in accordance
with the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b) the existing Small Industries Credit Guarantee Scheme
of the Borrower's Central Bank shall have been amended in accor-
dance with the provisions of Section 3.08 of this Agreement;
(c) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been entered
into in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03 of this
Agreement; and
(d) participation agreements have been entered into by
NDB with at least two Participating Credit Institutions in accor-
dance with the provisions of Section 3.09 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General


﻿- 10 -
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subisidary Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed
and delivered on behalf of the parties thereto, and constitutes
a valid and binding obligation upon the Borrower and NDB.
Section 6.03. The date October 24, 1979 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Colombo,
Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka
Cable address:                       Telex:
SECMINFIN                           1232
Colombo                             FORAID
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
Lis Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
By Is/ W. S. Karunaratne
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Part A of
the Project:
(a) refinanced            9,700,000        100%
amount not
exceeding
$40,000 equi-
valent per
Sub-loan
(b) refinanced            2,300,000        100%
amount exceed-
ing $40,000
equivalent per
Sub-loan
(2) Equipment, vehicles
and materials for
Part B of the
Project
(a) handloom company        240,000        100% of foreign
expenditures;
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory); and
80% of other
local expenditures


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(b) other                 1,400,000        100% of foreign
expenditures;
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory); and
80% of other
local expenditures
(3) Training, consultant
and technical ser-
vices:
(a) under Part B of       1,520,000        100%
the Project
(b) under Part C of         590,000        100%
the Project
(c) under Part D of         250,000        100%
the Project
TOTAL     16,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:


﻿-14-
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
and
(b) expenditures under Category (2) (a) of the table in
paragraph 1 above, until and unless the private limited handloom
production and export company under Part B (ii) of the Project,
has been established to the satisfaction of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expen-
ditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to assist in the development
of small and medium size industries in the Borrower's territory
and consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
A program by NDB through the SMI Fund to refinance Sub-loans
by Participating Credit Institutions to small and medium size
industries.
Part B:
Strengthening of managerial, technical, marketing and other
general and specific subsector services principally for small and
medium size industries through provision of staff, training,
equipment and facilities:
(i) under IDB for establishment and expansion of a: (a)
subcontracting exchange, (b) extension programs and
(c) technical services centers for rubber products,
metal products, and building materials;
(ii) under MTI for the establishment and improvement of
a garment training center and a private limited handloom
production and export company;
(iii) under DSI for establishment and improvement of a tech-
nical extension program in the white coir products
industry; and
(iv) under other agencies for other small and medium size
industry-related studies and activities.
Part C:
Improvement of NDB and Participating Credit Institution
staff and operational systems through:
(i) development of NDB operating procedures and training
of staff;


﻿- 16 -
(ii) training of staff to upgrade small and medium size
industry appraisal and supervision capabilities of
Participating Credit Institutions; and
(iii) improvement of management information systems and
staff development in the Participating Credit Insti-
tutions.
Part D:
Policy studies by the Borrower to:
(i) determine the feasibility of extending fiscal incen-
tives to industrial enterprises which expand and those
providing components to exporters; and
(ii) analyze and make recommendations for the development
of an appropriate tariff system.
Parts B, C and D would be undertaken with the assistance
of about 22 man-years of specialist assistance.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
A.   Terms for On-lending by Borrower to NDB
1.   Interest rate              9% per annum
2.   Amortization period        13 years, inclusive of 4 years
of grace
3.   Foreign exchange risk      to be borne by Borrower
B.   Terms for Refinancing Sub-loans by NDB
1.   Interest rates         :   10% per annum for Sub-loans
up to Rs 100,000;
11% per annum for Sub-loans
exceeding Rs 100,000 and
up to Rs 500,000;
12% per annum for Sub-loans
exceeding Rs 500,000 and
up to Rs 1,000,000
2.   Amortization period        maximum of 10 years, inclusive
of 2 years of grace
3.   Amount of refinancing      up to 80% of amount of each
Sub-loan
C.   Terms of Sub-loans
1.   Interest rate              15% per annum
2.   Amortization period        3 to 10 years including a maximum
of 2 years of grace.
3.   Maximum sub-project
size                  Rs 2,000,000 in land, build-
ings, plant, machinery
and equipment
4.   Maximum Sub-loan size      Rs 1,000,000 in land, build-
ings, plant, equipment
and permanent working
capital


﻿- 18 -
5.   Minimum equity
contribution          20% of Sub-project amount
The terms for On-lending, Refinancing and Sub-loans above set
forth may be amended from time to time as mutually agreed between
the Borrower and the Association.


