Report No. 464-CO
Appraisal of the Second                                                     FILE COPY
Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project
Colombia
December 22, 1974
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Deveiopment Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 15, 1974)
Currency Unit         =         Colombian Pesd (Col$)
US$1                           Col$25
Col$l                          US$0.04 (see paragraph 5.09)
Col$1,000,000         =         US$40,000
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                                 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                            0.62 mile (mi)
1 square meter (in2)                        10.8 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)                          35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 liter (1)                                 0.26 US gallon
1 gallon (gal)                              3.785 liters
I cu4ic meter per second           =        22.8 million US gallons per day
(m /sec)                                  (mgd) or 35.4 cubic feet per
second (ft3/sec)
1 milligram per liter (mg/l)       =        0.058 Grain per US gallon
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DANE                 Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadistica
ECO                  External Credit Office
EXIMBANK             Export - Import Bank of the United States of America
FONADE               Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Economico
IDB                  Inter-American Development Bank
INPES                Instituto Nacional para Programas Especiales de Salud
INSFOPAL             Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal
PAHO                 Pan American Health Organization
USAID                United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



COLOMBIA
1APPRAISAL OF THE
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                 .................                        - ii
1.    INTRODUCTION  ..................................                          1
2. THE SECTOR.                                                                  3
Urban Development .........................                           3
Organization  .................................                       3
Past Investments ............................                         4
Sector Program ..............,.,,,                                   4
Bank Objectives  in the Sector ................                      4
3.    THE BORROWER ...................................                          6
Past Performance .............................                        6
Organization .................................                        6
Staff and Management .......................,.                        7
Accounting System ...........................                         8
Audit ..,,,,,,,,,,,,,    8
Reorganization of INSFOPAL ................ .                         9
Restructuring of the Operating Agencies                             10
Management Assistance to INSFOPAL ............                      10
4.    THE BENEFICIARIES ..............................                         11
Organization .................................                      11
Management  Systems,..........................                      12
Accounting .......... .........................                     12
Audit  .......... ...........................                        12
Proposed Training Program  ..,,,,,,,,,,,,,,                         13
5.  THE PROJECT.14
5.   TH    PROEC  .....................................                    1
Background of the Project ....................                      14
Scope of the Project ....................                           14
Description of the Project  ..................                      15
Cost Estimates ...............................                      16
Loan Amount .............,,,,,,,,,,,,, 17
INSFOPAL's Program. .                                               17
Procurement ., ,,,,    18
Disbursement .                                                      18
INSFOPAL's  Selection of the Towns .........                        18
Execution of the Project ....................                       19
This report was prepared by Messrs. F. Rodriguez and D. Ruiz. The
feasibility studies forthe Project were made by INSFOPAL and its
consultants; their work was supervised by Mr. K. Ringskog.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
6.   JUSTIFICATION  ...................................             20
Demand Forecasts and Investment Objectives  ....           20
Selection of Proposed Project .................           20
Internal Financial Return on Investments   ......          21
Environmental Aspects  .......... .. ............          21
Institution Building                .         .           21
7.   FINANCE .........        .................................     22
Past Finances ................. ................           22
Financing Plan ................. ...............           22
Water and Sewerage Tariffs ......... ...........           24
Other Tariffs  ................ ................           25
Future Finances  ............. .. ...............          25
Risks     .........................................        26
Monitoring System                  .         .             27
8.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .... ......             28
December 22, 1974



COLOMBIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex No.
1.      Previous Bank Loans in the Sector
2.      The Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal (INSFOPAL)
3.      Existing Water Supply and Sewerage Facilities
4.      Customers and Water Consumption, 1974-1983
5.      Population and Water Consumption, 1974-1983
6.      Proposed Works
7.      Cost Estimates
8.      Bank Loan Components
9.      Estimated Schedule of Cumulative Disbursements
10.      Internal Financial Rate of Return
I1.      INSFOPAL - Consolidated Balance Sheet
12.      INSFOPAL - Consolidated Statements of Income
13.      INSFOPAL - Consolidated Cash Flow Statements
14.      Water Supply and Sewerage Services - Balance Sheet
15.      Water Supply and Sewerage Services - Statements of Income
16.      Consolidated Financing Plan.
17.      Financing Plan for the Subprojects
18.      Tariffs and Financial Targets
19.      Other Services - Statements of Income and Cash Flow
20.      Consolidated Statements of Income
21.      Notes to Financial Statements and Projections
22.      Method of Calculating the Rates of Return and Operating Ratios
23.      INSFOPAL's Projected Cash Flow Statements
24.      Monitoring Indicators
Chart No.
8720     INSFOPAL - Existing Organizational Structure
8721     INSFOPAL - Proposed Organizational Structure
8727     Construction Schedule
Map        Location of Cities Included in the Project






COLOMBIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND MULTI-CITY
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report deals with the appraisal of a water supply and sewerage
project for eight cities and thirty towns in Colombia, for which a Bank loan
of US$27 million is proposed. The project supports a Colombian Government
policy intended to improve living conditions in the intermediate cities by
providing them with an adequate infrastructure including water supply services
and wastewater disposal systems. It is expected that adequate public services
would help these cities foster their economic growth, thus reducing emigration
to larger urban areas offering better employment opportunities and amenities,
and would attract some of the population moving out of rural areas.
ii.       There are many deficiencies in the sanitation system of the Colombian
cities, and the Government objective is to extend by the year 1980 water supply
and sewerage facilities to at least 80% of the urban population. However,
because of the large capital expenditures required, it is doubted that such an
objective can be accomplished. Since 1968 the Bank has become extensively
involved in the water supply and sewerage sector through a series of loans for
Bogota, Cali, Palmira and seven medium-size cities. The proposed project is
to meet water supply needs of eight more cities for the next decade: Barranquilla,
Cartagena, Cucuta, Ibague, Pasto, Popayan, Valledupar and Villavicencio, and sewerage
needs of six of them, excluding Valledupar and Villavicencio. In addition to this
project, Cartagena would have to build sewage treatment facilities in the near
future. For the other cities, sewage treatment is not required in the foreseeable
future. The 30 towns which would benefit from the loan were not individually
appraised. The report recommends that the "Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal"
(INSFOPAL), the national water supply agency, select these towns and carry out
detailed project appraisals which would be submitted for Bank review and approval.
iii.      The borrower would be INSFOPAL which would relend the loan proceeds to
the beneficiaries (the above-mnentioned cities and towns) at an interest rate and
repayment period equal to those of the Bank, with the sub-borrowers bearing the
foreign exchange risk, and under subsidiary loan agreements acceptable to the
Bank. Four of the beneficiaries are municipal utilities (empresas) which provide
water and sewerage services and in some cases, public markets, slaughterhouse,
solid waste collection and street cleaning services. The remaining beneficiaries
are subsidiary organizations (acuas) of INSFOPAL and provide only water supply and
sewerage services. In addition to conditions of effectiveness for the loan as a
whole, each individual loan agreement between INSFOPAL and the beneficiaries would
.ive V iLS own conditions of effectiveness.
iv.       This would be the second Bank loan to INSFOPAL and would continue
a policy of strengthening INSFOPAL as the national agency responsible for the
planning of water supply activities and for the improvement of the technical and
financial management of the water utilities. This is also the objective of the



- ii -
Colombian Government which recently issued a decree (No. 703), reorganizing
the sector and redefining INSFOPAL's functions. INSFOPAL would administer
investment funds for the sector and increasingly take charge of effective
project preparation and construction supervision. Project execution under the
first loan (860-CO) is proceeding satisfactorily.
v.        The management of the cities' utilities varies from poor to good,
and the beneficiaries will need considerable assistance for improvement of
their operations. Their financial position in general is tight, and initial
and subsequent tariff increases are projected over the 1974 levels. However,
the proposed investments are within the range of the beneficiaries' financial
capacity, and the projected tariff increases appear to be reasonable.
vi.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$52.9 million
including funds for managerial assistance to INSFOPAL and training of water
utilities' staff. About 51% of the project cost would be financed with the
proceeds of the Bank loan, 31% with a Government grant to INSFOPAL, and the
remaining 18% from internal cash generation of the beneficiaries.  INSFOPAL
would lend the Government funds to the beneficiaries. The Bank loan would
cover the foreign exchange component estimated at US$16.7 million (excluding
interest on Bank loan during construction) and about 31% of the local expenditures
or US$10.3 million equivalent.
vii.      Except for civil works under US$100,000, all contracts would be placed
by means of international competitive bidding. Foreign suppliers are expected
to win most of the contracts for treatment plant and pump station equipment,
amounting to about US$8.8 million. Colombian contractors are expected to win
civil works and pipe supply contracts. For bid evaluation purposes, a 15%
margin of preference would be allowed for equipment manufactured in Colombia.
The beneficiaries are not liable to pay customs duties and consequently no
regional preference for manufacturers in the member countries of the Andean Group
will be accepted in bid evaluation.
viii.     Water demand has reached the maximum supply capacity of the cities'
existing facilities, and without the project, the utilities would have to stop
making new house connections. Sanitary conditions in the cities would also be
substantially improved. The internal financial rates of return on the individual
subprojects would vary from 8% in Pasto to 15% in Cucuta.
ix.       The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$27 million for a term
of 25 years including a grace period of 5 years, provided the conditions set
forth in Chapter 8 of this report are met. The Colombian Government should
0 a;       ~.a Bank loan to INSFOPAL.



COLOMBIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND MULTI-CITY
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal (INSFOPAL), a Colombian
Government agency with overall responsibility for water supply and sewerage
services, requested the Bank to consider financing water supply and sewerage
works in the cities of Barranquilla, Cartagena, Cucuta, Ibague, Pasto, Popayan,
Valledupar, Villavicencio  and in 30 small towns.  The cost of these works, of
management assistance to INSFOPAL and of training of water utilities' staff
has  been  estimated  at  US$52.9 million.    A Bank loan of US$27.0 million is
proposed, which INSFOPAL would relend to four independent municipal utilities
(empresas) and to subsidiary organizations (acuas) of INSFOPAL itself.
1.02      ID. October 1972, the Bank made a loan* of US$9.1 million (860-CO) to
INSFOPAL to help this institution finance water supply and sewerage works in
seven medium-size cities. At the very start, the project execution in these
cities was unsatisfactory, but INSFOPAL and the sub-borrowers have since sub-
stantially improved their performance under this loan. The Bank has also made
four previous loans for the water supply and sewerage sector, details of which
are given in Annex 1 of this report. Project construction under these loans has
been delayed because of the borrowers' difficulties in generating the counterpart
funds needed for the financing of the works. Institution building has also been
slower than expected.
1.03      The Bank objective in making the proposed second loan to INSFOPAL
would be to develop the institutional capacity of this agency to assist the
empresas and acuas in technical operations, administration, finance and
project preparation. INSFOPAL would be reoriented, strengthened and trans-
formed into a competent national institution through which a major share of
investment funds for the sector would be channelled. It is expected thatin
the future the Bank will be able to lend for water supply and sewerage on the
basis of estimates of the sector requirements, with INSFOPAL sublending the
funds on the basis of detailed project appraisals that it would carry out
under the Bank surveillance. Moreover this report recommends taking a first
step toward delegating appraisal responsibilities to INSFOPAL in its provision
of funds for increasing water production in 30 small towns which will be
selected and appraised by INSFOPAL.
1.04      The Colombian Government objective is to make INSFOPAL the planning
and financial institution for the water supply and sewerage sector. This
means the gradual elimination of the operational functions of INSFOPAL by
transforming its regional operating offices and acuas into fully independent
entities, and the strengthening of its financial and advisory functions. The
groundwork for this reform has already been laid through the issuance of a
presidential decree (No. 703), reorganizing INSFOPAL and redefining its
functions.
* Report No. PU-100 of July 31, 1972 and Loan Agreement of October 10, 1972.



1.05      The improvement and extension of water supply and sewerage facilities
in Colombian cities have not kept pace with the rate of expansion of their urban
areas. As a consequence, most of the population living in low income areas are
not served by the public water network and get their supply from unsafe water
sources. The Colombian Government recognizes these deficiencies in the sanita-
tion sector and is pursuing a policy of providing public facilities in the inter-
mediate cities in order to reduce emigration to the three largest urban centers
(Bogota, Medellin and Cali) and also to make such cities attractive to the popu-
lation moving out of rural areas.
1.06      To further this policy, the Government has embarked on an ambitious
program to extend by 1980 water supply and sewerage systems to at least 80%
of the urban population. The loan now proposed would help the Government
finance such extension in 8 cities with populations of 50,000 to 700,000,
increasing the total population served in these cities from 1.3 million in
1973 to 2.1 million in 1980. The loan also includes funds for (i) the drilling
and equipment of wells to supply safe water to about 200,000 additional people
living in 30 small towns, (ii) the purchase of 100,000 water meters and their
installation in all the communities which are under INSFOPAL's responsibility,
(iii) the training of staff of the empresas and acuas, and (iv) management
assistance to INSFOPAL.
1.07      The Bank participation in this Government program requires the
appraisal of smaller and more numerous projects than is usual in the Bank's
work, and this would be administratively onerous for both the Bank and the
Colombian Government if the usual methods were followed. A Group of cities
has therefore been selected to form the basis of a single loan to be adminis-
tered by INSFOPAL. There are further advantages in this approach. Loans to
individual municipal utilities can be kept small and made in series so that
the utility can demonstrate that it is improving and the perspective of
receiving the next loan in the series gives it an incentive to continue to
improve.
1.08      The municipal utilities of Barranquilla, Cartagena, Cucuta and
Villavicencio are multi-service empresas providing in addition to water
supply and sewerage, solid waste collection, markets, slaughterhouses and
street cleaning services. Because these services are integrated in one
company, it has been necessary to review each service and set forth finan-
cial criteria which would enable the service to fully cover its operating
costs and debt service.
1.09      This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission composed
of Messrs. F. Rodriguez and D. Ruiz who visited Colombia in November 1973;
data were revised in November 1974 during a visit by Messrs. F. Rodriguez
and C. Todd. A preliminary study of the project was prepared by INSFOPAL
and its Colombian Consultants, Messrs. G. Yepes, A. Mejia and H. Cajiao.
The Consultants' work was supervised by Mr. K. Ringskog of the Bank staff
in Colombia.



- 3 -
2. THE SECTOR
Urban Development
2.01      Colombia has been experiencing rapid and uneven growth of the popula-
tions of its principal cities, where public services have become inadequate.
The Government intends to promote a better-balanced urban development by
encouraging the growth of the intermediate cities in order to reduce emigration
to larger urban areas offering better employment opportunities and amenities, and
to make the intermediate cities attractive to rural migrants. One of the immediate.
goals of the Government is to relieve demographic pressures on the large urban
areas of Bogota, Medellin and Cali. If this policy is to succeed, more adequate
public services will have to be providedin these intermediate cities. An impor-
tant expression of the Bank support to this Government program has been the first
Bank loan to INSFOPAL for the construction of water supply and sewerage facilities
in seven medium-size cities.
2.02      The inadequacy of water supply and sewerage services has been due
primarily to institutional problems and to traditionally low tariffs which
have made it impossible to raise the large capital sums needed for new works.
Inflation and local political opposition to tariff increases have aggravated
the situation, and a vicious circle has been created where deteriorating
services have made it more difficult to convince the public of the necessity
for tariff increases. The Government favors these increases and the National
Public Services Tariff Board created in 1968, advocates the implementation of
adequate tariffs which will cover operating costs and generate funds for future
investments.
Organization
2.03      The Colombian water supply and sewerage sector is made up of three
main groups:
(a) Twenty-one cities with populations ranging from 25,000 to 3.0
million have their own municipal utilities (empresas) to provide
public services. These cities have a combined population of
about 8.0 million or a third of the total population. From
70%  to  90%  of  these  cities'  population  receives water
supply services; 50% to 80% is connected to the sewerage system.
In general the empresas are not well operated, They finance their
system expansion with internal funds, suppliers' credits, and
loans from the National Government and foreign lending institu-
tions.
(b) The remaining cities with more than 2,500 inhabitants have their
water supply systems operated by INSFOPAL. The total population
served by these systems is about 6.0 million or a fourth of
Colombia's population. Approximately 70% of the inhabitants in
this group have a supply of water, but only 50% are connected to
the sewerage system. The quality of the services is poorer than
that of the empresas previously described, administrative competence
is usually less, and their operating deficits and investments are
generallyfinanced with Government grants.



- 4 -
(c)  The rural communities (less than 2,500 inhabitants) have their
systems planned and executed by the "Instituto de Programas
Especiales de Salud" (INPES). These communities are responsible
for the operation and maintenance of their systems. Only an
estimated 30% of the population in this group receives water
supply and sewerage services, the quality of which is lower
than that of INSFOPAL. These communities are too poor to afford
adequate services and rely on Government funds to finance their
operating deficits and investments, although direct charges are
intended to cover operating expenses and some depreciation.
Past Investments
2.04      Annual investments in the sector increased from US$21.6 million
in 1965 to US$46.3 million in 1971 and the total investment for that period
was US$253 million. Of this, 75%/ were by the empresas, 20% by INSFOPAL and
only 5% for INPES communities.  About 35% of the total investment was financed
from the national budget, 20% with external sources,30%/. with internally-generated
funds and the remaining 15% with domestic credits.
2.05      External assistance for the sector started about twelve years ago,
and US$196.1 million were committed from 1961 to 1972. Of this amount, 70%.
was from the Bank; 25% from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), and
the remainder from USAID, Eximbank and the German Kreditanstalt. In addition,
USAID made a sector loan of US$29.0 million in June 1971 for urban development.
2.06      The Bank has already made five loans amounting to US$131.6 million
for Bogota, Cali, Palmira and seven medium-size cities. Since 1961 IDB has
been also active in the sector and has made 10 loans totalling US$43.4 million.
Two of these, made to INSFOPAL in 1962, amounted to US$10.6 million and were
for 327 towns. The IDB loans were disbursed very slowly, partly because of
poor planning. Repayment by the individual towns has been generally deficient
and INSFOPAL is now servicing the debt with its own resources.
Sector Program
2.07      In 1972 the National Planning Department concluded a national survey
of the sector to determine the total investment that would be necessary to
make up deficiencies of the services and keep abreast of population growth.
Average annual investment requirements (in 1972 prices) through 1980, which
are only indicative because of the questionable quality of the data, were
then estimated as follows: Col$1,000 million for the empresas, Col$630 million
for INSFOPAL and Col$550 million for INPES. The difficulty of raising such
large sums indicates that goals will have to be reduced and that the mobiliza-
tion of internal resources through increased tariffs is of vital importance.
INSFOPAL is now carrying out a new sector survey, as well as a study of the
tariff increases required to make the sector financially self-sufficient.
Bank Objectives in the Sector
2.08      The main objectives of the project are:
(i)  to provide adequate water supply services to at least 90% of the



- 5 -
expected 1983 population of the cities of Barranquilla, Cartagena,
Cucuta, Ibague, Pasto, Popayan, Valledupar and Villavicencio;
(ii)  to extend the wastewater collection networks to 80% of the 1983
population of the cities of Barranquilla, Cartagena, Cucuta,
Ibague, Pasto and Popayan, with the exception of Cartagena
where this percentage would reach only 40% in 1983;
(iii)  to reduce unaccounted-for water in the eight cities from the
present high level of 50% to 25% in 1980 and to provide
improved services to existing customers;
(iv)  to increase the percentage of population served by the public
water network in 30 towns under INSFOPAL's responsibility, from
70% to 75%;
(v)  to normalize water demand and reduce water waste in all the
water supply systems of INSFOPAL by installing 100,000 water
meters which would also permit the implementation of adequate
water rates;
(vi)  to help the above cities and towns establish well-organized
and financially viable water utilities by undertaking the
training of their staff and implementing adequate water rates;
and,
(vii)  to strengthen and develop INSFOPAL into the advisory and finan-
cial agency of the sector, on which the Bank would rely in the
future for its water supply lending operations in Colombia, by
providing management assistance to INSFOPAL.
2.09      Institution building probably has the greatest chance of success
with the municipal empresas because of their size, present level of manage-
rial competence and concentration of population. They are also the Bank's
most likely potential borrowers. The four empresas which will be the bene-
ficiaries of the proposed loan are all in need of assistance in technical
operations, administration and finance in varying degrees, but INSFOPAL's
utilities need such assistance even more.
2.10      Therefore, the strategy of the proposed loan is to make INSFOPAL
assess and organize such assistance. As previously explained in paragraph
1.03, the development of INSFOPAL into a competent national institution
is seen as one of the major objectives of the loan which includes funds for
the services of consultants to advise INSFOPAL. The financing plan discussed
in Chapter 7, includes in its sources budgetary funds from the Colombian
Government which INSFOPAL will lend to the utilities. In later years, after
it has received repayments, INSFOPAL would relend them in the sector. A role of
increasing importance and authority in guiding the sector towards greater
efficiency and full development is therefore envisaged for INSFOPAL.



- 6 -
3. THE BORROWER
Past Performance
3.01      This would be the second Bank loan to INSFOPAL.  This institution
was not appraised for the first loan and instead the Bank recommended the
creation of a separate department within INSFOPAL, the External Credit Office
(ECO). Presently this office is carrying out the duties of INSFOPAL under
the Bank loan and is responsible for bidding review, construction supervision
and preparation of disbursement applications. However, this arrangement has
not worked sufficiently well, and consequently this time INSFOPAL has been
evaluated and more specific changes for improvement of this institution are
now proposed.
3.02      As already indicated in this report, progress under the first
project had been slower than expected, mainly because of delays in implementing
the tariff increases required in the subsidiary loan agreements as conditions
of effectiveness, political interference of the Boards of Directors in the
management of the empresas, and a shortfall of internal cash generation.
Water demand has not increased at the rate forecast in the appraisal report
and consequently the empresas have experienced difficulties in financing
their 25 percent share of the investment costs. Much of the blame for this
slow start could also be attributed to the low quality of the personnel of
ECO and INSFOPAL, which had not provided the utilities with adequate assis-
tance. ECO has recently hired more competent staff who are now effectively
helping the empresas.
Organization
3.03      Chart 8720 shows the existing organizational structure of INSFOPAL.
This agency was created in 1940 (Law No. 503) under the name of "Fondo de
Fomento Municipal" and was placed in the portfolio of the Minister of Public
Works. In 1957 by Decree No. 0270, its original name was changed to INSFOPAL,
and in 1968 by Decrees Nos. 2561 and 3178, it was placed under the Minister
of Health.
3.04      INSFOPAL is an autonomous government entity and is managed by a
seven-member Board of Directors (Junta Directiva) and a General Manager who
is appointed by the President of Colombia. The Board of Directors is
presided over by the Minister of Health and is composed of one representa-
tive each of the National Planning Department, the Colombian Society of
Engineers, INPES, the Colombian Association of Municipalities, the Colom-
bian Association of Agriculturists and the National Federation of Coffee
Growers.
3.05      The principal functions of INSFOPAL can be described as:
(a) preparation of public investment programs in the water supply
and sewerage sector;



-7-
(b) design and construction of water supply and sewerage systems;
(c) supervision of water supply and sewerage construction financed
with government funds;
(d) operation and maintenance of water supply and sewerage systems;
(e) formulation of design, construction and operation standards; and,
(f) submission of applications for tariff increases to the National
Public Services Tariff Board.
3.06      INSFOPAL has its headquarters in Bogota  and is presently divided
into four departments - administrative, technical, operational and ECO.
About 750 communities' systems are under INSFOPAL's responsibility, which
at departmental and local levels has three types of agencies:
(a) municipal companies or acuas, in which INSFOPAL holds the majority
of shares;
(b)  departmental offices or "Direcciones Seccionales," which adminis-
ter and operate water supply systems in towns where municipal
utilities have not yet been established; and,
(c) regional offices or "Oficinas Seccionales," which assist the
acuas in operations and construction supervision.
There are now 16 acuas, 13 Direcciones Seccionales and 11 Oficinas Seccionales,
which together operate the 750 INSFOPAL systems.
Staff and Management
3.07      INSFOPAL has presently 320 employees in its central office and some
1,100 staff in its departmental and regional agencies.  The general level of
staff competence is low, and there is inadequate control over the number of
employees, resulting in overstaffing in lower grades and shortages of higher-
qualified personnel. Accordingly, productivity is low. The General Director
supervises directly the operations of the acuas and Seccionales. As a result,
he spends most of his time on routine administration which in principle should
be delegated to lower level staff. Overstaffing is most prevalent at head-
quarters, while personnel in the operating agencies should be increased and
trained. The personnel is heavily unionized and any proposal to reduce staff
would meet with stiff resistance of the union.
3.08      One way to achieve the reduction in personnel at INSFOPAL's headquarters
would be through the transfer of some of the staff from the central office to
the acuas, "Direcciones Seccionales" and "Oficinas Seccionales" which, under
the proposed reorganization of the sector would become independent of INSFOPAL.
In accordance with the terms of the presidential decree No. 703 mentioned in
paragraph 1.04, INSFOPAL should gradually dissociate itself from its operating
responsibility, and consequently its operational division and part of its



- 8 -
inventory subdivision would be disestablished. In addition, the personnel
in the administrative department might be decreased by one fifth, without
affecting the productivity of this department. This means that about 70
employees could be transferred to the acuas,'birecciones Seccionales"and
"OEftinas Seccionales," leaving some 250 staff in the central office. During
loan negotiations, assurances were obtained that the study presently
underway for headquarters' staffing with an appropriate personnel reduction
program will be submitted to the Bank for review and comment within six
*months after the signing of the Loan Agreement.
3.09      Measures would also be taken to improve the knowledge and capabi-
lities of the staff. This would be done under the management assistance to
INSFOPAL, in which selected personnel would be trained to make them perform
their functions more efficiently. This assistance is described under para-
graph 3.18.
3.10      Presently INSFOPAL lends to the municipalities funds it obtains
from Government budgetary allocations. Unfortunately the municipalities do
not service the debt on these loans. Although INSFOPAL draws up an invest-
ment program each year, the Government does not use this program for the
distribution and allocation of its funds. Allocation to each department or
individual city is made by the Colombian Congress and is primarily based on
political considerations. As a result, funds are frequently allocated to a
city for which no project has been prepared, and other cities with greater
needs and a project ready for execution do not receive any funds. As a
consequence, projects badly conceived have been executed in a hurry, and
abandoned later because they could not perform properly.
3.11      To obviate the unwillingness of the municipal utilities to service
the debt on the INSFOPAL loans, the new decree enables INSFOPAL to require
liens on the utilities' revenues in order to secure its loans. The decree
also formulates the Government intention to allocate its budgetary funds for
water supply and sewerage works only on the basis of INSFOPAL's investment
programs.
Accounting System
3.12      INSFOPAL's financial operations are not centralized in one depart-
ment, but are handled in the administrative division and the External Credit
Office. In addition, the budgetary division is dependent on the Planning
Office. The present accounting system is unsuitable for a revenue-earning
enterprise and does not reflect the current financial situation of the insti-
tution. It is only designed to ensure that receipts and payments are entered
under the required headings, and revenues are credited only as received, the
concept of income earned being ignored in the accounts. There is practically
no budgetary control.
Audit
3.13      INSFOPAL's financial statements are audited by the "Contraloria
General de la Republica," a Government agency, which was accepted by the



- 9 -
Bank for the Audit of the External Credit Office (ECO) accounts. This agency
has been satisfactorily performing the audit of ECO in the first loan to INSFOPAL
and could continue its auditing services to INSFOPAL in the proposed second loan.
No internal audit section exists in INSFOPAL. Only an auditor of the above agency,
whose purpose is to ensure compliance with the existing government accounting re-
gulations, is delegated for INSFOPAL's affairs. This auditor, however, does not
review or recommend internal policies, procedures and controls. In general, pre-
paration of financial statements is delayed. During loan negotiations, assurances
were obtained that INSFOPAL will set up and put in operation an internal audit
section within six months after the signing of the loan agreement. Assurances
were also obtained from INSFOPAL that its financial statements, certified by
its external auditors,will be submitted to the Bank not later than four months
after the end of the fiscal year.
Reorganization of INSFOPAL
3.14      The Colombian Government is conscious of the imperfections of INSFOPAL's
existing organization and practices, and consequently, at the Bank's suggestion,
has issued the decree No. 703 reorganizing INSFOPAL and redefining its functions.
The objective of the Government is to transform INSFOPAL into the planning and
lending institution for the sector. The decree stipulates that:
(i) INSFOPAL should be exclusively responsible for the financial planning
of the sector,, and the Government annual budgetary allocations for
the sector should be based on the investment programs prepared by
INSFOPAL;
(ii) INSFOPAL should channel all internal and external credits to the
sector;
(iii) all funds invested by INSFOPAL in the utilities' systems should be
recovered from these utilities; and,
(iv) the existing acuas; "Direcciones Seccionales" and"Oficinas Seccionales"
would be transformed into independent commercial enterprises (operating
agencies) to be responsible for the operations of water supply and
sewerage systems. If it is required, INSFOPAL would also promote
the creation of additional enterprises to cover the entire sector.
3.15      The new status of INSFOPAL would be furthered by the establishment
under its direction of a revolving fund to receive repayments by the water
utilities of Government budgetary funds lent to them by INSFOPAL.  An important
function of INSFOPAL would be to oversee the tariffs of the local water systems
so as to ensure that operating costs are covered and sufficient savings generated
to finance future investments. The main elements of the decree are summarized
in Annex 2.
3.16      Chart 8721 shows the future organizational structure of INSFOPAL.
The new structure will not be implemented immediately, since a transition
period for making the existing operating entities independent of INSFOPAL is
needed.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that INSFOPAL will com-
plete implementation of the proposed structure by June 30, 1976 and will afford
the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on any modifications of the propos-
ed reorganization and staff appointments.



- 10 -
Restructuring of the Operating Agencies
3.17          In each department (state), the existing acuas, "Direcciones
Seccionales" and "Oficinas Seccionales" would be restructured into indepen-
dent commercial enterprises with the State and Municipal authorities as the
principal shareholders. The present personnel in the acuas, "Direcciones
Seccionales" and "Oficinas Seccionales" would be incorporated into the new
companies. With this reorganization in view, INSFOPAL is now carrying out a
study in each department to determine the tariff increases required to meet
the State company's operating costs including debt service. The existing
tariff structures would also be revised. An evaluation of staff and training
requirements, and of the water supply and sewerage needs of each state would
be made by INSFOPAL. The decree states that the creation of the new companies
should be completed by June 1, 1975. However, it is estimated that a year
more might be needed to fulfill the objectives of the decree. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that in this reorganization transition period
INSFOPAL will insure that any entity in which it has a proprietary interest
will increase all tariffs and service charges to cover consolidated operating
costs of those entities, and generate sufficient cash flow to cover debt ser-
vice requirements for all investments made from fiscal year 1974.
Management Assistance to INSFOPAL
3.18      Under the first Bank loan to INSFOPAL, the Pan American Health
Organization (PAHO) has been extending managerial assistance to INSFOPAL,
which will end in 1975. PAHO has stationed a team of three consultants in
INSFOPAL, who have carried out an evaluation of the institution and designed
new management systems to suit the future responsibilities and functions of
INSFOPAL. The team has been providing in-service training to the staff at
all levels, and giving lectures and short seminars. Long and short term
fellowships abroad in specialized fields have been granted by PAHO. The
consultants are also participating in the reorganization of the sector and
operating agencies. Funds for extending this assistance in the years 1976
and 1977 have been included in the proposed loan (paragraph 5.12) in order
to help INSFOPAL implement the new management systems and evaluate their
results.
3.19      INSFOPAL would also retain the services of Colombian consultants
to help it provide managerial and technical assistance to the water companies
which would benefit from the proposed loan. The cost of these services would
be partly financed with the proceeds of the loan (paragraph 5.12). Such assis-
tance is essential, for the success of the project will depend upor INSFOPAL's
effectiveness in helping these water utilities improve their operations. Assurances
were obtained during loan negotiations that INSFOPAL will continue receiving
management assistance during 1976 and 1977, and will provide managerial and
technical assistance to the beneficiaries; consultants acceptable to the Bank
will be hired for both types of assistance which should be periodically re-
viewed with the Bank.



- 11 -
4. THE BENEFICIARIES
Organization
4.01      The beneficiaries of the proposed loan will be the eight cities'
utilities mentioned in paragraph 1.01, and INSFOPAL's present subsidiary
agencies (acuas) which under the new organization of the sector will be
transformed into independent water companies. The cities of Barranquilla,
Cartagena, Cucuta and Villavicencio have municipal empresas which provide
water supply and sewerage services, public markets, slaughterhouses, solid
waste collection and street cleaning services. Ibague, Pasto, Popayan
and Valledupar have acuas which provide only water supply and sewerage
services. The 30 towns which would benefit from the loan were not indivi-
dually appraised. It is recommended that INSFOPAL select these towns and
carry out detailed project appraisals in each of them.
4.02      Each municipal empresa was created by a decree of the city's
municipal council and is managed by a board of directors numbering five
to seven members appointed by the municipal council. One exception is
the Cucuta Empresa's board with ten directors whose behavior in the past
has been politically motivated. It is understood that, as a condition of
effectiveness of the subsidiary loan agreement, INSFOPAL will require the
Empresas of Cucuta to reduce the number of its directors to six as set forth
in its bylaws.
4.03      To ensure independent and businesslike administration of the boards,
the enabling decrees require municipal councils to appoint at least three
directors from lists proposed by local banking and professional organizations.
However, this requirement has not been respected by most municipalities and
today all appointments are made directly by the municipal councils. This
leads in some cases to excessive political interference by the boards in the
daily affairs of the empresas and to deterioration of management as experienced
people leave and new staff without the same competence or experience are brought
in. To correct this situation when it occurs, the decree referred to in para-
graph 3.14 gives authority to INSFOPAL to call for the removal of a board of
directors on the penalty of suspension of disbursement of its loans.
4.04      The boards of directors have considerable authority including the power
to propose tariffs and to select and dismiss the general managers. In practice,
routine administration is delegated to the general managers who at present are
competent and experienced.
4.05      The technical operations and financial management of the empresas
vary from poor to good. Barranquilla is an outstanding example of good finan-
cial management, but its technical division is weak and needs to be better
organized. An example of poor management is Villavicencio where no technical
and accounting records are kept. The other empresas have moderate financial
skill. Lack of revenues and a shortage of qualified technicians are the
principal obstacles to improvement. The first should be remedied by control-
ling operating expenses and charging adequate water rates; the second should



- 12 -
be improved with the assistance of INSFOPAL and under the proposed training
program (paragraphs 3.19 and 4.11).
4.06      The acuas in the cities of Pasto, Ibague and Valledupar were re-
cently established by INSFOPAL. The city of Popayan is also served by an
acua which was created in 1956. The four acuas were previously operated by
the "Direcciones Seccionales" and generated some net earnings (before depre-
ciation) which were used to cover cash operating deficits of other systems
of the "Direcciones Seccionales." The acuas need management assistance in
administrative, financial and technical aspects, which would be provided by
INSFOPAL (paragraph 3.19).
Management Systems
4.07      The present number of employees in the empresas and acuas is reason-
able, with a low ratio of 0.6 per 1,000 persons served in Barranquilla to a
high of 1.0 in Cartagena. In general, employees' salaries and benefits are
not competitive with those of private industries in the cities. The staff
are unionized and their unions exert a fairly strong influence on the Empresas'
management.
4.08      The empresas with the exception of Villavicencio.process their
billings through computers. Three acuas (Ibague, Pasto and Popayan) and
three cities of the first medium-size cities project (loan 860-CO) plan to
set up a computer pool in Cali. Existing methods of collection are not
satisfactory and should be improved as part of the Empresas' reorganization.
The policy of disconnecting services for non-payment is not strictly enforced.
Up to 15% of Barranquilla's bills are outstanding for more than three months.
Collection is particularly bad in Valledupar where consumers are not billed
and must inquire about their billing at the acua office. Governmental agencies
in the cities are billed but only few of them pay their bills. Total billing
to these agencies averages 3% of the utilities' total operating income. During
loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that it
will cause its national agencies to pay their bills from the utilities within
three months after the date of billing.
Accounting
4.09      The Barranquilla Empresa's accounting system functions well.  The
book value of assets is accurately reported and assets are depreciated. This
utility performs annual physical inventory controls, and recorded levels of in-
ventories are reliable. The accounting systems of the other empresas and the
acua in Popayan lack adequate technical organization and the General Managers
do not receive the information required for control of operations and financial
decisions. There is no budgetary control and no inventory is performed. The
other acuas are new and INSFOPAL will help them set up their accounting systems.
Audit
4.10      Audit of the empresas is performed by appointees of the municipal
councils, except in Cucuta where external audit is carried out by local com-
mercial auditors (Urbina, Cespedes & Jaikaya), which was a condition of an
IDB loan to this empresa. In the other cities, existing audit arrangements
are not satisfactory. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that



- 13 -
an internal audit section will be established in each empresa and acua, and
their accounts audited by independent and competent accountants acceptable
to INSFOPAL and the Bank.
Proposed Training Program
4.11      INSFOPAL has made a preliminary study of the training requirements
for carrying out effectively the proposed decentralization of the water supply
agencies. It is estimated that about 2,100 administrative, technical
and operational staff need to be trained. The training would be given to the
staff of the acuas, "Direcciones Seccionales,""Oficinas Seccionales" and
empresas of the medium-size cities.
4.12      The estimated cost of the instructors' services, teaching materials
and facilities amounts to US$360,000. About 457% of this cost would be financed
with a Government grant to INSFOPAL and the remainder with the proceeds of the
Bank loan (paragraph 5.12). The main training courses would be held in Bogota
and Cartagena, and the trainees' travels and stipends would be paid by their
employers. These expenses are not included in the project cost and are consi-
dered as the water utilities' contributions to the program.
4.13      INSFOPAL is considering engaging the "Universidad de los Andes" of
Bogota to coordinate and supervise the program. Specialized institutions such
as PAHO, the Colombian Society of Engineers and the Empresa of Bogota would
direct the training in administration, finance, accounting, maintenance and
metering. In addition, short courses on treatment plant operations, and leak
detection and control in distribution systems, would be given by individual
foreign consultants.
4.14      The training program will be carried out over a period of three years.
It includes the following activities:
(a) establishment of a timetable for the courses, and selection of
instructors;
(b) preparation of teaching material to be used at all levels and
nomination of trainees;
(c) holding of classes and seminars, field courses, laboratory and
shop practices; and,
(d) evaluation of the training.
During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained that a detailed schedule
and description of the training program will be submitted to the Bank for review
and approval within six months after the signing of the loan agreement,
and that consultants acceptable to the Bank will be hired for the training
program.



- 14 -
5. THE PROJECT
Background of the Project
5.01      USAID and the "Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Economico" (FONADE)
financed the feasibility studies of the subprojects for the cities of
Cartagena, Cucuta and Villavicencio. These studies were prepared by
Colombian consulting engineering firms with minor assistance of US consul-
tants. The subprojects for the four INSFOPAL systems serving the cities
of Ibague, Pasto, Popayan and Valledupar were prepared by local consultants
under contracts with INSFOPAL, and then were updated and revised for this
appraisal by the External Credit Office (ECO) with the assistance of
Colombian consultants and under the supervision of the Bank representative
in Bogota. The feasibility study for the Barranquilla subproject was financed
by the city's Empresa and prepared by its consultants.
Scope of the Project
5.02      The project would consist of improving and extending the existing
water supply and sewerage facilities in these eight cities and in some 30
small towns served by INSFOPAL. Presently these cities have a combined
population of 1.8 million growing at annual rates of 3.5% to 6%. The percen-
tage of this population served now by the water supply network is around 70%;
the percentage connected to the sewerage system averages 50%, with the excep-
tion of Cartagena and Valledupar where it is only 20%.
5.03      The objective of the project in these cities is to provide 90% of  hle_
population with adequate quantities of water of reliable quality and to extend
the wastewater disposal systems to 80% of the population, except Cartagena where
the latter would be 40%. Projected daily water consumption per capita ranges
from 180 liters in Villavicencio to 245 liters in Barranquilla, and unaccour dA-
for water is expected to drop from 50%/ now in some cities to around 25% by the
year 1980, mainly by installing water meters in all house connections. All of
the cities' sewage and industrial liquid waste will be discharged into receiving
bodies of water without prior treatment. The sewerage systems are so designed
and arranged that sewage treatment facilities can be added when needed. Projected
pollutant loads from the sewerage systems in all the cities with the exception
of Cartagena, are low compared with the natural selfpurification of the receiving
rivers, and wastewaters would be dispersed without much nuisance or causing de-
oxygenation of the river waters. In Cartagena, part of the sewage is discharged
into the Bay and lagoons, steadily polluting the shoreline and bathing places
along the beach. It is recommended that sewage treatment facilities be built
in the near future to abate this coastal pollution. The preparation of a master
plan for treatment and disposal of domestic and industrial wastewaters in the
Cartagena area will be included in a proposed UNDP urban study for which the
Bank might serve as the executing agency.



- 15 -
5.04      The project also aims at increasing the percentage of people served
in 30 small towns from 70% to 75%. Groundwater supplies to increase the
existing production by about 24 mgd would be developed. Approximately 30 wells
would be drilled, equipped and connected to the existing distribution systems
with short transmission pipelines (paragraph5.12).
5.05      To normalize water demand, reduce waste and permit the implementation
of adequate water tariffs in all the systems of INSFOPAL, an extensive metering
program is included in the project. Presently only a few of the systems are
metered, and funds for the purchase of 100,000 water meters and equipment for
their operation and maintenance are provided in the loan (paragraph 5.12 ).
INSFOPAL would procure the meters by means of international competitive bidding
and then sell them to the operating agencies, charging an administrative fee of
8%. The agencies would repay INSFOPAL the cost of the meters over 5 years with
an interest rate of 12%.
Description of the Project
5.06      The project includes:
(a) the construction of the first stage of water treatment plants
for Cartagena and Villavicencio;
(b) improvement and expansion of the existing water treatment plants
in Barranquilla, Cartagena, Cucuta, Ibague, Pasto, Popayan and
Valledupar;
(c) the construction of a raw water pumping station in Cartagena and
booster pumping stations in Barranquilla and Cucuta;
(d) the supply and installation of about 50 Kms of transmission
pipelines in the 8 cities;
(e) the construction of additional water storage tanks in Barranquilla,
Cucuta and Pasto;
(f) extension and rehabilitation of the water distribution networks in
the 8 cities;
(g) the construction of sewage interceptors, collectors and sewers in
the cities of Barranquilla, Cartagena, Cucuta, Ibague, Pasto, and
Popayan;
(h) the procurement of operational and maintenance equipment for the 8
cities;
(i) the drilling and equipment of wells for 30 towns;
(j) the purchase and installation of 191,000 water meters, and of
meter testing and repair equipment (91,000 for the 8 cities and
100,000 for all the systems of INSFOPAL); and,
(k) management and technical services, and training of staff.



- 16 -
Statistics on the water supply systems, including production and consumption,
past and forecast, are shown in Annexes 4 and 5. A more detailed description
of each individual subproject is given in Annex 6.
Cost Estimates
5.07      Estimated costs of the city subprojects and of the INSFOPAL program
(paragraph 5.12) comprising the works in the 30 towns, the purchase of water
meters, management assistance and training of staff, are summarized below.
Detailed cost estimates are in Annex 7.
Col$ million                 US$ million
Item              Local    Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign    Total
I. City Subprojects
Barranquilla          187.1     70.7     257.8    7.49        2.83     10.32
Cartagena              91.5     53.5     145.0    3.66        2.14      5.80
Cucuta                 27.6     12.6      40.2    1.04        0.49      1.53
Ibague                 24.3     17.9      42.2    0.98        0.72      1.70
Pasto                  18.0      5.8      23.8    0.70        0.23      0.93
Popayan                12.7      8.9      21.6    0.50        0.36      0.86
Valledupar              8.0      6.3      14.3    0.32        0.25      0.57
Villavicencio           9.2      4.9       14.1    0.37       0.20       0.57
II. INSFOPAL's Program    69.5      59.2      128.7    2.78       2.37       5.15
Subtotal           447.9    239.8      687.7   17.84        9.59     27.43
III. Engineering and
Administration        44.6     18.2      62.8    1.86        0.74      2.60
IV. Physical Contin-
gencies            67.1     35.9     103.0    2.71        1.44      4.15
V. Price Contingencies  470.4    285.3       755.7    7.19       4.95      12.14
VI. Interest During
Construction on
Loans                 117.3    119.7      237.0    3.22       3.36       6.58
TOTAL PROJECT COST 1,147.3    698.9   1,846.2   32.82        20.08      52.90
5.08      The estimates are based on the feasibility studies (updated and
modified as necessary for this appraisal) and costs of similar works recently
executed by INSFOPAL. The costs were further verified by direct inquiries of
contractors and equipment manufacturers. Physical contingencies amount to
15% of the estimated cost of the project, reflecting the degree of certainty
on its accuracy. Engineering and project administration were estimated at
10% of the net construction cost.
5.09      All cost estimates are expressed at January 1974 prices levels,
with an exchange rate of Col$25 to US$1. Price contingencies of 25% per
annum in 1974, 20% in 1975, 15% in 1976 and 10% thereafter for local cur-
rency expenditures, and 14% in 1974, 11% in 1975 and 7.5% thereafter for
foreign currency expenditures were added to the estimates. The bids
recently awarded for equipment supply and civil works contracts of this



- 17 -
type and magnitude have shown these cost increases. The 1974 exchange
rate of the Colombian peso to the US dollar has been assumed to increase
by 12% in 1974 and 8.5% annually throughout the construction period.
Loan Amount
5.10      A Bank loan of US$27 million representing about 51% of the total
project cost is proposed. The loan would finance the estimated foreign
exchange cost of US$16.7 million (excluding interest on Bank loan during
construction) and about 31% of local expenditures or US$10.3 million
equivalent. INSFOPAL would relend the loan proceeds to the 8 cities and
30 towns at an interest rate and with a repayment period equal to those
of the Bank, and under subsidiary loan agreements acceptable to the Bank.
The sub-borrowers would bear the foreign exchange risk.
5.11      If costs are greater than the estimates, the beneficiaries would be
expected to meet the overruns. Assurances were also obtained from the
Colombian Government that it will make arrangements for the borrower to be
promptly provided with any additional funds as needed to meet cost overruns.
Should any of the subprojects be completed at a cost less than estimated, the
Bank would consider applying any loan surplus toward the cost of additional
related works or transferring this surplus for other subprojects.
INSFOPAL's Program
5.12      Under the proposed loan, INSFOPAL would be responsible for carrying
out the metering, groundwater and training programs, and technical assistance
to the beneficiaries. INSFOPAL would also have to contract for additional
management assistance or extend its contract with PAHO. The costs of these
programs and consulting services which the loan would help INSFOPAL finance
are shown below; they already include all contingencies.
Col$ million                     US$ million
Local   Foreign   Total      Local      Foreign    Total
Metering Program          33.3      64.3     97.6       0.97       1.84       2.81
Groundwater Program      120.0      71.2    191.2       3.30       1.98       5.28
INSFOPAL's Assistance
to Beneficiaries         3.7       -        3.7      0.11         -        0.11
Management Assistance
to INSFOPAL               -       3.8       3.8       -          0.11      0.11
Training Program          11.3       1.4     12.7       0.32       0.04       0.36
TOTAL                168.3    140.7    309.0       4.70        3.97      8.67
The Bank loan would finance US$5.28 million of the expenditures for the INSFOPAL
program; Government budgetary allocations to INSFOPAL would cover the remainder.



- 18 -
Procurement
5.13     Except for civil works under US$100,000 for which contracts will
be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in
accordance with local procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank, all
contracts would be placed by means of international competitive bidding.
INSFOPAL will purchase in bulk similar items of the subprojects, such as
water meters, pipes and operational equipment, and then pass them to the
respective beneficiaries, charging an administrative fee of 8%. Foreign
suppliers are expected to win most of the contracts for treatment plant
and pump station equipment, water meters and operational equipment,
amounting to about US$8.8 million. Colombian contractors are expected
to win all civil works and pipe supply contracts. For bid evaluation
purposes, a 15% margin of preference (customs duties are substantially
higher) would be allowed for equipment manufactured in Colombia. The
beneficiaries are not liable to pay customs duties, and consequently
no preferential treatment for manufacturers in the member countries
of the Andean Group will be granted in bid evaluation.
Disbursement
5.14      The loan would be disbursed against:
(a)  the full CIF cost of all direct imports for the 8 cities and
the INSFOPAL program;
(b)  a percentage of the cost of all supplies, civil engineering
works and services procured locally for the 8 cities. This
percentage is shown for each city in Annex 8;
(c)  35% of all local procurement and civil works contracts for
the subprojects in the 30 towns;
(d)  the foreign exchange cost of consulting services; and,
(e)  50% of local expenditures for the training program and
management assistance.
Estimated quarterly disbursements for each subproject and consolidated for
the loan are shown in Annex 9. Applications for all disbursements would be
made by INSFOPAL.
INSFOPAL's Selection of the Towns
5.15      Disbursement of loan funds for the development of additional ground-
water supplies for the 30 town water systems administered by INSFOPAL would not
be automatic once the loan is declared effective. The existing water supply
facilities of these towns were not appraised and the cost of the groundwater
exploration and production was arrived at on the basis of a global evaluation
of the INSFOPAL system's immediate needs. The selection of the towns would
be made by INSFOPAL and a feasibility study would be prepared for each of
them; construction would be initiated only after the Bank has approved each
study.



- 19 -
5.16      During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
following steps will be taken prior to the Bank's approval of disbursement
for a subproject in a town:
(a)  an acua or a departmental company would be set up in the town
or departmental region in which a subproject will be carried out;
(b)  plans, cost estimates and financial feasibility studies for the
particular subproject would be made and submitted for Bank review
and approval; and,
(c) adequate water rates would be implemented in the selected town
to generate revenues sufficient to cover at least its operating
and maintenance costs, and debt service.
The cost of the subprojects in the 30 towns would be financed 1007o with the
Bank loan proceeds, and with Government budgetary allocations to INSFOPAL
that it would lend to the towns.
Execution of the Project
5.17      The project would be executed in the FY 1976 through FY 1979.  A
construction schedule for the cities' subprojects and the INSFOPAL program is
shown in Chart 8727. Detailed designs and contract documents will be prepared
by the empresas and acuas consultants. Agreement was reached during negotia-
tions that the subsidiary loan agreements will provide for the use of qualified
consultants. INSFOPAL will approve the selection of consultants, supervise
their work and in general assist the empresas in the administration and
execution of their subproject. INSFOPAL will also periodically review the
operations of the beneficiaries, and prepare terms of reference for management
assistance.
5.18      Intensive Bank supervision of the project, with emphasis on the
subprojects in Cartagena and Villavicencio, is contemplated. The design of
the facilities for these subprojects is quite complex and will need the Bank's
special attention. The Bank supervision will in particular focus on the training
program, management improvement, and progress in the reorganization of INSFOPAL
and the sector.



- 20 -
6. JUSTIFICATION
Demand Forecasts and Investment Objectives
6.01      The project is essential to meet the selected cities' needs for
water over the next decade and to prevent further deterioration in the
quality of service. Demand on the existing water supply facilities has
reached their capacity, and without the project, the utilities would have
to stop making new house connections or allow water pressures to fall below
minimum acceptable standards. Furthermore, the proposed lending supports
the Government's policy of improving living standards in the intermediate
cities to make these cities attractive to rural migrants, and thus achieving
a more balanced urban development. By providing adequate water supply and
sewerage services to areas predominantly inhabited by lower income groups,
the project would promote a better distribution of the benefits of economic
growth.
6.02      Annexes 4 and 5 show population growth, water production and demand,
past and forecast, in the eight cities. Most of the additional connections
will be made in the cities' low-income areas where average consumption per
capita is expected to be lower than that in other parts of the
cities,     and the demand projections take this into account.  It is expected
that the average water consumption per capita would decrease when the distribu-
tion network is extended to the low-income consumers. This was not considered
in previous Bank water supply projects in Colombia, and as a result, water
demand in these projects did not increase at the rate forecast in the appraisal
reports. For this appraisal, water demand in the low-income premises was
projected at half the consumption in other dwellings in the cities.
6.03      Data on water consumption in Barranquilla, Cartagena and Cucuta are
reliable, but are of poor quality in the remaining cities. The demand projec-
tions for the latter group were based on data of similar communities in Colom-
bia and are considered to be reasonable.
Selection of Proposed Project
6.04      The project was scaled to suit the financial capacities of the
beneficiaries by postponing the construction of additional works proposed
by them. Yet it would meet their most urgent needs and is the least-cost
solution to increase the cities' water supply. Where comparison of alter-
natives was appropriate (e.g. choice of water sources for Cartagena and
sizing of transmission mains) real discount rates of 10% to 12% were used
by the consultants. In some cases, existing water treatment plants will be
upgraded and new plants reduced in size or deferred (Cartagena, Popayan,
Valledupar).
6.05      Design standards used for the project were reviewed and generally
accepted by the Bank. In some instances, per capita consumption, storage
capacity and residual water pressures in the distribution networks were
reduced.



- 21 -
Internal Financial Return on Investments
6.06      The internal financial rate of return on the proposed investments
in each city is estimated as follows:
Barranquilla            10
Cartagena               11
Cucuta                  15
Ibague                  12
Pasto                    8
Popayan                  8
Valledupar              10
Villavicencio           12
6.07      The calculations of the rates are based on 1975 prices and are
shown in Annex li. Benefits were measured by the revenues expected from
the additional quantities of water sold after deducting incremental opera-
ting costs due to the project. To the capital costs were added subsequent
investments necessary to utilize the project fully during the next 50 years.
Variations in the rates of return are explained by differences in operations
(location and type of water sources, gravity or pumping systems), investment
phasing and tariff levels.
6.08      These financial rates are lower than the expected economic return
on the project, because all benefits are not fully reflected in the prices
charged for water services. Health benefits, improvement in the communities'
environment, increases in property values were not fully included in the
calculation of the rates of return.
Environmental Aspects
6.09      Provision of water supply and sewage collection services should
substantially improve sanitary conditions in the urban areas of the selected
cities. Pollution of streams within the cities will be reduced to a large
degree. Outside the cities, the discharge of untreated sewage into watercourses
will increase, but except in Cartagena, this would have no long-term adverse
effects on the environment.
6.10      There is immediate need for sewage treatment in Cartagena and a
study for pollution abatement in the Cartagena Bay should be undertaken
without delay (paragraph 5.03).
Institution Building
6.11      The establishment of INSFOPAL as an effective national institution
responsible for the sector and with the capability to prepare, appraise and
supervise water and sewerage projects,is an important objective of the proposed
loan. In addition to improving the beneficiaries' operations, the Bank's
involvement would make INSFOPAL and the municipal authorities set up better
organized and financially viable empresas. It is the Bank's aim to promote,
through one composite project, improvements in investment planning and financial
performance.



- 22 -
7. FINANCE
Past Finances
7.01      The fact that INSFOPAL functions both as a Government agency and a
commercial enterprise makes it difficult to evaluate its financial position.
Its revenues from present water sales are insufficient to cover its operating
expenses and the deficit was Col$4.0 million in 1972 and Col$2.4 million in
1973. Only a few of INSFOPAL's systems recorded depreciation allowance in their
books, thus the real deficits were much higher. Furthermore, in 1972 INSFOPAL
made capital investments of Col$194 million that it received from the Government.
These investments, like those made in previous years, would not be recovered from
the municipalities. IBD and USAID made several loans to INSFOPAL which relent them
in the sector. The municipalities do not pay the debt on these loans and INSFOPAL
is now servicing the debt which amounted to Col$185 million as of December 31, 1972.
INSFOPAL's operating deficit is made up by the Government. With the separation of
the operating agencies from INSFOPAL and the tariff increases contemplated under
the reorganization of the sector (paragraph 3.17), this deficit would be eliminated
in the future. Financial statements of INSFOPAL for the last three years are shown
in Annexes 11-13.
7.02      In general the finances of water and sewerage services of the empresas
and acuas have been characterized by operating losses and cash shortages which
have precluded substantial investments. The cash shortages are largely due to
low tariffs, less than Col$0.80/m3 (US$0.15/1,000 gallons) and to high percentages
of unaccounted-for water (from 34% in Cucuta to 49%/ in Pasto). The Government has
made capital grants to Villavicencio, Cartagena, Valledupar and Pasto for urgent
repairs in their water supply systems.
7.03      The financial performance of the Barranquilla Empresa's Water Supply
and Sewerage Division in 1973 was good with a long-term debt as a percentage of
its capitalization of 13%. Its earnings in this year produced a rate of return
on revalued fixed assets of 10%.   The financial situation of the water supply
and sewerage services of the other empresas was bad in 1973, in particular
Cucuta with a long-term debt as a percentage of its capitalization of 67%.
Villavicencio earned in 1974 a rate of return of 1%o on the revalued rate base.
The financial position of the INSFOPAL entities was tight in 1973 and two of
them, Pasto and Valledupar had an operating deficit of about Col$0.5 million
in this year.  Substantial tariff increases in both cities in 1974 rectified
this situation. Financial statements of the beneficiaries for 1974 are shown
in Annexes 14 and 15.
7.04      The slaughterhouse, markets, solid waste collection and street cleaning
services of the municipal empresas are labor-intensive. Operating costs often
exceed revenues and other sources of income such as real estate taxes, are
used to offset their losses.
Financing Plan
7.05      The financing plan for the construction period (1975-79) is summarized
below. Annex 16 gives the consolidated capital investments to be made in each
year of the construction period, and their sources. Annex 17 shows the financing
plan for each subproject.



- 23 -
Applications of Funds                        Col$        US$           %
--- million ---
Expenditures on the Project
Works of the Empresas and Acuas         1,300.2      37.65         56.0
INSFOPAL's Program                        309.0       8.67         12.8
Interest During Construction                  237.0      6.58          9.7
Other Water Supply and Sewerage               360.7      11.24        16.4
Works of the Empresas and Acuas             3             -
Total Investments                           2,206.9     64.14         94.9
Increase in Working Capital                   118.6      3.40          5.1
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                          2,325.5     67.54        100.0
Sources of Funds
Net Internal Cash Generation of the
Empresas and Acuas                          668.9     19.02         28.2
Government Grant                               10.0       0.33         0.4
Borrowings:
IBRD Loan                                 934.4      27.00         40.0
Government contributions to INSFOPAL    563.7        16.21         24.0
Other Loan                                 148.5      4.98          7.4
TOTAL SOURCES                              2,325.5      67.54        100.0
7.06      The sources of funds would be:
(a)  net internal cash generation of the utilities of Col$668.9 million;
(b)  a Government grant totalling Col$10 million to the cities of Ibague,
Pasto and Valladupar;
(c)  a Bank loan of US$27.0 million at an assumed interest rate of 8%,
with amortization over 20 years after a 5-year grace period.
INSFOPAL would relend the loan proceeds to the beneficiaries under
similar conditions, and the sub-borrowers would bear the foreign
exchange risk;
(d)  Government contributions of Col$563.7 million which INSFOPAL would
lend to the utilities at an interest rate of 12%, to be repaid to
INSFOPAL in 20 years after a 5-year grace period; and
(e)  a loan from an industrial complex in Cartagena, to be repaid by
furnishing raw water, to cover acquisition of raw water facilities
at Cartagena.



- 24 -
7.07      The above financing plan was obtained by consolidating the individual
financing plans for the subprojects. The consolidation was made to determine
the total amounts of the Bank loan and the Government contribution for the
project. The beneficiaries would pay interest and other charges on the Bank
and INSFOPAL loans during construction. Since the sub-borrowers will bear the
foreign exchange risk on the proceeds of the Bank loan, and because INSFOPAL will
not pay back the Government contribution which it will lend to the benefiaries,
no interest spread between the Bank and INSFOPAL lending terms appears to be
necessary so that INSFOPAL can meet its administrative expenses. These expenses
would be covered by the interest that INSFOPAL will collect on its lending of the
Government funds to the beneficiaries.
7.08      During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Colombian
Government that its contribution funds will be promptly made available in order to
ensure the efficient and rapid execution of the project. To date the counterpart
funds of the Government for the first INSFOPAL project have been regularly provided,
as required under the Guarantee Agreement.
Water and Sewerage Tariffs
7.09      Water rates vary from one city to another and are the highest in
Barranquilla (Col$2.11m3) and very low (Col$0.80/m3) in Valledupar. Sewerage
services are charged as a fixed percentage of water bills and this percentage
also varies from city to city. Despite substantial 1974 tariff increases of
28% in Barranquilla, 79% in Cartagena and 280% in Valledupar, further increases
for all eight cities are envisaged in the financing plan. The water rates to be
implemented in 1975 and subsequent years are given in Annex 18. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that implementation of the initial tariff increases
in a specific city will be a condition of loan disbursement for that city's sub-
project.
7.10      The proposed water rates are based on the revenues necessary to cover
operating and maintenance expenses, service the debt and generate some 28% of the pro-
ject costs. The subprojects were in most cases reduced so that the resulting tariffs
might be kept within reasonable limits. These revenues have been calculated as rates
of return and will be included as targets in the subsidiary loan agreements which
would also provide for their quarterly review and tariff adjustments as required.
Tariffs should yield, on average revalued net fixed assets, the rates of return
shown in Annex 18 for each city during the construction period and thereafter.
The existing tariff structures were reviewed and found to be satisfactory. Consi-
dering the social aspects of the project, the contribution towards construction from
internal cash generation and the limitation of raising the tariffs higher, the ex-
pected financial returns are acceptable.
7.11       Tariff increases in Colombia must be first approved by the National
Public Services Tariff Board before they can be implemented. Tariff implementa-
tion is the sole responsibility of the utilities. The empresas and acuas are in
the process of applying to the National Public Services Tariff Board for the first
water rate increases which are expected to be approved soon by the Tariff Board.
It is further recommended that the Tariff Board approve in advance the subsequent
tariff increases to be implemented during the construction period. This advance
approval would permit the utilities to make successive small monthly increases,
thus avoiding big sudden increases which in general give rise to public
outcry. However, if at any time it comes out that the approved rates for a



- 25 -
utility are not producing the revenues sufficient to achieve the agreed rates
of return, then theutility will be required to apply to the Tariff Board for
additional tariff increases. During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained
that the beneficiaries will maintain adequate water rates to meet specified
rates of return, and that the National Public Services Tariff Board will promptly
act on the tariff applications submitted by the beneficiaries to meet the targets
set for the proposed loan.
7.12      The estimated tariffs and annual increases are given in Annex 18.
The proposed tariffs are about the same as in Palmira, Bogota, and Cali, and
are within the range considered acceptable by the National Public Services
Tariff Board. Nevertheless, some public resistance can be expected. Large
tariff increases from 39% in Ibague to 63% in Pasto over the existing
levels are projected for 1975 when the construction starts; during construction
some further increases will be necessary to compensate for inflation.
Other Tariffs
7.13      There is no uniform tariff structure for slaughterhouse, public markets
and street cleaning services. Slaughterhouse revenues depend on the number of
animals killed; market revenues are generated by the renting of individual market
facilities; and a municipal tax is collected for street cleaning services.
The tariffs and operating expenses of these services should be adjusted to achieve
the operating ratios shown in Annex 19.
Future Finances
7.14      The Empresas Water Supply and Sewerage Divisions' forecast income
statements  are  shown  in  Annex  15.   The  financial  performance  of
the beneficiaries' water supply and sewerage services would improve during and
after the construction period, because of larger sales of water, increased
tariffs and reduced losses of water. Fixed assets of the Barranquilla and
Cartagena Empresas, in particular for sewerage, will substantially increase
during the construction period and this would lead to a decrease in the rates
of return from 3.7% and 5.0% in 1976 to 3.3% and 4.4% in 1978 for the respective
utilities. Thereafter the rates would respectively increase to 4.0% and 4.6%.
7.15      Operating ratios of the utilities' water supply and sewerage services
would decrease progressively from as high as 90% to about 60% by 1978, and
internal cash generation should cover debt service comfortably. Other services
of the empresas would have operating ratios of about 75% in 1978. The empresas'
consolidated income statements are shown in Annex 20. The subsidiary loan agree-
ments will stipulate that funds generated by the water supply and sewerage
services will be used exclusively for the subproject,and that the utilities
will not incur any long-term debt for financing water supply and sewerage
works without the consent of the Bank and INSFOPAL, unless the net income of
the water supply and sewerage services, before interest and depreciation, is
at least 1.5 times the maximum debt service in any future year.



- 26 -
7.16      Fixed assets have been revalued in some cities, based on an inflation
factor as recommended by the National Planning Office, and in others in accord-
ance with replacement value calculated by management consultants. In some
cases the value of net fixed assets in service was estimated by INSFOPAL's
consultants. Assets which have not been properly revalued by the utilities
should be revalued within six months following the signing of the subsidiary
loan agreements. Valuations should also be reviewed at least annually and
shown on the Balance Sheets. The loan agreement stipulates, and the subsidiary
loan agreements contain provisions for review of asset valuations
and annual revaluation of fixed assets in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
Annex 22 gives the method of calculating the rates of return and operating
ratios.
7.17      INSFOPAL's forecast cash flow statements are shown in Annex 23.  The
projected capital investments are based on ongoing programs and a conservative
appraisal of the availability of Government funds for financing these programs.
It was assumed that INSFOPAL would lend to the utilities at an interest rate
of 12%, with amortization over 20 years after a 5-year grace period.  The
projections indicate that in 1974 and 1975 INSFOPAL would not generate cash
sufficient to service its debt, and Government funds would have to be used
for this purpose. As from 1976, INSFOPAL would be able to finance progresS
sively with its own resources an increasing share of its lending operations.
In 1976 only 16% of these operations would be financed from its net internal
cash generation; this percentage would reach 65% in 1983.
7.18      To ensure that INSFOPAL is making proper investments in the sector
and achieving good financial management, assurances were obtained during
loan negotiations that INSFOPAL will annually review with the Bank its total
investment program in the sector. This review would deal with such matters as:
(i) the evaluation of the sector needs and the part that the investments
would cover;
(ii)  the terms and conditions of the INSFOPAL loans to the utilities;
(iii)  the status of loan repayment by the utilities to INSFOPAL; and,
(iv)  the proportion of the investments to be made as grants to the
utilities.
Risks
7.19      The empresas of Barranquilla and Cartagena are fairly well-organized
and their present financial position is good. The cities are favored with
good economic activities and their inhabitants are willing to pay for public
services. Consequently the risk of not achieving the institutional, technical
and financial objectives of these subprojects is low.
7.20      The problems in Cucuta and Villavicencio are mainly political and
affect the management through the appointment of key personnel, the establish-
ment of adequate rate structures and thus the overall financial situation of
the empresas. It is considered that these political influences may continue



- 27 -
for some time so that there will be difficulties in improving the management
and adjusting the rates opportunely. Therefore, the risk that the institutional
and financial objectives not be achieved is high.
7.21      The acuas of Ibague, Pasto, Popayan and Valledupar have competent
general managers; but their financial situation is precarious. The present
tariffs would have to be increased substantially, and the customers are expected
to resist these increases. The probability of achievement of all objectives
of these subprojects is medium.
Monitoring System
7.22      Annex 24 shows the indicators which would be monitored during the
execution of the project to measure the achievement of the technical, financial,
administrative and training goals set for the proposed project. This annex
also gives the values forecast for these indicators, which were discussed
with INSFOPAL during loan negotiations and agreed upon. INSFOPAL will be
required to include in its periodic reports information on progress made in
achieving the targets described by the indicators. During supervision missions,
progress in the project execution will be evaluated on the basis of these
indicators, and should any remedial action be required to improve performance,
appropriate recommendation would be made to INSFOPAL.



- 28 -
8.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONNENDATIONS
8.01      During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from INSFOPAL
that:
(a)  the present number of staff at headquarters will be studied and
numerical targets for staff reduction will be developed (paragraph 3.08);
(b)  an internal audit section will be set up and put in operation
in INSFOPAL within six months following the signing of the loan
agreement (paragraph 3.13);
(c)  its financial statements certified by its external auditors will
be submitted to the Bank not later than four months after the
end of the fiscal year (paragraph 3.13);
(d)  the implementation of the new organizational structure of INSFOPAL
and the sector will be completed by June 30, 1976 and that the Bank
will have an opportunity to comment on any modifications and staff
appointments (paragraphs 3.16 and 3.17);
(e)  consultants acceptable to the Bank will continue to provide manage-
ment assistance to INSFOPAL during 1976 and 1977, and will be hired
for the technical and management assistance of INSFOPAL to the
beneficiaries. The implementation of both assistance programs
will be periodically reviewed with the Bank (paragraph 3.19);
(f)  a detailed schedule and description of the training program will
be submitted to the Bank for review and approval not later than
six months after the signing of the loan  agreement,   and
consultants acceptable to the Bank will be hired for carrying
out the program (paragraph 4.14);
(g)  technical and financial feasibility studies for each of its sub-
projects in the 30 towns will be submitted to the Bank for review
and approval, and an acua will be set up and adequate water
rates implemented in each of these towns (paragraph 5.16);
(h)  it will annually review with the Bank its total investment program
in the sector (paragraph 7.18);
(i)  it will periodically report on the monitoring indicators as part
of its progress reports (paragraph 7.22); and,
(j)  each subsidiary loan agreement will be approved by the Bank and will
provide for:
(i) the establishment of an internal audit section in the utilities
and employment of independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
and INSFOPAL for external audit (paragraph 4.10);



- 29 -
(ii) employment of qualified engineers acceptable to INSFOPAL for
design, bidding and construction supervision (paragraph 5.17);
(iii) initial tariff increases as a condition of disbursement
(paragraph 7.09);
(iv) the maintenance of adequate tariffs to meet specified rates
of return and operating ratios, a quarterly review of water
and sewerage tariffs and prompt tariff adjustments as required
(paragraphs 7.09-7.13);
(v)  exclusive use of funds generated by the water supply and
sewerage services for financing the subprojects (paragraph 7.15);
(vi) the limitation of incurring any long-term debt without the
consent of the Bank and INSFOPAL, unless the utility's net
income, before interest and depreciation, is at least 1.5 times
the maximum debt service in any future year (paragraph 7.15); and,
(vii) valuation of improperly revalued assets within six months of
signing the subsidiary loan agreement and annual revaluation,
in a manner acceptable to the Bank, of fixed assets on which
a rate of return is required (paragraph 7.16).
8.02      Assurances were also obtained from the Government that:
(a)  it will cause its national agencies in the cities and towns included
in the project to pay their bills from the empresas and acuas within
three months after the date of billing (paragraph 4.08);
(b)  it will promptly make available its contribution funds for the
project (paragraph 7.08);
(c)  it will make arrangements for the borrower to be promptly provided
with any additional funds required for the project, should the
beneficiaries be unable to do so (paragraph 5.11); and
(d)  the National Public Services Tariff Board will promptly act on the
tariff applications submitted by the beneficiaries to meet the rates
of return set for the proposed loan (paragraph 7.11).
8.03      Under the foregoing conditions, the proposed project is suitable for
a Bank loan of US$27 million for a term of 25 years including a 5-year grace
period.
December 20, 1974






COLOMBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
PREVIOUS BANK LOANS IN THE SECTOR
Amount                                                                                       Population
Loan Number   US$ million       Date of Loan             Borrower                   City                      Served
536-co           14.0          June, 1968       Empresa de Acueducto y           Bogota                    2,500,0o0
Alcantarillado de BogotA
682-CO           18.5          June, 1970       Establecimiento Pfiblico         Cali                        920,000
Empresas Municipales de Cali
738-Co            200          May, 1971        Empresas Pfiblicas Municipales   Palmira                     160,000
de Palmira
741-Co           8800          May, 1971       Empresa de Acueducto y           Bogota                     3,000,000
Alcantarillado de BogotA
860-co            9.1          July, 1972       Instituto Nacional de Fomento   Armenia, Manizales,        1,100,000
Municipal - INSFOPAL             Neiva, Pereira, Tulua,
Buenaventura, and
Santa Marta
May 28, 1974



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 5 pages
COLOMBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
THE INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO MUNICIPAL (INSFOPAL)
This Annex describes in more detail the existing organization and
financial policy of the borrower and outlines the institutional changes
required in its structure. Some of the proposed changes are not stated in
the body of the report because they are not considered as conditions for
making the loan, but only as recommendations to INSFOPAL for improving its
operations.
Management System
Presently INSFOPAL and its subsidiaries provide water supply and
sewerage services to about 450,000 customers (about 4 million people) living
in more than 560 towns. Its administration has been torn by political inter-
ference over the years and as a consequence, its management has been uneven
and generally weak. Under INSFOPAL's by-laws, it is responsible for preparing
investment programs in the sector and as a general principle, all government
funds must be channelled through this institution which would then distribute
them to the municipalities according to their priority. However, this procedure
is not followed. Although INSFOPAL draws up a program each year, this program
is not used for the distribution of government funds. The allocation of funds
to each individual department or city is made by the Colombian Congress and
is primarily based on political grounds. The result is that frequently funds
are allocated to a city for which no project has been prepared, and other cities
with greater needs and a project ready for execution do not receive any funds.
As a consequence, projects badly conceived had been executed in a hurry, and
in some cases abandoned later because they could not perform properly. Govern-
ment funds allocated to INSFOPAL in 1973 are shown below:
Col$ million     %
Administrative and Operating Expenses                  30.0         8.7
External Debt Service                                  15.1        4.4
Internal Debt Service                                   8.8         2.6
Investment for Water and Sewerage Works               178.01/     51.7
"1        it"     "                 "               93.12/      27.1
Other                                                  19.0         5.5
TOTAL            344.0      100.0
1/ The budget identified the empresas and acuas to which these funds were
to be lent.
2/ The beneficiaries of these funds were not identified and INSFOPAL was
not requested to recover them.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 5 pages
In the last five years (1969-1973) INSFOPAL has made capital invest-
ments of Col$930 million in its water supply and sewerage systems. Of this
amount, Col$61 million was lent to the municipalities. However, the munici-
palities have not paid the debt on these loans and INSFOPAL has not taken
any action to recover these funds. IDB and USAID. have made various loans to
INSFOPAL that it has relent in the sector. Again the Empresas have not
serviced the debts which amounted to Col$184.8 million as of December 31, 1972.
Audit
Financial statements of INSFOPAL are audited by a special unit of
the "Auditoria Fiscal de la Contraloria General de la Republica". The
auditors' reports have shown the following deficiencies in INSFOPAL's financial
statements:
(a) fixed assets are not revalued;
(b) depreciation charges and accumulated depreciation are
underestimated because of lack of policies in this matter;
(c) works in progress are overestimated since they include a
substantial amount of completed facilities which are already
in operation; and,
(d) accounts receivable include the Government's commitment to pay
INSFOPAL's outstanding public debt (Col$229.9 million as of
December 31, 1972).
Finance
Annexes 11 through 13 show INSFOPAL's financial statements for 1971,
1972, 1973 and for 9 months of 1974. INSFOPAL is highly subsidized by the Govern-
ment, since its consolidated revenues from water sales do not cover its operating
expenses. In 1972 its operating revenues amounted to Col$48.7 million and in addi-
tion,it received Col$37.9 million from the Government for operating expenses. In
spite of those subsidies, INSFOPAL had in that year a deficit of Col$4.0 million.
In the last three years, the acuas have not received operating sub-
sidies from INSFOPAL, but they have not been able to service their long-term
debt in full or pay any dividend to their shareholders. In 1972 the acuas had
a combined operating deficit of Col$5.5 million.
Most of INSFOPAL's past investments were financed with Government
contributions and as a consequence, its liabilities are low; its long-term
debt as a percentage of its capitalization was 16% at the end of 1972. Its
external and internal debts are paid by the Government. As of December 31, 1972,
the only outstanding external debt was a US$8.1 million loan from IDB that was
disbursed before 1970.
The financial problems of INSFOPAL and its subsidiaries are caused
by deficient institutional organization and low tariffs. More than 40% of



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5 pages
the towns served by INSFOPAL have populations less than 2,500, with low income.
These towns should be put under INPES' responsibility. INSFOPAL's central
office in Bogota accounts for large overhead expenses, and its field services
are poor.
Engineering
INSFOPAL is responsible for preparing feasibility studies of water
supply and sewerage projects for cities with populations of more than 2,500,
and contract documents for civil works and the procurement of equipment. It
is also in charge of construction supervision of the projects financed by the
Government. To date more than 95% of the studies have been made by consultants,
and INSFOPAL has undertaken only small designs for which great engineering
knowledge is not required. In general the studies do not include an analysis
of the financial and economic aspects of the projects. INSFOPAL has not pre-
pared anylong-range program and no criteria for project selection have been
established. The technical division of INSFOPAL is weak and needs to be re-
orRanized. Some consultants have-taken advantage of INSFOPAL's limited technical
capability by submitting reports and designs of low quality to this institution.
Proposed Changes in the Sector's Organization
Financial viability of small water supply systems cannot be achieved
unless they are grouped together with large systems and operated by a regional
entity or even a national organization. This is the concept of the PLANASA
program in Brazil. Unfortunately such centralization in operations is not
accepted in Colombia. The Colombian communities would not permit the use of
revenues from their systems to cover operating expenses of other towns. The
major cities have their own empresas, while the poorest towns are left to
INSFOPAL.
The new decree for the reorganization of the sector directs INSFOPAL
to consider two types of utilities:
(i) financially viable empresas in the wealthier cities; and,
(ii) regional or departmental companies to serve the remaining
towns. Water rates of these companies would be adjusted
to cover at least their operating expenses.
INSFOPAL is also directed to apply different lending conditions to
the individual and regional type companies. INSFOPAL will lend to the former
at higher rates than to the latter.
Such a policy would produce effective results if certain institu-
tional changes are made in INSFOPAL and the sector. These changes are listed
below:
(a) INSFOPAL should be exclusively responsible for the financial
planning of the sector, and the government annual budgetary
allocations should be based on the investment plans prepared
by INSFOPAL;



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 5 pages
(b)  INSFOPAL should channel all internal and external credits to
the sector and establish a firm policy to recover its funds;
(c) its technical and construction department should be disesta-
blished and replaced by a project division. This division
would not design or construct the projects financed with govern-
ment funds and foreign lending participation, but would confine
itself to reviewing and evaluating the projects prepared by
competent consultant engineers;
(d) a financial division should be set up and the "Subdireccion de
Financiamiento y Credito Externo" integrated in INSFOPAL;
(e) INSFOPAL should gradually disassociate itself from operating
responsibilities by creating acuas, regional or departmental
operating entities;
(f) an investment fund would be set up by INSFOPAL and supplied with
government budgetary allocations; and,
(g) personnel quality at headquarters should be upgraded, and staff
salaries should be set sufficiently high so as to be competitive
with the private sector. The personnel of the present adminis-
trative department should be reduced to the minimum required;
such a reduction could be achieved by transferring personnel
from the central office to the operating agencies.
Chart 8721 shows the proposed organizational structure of INSFOPAL;
its implementation should be completed by June 30, 1976.
Reorganization of INSFOPAL
On April 20, 1974, Decree No. 703 for the reorganization of INSFOPAL
was approved. By this decree, INSFOPAL will continue as an autonomous agency
under the Ministry of Health and with headquarters in Bogota. It will be
governed by a Board of Directors and managed by an Executive Director. The
Board of Directors will have five members:
- the Minister of Health, who is the president of the board;
- the General Director of the Ministry of Health;
- the Manager of the Institute for the Development of Natural
Resources (INDERENA);
- a representative of the Colombian Society of Engineers,
appointed by the Minister of Health from three candidates
proposed by the Society; and,
- a representative of the National Planning Office.
The Board will be responsible for the general policy of INSFOPAL,
approval of its annual budget, establishment of its internal regulations and
organization, and approval of major contracts and agreements with other agencies.



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 5 pages
The Executive Director will be appointed by the President of Colombia and
will be in charge of the day-to-day activities of INSFOPAL. The decree
gives INSFOPAL broad administrative, technical and financial powers to
carry out the government policy and programs in water supply, sewerage,
slaughterhouses, street cleaning and solid waste collection in urban
communities which are taken as those with more than 2,500 inhabitants.
The principal objectives of the decree are to:
(i)  decentralize the operations of INSFOPAL and develop local
organizations to administer the public services;
(ii)  achieve and maintain the financial viability of the local
organizations by establishing adequate rate systems that
take into consideration the local socioeconomic conditions,
income distribution and the cost of the services; and,
(iii) provide services adequate in quality and scale so that the
public health will be improved and development stimulated.
The decree enables INSFOPAL to establish priorities, prepare long-
range programs and finance the design and construction of water supply and
sewerage facilities. INSFOPAL is also authorized to borrow money, and inter-
vene temporarily in the operation and administration of the empresas until
the local managerial capability is improved. The decree stipulates that
INSFOPAL will take the necessary steps to transform the water and sewer
companies it presently administers into new independent organizations.
Beginning on June 1975, INSFOPAL can only provide funds to regional
or local agencies that have been established or reorganized in the manner
described in the decree. Funds used for project studies and construction
must be repaid on terms established by INSFOPAL, but those for institution
building needed to achieve technical, financial and administrative self-
sufficiency do not have to be recovered.
May 28, 1974



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 5 pages
COLOMBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
EXISTING WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE FACILITIES
Colombia is divided into 22 departments (states) and each of the
cities included in this loan is the capital of a state. Physical character-
istics of these cities and basic data on their existing water supply and sewe-
rage facilities are shown on page 5 of this Annex. The following is a brief
description of these facilities.
1.  Barranquilla
Its water supply source is the Magdalena River whose minimum flow
is estimated at 1,700 m3/sec. Raw water is treated in two conventional
plants (rapid mixing, flocculation, sedimentation, filtration and disinfec-
tion) located on the west bank of the river. The treatment plants have a
combined nominal capacity of 3.4 m3/sec, but presently are operated up to
3.7 m3/sec. Filtered water is first stored in three tanks situated on the
plant premises and then pumped into the city's distribution system. The
plant effluent is chlorinated and safe for domestic consumption.
The water distribution network is made up of 710 km of concrete
and asbestos-cement pipes ranging in diameters from 3 to 42 inches. It has
a limited carrying capacity, causing low pressures and water rationing in
some areas of the city. Unaccounted-for water averages 45% of plant produc-
tion and most of the losses seem to occur in the distribution network. Ten
reservoirs provide the system with a storage capacity of 68,300 m3.
There is no storm sewer system and stormwaters are led away through
the city's roadways. The sanitary sewerage system is deficient. In some
areas, the sewers are surcharged and under pressure; two open creeks crossing
the city are used as sewage interceptors, resulting in severe sanitary risks
for the city's inhabitants. Wastewaters are lifted by two pump stations into
the Magdalena River.
2. Cartagena
The source of water supply is the Canal del Dique, a branch of the
Magdalena River. Raw water is pumped through two 30-inch transmission con-
duits to a conventional treatment plant located 41 km away from the intake.
The plant is situated within the city and has a maximum hydraulic capacity
of 0.7 m3/sec. Between the raw water intake and the plant, there is an
industrial area served by a separate 45-inch concrete pipeline with a capa-
city of 1.5 m3/sec.
The distribution network consists of 300 kms of galvanized steel
and asbestos-cement pipes with diameters from 2 to 30 inches. The network
operates by gravity and only 20% of water produced is unaccounted-for.
Storage capacity amounts to 24,000 m3 distributed in three tanks.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 5 pages
Cartagena has only a sanitary sewerage system and stormwaters
are drained along the paved streets. Wastewaters are discharged by pumping
into Cartagena Bay and by gravity into a series of lagoons. The ground-
water table is close to the surface and seepage into the sewers is high.
3. Cucuta
Raw water is drawn from the Pamplonita River and transmitted to a
treatment plant located 8 kms away. The safe yield of the river is estimated
at 1.0 m3/sec which would meet the city's demand up to 1980. Solids content
of the raw water is high,and the efficiency of a grit chamber at the plant
influent is low. Rapid mixing is deficient and as a result, the plant effluent
is of poor quality.
The distribution network includes 294 km of pipes and six storage
tanks with a capacity of 16,700 m3. Filtered water reaches the city by
gravity, with the exception of two small areas served by pumping. The distri-
bution network is limited in capacity and coverage. Unaccounted-for water
averages 34% of plant production.
Cucuta has a combined sewerage system which discharges directly into
the Pamplonita River. Most of the sewage interceptors are open channels
representing a sanitary risk for the city.
4. Ibague
The sources of water supply are the Combeima River and some mountain
creeks (El Cay). Raw water is treated in two conventional plants (El Cay and
El Combeima) with a combined capacity of 0.68 m3/sec. The filters of the
Combeima plant are now being constructed. Both plants are located on the same
premises.
The distribution network is old and its carrying capacity is very
limited. Part of the downtown network should be replaced. Unaccounted-for
water amounts to 35% of production. The existing six storage tanks provide
a total capacity of 14,200 m3.
Ibague's sewerage is a combined system which discharges into the
Combeima River and the Chipalo Creek. Several open creeks crossing the city
are used as sewage interceptors and water pollution is severe.
5. Pasto
Raw water is drawn from the Pasto River and the Mijitayo Creek and
treated in two separate conventional plants, El Centenario and El Mijitayo.
The plants are located within the city limits and have a combined nominal capac-
ity of 300 1/sec. The Mijitayo Plant has an installed capacity of 120 1/sec,
but its production is limited to the yield of the Mijitayo Creek which averages
only 65 1/sec.
The distribution network is inadequate and has many small and corroded
pipes. Losses are high and reach 49% of water produced. The distribution



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 5 pages
system should be extended to newly built-up areas. Service storage is provided
by three tanks with a total capacity of 3,600 m3.
Sewage and stormwater are collected in the same conduits and dischar-
ged into the Pasto River. The city's sewage can be dispersed without much
nuisance into the river, and no sewage treatment is required in the foreseeable
future.
6. Popayan
Its water supply sources are the Molino and Las Piedras Rivers.
Raw water from the Molino River flows in an unlined canal to a conventional
treatment plant (El Tulcan) which has a capacity of 120 1/sec. The Piedras
River supplies another plant of the contact clarifier type (El Tablazo) with
a capacity of 250 1/sec. The latter plant has also an intake on the Cauca
River. Both plants function well.
The distribution network is made up of 74 km of steel and asbestos-
cement pipes. There are substantial leaks in the network and unaccounted-for
water amounts to 45% of production. Two reservoirs provide a storage capacity
of 6,000 m3.
The city has a combined sewer system which needs to be extended.
Wastewaters are discharged into the Molino and Ejido Rivers that cross the
city. Some parts of the city experience flooding in rainy seasons.
7. Valledupar
Raw water is drawn from the Guatapuri River and conducted to a
treatment plant where it is flocculated and clarified in sedimentation
tanks. The plant is not equipped with filters. It has a nominal capacity
of 240 1/sec, but is presently overloaded to 350 1/sec. The plant effluent
is of poor quality and unsafe for domestic consumption.
There is no detailed inventory of the distribution network which
is limited in coverage. It is estimated to include about 100 kms of pipes
ranging in diameters from 2 to 16 inches. A 6,000-m3 storage tank is now
being constructed and financed from a USAID loan.
The city has a sanitary sewer system which is being extended with
financing under the same USAID loan. Sewage is drained by gravity into the
Guatapuri River.
8. Villavicencio
The city has two sources of water supply: various small mountain
creeks and the Guatiquia River. The safe yield of the creeks is about
80 1/sec and the capacity of the Guatiquia system is 150 1/sec. Water from
both sources is not treated and the quality of water served is exceedingly bad.
Rationing is severe in the city.



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 5 pages
The distribution network is divided into three separate sectors, all
supplied by gravity; 45% of the water produced is unaccounted-for. Four tanks
provide the system with a storage capacity of 3,200 m3.
Sewage  and stormwaters  are collected in the same conduits and
discharged into various creeks flowing to the Guatiquia River. Sewage inter-
ceptors should be constructed to reduce pollution of the creeks within the
city limits. Risks of contamination from sewage are high in Villavicencio.
May 28, 1974



COLOMBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CHARACTERISTICS OF BENEFICIARIES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  CITIES  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Physical Data                              Barranquilla         Cartagena         Cucuta          Ibague         Pasto         Popa,an         Valledupar          Villavicencio
Population - Mid-1973                            670,000            320,000          270,000        210,000        116,000         83,000            74o000              75,000
Population Growth - %                              3.1                4.4              5.0            4.5            4.0            4.5               6.0                 6.0
State Capital of                                Atlantico           Bolivar        Santander         Tolima         Narino         Cauca             Cesar                Meta
Average Elevation (meters-MSL)                    40                   5             320              1,200          2,600         1,800              180                   500
Average Temperature ( c)                         29                  27              29                22            14             20                32                    26
Sea Port,            Sea Port,                     Livestock,      Agriculture,   Tourism,         Livestock,           Livestock,
Economic Activities                            Manufacture          Tourism,         Commerce     Agriculture    Handicraft        University    Agriculture           Agriculture
Industry
Water Supply
% Population Served                                   70                  60              70             80             90              85               70                   80
Number of House Connections                        65,000              22,400          30,300         21,000         13,000         12,200             7,500               9,300
Number of Metered Connections                      56,000              20,400          28,000         17,000         11,000          9,000               400                  250
Persons per Dwelling                                  7.2                 8.6             6.2            8.0            8.3            5.8               6.0                  6.4
Net Consumption (l/c/d)                               255                 205             220            200            165            200               310                  180
Average Production (m3/sec)                            2.4               0.70            0.70           0.68           0.30           0.35              0.35                 0.23
Unaccounted for Water - 7.                             42                  20              34             35             49             45                40                   45
Total Length of Network (km)                           710                300             294             -             140             74               100                   86
Sewerage                                                                                                                                                                                               a
Type of System                                   Sanitary           Sanitary         Combined       Combined       Combined       Combined         Sanitary             Combined
7. Population Connected                                 50                 20              55             60             80              80               20                   70
Number of House Connections                        47,000               9,000          24,000         14,000         10,500         10,000             2,100               8,300
Total Length of System (km)                           500                 100            -              -              -                40               -                     68
December 19, 1974



COLOMBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CUSTOMERS AND WATER CONSUMPTION. 1975-1984
---------Existing Customers -----------            -----------New Customers-------------
Industrial and
Consumption/       Subtotal                       Consumption/        Subtotal         Commercial            Total      Production       Total           Average
Connection      Consumption                       Connection        Consumption       Consumption      Consugaption       Loss        Production       Production
City         Year         Number         m3/month        106m3/year           Number       m3/month          106m3/year        106nm3/tear      106m /ear           %         106m3/year         m /sec
(1)          (2)           (3)             (4)             (5)                 (6)          (7)                 (8)              (9)               (10)           (11)           (12)             (13)
Barranquilla    1975           65,400           53.8            42.2               6,000          36                 2.6              2.0               46.8            36            73.1              2.3
1978                          57.1            44.8              26,000          33                10.3              2.0               57.1            28            79.3              2.5
1981           "              58.9            46.2              35,000          37                15.5              2.0               63.7            26            86.1              2.7
1984           "              60.7            47.6              44,000          43                22.7              2.0               72.3            25            96.4              3.0
Cartagena        1975          23,000           55.0            15.2                2,000         41                 1.0              3.5               19.7            20            24.6              0.8
1978           "              58.0             16.0             15,000          43                 7.7              4.1               27.8            20            34.8              1.1
1981                          59.0            16.3              20,000          39                 9.3              4.5               30.1            20            37.6              1.2
1984                          59.0            16.3              25,000          40                12.0              4.8               33.1            20            41.4              1.3
Cucuta           1975          29,500          42.0             14.9               4,500          25                 1.3               -                16.2            32           23.8               0.7
1978           "              45.0            15.9              14,000          28                 4.7                                20.6            29            29.0              0.9
1981                          48.0            17.0              24,800          27                 8.0               -                25.0            25            33.3              1.0
1984                          51.0            18.0              27,000          27                 8.7               -                26.7            25            35.6              1.1
* In 1974.
Notes: Column (10) is the sum of (5), (8) and (9).
"    (12) was obtained dividing (10) by 1-(11).
December 19, 1974



COLOMBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
POPULATION AND WATER CONStMPTION. 1974-1983
Mid-year        Population          Population             Net             Assumed       Production           Total            Total           Average
Population         Served              Served           Consumption          Sales           Loss          Consumption       Production       Production
City           Year       Thousands             %              Thousands             l/c/ld          106m3/yr            %               1/c/d          106m3/yr            1/sec
Ibague            1975          203               80                162                 193               11.4             35               297             17.5               556
1978          232               87                201                 202               14.8            29                284             20.8               661
1981          265               90                238                 202              17.5             28                280             24.3               770
1983          289               90                260                 202              19.7             25                269             25.6              812
Pasto             1975          124               90                1ll                 165                6.7            45                300             12.2               386
1978          139               93                129                 180               8.5             35                277             13.1              415
1981         154                94                145                 180               9.5             25                240             12.7              401
1983         165                95                157                 180              10.3             20                225             12.9              408
Popayan           1975           95               85                 81                 200               5.9             40                333              9.8               311
1978          108               90                 97                 210               7.4             30                300             10.6              335
1981         124                95                118                 210               9.0             23                272             11.7              370
1983         135                95                128                 210               9.8             20                262             12.2              388
Valledupar        1975           83               70                 58                 240                5.1             40               400              8.5               269
1978          99                75                 74                 173               4.7             31                250              6.8              216
1981         118                80                 94                 188               6.4             25                251              8.5              270
1983         132                90                119                 188               8.2             25                251             10.9              346
Villavicencio    1975            86               80                 69                 120               3.0              43               210              5.3               167
1978         102               85                  87                 146               4.6             35                225              7.1              224
1981         119               87                 103                 168               6.3             30                240              9.0              285
1983         132                90                119                 179               7.8             30                255             11.1              353
December 19, 1974



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 5 pages
COLOMBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROPOSED WORKS
This Annex briefly describes the proposed works in the selected
cities and gives a list of the Project's components; their costs are shown
in Annex 7.  Annual investments during the construction period are shown on
page 5 of this Annex. New and improved facilities would permit these cities
to meet their water supply demand UD to 1985.
1. Barranquilla
The existing treatment plants have enough capacity to cover the
city's water supply demand for the next decade and minor improvements would
be done in the plants. A grit chamber and chlorination facilities will be
constructed and the equipment of the clarifier units will be replaced.
The bulk of the works will be in the water distribution and sewage
collection systems, and includes:
- the construction of a 1,900 m3 water storage tank and two
booster pump stations each with a capacity of 0.5 m3/sec;
- installation of 180 kms of transmission and distribution mains;
- construction of 20 kms of sewage interceptors and 350 km of
sewers;
- increase of the sewage pump stations capacity; and,
- purchase and installation of 30,000 water meters, equipment for
meter testing, leak detection and sewer maintenance equipment.
This subproject is expected to be completed by June 30, 1979.
2. Cartagena
The capacity of the existing treatment plant will be increased
from 0.7 m3/sec to 1.0 m3/sec and the first stage (0.6 m3/sec) of a new
plant will be constructed. In addition, the following works will be under-
taken:
- raw water pumping capacity will be increased from 1.0 to 1.9 m3/sec;
- the distribution network will be improved and extended;



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 5 pages
about 100 kms of sewage interceptors and sewers will be
constructed; and,
the Empresas will purchase about 15,000 water meters and
operational equipment.
This subproject is expected to be completed by June 30, 1979.
3. Cucuta
The city's present water supply source is limited and expected
to meet the demand up to 1980. A study of additional sources of supply
for Cucuta is part of the project. Following are the works included in
this subproject:
construction of a grit chamber with a capacity of 400 1/sec;
upgrading of the treatment plants from 750 l/sec to 1,000 l/sec;
construction of two storage tanks with a total capacity of
6,700 m3;
improvement and extension of the water distribution network;
construction of sewage interceptors and sewers; and,
the purchase and installation of 18,000 water meters.
This subproject is expected to be completed by June 30, 1979.
4. Ibague
This subproject includes;
- expansion of the treatment plants to a capacity of 950 1/sec;
- the installation of 66 kms of water distribution mains;
- construction of collector sewers; and,
- purchase of 2,000 water meters and operational equipment.
The works are expected to be completed by June 30, 1978.
5. Pasto
This subproject would consist of:
increasing the raw water channel capacity from 320 to 1,150 1/sec;



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 5 pages
- upgrading the treatment plants to a capacity of 450 1/sec;
- laying two filtered water transmission pipelines (24 and 30 inches);
-  constructing a 5,000 m3 water storage tank;
- extending the distribution system;
- constructing two stormwater collectors; and,
- purchasing 2,000 water meters and operational equipment.
6. Popayan
The following works are scheduled for this city:
- increasing the Tablazo Plant capacity from 250 to 600 1/sec;
- installation of water mains and improvement of the distribution
network;
- laying of sanitary sewers in low-income areas of the city;
-  construction of sewage interceptors; and,
- the purchase and installation of 4,000 water meters.
7. Valledupar
A grit chamber and three rapid filter units will be constructed
to increase the plant capacity from 240 to 350 1/sec. Eight kms of primary
and 38 kms of secondary water mains will be installed. The Empresas will
also purchase about 10,000 water meters, and operational and maintenance
equipment.
8. Villavicencio
This subproject includes:
- improvement of the raw water supply sources;
- construction of the first stage (300 I/sec) of a treatment plant;
- installation of 18 kms of water distribution mains; and,
- the purchase of 10,000 water meters, and operational and main-
tenance equipment.
The works in Pasto, Popayan, Valledupar and Villavicencio are
expected to be completed by June 30, 1978.



ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 5 pages
9. INSFOPAL's Systems
The INSFOPAL program would consist of drilling and equipping
approximately 30 wells, each with an expected average yield of 600 gpm.
The wells will be constructed within the town limits and short trans-
mission pipelines will be installed to connect them with the existing
distribution networks.
A metering program will be set up and about 100,000 domestic water
meters and meter testing equipment will be purchased. Master meters will be
installed for recording the production of treatment plants and wells.
Staff training and management assistance to INSFOPAL are contem-
plated under the Project. The INSFOPAL program is expected to be carried
out over a 4-year period.
May 28, 1974



COLOMBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ANNUAL INVESTMENTS
(million)
1975                      1976                      1977                      1978                       1979                      Total
City               Col$        US$           Col$        US$            Col$       US$            Col$        US$           Col$        US$            Col$US
Barranquilla            24.8       0.39           81.5       1.08          141.5       1.48          138.8       1.45           46.0        0.66          432.6       5.06
Cartagena               16.7      0.49            46.7       1.10           55.6       0.94           58.7       0.77           31.9        0.45          209.6       3.75
Cucuta                  4.6       0.06            12.6       0.17           19.4       0.28           19.4       0.28            7.3       0.11            63.3       0.90
Ibague                  3.7       0.10            14.2       0.34           22.8       0.53           12.2       0.29              -         -             52.9       1.26
Pasto                   4.6       0.05            13.8       0.16           14.7       0.14            5.1       0.03              -         -             38.2       0.38
Popayan                  1.6      0.02             7.7       0.16           12.4       0.28            6.2       0.17              -         -             27.9       0.63
Valledupar               1.4       0.10            5.7       0.17            7.3       0.11            2.8       0.05              -         -             17.2       0.43
Villavicencio            1.1       0.05            6.0       0.12            9.0       0.11            3.9       0.06              -         -             20.0       0.34
INSFOPAL's System        2.3      0.10            15.0      0.65            53.6       1.39           71.1       1.35           26.3       0.48           168.3       3.97
TOTAL INVESTMENTS      60.8       1.36           203.2       3.95          336.3      5.26           318.2       4.45          111.5       1.70        1,030.0       16.72                 O
olk
u, a,
Note:    The first column under each year represents local expenditures and the second one,
foreign expenditures which for appraisal purposes are expressed in US$.
a
December 20, 1974



COLOMBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES
(Col$ million)
Type of      Water Supply         Pump        Distribution      Sewerage    Storage    Meters and       Assistance      Engineering       Technical         Price
City           Expenses        Sources          Stations         Pipes            Works      Tanks      Ope. Equip.    and Training   and Admin.        Contingencies    Escalation        TOTAL
Barranquilla        Local             3.4             11.2            91.7            75.7         3.0          2.1              -             18.7             28.1             198.7         432.6
Foreign           3.9             13.1            29.2            16.1         0.4          8.0              -              7.1             10.6             88.4           176.8
Total             7.3             24.3           120.9            91.8         3.4         10.1              -             25.8             38.7            287.1          609.4
Cartagena           Local           42.3               3.7            26.6            18.1          -           0.8              -              9.1             13.7              95.3         209.6
Foreign         29.0               3.4            11.7             6.7         _            2.7              -              5.4              8.0             61.3          128.2
Total           71.3               7.1            38.3            24.8          -           3.5              -             14.5             21.7            156.6          337.3
Cucuta              Local             7.2              1.2             8.0             5.3         4.5          1.4              -              2.7              4.1             28.9           63.3
Foreign          2.3                1.4            1.9             2.5         0.5          4.0              -              1.3              1.9             15.8           31.6
Total            9.5               2.6             9.9             7.8         5.0          5.4              -              4.0              6.0             44.7           94.9
Ibtgue             Local             2.2                -              3.4            18.2          -           0.5              -              2.4              3.6             22.6           52.9
Foreign           1.2               -              0.7            15.0          _           1.0              -              1.8              2.7             20.2           42.6
Total            3.4                -              4.1            33.2          -           1.5              -              4.2              6.3             42.8           95.5
Pasto               Local             6.4              0.3             8.8             1.4         0.9          0.2              -              1.8              2.7             15.7           38.2
Foreign           1.2              0.6             3.1             0.2        0.2           0.5              -              0.6              0.9              5.2           12.5
Total             7.6              0.9            11.9             1.6         1.1          0.7              -              2.4              3.6             20.9           50.7
Popayan             Local             1.5               -              5.6             5.1          -           0.5              -              1.3              1.9             12.0           27.9
Foreign          2.2                _              2.8             2.9          -           1.0              -              0.9              1.3             10.4           21.5
Total            3.7                -              8.4             8.0          -           1.5              -              2.2              3.2             22.4           49.4
Valledupar          Local             2.5                -             4.6              -           -           1.0              -              0.8              1.2              7.2           17.2
Foreign           2.2               -              1.0              -           -           3.0              -              0.6              0.9              6.2           14.0
Total            4.7                -              5.6              -           -           4.0              -              1.4              2.1             13.4           31.2
Villavicencio       Local             5.3               -              3.4              -           -           0.5              -              0.9              1.4              8.5           20.0
Foreign           2.0               -              1.2              -           -           1.7              -              0.5              0.7              5.2           11.3
Total             7.3               -              4.6              -           -           2.2              -              1.4              2.1             13.7           31.3
INSFOPAL'S         Local            15.0               3.5            30.0              -           -          14.5             6.5             6.9             10.4             81.5          168.3
System              Foreign         21.7               7.5              -               -           -          27.5             2.5              -               8.9             72,6          140.7
Total           36.7              11.0            30.0              -           -          42.0             9.0             6.9             19.3            154.1          309.0      o
TOTAL                            151.5              45.9           233.7           167.2        9.5          70.9             9.0            62.8            103.0            755.7        1,609.2 1/  
1/ Does not include interest during construction contained in the schedule on page 16 of the body of the report.                                                                                          a
December 20, 1974



COLOMBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY AID SEWERAGE PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES
(US$ million)
Type of      Water Supply         Pump        Distribution      Sewerage     Storage    Meters and       Assistance     Engineering        Technical         Price
City           Expenses        Sources          Stations         Pipes           Works        Tanks      Ope. Equip.    and Training   and Admin.       Contingencies    Escalation        TOTAL
Barranquilla       Local             0.14             0.45            3.67            3.03        0.12          0.08              -             0.75             1.12             3.04          12,40
Foreign          0.16             0.52            1.17            0.64        0.02          0.32              -             0.28             0.43             1.52           5.06
Total            0.30             0.97            4.84            3.67        0.14          0.40              -             1.03             1.55             4.56          17.46
Cartagena          Local             1.69             0.15            1.07            0.72         -            0.03              -            0.37             0.55              1.45           6.03
Foreign           1.16            0.13            0.47            0.27         _            0.11              -             0.21             0.32             1.08           3.75
Total             2.85            0.28            1.54            0.99         -            0.14              -             0.58             0.87             2.53             78
Cucuta             Local             0.23             0.05            0.32            0.20        0.18          0.06              -            0.17             0.17             0.43            1.81
Foreign          0.07             0.06            0.08            0.10        0.02          0.16              -             0.07             0.07             0.27           0.90
Total            0.30             0.11            0.40            0.30        0.20          0.22              -             0.24             0.24             0.70           2.71
Ibague             Local             0.09              -              0.14           0.73          -            0.02              -            0.10             0.15             0.33           1.56
Foreign          0.05              -              0.03            0.60         -            0.04              -            0.07              0.11             0.36           1.26
Total            0.14              -              0.17            1.33         -            0.06              -            0.17              0.26             0.69           2.82
Pasto              Local             0.25             0.01            0.35           0.05         0.03          0.01              -            0.07             0.11             0.28           1.16
Foreign          0.05             0.02            0.12            0.01        0.01          0.02              -             0.02             0.03             0.10           0.38
Total            0.30             0.03            0.47            0.06        0.04          0.03              -            0.09             0.14              0.38           1.54
Popayan            Local             0.06              -              0.22           0.20          -            0.02              -            0.05             0.08             0.19           0.82
Foreign          0.09              -              0.11            0.12         -            0.04              -            0.04              0.05             0.18          0.63
Total            0.15              -              0.33            0.32         -            0.06              -            0.09             0.13             0.37           1.45
Valledupar          Local            0.10              -              0.18             -           -            0.04              -            0.03             0.05             0.12           0.52
Foreign          0.09              -              0.04            _            _            0.12              -            0.03             0.04             0.11           0.43
Total            0.19              -              0.22             -           -            0.16              -            0.06             0.09             0.23           0.95
Villavicencio       Local            0.21              -              0.14             -           -            0.02              -            0.04             0.06             0.13           0.60
Foreign          0.08              -              0.05            _            -            0.07              -            0.02             0.03             0.09           0.34
Total            0.29              -              0.19             -           -            0.09              -            0.06             0.09             0.22           0.94
INSFOPAL'S         Local             0.60             0.14            1.20            -            -            0.58            0.26           0.28             0.42             1.22           4.70
System             Foreign           0.87             0.30                             -           -            1.10            0.10            -               0.36             1.24           3.97   M
Total            1.47             0.44            1.20             -           -            1.68            0.36           0.28             0.78             2.46           8.67
TOTAL                              5.99             1.83           9.36            6.67         0.38         2.84             0.36           2.60             4.15            12.14          46.321L" 
/ Does not include interest during construction contained in the schedule on page 16 of the body of the report.
December 20, 1974



COLOMBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
BANK LOAN COMPONENTS
(US$ millionj
Estimated                        - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   Expenditures Financed by Bank  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Cost of          Amount of       Imported       % of             Local       % of             Civil       % of             Consulting       % of
City               Subproject       Bank Loan         Goods         Estimates       Goods        Estimates        Works       Estimates        Services         Estimates
Barranquilla             17.46            10.06          1.63           100             4.94           55            2.81          55               0.68              50
Cartagena                 9.78             5.71          1.76           100             1.42           50            2.17          50               0.36              50
Cucuta                    2.71             1.58          0.40           100             0.45           50            0.59          50               0.14              50
Ibague                    2.82             1.58          0.14           100             0.88           55            0.45          55               0.11              50
Pasto                     1.54             0.88          0.14           100             0.31           50            0.37          50               0.06              50
Popayan                   1.45             0.82          0.19           100             0.26           50            0.31          50               0.06              50
Valledupar                0.95             0.55          0.30           100             0.12           40            0.09          40               0.04              50
Villavicencio             0.94             0.54          0.25           100             0.11           40            0.14          40               0.04              50
INSFOPAL                  8.67             5.28          3,97           100             0.71           35            0.40          35               0.20              50
TOTAL                46.32             27.00          8.78           100            9.20            50            7.33          50               1.69              50        Ice
w~~~~~ -                                                                          a_                                          =                  - 
* Before interest during construction.
December 20, 1974



COIDBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
(us$ Thousands)
Bank Fiscal Year
and Quarter              Barranquilla      Cartagena      Cucuta     Ibague     Pasto      Popayan     Valledupar      Villavicencio      INSFOPAL      TOTAL
1975/1976
2nd quarter                    260             120           -          -          -           -             _               -                160         540
3rd quarter                    710             620           50         95        20           30            40              -                360       1,925
4th quarter                  1,360           1,120          210        260        125         100           150               50              560       3,935
197L6/1977
1st quarter                  1,977           1,502          299        407        232         180           202             108               822       5,729
2nd quarter                  2,594           1,884          389        554        339         260           254             166             i,o84       7,5211
3rd quarter                  3,212           2,267          479        702        489         340           317             268             1,347       9,421
4th quarter                  3,830           2,660          570        860        640         420           380              370            1,620      11,350
1977/1978
1st quarter                  4,735           3,002          724      1,040        700         520           4122            412             2,107      13,662
2nd quarter                  5,639           3,344          879      1,220        760         620           465             454             2,594      15,975
3rd quarter                  6,545           3,687        1,034      1,400        820         720           507             497             3,082      18,292
4th quarter                  7,450           4,030        1,190      1,580        880         820           550              54o            3,580      20,620
1978/1979
lst quarter                  8,102           4,450        1,287         -          -           -             -               _              4,002      22,211
2nd quarter                  8,754           4,870        1,385         -          -                  -              -                       4,424     23,803
3rd quarter                  9,407           5,290        1,482         -          -           -             -                              4,847      25,396
4th quarter                 10,060            5,710       1,580         -          -           -             -                              5,280      27,000
December 22, 1974



ANNEX 10
Page I otf 3 pages
COLOMBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
INTERNAL FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
The internal financial rate of return on each subproject is shown
on page 3 of this annex. Benefits are measured by the incremental revenues
earned from water sales after deducting incremental operating expenses due
to the project. Capital costs are those of the initial works and the post-
construction period investments necessary to fully utilize the project
facilities. Operating costs are taken net of inflation.
The following assumptions have been made in calculating the
internal financial rate of return:
(a) the average life of the assets is 50 years;
(b) since there is no excess capacity at present, all incremental
water sales are credited to the project;
(c) all values in the cost and benefit streams are expressed in
terms of the 1975 price levels in order to achieve a common
base for the calculation. The additional quantities of water
provided are valued at the average tariffs expected to be
implemented in 1975.
(d) only the incremental operating costs are charged to the
project. Operating costs in successive years after 1974
are adjusted to the 1975 price levels by an annual infla-
tion factor of l12%. The incremental operating cost in each
year is then the difference between these adjusted operating
costs and the 1974 operating costs; and,
(e) the costs of the works are converted into the 1975 price levels
by applying the inflation factor. When investments aim at
improving the service of existing customers, their costs are
not charged to the project. The tax component is negligible
as project items are imported free of duty and no domestic
taxes are levied.
The calculated internal financial rate of return is less than
the economic return expected on the project.   Consumers do not generally
pay as much as water is worth to them and the revenues understate the
total economic benefits. Such intangible benefits as improved public
health andenwircmment conditions, increases in property worth were not
fully valued.



ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 3 pages
Variations in the rates of return of the subprojects are explained
by differences in operations (location and type of water sources, gravity or
pumping systems), investment phasing and tariff levels.
April 29, 1974



COLOMBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
INTERNAL FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN CALCULATIONS
Year          Barrancuilla             Cartagena             Cucuta               Ibague               Pasto                  Popavan          Valledupar          Villavicencio
(1)       (2)         (1)       (2)        (1)       (2)        (1)       (2)        (1)        (2)          (1)      (2)    (1)          (2)      (1)          (2)
1975          3.5        40.2       1.3        32.2      0.7        7.1        1.5       6.8        0.9       9.1          0.5       2.3      -         4.5       0.6          2.7
1976          9.2       109.1       8.2        73.6      2.7       17.0        3.0      22.6        1.6      17.0          1.1      11.4    0.4         9.9       1.2          8.7
1977         17.6       159.1      15.8        64.0      4.5       24.2        4.7      32.3        2.3      15.5          1.8      17.2    0.8         8.7       2.1         10.2
1978         27.7       140.7      19.3        61.4      7.1       21.5        6.6      16.9        2.7       4.8          2.3       8.9    1.3         3.3       2.9          4.7
1979         33.4        57.8      21.8        34.2      9.2        9.1        8.1       2.0        3.1       0.3          2.7       0.2    1.7         0.2       3.8          2.6
1980         38.3        13.7      24.2         2.5     11.1        2.0        9.5       2.3        3.5       0.4          3.3       0.5    2.2         0.5       4.5          2.5
1981         43.2        14.2      26.6         2.2     13.2        2.0       10.6       2.5        4.0       0.4          3.9       0.9    2.8         0.1       5.1          2.0
1982         48.7        14.6      28.2         2.1     15.3        2.0       11.7       2.4        4.6       0.4          4.4       1.2    3.3         0.3       5.9          2.6
1983         55.7        15.0      30.0         2.1      "t "I "I "                                  "t ""
1984         62.3        15.5      31.8         2.1      "           "         "          "          "          "            "
1985         68.9        16.0      33.5         2.1
1986         75.9        16.4        "           "       "           "         "          "          "         "             "        "       "
1987
1988           "                                                                                                            1
1989           "           "
1990           "           "
2024           "           "t "t "t "t "t "t "t "                                                                                     "       ""
Rate - X            9.7                   11.2                14.8                 11.7                  8.5                     7.8             10.1                    11.8
Notes: Column (1) gives the utilities' revenues at 1975 prices.
Column (2) represents the total costs of the works (investments plus operating expenses)
at 1975 prices.  Net benefits are the differences between (1) and (2).  The figures shown
are in Col$ million.
December 22, 1974                                                                                                                                                                       a



ANNEX 11
COLOMBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO MUNICIPAL (INSFOPAL)
PAST FINANCES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
(Col$ milllon)
1974 to
Sept. 30
Year Ending December 31                    1971             1972           1973          (Unaudited)
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross assets in service                   191.1           276.1           407.9           449.8
Less: accumulated depreciation             (5.4)            (7.1)           (9.8)         (11.3)
Net assets in service                     185.7           268.8           398.1           439.7
Work in progress                          286.8            282.6           247.9          243.2
Total fixed assets                    4551.4                           76__0 682.9
Long-ter  Investments
Stocks and deposits in
affiliated companies                   637.9            721.4           812.5           919.4
Notes receivable                          231.9           259.5           301.4           315.5
Total long-term investments            869.8           980.9         1,113.9         1,234.9
Current Assets
Cash                                      71.3              67.7           51.0            48.7
Accounts receivable (net)                  48.0            65.3           141.2           161.2
Inventories (Net)                         47.7             42.3            43.9            66.5
Other current assets                      20.1             40.0           142.7         -49.2
Total current assets                   187.1            21.3           278.8           325.6
Deferred Charges and other Assets                                                          12.7
TOTAL ASSETS                       1,56562,069.2                                   2.256.1
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Contributions                           1,292.0         1,517.4         1,830.4         1,876.3
Less: Govt. portion to be received      (128.4)           (115.6)         (167.6)        (100.0)
Earned surplus (deficit)                   (8.8)           (12.8)          (15.2)           14.0
Total Equity                         1.154.8          1.389.0         1.647.61
Long-term Debt                                                .           282.1           319.3
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable                           67.6             55.4           49.5            36.6
Deposits                                  15.9             16.3            15.4            17.3
Other current liabilities                 45.6             36.6            47.7            75.3
Total current liabilities             129.1           108.3           112.6           129.2
Deferred Credits and other Liabilities     24.6             23.7           26.9            27.3
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES       1,565.6         1.793.4         2,069.2         2,256.1
Debt/Total Fixed Assets                     0.54            0;49            0.44            0.47
Current Ratio                               1.45             1.99           2.48            2.35
Debt as % of Capitalization                18.20            16.39          114.62          14.67
Equity Ratio                                2.81             3.43           3.91            4.94
December 17, 1974



ANNEX 12
COLOMBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO MUNICIPAL (INSFOPAL)
PAST FINANCES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(Col$ million)
1974 to
Sept. 30
Year Ending December 31            1971         1972        1973   (Unaudited)
REVENUES
Direcciones Seccionales 2          29.3         36.8        45.7       37.8
Oficinas Seccionales                7.7          9.2        10.7        6.7 ,
Other Revenues                      3.0          2           0.2          6
40.0        I
OPERATING EXPENSES
Direcciones Seccionales            26.1         36.5        42.7       49.3
Direcci6n General y Oficinas
Seccionales                     46.1         46.7        48.2        7.8
72.2        83.-2        90.9      87.1
Income Before Depreciation        (32.2)       (3465)      (34.3)    (39.0)
Depreciation                        -            1.8                    2.5 3/
Operating Income                  (32.2)       (36.3)      (36.8)    (41.5)
Government Subsidies               43.5         37.9        19.8       60. ;O
Other Income                        6.5          6.4          8          .4
Income Before Interest             17.8          8.0        (8.1)      22.9
Interest                           14.2         12.0           7         .77
Net Income                          3.6          V0o        (2 .4        .
Eamned Surplus (Deficit) at Jan.1(12.j)       _8.8         (12.8      (15.2)
Earned Surplus (Deficit) at Dec.31 (8.8)       (12.8       (15.2)
y   Includes the revenues of three small "empresas" which are owned by
INSFOPAL (1971) and two since 1972.
2/ Includes the expenses for technical assistance to municipal systems.
y/ Estimated data.
December 17, 1974



ANNEX 13
COLOMBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO MUNICIPAL  (INS
PAST FINANCES
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
(Col$ million)
1974 to
Sept. 30
Year Ending December 31           1971          1972        1973       (Unaudited)
SOURCES
Internal Cash Generation
Net Income Before Interest        17.8           8.0         (8.1)        22.9
Depreciation                        -            1.8                       2.
Subtotal                       17.8           9.8 5T.6)                25 T
Contributions to Equity          296.1         238.2       261.0         113.5
Borrowings                        48.2          25.1        22.1          480o
Other Sources
Chg. in Current Liabilities        2.1         (20,8)        4.3          16.6
TOTAL SOURCES                  .2        252.3        281.8
APPLICATIONS
Construction                      60.0          80.8        97.1          37.2
Stocks and Deposits              152.6          83.5       133.0         121.0
Subtotal                      212.6        16M.3        230.1         158.2
DEBT SERVICE
Amortization                      11.5           9.8        12.4          10.8
Interest                          1h.2          12.0         4og           3.7
Subtotal                       25.7          218        17.3          14.5
OTHER APPLICATIONS
Change in Cash                     3.0          (3.6)      (16.7)         (2.3)
Chg. in Other Current Assets      17.2          31.8         2.7         (17.8)
Other Applications - Net         13.            38.1        445o.9
Subtotal                      1559           66          3                8
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                      281.8
December 17, 1974



COLOMBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SERVICES
BALANCE SHEET
(Col$ million)
-                ASSETS                          - - - - - - - EQUITY AND LIABILITIES -  - - - - - - - - -
Net Fixed       Current                          Total          Long-term           Current
City             Year            Assets         Assets          Total            Equity           Debt            Liabilities            Total
Barranquilla          1974             340.9          58.5            399.4           342.0             33.3               24.1                399.4
1978           1,170.3         110.2          1,280.5           743.4            465.8               71.3              1,280.5
1982           1,570.1         348.3          1,918.4         1,221.7            593.0             103.7               1,918.4
Cartagena             1974             302.9          81.0            383.9           271.5             70.1               42.3                383.9
1978           1,038.9          94.9          1,133.8           494.1            405.5             234.2               1,133.8
1982           1,525.8         127.0          1,652.8           985.8            405.7             261.3              1,652.8
Cucuta               1974              160.8          30.1            190.9            73.3             99.2               18.4                190.9
1978             336.5          38.4            374.9           179.2            180.5               15.2                374.9
1982             508.1          64.1            572.2           354.4            195.1               22.7                572.2
Ibague               1974               50.7           2.7             53.4            51.5             -0-                 1.9                 53.4
1978             199.5          12.1            211.6           116.5             89.7                5.4                211.6
1982             273.5          20.8            294.3           182.6            104.1                7.6                294.3
Pasto                1974               44.6           2.9             47.5            46.2             -0-                 1.3                 47.5
1978             132.0          10.0            142.0            89.1             48.8                4.1                142.0
1982             186.0          14.7            200.7           139.0             56.9                4.8                200.7
Popayan              1974               58.6            7.2            65.8            63.8             -0-                 2.0                 65.8
1978             155.1          10.6            165.7           117.3             44.3                4.1                165.7
1982             227.3          14.8            242.1           184.6             52.0                5.5                242.1
Valledupar            1974              30.8            0.3            31.1            31.0             -0-                 0.1                 31.1
1978              84.8            5.6            90.4            60.9             28.7                0.8                 90.4
1982             126.3          14.7            141.0           105.5             33.9                1.6                141.0
Villavicencio         1974              35.8            5.0            40.8            37.0              0.8                3.0                 40.8
1978              94.6           5.6            100.2            67.4             30.6                2.2                100.2
1982             142.4            9.9           152.3           113.3             35.4                3.6                152.3
December 19, 1974



COLOMBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SERVICES
STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(Cot$ million)
1/                               2z/
Operating      Operating                                           Other         Net          Operating-          Average          Rate of-
City            Year        Revenues       Expenses        Depreciation        Interest       Income       Income          Ratio-%          Rate Base         Return-%
Barranquilla        1974           109.6           78.1             13.0               3.5          11.0         26.0             71.3              308.0            6.0
1978          213.4          138.6             40.4               2.0          14.5         46.9             64.9            1,032.1            3.3
1982          358.3          229.8             67.9              56.0          16.0         20.6             64.1            1,529.6            4.0
Cartagena           1974            51.8           40.0             11.8               6.4           6.8          0.4            77.2               270.2            -0-
1978          146.1           66.7             37.8               5.1           3.6         40.1            45.7               945.0            4.4
1982          236.8          104.4             65.4              37.7           0.4         29.7            44.1             1,463.4            4.6
Cucuta              1974            23.6           15.7              6.0               5.4           3.8          0.3            66.3               147.1            1.3
1978           54.8           27.0              12.8              4.9           3.0         13.1             49.3              308.5            4.8
1982          102.9           42.4             22.3              15.6           3.0         25.6            41.3               482.4            7.9
Ibague              1974            12.0            8.6              2.0               -0-           -0-          1.4            71.5                45.2            3.1
1978           30.0           15.1               7.1              4.6           -0-          3.2            50.4               179.7            4.4
1982           52.2           27.4              11.7             10.6           -0-          2.5             52.5              262.2            5.0
Pasto               1974             5.7            5.1              1.4               -0-           -0-         (0.8)           88.5                40.4           (1.9)
1978           17.0            8.7              4.3               2.5           -0-          1.5             50.9              122.3            3.3
1982           29.0           13.7               7.1              5.8           -0-          2.4            47.1               177.8            4.6
Popayan             1974             7.5            4.4              2.0               -0-           -0-          1.1            58.7                52.6            2.0
1978           17.4            7.3              5.4               2.1           -0-          2.6            41.8               141.7            3.3
1982           31.4           14.3              9.3               5.0           -0-          2.8            45.6               216.7            3.6
Valledupar          1974             4.9            3.8              1.0               -0-           -0-          0.1            77.3                28.1            0.5    -
1978           11.5            6.4              2.8               0.7           -0-          1.6            55.6                 78.7           3.0  J
1982           23.9           12.4              4.8               1.4           -0-          5.3            52.0               119.9            5.6
Villavicencio       1974             4.9            3.3              1.2               0.2           -0-          0.2            68.1                31.5            1.2
1978           11.5            5.7              3.3               1.6           -0-          0.9            50.1                88.4            2.8
1982           23.1            9.2              5.6               3.5           -0-          4.8            39.8               134.3            6.2
1/  Total operating expenses divided by total revenues.
2/ Income before interest divided by average rate base.
December 19, 1974



COLOMBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY ARD SEWERAGE PROJECT
CONSOLIDATED FINANCING PLAIN
(million)
Total
Year Ending December 31                             1975                 197b                1977                 1978                1979             1975-1979
Col$     US$        Col$     US$        Co1$      U'$       Col$     US$        Col$      US$1,      Col$      US$         %
Rate of Fxchange                                 1US$=   29-79       lUS$=  31.67         1US$=  34.36        1US$=  37.28         lUS$= 39.62-'
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Expenditures on Project
Empresas' Subprojects                     96.1      3,21       292.8   9.26       415.5    12.02       362.3    9.86        133.5    3.30    1,300.2   37.65    55.9
Insfopal's program                         5.7      0.19        35.8   1.13       100.4      2.92     121.2    3.27          45.9    1.16        309.0    8.67    13.3
Total                                 10.             3     2.60   10.3 9       515.9    14.94    4 .5   13.13            794 .4            1,609.2             69.2
Interest Charged to Construction:
IBRD Loan                                  3.2      0.11        14.8   0.47        30.9      0.90      44.4    1.22          26.4    o.66        119.7    3.36      5.2
Government Loan                            2.5      o.o8        12.0   0.37        27.3      0.79       43.1    1.18         32.4-   0.80        117.3    3.22       5.0
Other Works                                 190.3      6.38        26.2   0.83        41.8      1.30       47.7    1.39          54.7    1.34       360.7   11.24    15.5
Total Investments                           297.8      9.97       381.6  12.06       65.9    17.93       618.7(  16.92        292.9    7.26    2,2Q6.9   64.14    94.9
Increase in Working Capital                  32.0      1.08        18.9   0.58        10.3      0.31       11.6    0.31         45.8    1.12        118.6    3.40       5.1
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                          329.8    11.05        400.5  12.64       626.2    18.24      630.3    17.23        338.7    8.38    2,325.5   67.54   100.0
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Empresas' Net Internal Cash Generation            64.6    2.19       108.2   3.41       153.0      4.46      183.5      5.05       159.6    3.91       668.9   19.02    28.8
Borrowings:
IBRD Loan                                     6T,.5    2.08       196.8   6.22       296.2      8.62      274.0     7.47       104.9    2.61        934.4   27.00    40. 2
Government Loan                               46.2    1.53         93.5   2.95       177.0      5.16      172.8     4.71        74.2    1.86        563.7   16.21    24.2
Government Contributions                        8.0    0.27         2.0    -           -         -          -          -                  -          10.0    0.33       0.4
Other Loans                                   148.5    4.98                                                                      -48-2                                  6.4
TOTAL SOURCES                                 329.8   11.05       400.5  12.64       626.2    18.24       630.3    17.23        338.7    8.38    2,325.5   67.54   100.0
/ Average of 1st six months only.
December 20, 1974



COLSONITA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERA.GE PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN FOR THE SUBPROJECTS
BorrsnauSlla   Cartaxena                Cu~~c-ta               IhgePaste                                     P-pava              Va1ledupel            Villavicencio                 INSFOPAL                   TOTAL.
loSS     US$        1       oS        0             Col$  USS      %      Cell   %S                oS 0$            7     C.,$  US$   %         CoIl   US$       7.   Co1$       U0$       7.   ColO      US$      7      Coil    UJS$        7.
APPILICATIONS OF PONDS
Capital E.peedit.res:
Eapenditures on ProJect                      609.4    17.46      78.3   337.8   9.78  49.7   94.9  2.71   65.0   95.5   2.82   71.2   50.7   1.54   70.6   49.4  1.45  64.7   31.2   0.95  66.4   31.3                        0.94   69.4   309.0   8.67   84.4  1,600.2  46.32   69.2
Unterent Changed to Cosp*to                    9.1      2.47     1.1.0    62.0   1.72   0.7   11.6  0.52   12.7   10.5   0.30    7.0             6.4   0.19    8.9    4.7  0.14   6.1    9.0   0.14  10.6    4.3              0.13    9.5       36.4   0.97      9.7    237.0   6.58   10.2
Ether Work.                                   45,0      1.55      6.6   248.5   7.76  39.3   14.6, 0.40   10.0   17.7   0.54   13.2    _.0   9.21   11.2   18.1  0.52  23.7    _M    0.10   8.1.    5.0                       0.L16   11. -I                             560.7  11.21    15
Total Un-etmeot.                               743.5    21.48    95.9   648.3  19.26  97.7  128.1  3.63   87.7  123.7   3.65   92.2   65.1   1.94   90.7   22.2  2.11  94.5   48.0   1.19  85.1   40.6                           1.23   90.0   345.4   9.64   94.1  2,206.9  64.14   94.9
I-creas  (D-creae ...>    Worki.g C.pita1       34.3      0.92      4.1    11.7   9.45   2.3   18.0  0.40  12.3    10.5   0.31    7.8    6.7   0.28                9.3    4.2  8.1.1   5.5    2.0   0.20  14,9    4.3           0.11    10.0    21.7   0.61        5.9    118.6   3.48        5.1
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                             272.8    22.40   100.8   668.0  S9m71 180.82146.1  4.1100.8   13.    3.97100.                      71.8   2.14  10.        7.   2.2  10.    .470   1.39  008.E   45.1             1.34  100.0   367.1   18.25  100.0  2 325.5  67.54  io  
SOURCES OP PONDS
loternI Resoo.re..n
Oatmeal Cash Gene.ration                     360.6    50.22    45.6   358.1  10.24  51.9  123.5  3.47  84.5    56.9   1.61   42.4   30.1.   0.84   41.8   39.9  1.12  52.2   19.5   8.24  41.1   22.3                         0.64   49.9       -       --    1,010.9  28.68   43.5
L..s  SeDbt ServIc                           (59.6)   (1.65)    (7.35 (169.7) (4.87)(24,7) (74.0)(2.14)(50.6)  (14.4) (8.37) (10.7)  (7.9) (0.202  (11.05  (6.7) (0..) (8.83  (2.15  (8.05) (4.53  (76                       (0.21) (16.9)   -                          (342.8)  (9.662  (14.7)
Nat leteroal Reoonrteo  01.8  8.57  38.3   108.4    537  27.2   49.2  1.33  33.9          42.5   1.24   31.7   22.2   0.64   30.8   33.2  8.93  43.4   17.2   8.49  36.6   14.9                 0.43   33.0    -          -        -       668.9  19.02   26.8
CVar-oet Contrib.tioe-                                                       -       -       -                             4.3   0.13      3.4    3.0   OUR0    4.2        -     -        -     2.9   8.06   5.3        -         -       -       -       -                 10.0   0.33    0.4
,B0  os                                      349.0    108.06    44.9   196.4   5.71  29.0  54.    1.58  37.6    53.2   1.38   39.6   28.9   0.80   40.3   27.8  0.82  36.4   18.0   0.53  38.3   18.8                         0.34   39.9   188.2   5.28   51.3    934.6  27.00   40.2
Veeooot1a                                   178        3.7      1.    12.        3.51..4.               .12.53.               1895.            7.      .2147           53.4  0.45  28.2    9.3   8.27  19.8   12.2           0.37   27.1   170.9   4.97   48.7    363.7  16.21   24.2
Oth-r Lo.s                                                               148.5   4.08  25.3 -  -            -       -       -       -      -       -        -       -       -         -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -         -       -       140.5   4.98      6.4
Total Borriolga                                476.8    13.03    61.7   47.   043-289.    27                      61      8.     2.9    64.    46.6  1.40    65.0   43.2  1.27366              27. 3   08.2  58.1   30.2        091   67.8   36.W02               0.    ,4.         8.19   1.
TOTAL SOURCES                                  777.8    22.40   180.0   660.0  19.71 100.0 146.1   4.12 188,0   154.2   3.97  100.0   71.8  2.14   1.98.0   76.4  2.22 1O.00.    47.0   1.39 408.0   45.1                       1.341.800.0   367.1.  10.25  180.8  2325.5  67.34  100.0
P.tpri.d  of Fi--oing Pla.:
197;5-1979 for INSFOPAL, B-rreqoilla, Crtsgeea and C.eota.
1975-1978 for Ibagoe, Pasta.  Popays, Vs11edepar sod Villli-ieRo..
1!Po  Plant. do Sod.  - anet-r s-pply systa.
Deemb.r 18. 1974



COLOMBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO MUNICIPAL (INSFOPAL)
TARIFFS AND FINANCIAL TARGETS
- Average Tariffs - Col$/m3 * -------                 ------- Financial Rate of Return - % -------
City                 1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979          1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1982
BARRANQUILLA             2.05    2.35    2.60    2.95    3.30    3.66            6.0     3.2    3.7       3.6    3.3       4.0
(Annual Increase-%)       -     14.6    10.6   13.5    11.9    10.9
CARTAGENA **             2.01    2.22    2.43    2.74    3.11    3.47            0       5.8    5.0       4.9    4.4       4.6
(Annual Increase-%)       -     10.4      9.5    12.8    13.5    11.6
CUCUTA                   1.30    1.50    1.82    2.10    2.35    2.63           1.3      0.3    3.3       4.1    4.8       7.9
(Annual Increase-%)       -     15.4    21.3    15.4    11.9    11.9
IBAGUE                   1.08    1.5.0    1.50    1.68    1.88    2.07          3.1      5.7    5.7       4.8    4.4       5.0
(Annual Increase-%)       -     38.9       -    12.0    11.9    10.1
PASTO                    0.80    1.30    1.30    1.50    1.80    1.98          (1.9)    0.5    1.9        2.8    3.3       4.6
(Annual Increase-%)       -     62.5      -      15.4    20.0    10.0
POPAYAN                  1.20    1.50    1.60    1.84    2.15    2.44            2.0     2.4    2.9       3.3    3.3       3.6
(Annual Increase-%)       -     25.0     6.7    15.0    16.8    13.5
VALLEDUPAR               0.80    1.00    1.35    1.51    1.69    1.89            0.5    (1.6)   2.8       3.1    3.0       5.6
(Annual Increase-%)       -     25.0    35.0    11.9    11.9    11.8
VILLAVICENCIO            1.30    1.50    1.57    1.76    1.97    2.16            1.2     1.2    1.5       2.2    2.8       6.2
(Annual Increase-%)       -     15.4     4.7    12.1    11.9       9.6
*   Average tariffs give price per cubic meter of water sold and include a percentage for sewerage services.
**  Average tariffs for raw water would be 1.00, 1.30, 1.50, 1.60 and 1.70 for the successive years shown above.                  X
Sales to Planta de Soda are projected at a constant price of Col$0.55/m .
December 17, 1974



COLOMBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
OTHER SERVICES-STATEMENTS OF INCOME AND CASH FLOW
(Col$ million)
Total          Operating        Operating                                      Debt         Inc. (Dec,)              Total             Operating
City               Year           Revenues         Expenses           Income               Investments           Service        in Work. Cap.        Applications           Ratio-%
Barranquilla            1974             93.3              60.6              32.7                  21.8                10.8              1.2                  33.8                 65.0
1976           125.9              85.6              40.3                  37.0                 2.9             (0.7)                  39.2                68.0
1978           147.5              99.5              48.0                  46.0                 1.8             (0.2)                  47.6                67.5
1982           188.5             121.5              67.0                  64.0                 -0-              -0-                   64.0                64.5
Cartagena               1974             32.6              40.1             (7.4)                  -0-                  2.3             (8.6)                  (6.3)             133.0
1976            48.4              46.7               1.7                   -0-                 3.2              0.5                    3.7               103.4
1978            61.7              52.5               9.2                   3.0                 3.1              5.2                   11.3                92.6
1982            88.1              68.8              19.3                  15.1                 3.5              2.7                   21.3                89.2
Cucuta                  1974             10.4              13.3             (2.9)                   -0-                 0.8              -0-                   0.8               127.9
1976            20.0              18.4               1.6                   -0-                 1.2              -0-                    1.2                92.0
1978            31.6              24.0               7.6                   5.0                 -0-              1.0                    6.0                75.9
1982            67.1              41.6              25.5                  13.5                 -0-              1.5                   15.0                62.0
Villavicencio           1974              4.3               3.7               0.6                   1.0                 -0-              -0-                    1.0                86.0
1976             6.5               4.9               1.6                   1.4                 -0-              0.2                    1.6                75.4
1978             9.0               6.7               2.3                   2.0                 -0-              0.2                    2.2                74.4
1982            15.2              11.1               4.1                   3.3                 -0-              0.3                    3.6                73.0
December 19, 1974



COLOMBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(Col$ million)
Operating       Operating       Operating                                          Other         Net         Operating
CitY            Year       Revenues        Expenses         Income         Depreciation        Interest       Income       Income          Ratio
Barranquilla        1974         202.9            138.7           64.2             14.6               3.5           11.0         57.1           68.4
1976         274.2           190.9           83.3             24.4               2.4           13.0         69.5            69.6
1978         360.0           238.1          122.8             42.4               2.0           14.5         92.9            66.0
1982         546.8           351.3          195.5             70.3              55.9           16.0         85.3            64.2
Cartagena           1974          81.9            80.1             1.8             13.1              7.5             9.3         (9.5)          97.8
1976         151.4            98.6           52.8              25.9              8.0            9.7         28.6            65.1
1978         202.8           119.2           83.6             39.8               7.2            8.6         45.2            58.8
1982         313.9           173.2          140.7             67.7              39.7           11.4         44.7            55.2
Cucuta              1974          34.0             28.9            5.1              6.9              5.4             3.8         (3.4)          85.0
1976          56.7            39.1           17.5             10.2               5.4            3.0          4.9            69.1
1978          86.4            51.0           35.4              14.1              4.9            3.0         19.4            59.0
1982         170.0            84.0           86.0             23.7              15.6            3.0         49.7           49.4
Villavicencio       1974           9.1              7.0            2.1              1.4              0.2              -           0.5           76.9
1976          13.7             9.3            4.4              2.4               0.1             -           1.9            67.9
1978          20.5            12.4            8.1              3.7               1.6             -           2.8            60.5
1982          38.3            20.3           18.0              6.1               3.5             -           8.4            53.0
* Operating Costs divided by Operating Revenues.
December 19, 1974



ANNEX 21
COLOMBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND PROJECTIONS
Revenues
Production and sales of water are based on the projections shown
in Annexes 4 and 5. Unaccounted-for water is projected to decrease from
a present average of 40% to around 25% in 1980. Revenues are from billings,
and where applicable (Barranquilla and Cartagena) from sewerage charges.
The 1974 average tariffs are assumed to substantially increase in 1975
(62% in Pasto, 39% in Ibague, 25% in Villadupar) and by a minimum of 10%
thereafter. Required rate increases during the construction period are
shown in Annex 18. Non-operating income is assumed to remain constant.
Operating Costs
Personnel expenses are projected to increase with the number of
customers, but at a slower rate. Salaries and wages are based on present
payrolls and assumed to increase 15% annually for adjustments in the living
cost. Power and chemical costs are assumed to increase in proportion to
water production and adjusted with an inflation of 12%. Other operating
costs would increase in proportion with the number of house connections.
All operating expenses include a 5% provision for contingencies.
Depreciation
Depreciation of fixed assets is calculated at straight-line rates
based on estimated service lives. An annual average of 3% is used. Fixed
assets are revalued by applying a Construction Cost Index estimated to be
the relevant inflation factor in Colombia. This index is 18% in 1973, 25%
in 1974, 20% in 1975, 15% in 1976 and 10% thereafter.
Balance Sheet Items
Accounts receivable are assumed to equal about 1 1/2 to 2 months'
billing by the end of 1976. Inventories are estimated separately for each
type of materials (water meters, chemicals, spare parts) and set according
to their origin (local or foreign) and requirements. Accounts payable are
in general calculated as two months' expenditures on materials, power and
services, and a lump sum for other liabilities.
December 20, 1974



ANNEX 22
Page 1 of 2 pages
COLOMBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
METHOD OF CALCULATING THE RATES OF RETURN
AND OPERATING RATIOS
1.        The annual rates of return will be calculated for the water supply
and sewerage services, before April 30 of each year with respect to the pre-
ceding and current calendar years. For this purpose, the rate of return will
be calculated by dividing the net income of these services for the 12-month
period considered by the net average value of the fixed assets in service for
the same period.
2.        Any shortfall or overrun in the required annual return for the
calendar year immediately preceding the year for which the calculation is
made, determined on the basis of the audited financial data, will be carried
forward and subtracted or added, as the case may be, to the net income of
the services in the year for which the calculation is made.
3.        The net average value of fixed assets means half the sum of:
(i) the net value of the fixed assets at the beginning of
the 12-month period, and
(ii) the net value of the fixed assets at the end of the same
period.
4.        The net value of the fixed assets means the gross value (revalued
historical costs) of such assets minus accumulated depreciation, both re-
valued by the application of the Construction Cost Index in the city or
department, or other equivalent index acceptable to INSFOPAL and the Bank.
5.        Net income is defined as the difference between:
(i) Total operating income of the services (excluding deposits
and contributions for investments), and,
(ii) the total of general and maintenance operating costs (but
excluding interest and other charges on debts), a reasonable
provision for doubtful accounts, the indirect cost of con-
nections and reconnections, taxes where applicable, a pro-
vision for free services given to the municipality as applicable,
and adequate provision for annual depreciation, calculated on
a straight line basis on revalued and depreciable fixed assets.



ANNEX 22
Page 2 of 2 pages
6.        The annual depreciation will be calculated on the average gross
value of the revalued fixed assets at the beginning and the end of the
period under consideration, with an average minimum annual rate of 3%
for the water supply and sewerage services.
7.        The revaluation of the fixed assets, depreciation and external
debt will be accumulated and included in the general balance sheet of the
utilities.
8.        The operating ratio is understood to mean the annual total of
operating costs in paragraph 5 (ii) above divided by the annual total of
operating income in paragraph 5 (i) above, but excluding from costs the
provision for annual depreciation.
May 28, 1974



COLOMBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO NUNICIPAL (INSFOPAL)
PROJECTED CASH FLIOW STATEWENTS
Total           %
1974    1975    1976    1        1978    1979    1980       1981    1982    1983       1974-1983    1974-1983
- -    - - - - - - - - - - -      MCol  M i 1 1 i o n             - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Applications
Loans to Multi-city I                  25      50       54      _ -          -            -        -        -       -           129            3
Loans to Multi-city II                 59     110     181      161       64      -        -        -        -       -           575           12
Loans to other cities                  50      50       50     160       00             40         00      560     630        3 150
Total Lending                     1        210     2        321     364                         0                m                  82
Contributions and investments
in ACUAS stock                     100       90      50       30      20       20      20        20       20      20          390            8
Subsidies to cover ACUAS deficits    15        15       10      10       -       -        -        -        -       -            50            1
Former Public Debt Service             40      40       40      40       40      40       40       40       40     -0           400            9
Total Applications              289      355     385      401     424      460     510       560     620      690        4,694          100
Sources
Returns from Multi-city I               4       8       15      21       21      21       21       21       21      21          174            4
ft    nt  Multi-city II              2       10      20       30      54       76      76        76       76      76          496           10
n   n ther cities             -        6      12      18       37       74     122      177      2                                  21
Total Returns                       6      72      m -7       9     112      171     219       27   4304             1X      665           7
Operating Income (Net)                (30)    (24)      (4)     -         5       6        7        8        9      10          (13)           -
Government Funds                      313    -la       342      332     307     283      284      278      2                  3 3.042
Total Sources                   289      355     385      401     424      460     510       560     620      690        4,694          100
Government Funds at 1974-prices       313     317      274     237      196     161     1144      126      111      98
Returns as % of Lending                 4      11       16      21       31      43       49       55       60      65
Notes:
1)  The 1974-figures are in accordance with INSFOPAL's approved budget.
2) Projected investments reflect present ongoing programs and a conservative appraisal about the availability of Government funds.
3)  INSFOPAL's operating income will be generated by the administrative, financial and technical services that it will provide
to ACUAS.
4) Returns from lending operations are calculated at 12% interest compounded semi-annually, 25-year term (including 5-year
grace period).
5)  The first Bank loan to INSFOPAL and the proposed second one are not taken into account in the projections, since INSFOPAL
will not get any return on these loans.
May 28, 1974



COLONRBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY ANDO SEWERLAGE PROJECT
MONITORING ISIDICA.TORI
seresleC-rtagemo                                            Cu-to                       lib.gee                        P-ste                       Peemyan                   Veludepe-               villeviee...
INDICATORS                                1974     1976    1979        1974    1976       1979     1974    1976      1979       1974    1976      1979       1974     1976       1979      1974    1976       1979      1974     1976  1979        1974    iS        1979
Nuber o.f P- -eset Epley.es                        319      336      378       200      200      200        200     700       236       107       III      119        60       62        66         71       71       71         36       36    47         42       44       48
Employees per 1,000 Co.....tioos                     4.7      4.4      4.0        8.7      9.0      3.3       6.9      1.7      4.1        1.1      4.9      4.6       4.6      4.4        4.7       1.6      1.3       4.7       4.6      4.9   4.2        4.5       4.3      4.0
Employees Tral-d (A-eeelard)                          -        50      150        -        30      150         -        30     140         -        11        5                  12        30        -        12        35        -         9     20         -        10       23
2.  System Operation
o)Oter
Water Prod-cd (1.0GG.030o/year)                 76.9     72.5    91.5       23.9    26.5    36.1         25.0    26.9    31.8        15.6    18.1    02.1         12.7    13.6       12.3        9.6    10.0      11.0      10.2       6.3   7.7        6.2      7.0      9.6
Water Sold (1SO,SS 000   /y-a)                 41.3    49.2    59.5         19.1    22.6    20.9        16.5    16.3    22.6         10.3    12.1      14.6        6.5      7.2       9.6       5.4       6.1      7.9       6.1      4.0   9.5         3.4      4.7        39
U......ooted-f-r Wuter -7                       40       32       77         20       20       20        34       32       29        35        34       34        49       38         30        45       33        28        40       37     29        45       40        33
To tal Number ot Ce-mtloos (1,000)             70.4    76.4    94.4         24.0    30.0    40.0        31.1    37.0    47.0        21.0    75.2    30.3         13.0    14.0        15.8      12.7    13.3    97.2          7.1      8.4  10.0       11.0     12.5      14.9
Noober of Meterd Coreetious (1,000)            96.0    46.5    90.0         20.4    24.0    35.0        28.0    34.0    45.0        17.0    23.0    27.0         11.0    12.0       13.8        9.0    11.1      13.0        0.4      I.E    9.5       0.25    4.0       10.0
Woobe- of Co...eetlees                         47.0    57.0    72.0          9.0    13.0    19.0         24.0    32.0    40.0        14.0    17.3      20.4        10.5   11.4       12.3      10.0    10.9    12.4          7.1      2.4    2.8       10.3     11.3     12.8
Sewe  Coeoeetio-/Oale- C--etioee                0.7      0.9       0.9       0.4     0.4       0.3       0.9      0.8      0.9       0.7       0.7      0.7        0,9     0.8       0.9        0.8      0.8      0.9        0.3      0.3   0.3        0.9      0.9       0.9
3.  Fie..o.e
a)Water S-p1  -rd Sewe.rag  lervi.o.
Rste of Ret,a-s  - -                            6.0      3.7       3.0       -        4.9      4.0      1.5       3.3      5.4      7.1        5.7      3.6       -        1.9        3.4       2.0      7.9      3.4        0.5      2.9    3.4      1.1        1.5      3.9
Oper-tfogRstio  - xz/                           71       71        61        77       SI   0        48    6       37       46         71       57       33        90       60        50         39       49       42         77       41    54         69       60        46
Debt-to-Equity RatIo                            0.19      0.43    0.80       0.44    0.99      0.93      3.74     7.30    1.19        0.25    0.53      0.73      -        0.76      0.41       0.45    0.62    0.81         1.82     1.74  1.35       0.07     0.39    0.54
Debt Servies C_vergo3/                           3.9      7.1      3.3       1.2      2.1       1.9       0.9    1.3        1.9       -        -         1.4       -        -         1.9       -          -       2.6       -          -    4.4        2,6      4.9      2.1
Averge Reveeoee/l,000,000  3 p rduced           1.35      1.74    7.76       5.62    3.40      4.04      0.77    1.19    1.74         0.70    0.99      1.52       0.41   0.90       1.74      0.55    0.94       1.47      0.13      0.76  1.35       0.63     0.99      1.41
Oper..tiog Eupeeoes/1,000 900 o,.   sold         1.77     1.03     2.51      1.66    2.21    2.41        0. 99    1.11    1.77        0.00    0.95      0.97       0.37   9.76        1.01      0.37    0.71    0.94         0.74     1.13  1.16       0.79    0.91       1.00
Revemu  ICff-ttv--- ie~ee-                       0.45    0.36    0.60        0.60    0.66    0.70        0.50    0.54       0.79      0.49    0.35    0.57          0.30   0.55       0.58      0.41    0.54    0.60         0.43     0.52  0.59       0.41    9.50       0.56
b)  Otber SorvSees         2
Opeeati 5g R.ti.                                 -        68       65         -       103       01         -      97       73         -        -        -          -        -         -         -        -         -         -        -      -         96       75        73
1/  I-em  before isstelst divided by  -vergo rate base.
Y/  Total oper-tieg eupeeses divided by total  ..veo...
3/  Rt louse  divided by debt sris
4/Rev-m    Cul1e-ted pee  3 produced dIvided by ev-ruge reeo  billed Iper3
Dece.bee 29, 1974



COLOMBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE PROJECT
INSFOPAL - EXISTING ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNT      FISCAL AUDIT
CENTRAL OFFICE
GENERAL MANAGER
|PUBLIC RELATOSI-                                        BUDGET      I
7ADMNISTRATION             EXTERNAL CREDIT                PROJECTS                OPERATIONS
ADMINI              ~~~~OFFICE                                         O
OPERATIONS &
MAINTENANCE
FINANCE   PROJECT                    ~~~~~~~BIDS &
FINANCE I -|SUPERVISION  |-ECONTRACTS
LQ INVENTORY             LO4ADMNISRTO                CONSTRUCTION |           MREA 
ADIITATION                 _                      NISTRATION
|DIRECCIONES|       OFICINAS       I ACUAS        IIEMPRE
I SECCIONALESI    SECCIONALES I         C       I  I
World Bank-8720



COLOMBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE PROJECT
INSFOPAL - PROPOSED ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
I
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNT     F    A
CENTRAL OFFICE |H
_ |    g   -|   ~~PLANNING 
jENEAI MANAGER
-|PUBLIC RELATIONS 
AUDIT SECTIO        CONSULTANTS
ADMINISTFCATION           FINANE                 PRO
PROGRAMMING &          EVALUATION &
:   PERSONNEL  l  n BUDGETING               SUPERVISION
LEGAL    l          |TREASURY                  CONTRACTS 
REGIONAL            LOAN                    ASSISTANCE &
OFFICES            ADMINISTRATION           TRAINING
GENERAL                                           lcsTI
L    GENERAL   l  *  ACCOUNTING             STANDARSTC&|
SERVICES                                           RDS
World Bank-8721



COLOMBIA
SECOND MULTI-CITY WATER SUPPLY & SEWER[ ,3E PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
975               j                1976                                    1977                                    1978                          1979
CITIES                M     IJ  J|A|S |               !J |IF |M  A||  J | J IA IS |  |N I D  J |F IM |A|M        | J|A|S                        A I m I |                N I DI
BARRANQUILLA                 ViEP|||4WA                                              -        *        *       *-*
CARTAGENA                    U                                                                      i                    .        I ,_       main... i aimummim  mama.... I *aaaauuu  aauau  I ii......
CUCUTA                         _ff|rfl {! ff ffI 7i lf                                                                                      ...............ama......m . .mim 
IBAGUE                       Uv,, _4_
amumna maga,aau  u.IuuEhE  mmm....u. aummasamg lEhIhhhEU EEIEUIEI EhhEiluia Eaa.Iiu.E.IEuiEEh
PASTO                          -  - -  -                                             - K             -
POPAYAN                        I'A'rA'A                       -            -u,   -     -  _m.*. m _...
':ALLEDUPAR                                                  laX5I *hi 5E  E               IlhEmmEhl E...   EuE  IaEhhiEB I IEEKEEE
VI LLAVICENCIO               U             =w:J'v    .     _                                                .         .  .     . _a....   a. M
INSFOPAL'S SYSTEMS                                                                                   i.                      i               asamama_   mam   amaamw5    I 1WrAVmm   ma..l ..  aummaA
LEGEND:
WdA-AVWDESIGN
__           BIDDING
* aaah1aahealCONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                               World Bank-8727






IBRD-11079
74*                                                            MAY 7914
A TLANTIC                                   C EA N
A       r    L    A     N/  r      I    C           a c E A             a'                                                           --
I? e                                                                                                                               I       > 4QUTH{ AMERICA
BARRANOVILLA i2
AThA V A
CARTAGE A           .                                              I'
MAGDALENA
0                                             'SUCRO
SUCRE  ~          NRTE1~
/ CORDOBA                           NR                  -                                         12   A
SANTANDER
/             .              PCPAYA?c O   _                                     .6cn, 9
A     OQUIA
SANTANDER 1                AR A UCA
N           *~~**~~*  T.njo                               t
c H o c'       > d -             'B                             Y A C
O                       ~~~~~~~~RISARALOAI 7CL A
'. ~~v        CUNDINAMARCA)
2   /                  ~~~~BOGOTA                                                 V I   C H A DA
VA L LE    i  TM ELITMA
r'r~     V                                                                       1 ErT2A
eCPAYAN       ' o'                                                            MI'd
L- 



