Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H077-0-6R 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Pan Caribbean Partnership Against HIV/AIDS  Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
THE CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY 
 
Dated April 28, 2004 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H077-0-6R 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 28, 2004, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and The CARIBBEAN 
COMMUNITY (the Recipient). 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient is a duly established international organization and 
represents that it has the necessary legal capacity and powers to enter into this Agreement 
and perform its obligations herein set forth; 
(B) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(C) 
the Executive Directors of the Association approved:  (i) on June 28, 
2001, the first in a series of credits supporting Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Prevention and 
Control Program for the Caribbean Region (the Program) estimated to total an amount of 
US$155,000,000 equivalent over a period of  six years; and (ii) on March 25, 2004 the 
Project to be part of the Program; 
 
(D) 
Part C of the Project will be carried out by CAREC (as defined below) 
with the Recipient’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Recipient will make 
part of the proceeds of the Grant provided for in this Agreement available to CAREC, as 
set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
Page  3
2
1999), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“AIDS” means Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; 
(b) 
“Annual Action Plan” means any of the plans referred to in Section 3.07 
(a) and/or (c) of this Agreement; 
(c) 
“CAREC” means the Caribbean Epidemiology Centre, an international 
regional organization and a specialized center of the Pan American Health Organization, 
vested with legal personality, whose objective is to improve the health status of the 
Caribbean people by working with and advancing the capability of its members in 
epidemiology, laboratory technology, and related public health disciplines; 
(d) 
“CAREC Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.04 
(a) of this Agreement; 
(e) 
“CRN+” means a non-profit entity devoted to enhance the quality of life 
of people living with HIV/AIDS in the Caribbean region, vested with legal personality 
and duly incorporated in the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago on June 16, 1998; 
(f) 
“Eligible Country” means a Member Country (as defined below) which 
has met the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual for participating in the partnership 
program mentioned in Part D.3 (a)(ii) of the Project, and is a member of the Association; 
(g) 
“FMR” means each report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; 
(h) 
“HIV” means Human Immune-deficiency Virus; 
(i) 
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Recipient to the Association setting forth the Project monitoring indicators; 
(j) 
“Implementation MOU” means any of the memoranda referred to in 
Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement; 
Page  4
3
(k) 
“Member Countries” means the Recipient’s member and/or observer 
states (as the case may be) set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement to be benefited by 
the Project’s regional activities; 
(l) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.06 (a) 
of this Agreement; 
(m) 
“PCU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.08 (a) of this Agreement; 
(n) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(o) 
“UNAIDS” means the joint and co-sponsored United Nations program 
on HIV/AIDS to further mobilize the global response to the epidemic and provide means 
of coordinated action, which program was created pursuant to the terms of a 
Memorandum of Understanding of 1995, as amended. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. 
The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to six million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
6,100,000) (the Grant). 
Section 2.02. 
(a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for  the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007 or such later date 
as the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Page  5
4
Section 2.04. 
(a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to 
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, such rate not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.05 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Co-Operative Republic of Guyana; and (iii) in Dollars or in such 
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.05. 
Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on June 15 
and December 15 in each year. 
ARTICLE III  
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: 
(a) 
carry out Parts A, B and D of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate health, technical, administrative, financial, 
social, educational and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for said Parts of the Project; 
and 
(b) 
cause CAREC (pursuant to the terms of the CAREC Agreement) to carry 
out Part C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate health, biomedical waste, technical, administrative, financial, social and 
environmental practices, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to 
enable CAREC to carry out said Part of the Project, and shall not take or permit to be 
Page  6
5
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of said Part of the 
Project. 
Section 3.02. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a 
regional plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
Section 3.04. 
(a) For purposes of carrying out Part C of the Project, the 
Recipient shall make part of the proceeds of the Grant (allocated under Categories (1) (a), 
(2) (a), (3) (b), (4) (a) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement) available to CAREC under a subsidiary grant agreement (the CAREC 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Recipient and CAREC, under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association which shall include, 
inter 
alia
,
the obligation of  CAREC: 
(i) 
to carry out Part C of the Project in accordance with the pertinent 
provisions of this Agreement and the Operational Manual; 
(ii) 
(A) to maintain a financial management system (including 
records and accounts and any other information and/or 
documentation as the Association may request from time to 
time), all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to 
the Association consistently applied, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the carrying out 
of said Part of the Project; and (B) to furnish to the Recipient the 
documentation referred to in (A) herein so as to enable the 
Recipient to comply with its obligations under Sections 4.01 and 
4.02 of this Agreement; 
Page  7
6
(iii) 
to comply with the obligations referred to in: (A)  Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of said Part of the Project; and (B) 
Section 8.01 (b) of the General Conditions (as amended pursuant 
to paragraph 5 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement); 
(iv) 
to take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Recipient to 
comply with its obligations under Section 3.09 (a) and (b) of this 
Agreement;  
(v) 
to participate in the review referred to in Section 3.09 (c) of this 
Agreement; 
(vi) 
to employ a financial specialist with qualifications and 
experience acceptable to the Association; 
(vii) 
to undertake all necessary actions with the Republic of Trinidad 
and Tobago to permit the Recipient’s and the Association’s 
representatives to visit CAREC’s facilities in said country for 
purposes related to the Grant; and 
(viii) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to 
enforce the CAREC Agreement or any provision thereof. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
the CAREC Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Grant, and, except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive 
or fail to enforce the CAREC Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.05. 
(a) For purposes of carrying out Parts D.2 and D.3 of the Project, 
the Recipient shall, prior to carrying out any activity which will benefit a particular entity 
under such Part of the Project, enter into a memorandum of understanding (the 
Implementation MOU) with said entity, on terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Association, including, 
inter alia
,
the obligation of said entity to: 
(i) 
permit the Recipient to carry out the pertinent Project activities 
under said Part of the Project which will benefit said entity, 
including but not limited to the necessary assistance in the 
Page  8
7
procurement of goods, works and/or services, as the case may be 
(in accordance with the pertinent Annual Action Plan); and 
(ii) under
take all necessary actions to permit the Recipient’s and the 
Association’s representatives to visit said entity’s facilities in the 
country in which said entity has established its legal residence 
for purposes related to the Grant. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
each Implementation MOU in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and 
the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Grant, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate, 
terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Implementation MOU or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.06. 
(a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall: (i) carry out Parts A, B and D of the Project; and (ii) 
cause CAREC to carry out Part C of the Project, all in accordance with a manual (the 
Operational Manual), acceptable to the Association, said manual to include, 
inter alia
,
the 
environmental guidelines and recommendations (resulting from the Project’s 
environmental assessment dated May 7, 2003) to be followed during the construction of 
health facilities under Part C of the Project, the construction guidelines for small works 
under Parts C and D.3 (a) (iii) of the Project,  CAREC’s biomedical waste management 
and disposal system and procedures (including any improvement to the same as a result 
of carrying out Part C.8 of the Project), the guidelines for the preparation of Annual 
Actions Plans and the disbursement and procurement procedures (including an acceptable 
procurement filing system) under the Grant. 
(b) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
Section 3.07. 
The Recipient shall: (a) not later than November 30 of each year 
of Project implementation, starting in year 2004, furnish to the Association, for its 
approval, an annual action plan (the Annual Action Plan), each said plan to include, 
inter 
alia
:
(i) the Project activities to be carried out by the Recipient and CAREC, as the case 
may be (with the assistance of the corresponding entity referred to in Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement), during the calendar year following the presentation of each said plan; and 
(ii) the updated procurement plan and disbursement schedule for each said Project 
activities; (b) thereafter implement and cause to be implemented said Annual Action Plan 
in accordance with its terms; and (c) carry out and cause to be carried out the Annual 
Action Plan for the year 2004 (as approved by the Association prior to the date of this 
Agreement) in accordance with its terms. 
Page  9
8
Section 3.08. 
(a) The Recipient shall operate and maintain, at all times during 
Project implementation, a Project coordination unit (the PCU) with a structure, functions 
and responsibilities acceptable to the Association, including, 
inter alia
,
the responsibility 
of the PCU to coordinate, monitor and supervise the carrying out of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall ensure that the PCU is, at all times during Project 
implementation, headed by a Regional Project manager and assisted by a deputy Project 
manager with expertise in administrative and financial matters and adequate professional 
and administrative staff, all with qualifications and experience acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
Section 3.09. 
The Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain, and cause CAREC to maintain, as the case may be, policies 
and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in 
accordance with the indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, not later than October 31 of year during Project 
implementation, starting in the year 2004, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association and CAREC, by November 30,2006, or such 
later date as the Association shall request, the pertinent reports referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take and/or cause to be taken, as the case may be, all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
reports and the Association’s views on the matter. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. 
(a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
Page  10
9
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
(or other period agreed to by the Association), audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year (or 
such other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of 
 
statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Page  11
10
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set forth in Section 3.09 of this Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare and 
furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Grant, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of  
such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation (as described in the corresponding Annual 
Action Plan); and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Other Covenants
 
Section 5.01. 
The Recipient shall cause CAREC: 
(a) 
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice; 
(b) 
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound health, biomedical waste, technical, administrative, financial and environmental 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers; and 
Page  12
11
(c) 
at all times to operate and  maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound health, biomedical waste, technical, 
engineering and financial practices. 
ARTICLE VI
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 6.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
That CAREC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
CAREC Agreement. 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that CAREC will be able to perform its obligations under the CAREC Agreement. 
ARTICLE VII 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 7.01. 
The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a) 
the CAREC Agreement has been executed by the parties thereto; 
(b) 
the Recipient and CAREC have adopted the Operational Manual in a 
manner acceptable to the Association; 
(c) 
the Recipient has established the PCU and hired at least the deputy 
Project manager as referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement; and 
(d) 
CAREC has hired one financial specialist as provided in Section 3.04 (a) 
(vi) of this Agreement.  
Section 7.02. 
The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
Page  13
12
opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely that, the CAREC Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient and CAREC, and is legally binding 
upon the Recipient and CAREC in accordance with its terms. 
Section 7.03. 
The date July 27, 2004 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VIII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 8.01. 
The Secretary General of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 8.02. 
 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
The Caribbean Community 
 
Bank of Guyana Building 
 
Georgetown, Guyana 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(592) 226-7816 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
Page  14
13
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Caroline Anstey 
 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
 
THE CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY 
 
By  /s/ Edwin Carrington 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  15
14
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
(SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
 
(a)  under Part C of the Project 
25,000 
88% 
 
(b)  under Part D of the Project 
375,000 
100% 
 
(2) 
Goods (including laboratory reagents) 
 
(a)  under Part C of the Project 
750,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures; and 88% 
 
of local expenditures 
 
(b)  under Part D of the Project 
350,000 
100% 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
 
(a)  under Parts A, B and D of 
2,500,000) 
100% 
 
the Project 
) 
 
)
(b)  under Part C of the Project 
500,000) 
 
(4) Training 
 
(a)  under Part C of the Project 
100,000) 
100% 
 
)
(b)  under Part D of the Project 
200,000) 
Page  16
15
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
(SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(5) 
Operating Costs 
1,300,000 
80% until 
 
disbursements under 
 
this Category have 
 
reached an aggregate 
 
amount equivalent to 
 
SDR 550,000; and 
 
60% thereafter 
 
TOTAL 6,100,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Republic of Trinidad 
Tobago; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Republic of Trinidad and Tobago or for goods or services supplied from the territory of 
the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago; 
 
(c) 
the term “Training” means expenditures (other than those for 
consultants’ services) incurred by the Recipient and/or CAREC to finance reasonable 
transportation costs and per-diem of trainees and trainers (if applicable) and rental of 
training facilities and equipment under the Project; and 
(d) 
the term “Operating Costs” means reasonable recurrent expenditures that 
would not have been incurred by the Recipient and/or CAREC absent the Project, for 
transportation and per-diem costs of its staff, office rent and utilities, operation and 
maintenance of office equipment, and non-durable goods (excluding laboratory reagents), 
all needed for the implementation of the Project. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
610,000, may be made in respect of Categories (3), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but within twelve months before the date of this Agreement. 
Page  17
16
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures:  (a) under contracts for goods: (i) 
to be procured under Part C.1 of Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement with the 
exception to the first contract to be procured under said section; (ii) to be procured under 
Part C.2 of Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement with the exception to the first two 
contracts to be procured under said section; and (iii) estimated to cost less than $25,000 
equivalent each and to be procured under Part C.3 of Section I of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement ; (b) under contracts for work estimated to cost less than $150,000 each with 
the exception of the first contract for works to be procured under Part C.4 of Section I of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (c) under contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each with the exception of the first  
contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent; (d) under contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each with the exception of the first  contract for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent; and 
(e) under Training and Operating Costs as set forth in Categories (4) and (5) of the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, respectively, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Page  18
17
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to expand, consolidate and effectively coordinate 
regional support within the Member Countries in an effort to reduce the impact of 
HIV/AIDS on the human and economic development of the Caribbean region. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Advocacy and Policy Development
1. 
Development of a regional strategy to raise public awareness and knowledge of 
the HIV/AIDS epidemic, including changing public attitudes and behavior towards the 
individuals living with HIV/AIDS and their families in order to reduce stigma and 
discrimination and generate social/public support to confront the epidemic at the regional 
level. 
2. 
Carrying out of the following regional studies: (a) a study on the nature and scale 
of interplay between tourism and HIV/AIDS; (b) a study on the costing, monitoring and 
implementation of HIV/AIDS programs; (c) a study on the link between poverty and 
HIV/AIDS; (d) a study on the experience of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas in 
successfully reducing the incidence of HIV/AIDS; and (e) a study of the legal 
frameworks of the Member Countries for purposes of developing regional model policies, 
guidelines and legislation (as the case may be) to assist in reducing the stigma and 
discrimination against people living with HIV/AIDS and their families.   
Part B
:
Prevention of the Spread of HIV/AIDS
1. 
Carrying out of a regional study to identify the conditions which increase the risk 
of HIV infection for mobile populations, and design of a regional program to reduce said 
risk (which program shall take into account the recommendations of said study, as 
applicable, and include an action plan acceptable to the Association). 
2. 
Design of a regional program to provide comprehensive services for the 
prevention of HIV infection at tertiary educational institutions, including an action plan, 
acceptable to the Association, to implement and finance said program. 
Page  19
18
3. 
Design of a regional program which will enable multi-country enterprises to 
assist in the development and dissemination of materials concerning the prevention and 
control of HIV/AIDS. 
4. 
Design of a regional condom social marketing program to promote safer sexual 
social practices among youth and other vulnerable groups. 
5. 
Design of a regional communications campaign to promote behavior change 
among youth and mobile populations. 
6. 
Design of a regional program to promote corporate responsibility on HIV/AIDS 
prevention in the enterprises mentioned in Part B.3 above, which program shall include, 
inter alia
,
the development of policies to be adopted at the workplace and a training 
program for the staff of said enterprises. 
Part C
:
Strengthening Regional Laboratory Services to Support the Expansion of 
Treatment and Care
Strengthening of CAREC’s regional laboratory services to improve the care and 
treatment of HIV/AIDS, other sexually transmitted infections and other opportunistic 
infections, such as tuberculosis, through, 
inter alia
:
(1) the renovation and expansion of 
its existing small high security mycobacteriology laboratory; (2) the acquisition and 
utilization of new laboratory equipment and related supplies; (3) the upgrade of clinical 
testing systems; (4) the strengthening of proficiency testing; (5) the design and carrying 
out of a training program concerning new tuberculosis laboratory methods; (6) the design 
of a regional training workshop on critical aspects of tuberculosis control; (7) the 
expansion, on a pilot basis, of a diagnostic laboratory information system; and (8) the 
strengthening of its biomedical waste management and disposal system and procedures. 
Part D
:
Strengthening the Regional Response Capacity
1. 
Strengthening of the Recipient’s capacity to coordinate the role of regional 
HIV/AIDS agencies/entities in the Caribbean region. 
2. 
(a) 
Carrying out of a review and analysis of CRN+’s legal mandate, 
organizational structure, communication and marketing program, resource mobilization 
program, human resources program, monitoring, evaluation and control program and 
information technology system for purposes of, if applicable, strengthening CRN+’s 
institutional and operational capacity; and (b) if the review and analysis carried out in (a) 
herein determines that the institutional and operational capacity of CRN+ needs to be 
strengthened, strengthening of CRN+’s institutional and operational capacity, through the 
expansion and renovation of its existing communications and monitoring infrastructure, 
Page  20
19
the provision of technical assistance and training and the acquisition and utilization of 
goods required thereof. 
3. 
(a) 
Strengthening of the functions and responsibilities of the University of 
West Indies’ Health Economics Unit (including its institutional capacity) in order to 
improve its contribution to the regional HIV/AIDS response program, through, 
inter alia
:
(i) the design and implementation of a training program on health economics for its 
undergraduate and graduate students; (ii) the short term partnering with staff of  existing 
HIV/AIDS programs in Eligible Countries for the purpose of mentoring in program 
development; (iii) the expansion of its existing infrastructure facilities; and (iv) the hiring 
of staff; and (b) strengthening of the University of West Indies’ own internal HIV/AIDS 
(UWIHARP) program to expand its outreach objectives. 
4. 
Strengthening the UNAIDS’ objectives to expand country capabilities in 
monitoring the evolution of the HIV/AIDS epidemic.   
5. 
Carrying out of an assessment of the patent system for drugs and the drug 
registration system of the Member Countries from the standpoint of the promotion of 
public health. 
6. 
Sponsoring of HIV/AIDS care and treatment meetings in order to facilitate cross-
fertilization arrangements among care and treatment units of the Member Countries. 
7. 
Provision of technical assistance to the Recipient to enable it to comply with the 
carrying out of the annual audits referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement.  
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007. 
Page  21
20
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B, 
namely that, to the extent practicable, contracts for: (a) goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or more each; and (b) works shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Limited International Bidding
Laboratory reagents, test kits and laboratory equipment which the Association 
agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost 
thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines. 
2. Direct 
Contracting
Laboratory reagents, test kits and laboratory equipment which must be purchased 
from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment or are of a 
Page  22
21
proprietary nature may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
3. Shopping
Goods (with the exception of laboratory reagents, test kits and laboratory 
equipment) estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures, at 
th
e
Recipient’s option, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
4. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors (from the country in which the 
works shall take place) in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion 
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, 
where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete 
the contract successfully.
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts for a given year, the   
procurement plan (which is part of the pertinent Annual Action Plan for the year in 
question) shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval as provided in 
Section 3.07 of this Agreement. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works to be procured 
under Part B; and (ii) the first contract for goods to be procured under Part C.1 of this 
Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first two contracts for goods to be procured under 
Part C.2 of this Section, the following procedures shall apply: 
Page  23
22
(i) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under said Part, 
the Recipient shall provide to the Association a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
(ii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(c) 
With respect to the first contract for works to be procured under Part C.4 
of this Section, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any contractor under said Part, the 
Recipient shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under said Part, 
the Recipient shall provide to the Association a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Page  24
23
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Consultants’ services under the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract and which, in the Association’s views, are of a standard or routine 
nature,  may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Consultant’s services for the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract and which, in the Association’s views, are not of a standard or 
routine nature, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Consultants’ services of individual consultants for the Project that meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
The procurement plan (which is part of the pertinent Annual Action Plan for the 
year in question), shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval as 
provided in Section 3.07 of this Agreement. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (ii) the first contract for the 
employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 the equivalent, the 
Page  25
24
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (ii) the first contract 
for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of 
candidates, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 
3
of
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  26
25
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of the Project; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $800,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that the initial deposit shall be 
limited to $400,000 until the Association determines based on the amounts and 
frequencies of withdrawal applications that a higher amount is necessary. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the  Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
Page  27
26
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Grant Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
Page  28
27
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the  Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  29
28
SCHEDULE 5 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a) and (b), 3.05, 6.02 (b) (iii) and (iv), (c)(ii) and (iii) 
and (e), 6.05 and Article VII, are deleted in their entirety. 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
(c) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used in 
Section 6.02 (a)(ii), as modified below, the term “credit” shall continue to read “credit”. 
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
(e) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
3. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 4.02 (a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read as 
follows: 
“
Section 4.02.  Currencies in which Commitment Charges are Payable
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in the 
currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.”. 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General Conditions the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “commitment charge”. 
(c) 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“
Section 4.03.  Amount of the Grant
 
Page  30
29
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the equivalent in 
terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Grant 
Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.”. 
4. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (a) 
(ii) is modified to read:  “any other development grant agreement or any development 
credit agreement or development financing agreement”. 
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (c) (i) is 
modified to read:  “any development grant agreement, development credit agreement or 
development financing agreement”. 
5. 
Section 8.01 is modified as follows: 
“Section 8.01. Taxes 
(a) 
The commitment charge on the Grant shall be paid without deduction 
for, and free form any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Co-Operative Republic of 
Guyana. 
(b) 
The Development Grant Agreement, and any other agreement to which 
these General Conditions apply, shall be free from any taxes levied by, or in the territory 
of, the Co-Operative Republic of Guyana and/or the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago (as 
the casa may be) on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration 
thereof.”. 
6. 
Paragraph (b) of Section 9.01 is modified as follows: 
“(b) The Recipient shall afford all reasonable opportunity for 
representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territory of the Co-
Operative Republic of Guyana for purposes related to the Grant.”. 
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 is modified to read as follows: 
“(c) 
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the 
Association, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Project, its cost and the 
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the 
Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under the 
Development Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the Grant.”. 
Page  31
30
8. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“Section 12.05.
 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement.”. 
 
Page  32
31
SCHEDULE 6 
 
List of the Recipient’s Member Countries 
 
1. 
Antigua and Barbuda; 
 
2. 
Commonwealth of the Bahamas; 
 
3. Barbados; 
 
4. Belize; 
 
5. 
Commonwealth of Dominica;  
 
6. Grenada; 
 
7. 
Co-operative Republic of Guyana; 
 
8. Jamaica; 
 
9. Montserrat; 
 
10. 
St. Kitts and Nevis; 
 
11. Saint 
Lucia; 
 
12. 
St. Vincent and the Grenadines; 
 
13. Suriname; 
 
14. 
The Dominican Republic; 
 
15. 
The Republic of Haiti; and  
 
16. 
The Republic of Trinidad and Tobago.
 
