                                                                                     48943

                               PROPOSALTO RESTRUCTURE
    THE PAN-CARIBBEANPARTNERSHIP AGAINST HIV/AIDSPROJECT FORTHE
                                 CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY
                                    [IDA GRANT H077-0-6Rl

                               DATA SHEET TEMPLATE FOR

                                       PROJECT PAPER


Date: June 2, 2009                                Team Leader: ShiyanChao
Country: CARICOM                                  Sector ManagerDirector:Keith E. Hansen
ProjectName: HIVIAIDS Preventionand               CountryDirector: Yvonne Tsikata
                                                  Environmentalcategory:B




Revisedestimateddisbursements (BankFYISDR m)
FY                 200415        200516        200617      200718       200819      2009110




Doesthe restructuredproject requireany exceptionsto Bankpolicies?              oYes xNo
Havethese beenapproved by Bank management?                                   xoYes      No
I s approval for any policy exceptionsought from the Board?                   oYes    xNo
Revisedproject development objective/outcomes

The proposedrevisedProjectDevelopmentObjective is to enhancethe Caribbeanregional
responseto HIV/AIDS by: (a) supportingimprovementsinthe policy and legalenvironmentsfor
addressingHIV/AIDS; (b) strengtheningthe knowledgebase on HIVIAIDS in the region; and (c)
strengtheningthe capacityof selected regionalinstitutionsto providepublic goods and model
tools to help CARICOMmember countries implementtheir nationalHIV/AIDS strategicplans.

Doesthe restructuredprojecttrigger any new safeguard policies? No
                              RevisedFinancingPlan(SDR Million)
                     Source                                         Total
Recipient                                                           0.23
IDA                                                                 6.10
Total                                                               6.33




                                                3


                                       PROJECT PAPER


                                PROPOSAL TO RESTRUCTURE
  THE PAN-CARIBBEANPARTNERSHIPAGAINST HIVIAIDSPROJECT FORTHE
                                   CARIBBEANCOMMUNITY
                                    [IDA GRANT H077-0-6Rl

    I. INTRODUCTION

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to introduce the
following changes to the Grant Agreement for the Pan-CaribbeanPartnershipAgainst HIV/AIDS
Project (Project ID PO8072l),IDA Grant H077-0-6R, between the Caribbean Community
(CARICOM) and the International Development Association.

2.      The proposed restructuring would: (a) revise the Project Development Objective (PDO)
statement to better reflect the outputs and outcomes that are achievable and attributable to the
Project; (b) revise the results framework to align indicators with the revised Project Development
Objective; (c) add a new subcomponentunder Part B of the Project, "Prevention of the Spread of
HIV/AIDS", for the provision of mini-grants to support the subprojects carried out by youth
organizations; (d) amend Part C of Schedule 2 to the Grant Agreement to reduce the work
program for the Caribbean Epidemiology Center (CAREC) and add the Pan American Health
Organization (PAHO) as the implementing entity in charge of some of the activities under this
component; (e) allow for the utilization of the 2006 revision of the Procurement and Consultant
Guidelines; (f) amend Schedule 1 to the Grant Agreement to: (i)include a new category of
expenditures for mini-grants; (ii)reallocate resources among categories of expenditure to take
account of the actual costs of project activities; (iii)allow the following expenditures to be
financed from the proceeds of the Grant: "Goods" under Part B, "Prevention of the Spread of
HIV/AIDS" and "Training" under Part A, "Advocacy and Policy Development" and Part B ofthe
Project "Prevention of the Spread of HIV/AIDS"; and (iv) increase the financing percentage in
Category 5, "Operating Expenses" to 100 percent, retroactive to February 26, 2007; and (g)
extend the Grant's Closing Date to June 30,2010.

    11.      BACKGROUNDAND REASONSFORRESTRUCTURING

A. HIVIAIDS in the Caribbean and the regionalresponse

3.      The Caribbean region is the region most affected by HIV/AIDS after Sub-SaharanAfrica.
The estimated adult prevalence of HlV in the Caribbean in 2007 was 1.1 percent. An estimated
230,000 people are living with HIV, of whom 20,000 were infected in 2007. The Pan-Caribbean
Partnership against HIV/AIDS (PANCAP) was established in 2001 in responseto the realization
that HIV/AIDS posed a.serious threat to the region. It was launched at the meeting of Heads of
State and Government of the Caribbean Community and Common Market (CARICOM)
countries. PANCAP is a regional partnership which operates under the aegis of CARICOM and
is supported by a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) at the CARICOM Secretariat located in
Georgetown, Guyana.

4.      The SDR 6.1 million Grant for the PANCAP Project was approved on March 25, 2004,
and became effective on October 15, 2004. This Project is part of the Caribbean Multi-Country
HIV/AIDSPrevention and Control Horizontal APL (MAP) approved by the World Bank's Board
in2001.


                                                 4

5.       The Project brings together governments, regional institutions, the international
community, the private sector, Civil Society Organizations (CSOs), and people living with
HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) to enhance the response to the epidemic at national and regional levels.
The Project's mandate includes the coordination, resource mobilization, advocacy and
development o f regional public policies and support to the provision o f regional public goods.

6.       The Project channels funds to specialized regional agencies' to carry out activities under
the Caribbean Regional Strategic Framework (CRSF). PANCAP not only received grants from
the World Bank, but also received funding from a number o f donors, including the Global Fund
to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (GFATM), the European Union, a number o f bilateral
donors (USAID, CIDA, DFID, and KfW), and UNagencies.

B. Project Performance to Date

7.       The Project experienced a very slow start due to a number o f constraints, mainly delays
in signing Memoranda o fUnderstanding(MOUs) with implementing agencies and difficulties in
disbursing funds to the CAREC.            Most o f these constraints have been addressed through
recommendations made by supervision missions, including the Project's Mid-Term Review. The
Grant Agreement, dated April 28,2004, was amended on September 17, 2004 to clarify a number
o f procurement provisions and to revise Section 3.04 which relates to Part C o f the Project:
"Strengthening Regional Laboratory Services to Support the Expansion of Treatment and Care"
executed by the Caribbean Epidemiology Center (CAREC). The Grant's Closing Date has been
extended once from December 31,2007 to June 30,2009.

8.       The Project has made progress so far, namely: (a) rehabilitatedand equippedthe regional
tuberculosis laboratory and training o f laboratory staff from a number o f countries in the region;
(b) trained PLWHA country networks inadvocacy and program management, sensitized CSOs on
laws, ethics and human rights, and strengthened the CRN+ Regional Secretariat; (c) trained
through the University o f the West Indies (UWI) with internships, a number o f national program
staff, prepared educational materials for use inundergraduate programs, sensitized 250 students at
the UWI on HN prevention and provided situation analysis o f response to HN/AIDS on two
UWI campuses; (d) strengthened capacity for monitoring and evaluation through provision of
technical assistance to the countries in the region by UNAIDS; (e) completed a number o f
analytical studies; and (0 provided direct support to regional HN/AIDS related initiatives
through CARICOM.

9.       Overall, the notable achievements towards Project Development Objectives are: (a)
development o f a regional governance structure; (b) development o f an information and
communication framework and an advocacy campaign through the "Champions for Change"
program that has reached out to involve political leaders, the media, religious leaders and private
sector leaders in the fight against AIDS; (c) development o f tools for use by countries, including
model workplace policies and an education sector and HIV/AIDS policy; (d) development of
model programs that demonstrate effective ways o f reaching key vulnerable groups; (e)
development o f the new Caribbean Regional Strategic Framework (2008-2012); and (f)
strengthened capacities o f regional institutions (CAREC, CRN+, UWI, CCNAPC and CVC),
enabling them to provide interventions targeted at specific vulnerable and at-risk groups and to
helpcountries strengthen the implementation of national HN/AIDS strategic plans.


1At present, these agencies are: the Caribbean Epidemiology Center (CAREC), Caribbean Health Research
Council (CHRC), CaribbeanNetwork of People Living with HIV/AIDS (CRN+), University of the West
Indies (UWI), Caribbean Coalition of National AIDS Program Coordinators (CCNAPC), Caribbean
Vulnerable CommunitiesNetwork (CVC) andthe CaribbeanCommunity (CARICOM) Secretariat.
                                                    5

10.      PANCAP has won acclaim as a model o f regional cooperation (UNAIDS has recognized
it as "International Best Practice").     It is an example of the emerging trend toward the
consolidation o f regional entities in the Caribbean with a view to achieving greater impact and
cost-effectiveness.

11.      Notwithstanding the progress described above, project implementation has been slower
than envisaged. As mentioned above, after initial delays, CARICOM and the implementation
agencies have signed MoUs and most o f the earlier constraints in project execution have been
addressed. The performance o f PANCAP and most o f the implementing agencies has improved
considerably in the past year. The delay in reaching an agreement on how to disburse funds to
CAREC, however, has continued to cause low disbursements. As o f January 2009, most o f the
agencies involved had spent or committed a large share o f their allocated funds: the CARICOM
Secretariat 86%, CRN+ 85%, and UWI 89%. However, CAREC has disbursed only 33% of its
funds, due primarily to the fact that the agency requires the availability o f full funding before
initiating any activity. Consequently, advances to CAREC from the project special account have
usually taken an inordinate amount o f time to document. The slow documentation o f CAREC's
advances, which represented about 75% o f the special account initial advance, adversely affected
the timely replenishment of the special account, which in turn delayed project implementation.
Dueto the delays under CAREC, the overall disbursement is only 55.7% (US$5.3 million of the
grant as o f June 1, 2009). The initially dysfunctional flow o f funds arrangements have led to a
financial management rating o f "unsatisfactory"     in the current ISR, as well as a rating for
achieving the Project Development Objectives o f "moderately unsatisfactory", and a rating for
Implementation of "moderately satisfactory".        However, despite these disbursement-related
issues, based on the most recent information, the financial management systems o f the project are
considered adequate to provide reasonable assurance that Grant proceeds are being utilized in
accordance with the Grant Agreement. The unsatisfactory rating is not dictated by any serious
fiduciary concerns. Due to the institutional changes, CAREC i s no longer implementing the
Project. The future disbursement to PAHO will be based on a cooperation Agreement between
CARICOM and PAHO providing for a blanket withdrawal mechanism. That would resolve the
disbursement issues that CAREC faced before. Staff o f the Loan Department has programmed a
special visit to the implementing agencies to assess the rate of progress and to help resolve any
bottlenecks that might remain.

C.Reasons for Project Restructuring

12.      The main reasonsfor restructuringthe Project are as follows:

     (a) the original PDO was vague and ambitious and only reflected broader regional objectives
         o f the HIV/AIDS response as opposed to realistically stating achievable and measurable
         project objectives;
     (b) the original Results Framework did not have appropriate indicators to measure the
         Project's expected outputs and attributable outcomes, which are mainly related to
         capacity building at the regional level rather than changes in the AIDS epidemic at the
         individualcountry level; and
     (c) the CARICOM member states have recently decided to restructure the public health
         institutions inthe Caribbean region. As a result o f this restructuring, CAREC, along with
         four other agencies, will be consolidated into a new agency, the Caribbean Public Health
         Agency (CPHA) under CARICOM. The transition is planned to take place by the end of
         2009. The new agency will not be part o f PAHO, where CAREC i s currently placed. As
         a result of the restructuring, CAREC will no longer implement some o f the planned


                                                 6

        activities under Component C of the Project and some of these activities will be taken
        over by PAHO through its HIV CaribbeanOffice (PHCO).

    In. PROPOSEDCHANGES

        The restructuringwould involve changes in following areas:

                 Amending the Project Development               Objective. The original Project
        Development Objective (PDO) was to expand, consolidate and effectively coordinate
        regional support within the CARICOM's member countries in an effort to reduce the
        impact of HIV/AIDS on the human and economic development of the Caribbean region.
        The Project's Mid-Term Review concluded that the original PDO was vague and
        ambitious and only reflected broader regional objectives of the HIV/AIDS response as
        opposed to realistically stating achievable and measurable project objectives. Therefore,
        the proposed revised PDO would be to enhance the Caribbean regional response to
        HIV/AIDS by: (i)supporting improvements in the policy and legal environments for
        addressingHIV/AIDS; (ii)strengtheningthe knowledge base on HIV/AIDS in the region;
        and (iii)strengthening the capacity of selected regional institutions to provide public
        goods and model tools to help CARICOM's member countries* implement their national
        HIV/AIDS strategic plans.

                  Changing Indicators in the Results Framework. The original project monitoring
        and evaluation indicators resemble outcome indicators for the national AIDS programs.
        This is overly ambitious, because this project is a capacity building project at the regional
        level and does not provide or control the service delivery at the country level that would
        be needed to change behavior or reduce HIV incidence rates. Thus, outcome indicators
        on behavior changehesults of HIV control that can be measured at the country level are
        not appropriate for monitoring achievements of this project. Based on the revised PDO,
        the results framework would therefore be amended to measure the results that are
        attributable to the Project. The revised PDO indicators are: (i)the new Regional AIDS
        strategy is developed and disseminated; (ii)a new regional coordination mechanism is
        established and functional; and (iii)regional products in policy and model programs
        being usedby countries. The revised Project Results Framework is presented in Annex 1
        to this Project Paper as well as inthe revised OperationsManual.

                 Adding a new subcomponent under Part B of the Project, "Prevention of the
        Spread of HIV/AIDS," for the provision of mini-grants to support subprojects carried out
        by youth organizations and community-based organizations to implement innovative
        interventions for HIV/AIDS prevention, care, and to address stigma and discrimination.
        The Mini-Grant Program (MGP) is a regional mechanism for creating an enabling
        environment for the reduction of HIV/AIDS among young people through a focus on
        youth leadership, mobilization and outreach. The MGP is designed by and for youth and
        implemented by youth through multiple youtldadult partnerships and networking
        arrangements operating at community, national, sub-regional and regional levels. The
        program is designed to equip young people aged 15-24 in disadvantaged communities
        with information and resources to provide service to peers and community. Key outputs
        include a strengthened leadership base of the CARICOM Youth Ambassador Program,


2Accordingto the Grant Agreement, the countries benefittingfrom the Project's regional activities are as
follows: Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica,
Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname, the Dominican
Republic, Haiti, and Trinidadand Tobago.
                                                    7

   National Youth Councils and other non-Government organizations. This program has
   been mainly supported by the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria
   (GFATM). CARICOM has requested the Bank to support the scaling up of this program
   under this project. The funding mechanism, selection criteria and procedures have been
   developed and incorporatedto the Project's Operational Manual, Annex E.

(4reflect  Amending Part Cof Schedule 2 to reduce the workprogramfor CARECand to
           the addition of the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) as the
   implementing entity in charge of some o f the activities under this component. As
   mentioned above, due to the restructuring o f CAREC, some activities described under
   Part C o f Schedule 2 would not be implemented and the scope o f Part C will be reduced.
   In addition, during the project extension period, PAHO will implement some activities
   under Part C o f the Project through its HIV Caribbean Office (PHCO). The detailed work
   plan for PAHO/PHCO is attached as Annex 3.              A Cooperation Agreement between
   CARICOM and PAHO will be signed. Amended project descriptions are inI11(g) below.

(e)        The Project description has been amended to reflect the changes described in
   points (c) and (d) and to align the description consistent with the activities financed under
   the Project. The revised Project Description i s as follows:

   Under Component 1, Advocacy and Policy Development, the Project will: (i)support
   implementation of the regional strategy to raise awareness and knowledge o f the
   HIVIAIDS epidemic; (ii)support efforts to reduce stigma and discrimination (S&D)
   towards PLWHA and their families; and (iii)mobilize public support to address the
   epidemic at the regional level. Activities to be financed include studies on the interaction
   between tourism and HIV/AIDS; costing and monitoring o f HIV/AIDS programs; the
   Bahamas' experience in reducing HIV/AIDS; assessment o f legal frameworks and
   development o f model policies, guidelines and legislation to reduce S&D.

   Under Component 2, Prevention o f the Spread o f HIV/AIDS, the Project will support: (i)
   provision o f support to Member Countries for the preparation of studies and programs
   aimed at reducing the risk o f HIV infection among mobile populations; (ii)carrying out
   o f HIV preventive services at tertiary educational institutions; (iii)development and
   dissemination of materials concerning the prevention and control o f HIV/AIDS in the
   region; (iv) support for a regional condom social marketing program to promote safer
   sexual social practices among youth and other vulnerable groups; (v) provision o f support
   in connection with Member Countries' programs to promote corporate responsibility on
   HIV/AIDS prevention in multi-country enterprises, which programs shall include, inter
   alia, the development o f policies to be adopted at the workplace and a training program
   for the staff o f said enterprises; and (vi) provision o f mini-grants to support subprojects
   carried out by youth organizations and community-based organizations to implement
   innovative interventions for HIV/AIDS prevention and care and to address stigma and
   discrimination.

   Under Component 3, Strengthening Regional Laboratory Services to Supuort the
   Expansion o f Treatment and Care, the Project will carry out the following activities:


   0                   Through CAREC to strengthen            regional laboratory services to
           improve the care and treatment o f HN/AIDS, other sexually transmitted
           infections and other opportunistic infections, such as tuberculosis, through, inter
           alia: (a) the renovation and expansion o f its existing small high security
           mycobacteriology laboratory; (b) the acquisition and utilization o f new

                                              8

         laboratory equipment and related supplies; (c) the design and carrying out o f a
         training program concerning new tuberculosis laboratory methods; and (d) the
         strengthening o f its biomedical waste management and disposal system and
         procedures.

                    Through PAHO (using PHCO): (i)provision o f laboratory testing
         services through outsourcing         and strengthening laboratory        testing for
         HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted infections, and opportunistic
         infections, including tuberculosis; (ii)training o f staff on new tuberculosis
         laboratory methods systems and (iii)training on prevention and treatment for
        HIV/AIDS and other infectious diseases including tuberculosis control; and (iv)
        provision o f technical assistance in connection with the establishment o f a
        Caribbean laboratory network, the definition o f its modus operandi, and the
         strengthening o f its capacity.

Under Component 4, Strennthening; the Regional Response Capacitv, the Project will
support:   (i)strengtheningPANCAP/CARICOM's capacity to coordinate the role of
regional HIV/AIDS agenciedentities; (ii)increasing the institutional and operational
capacity o f CRN+ to support country networks o f PLWHA; (iii)strengthening the UWI's
Health Economics Unit to enhance capacity to undertake research and provide technical
training to countries in the region through, inter alia, training and mentoring programs;
strengthening the health economics undergraduate and graduate program, creating a pool
o f experts for the countries to draw upon; short-term mentoring programs for staff o f
eligible countries; expansion o f infrastructure facilities; and strengtheningthe UWI's own
internal HIV/AIDS (UWIHARP) program to expand its outreach objectives; and (iv)
supporting the UNAIDS objectives to expand country capabilities in monitoring the
evolution o f the HIV/AIDS epidemic.         The component also supports assessing drug
registration and patent systems across countries and sponsoring HIV/AIDS care and
treatment meetingsto facilitate cross-fertilization among countries.

        Allowing for the use o f the October 2006 revised World Bank Procurement
and Consultant Guidelines, which allow for more flexibility in the use o f procurement
methods and eligibility o f countries to participate inBank-funded procurement.

        Amending Schedule 1 o f the Grant Agreement. Schedule 1 would be amended
to: (i)include a new category o f expenditures for the provision o f mini grants; (ii)
reallocate resources among categories o f expenditure to take account o f the actual costs
o f project activities; (iii)allow the following expenditures to be financed from the
proceeds of the Grant: "Goods" under Part B, "Prevention of the Spread o f HN/AIDS";
and, "Training" under Part A, "Advocacy and Policy Development" and Part B o f the
Project "Prevention o f the Spread o f HIV/AIDS"; and (iv) increase the financing
percentage in Category 5, "Operating Expenses" to 100 percent, retroactive to February
26,2007, and

        Extending the Grant's Closing Date from June 30, 2009 to June 30, 2010. This
would be the second extension o f the ClosingDate. With restructuring and a one-year
extension, the project will be able to attain its revised objectives. Implementation
problems have had more to do with institutional arrangements than with lack of
commitment or technical shortcomings, and the restructuring will remedy these.
Even with a one-year extension, the project will have had a total implementation
period of just over six years from original Board approval. Additional time will

                                          9

         allow the Project to fully utilize the Grant and complete all the planned activities
         benefitingthe region.


     IV.     ANALYSIS

14.      Economic and Social Analysis. The proposed changes will not affect the economic,
financial, technical and social aspects of the Project as appraised, The economic justification for
investment in the PANCAP Regional HIV/AIDS Project outlined in the Project Appraisal
Document (Report No. 27267 dated March 4, 2004) is still valid. The Caribbean i s still the
region most affected by HIV/AIDS after sub-Saharan Africa, with an average HIV/AIDS
prevalence o f 1.1 percent. The fact that HIV/AIDS is the main cause o f death o f 25 to 44 year old
Caribbean nationals has important consequences for output, labor supply, employment, savings,
investment, and household and Government expenditures on treatment. The ability to reduce new
infections and prolong the lives o f those already infected is important for the economic and social
development o f Caribbean countries.

15.      PANCAP is a critical regional organization for HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment that
plays an important role in dealing with the epidemic. PANCAP has led the development o f the
Caribbean Regional Strategic Framework on HIV and AIDS 2008-2012 (CSRF) and i s playing a
special role in building the capacity o f the Caribbean countries to implement the priorities
outlined inthe CSRF and national plans.

16.      EnvironmentalAssessment. The Project was assigned a Category "B" environmental
rating and this rating will remain unchanged for the restructuring. As part o f project preparation
in 2003, a biomedical waste management assessment was carried out to identify potential
environmental impact from the handling o f biomedical wastes generated from laboratory testing
o f blood samples by the CAREC regional laboratories. Resources were allocated for updating the
manuals for handling and disposal o f biomedical waste generated by the laboratories; and for the
purchase o f waste disposal equipment and staff training in the application o f appropriate
standards to health care waste management. With support under the Project, CAREC revisedthe
laboratory hazardous waste management policy and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPS). The
revised policy outlines staff responsibilities in the management o f biomedical waste; different
categories o f laboratory waste produced at CAREC; collection and segregation o f waste at the
point of generation; and treatment of different types o f waste produced and safe disposal of the
waste.    The implementation o f the biomedical waste management plan has been monitored
regularly during supervision missions. It was assessed as satisfactory during the Project's Mid-
Term Review. Due to the restructuring o f CAREC, the project will focus on the establishment o f
a regional Caribbean laboratory network, which will provide information on testing capacity in
laboratories inthe region; thus, countries will be able to send samples to those laboratories during
the period inwhich CAREC is intransition and therefore unable to provide testing services.

17.      The Project envisaged civil works activities at two institutions: CAREC and the UWI at
St. Augustine (Trinidad). At the CAREC site, the civil works involved the refurbishment o f the
tuberculosis laboratory. These civil works have been completed and the laboratory is operational.
No adverse environmental impacts resulted from the refurbishment o f the laboratory. The project
will not support further civil works as CAREC will not be implementing further project activities,
due to its absorption into the new Caribbean Public Health Agency (CPHA).

18.      A teachinglearning facility for the UWI's Health Economics Unit (HEU) is being
constructed at the UWI site, with significant co-financing from the Government o f Trinidad. The
site that was selected for the construction is owned by the UWI and is within the perimeter o f the

                                                 10

University campus. It is the site of a previous structure that belonged to the University and was
demolished. The site was cleared o f debris before this Project was designed. There are currently
no occupants o f the site or any claims to the site, other than that of the UWI. The UWI campus at
St. Augustine (Trinidad) has a stringent internal environmental code enforced by the University
Administration. The HEU obtained the relevant construction clearance from the University
Administration and the Local Government authorities prior to the construction o f the HEU
building.

 19.     Reallocation of Funds. Project costs have been adjusted and funds reallocated to reflect
the actual costs o f planned activities supported by the Project. Due to the organizational changes
affecting CAREC, the Project will not continue to support the provision o f equipment to
laboratories, and some finds originally allocated under Component C will be reallocated. Some
funds will be used to support the establishment of a regional laboratory network. PAHO will help
countries in the region to make arrangements for the laboratory work that CAREC will not be
able to carry out duringits transition period. Giventhat PANCAPalso receives finding from the
GFATM and bilateral donors, reallocation of funds is required to adjust for possible gaps in the
parallel financing.

20.      CARICOM has submitted time-bound action plans with monitorable indicators for the
extension period. The Bank team has reviewed the plans and found them satisfactory.

21.      Neither the Grant nor CARICOM (the Recipient) i s subject to an ongoing suspension o f
disbursements. There are no outstanding audit reports.            Overall, although the Project has
experienced delays with regard to implementation and flow o f funds, PANCAP has been playing
a critical role in coordinating the region's efforts in combating the AIDS epidemic, and currently,
the implementation o f activities under the PANCAP secretariat is progressingwell. The Project is
being restructured to ensure that the advances in project implementation continue and to formally
correct the problems which have been contributing to the implementation delays and partial
progress towards the PDOs.

     V.       EXPECTEDOUTCOMES

22.      It is expected that the proposed restructuring will: (a) improve the Project's focus on
more realistic and achievable objectives, (b) improve monitoring and evaluation o f project
performance based on relevant indicators, and (c) contribute to maximizing the effectiveness of
Bank support to the region. The revised outcome indicators are discussed in Paragraph 13 (b) and
presentedinAnnex 1.

     VI.      BENEFITSAND RISKS

23.      The Project adds value to the national HIV/AIDS programs by offering options for
gaining economies o f scale through regional interventions that strengthen networks o f
infrastructure and capacity o f regional institutions which provide regional public goods that
countries individually could not afford. The Project has been supporting strengtheningo f regional
reference laboratories; facilitating research and exchange o f information; training to improve
skills and capacities o f countries; improved sharing o f knowledge and experience; supporting
PANCAP and enabling it to strengthen collective bargaining (e.g., through the PANCAP process,
the region was the first to negotiate for better AIDS drug prices).           The Project has been
supporting the regional agencies, including PANCAP, CRN+ and the UWI, which play a strong
role in policy formulation and advocacy, to address major challenges, including stigma and
discrimination which are major impediments to addressing the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The Project
i s also helping to strengthen vulnerable and at-risk groups (youth, young adults at tertiary level

                                                   11

institutions, mobilizedpopulation,commercialsex workers, migrant workers) through improving
the design and implementationof interventionsthat will continueto serve as models for country-
level interventions and through research to help improve the knowledge base on these groups.
Given the political visibility of the PANCAP framework, Caribbean countries have been
increasingly using it as a platform for other issues. Achievement of the Project's objectives will
contribute significantly to strengthening the regional and national capacity to address various
issues beyondhealth. In sum, benefitswill be realized in: (i)stronger institutionaland technical
capacity for regionalagencies; (ii)strengthenedcapacity for Caribbean member countriesthrough
enhanced leadership, improved technical capacity resulting from training provided under the
Project by the regional institutions, and availability of tools for addressing stigma and
discrimination(e.g., modellegislation); (iii)greater knowledgeand understandingof the trends in
the epidemic; and (iv) stronger regional advocacy and leadership capacity of key regional
institutions.

24.      The pace of implementation poses a moderate risk to achievement of the Project's
DevelopmentObjectivesdue to possible delays in project executionby the beneficiaryagencies.
Agencies have been slow to utilize and account for funds disbursed to them. This risk will be
mitigatedby morefrequent site visits by the fiduciary staff of the PANCAPPCU. There is also a
risk that the constructionwork at UWI could be delayed due to the possibility that the current
global financial crisis may reduce the Government of Trinidad and Tobago's contributions to
completing the building. CARICOM and UWI management teams are aware of this risk and
have already explored different financing options. Finally, the issues in procurement and
disbursement that affected the implementation under CAREC may continue to affect the new
implementationagency, PAHO, and delay implementation.To resolvethe issue, CARICOM and
PAHO will enter into a cooperationagreement, with the no-objectionof the Bank, providing for a
blanket withdrawal mechanism in order to speed up the flow of funds and to ensure compliance
with the Bank's fiduciary requirements.




                                                12

                  Annex 1.RevisedPANCAP Results FrameworkandMonitoring Indicators


                       CE                                                     Meansof
                                                                  -          Verification/
                                                                             Data Source
                                                           Current Final
                                                            status

Project Development
Objective:
 To enhance the Caribbean
regionalresponseto
HIV/AIDSby:

(a) supportingimprovements    (a- i) New Regional                   1    RegionalStrategic
inthe policy and legal        AIDS strategy                              Framework
environments for addressing   developedand                               document,
HIV/AIDS;                     disseminated.                              disseminationplan
                               (a- ii) Draftmodel                   15   & report, financial
                              policy guidelines &                        records
                              legislationto reduce
                              stigma&
                              discrimination
                              developedand
                              disseminatedto all
                              participating
                              countries.

(b) expandingthe knowledge    (b- i)# ofcountries                   8    RCMreports
base onthe cost &             usingregionalpolicy
consequences of HIV/AIDS      documents and model
intheregion                   programsas reported
                              by country delegates
                              to PANCAP at RCM
                              meetings
                              (b4 ) Project study                   14   Study publications,
                              reportson topics such                      policy documents,
                              as HIV and poverty;                        dissemination
                              HIV & tourism, and                         reports
                              Costingand
                              milestonesin
                              HIVIAIDS,
                              disseminatedto all
                              participating
                              CARICOM
                              :ountries.

(c) strengtheningthe capacity [c- i) regional                       1   RCMquarterly
o f selectedregional          :oordination                              reports
institutionsto helpcountries  nechanism(RCM)
implementtheir national       :stablished and
HIViAIDSstrategic plans.      Functional.
                              :c- ii)capacity o f six               6   Implementing
                              -egionalinstitutions                      agency progress
                              strengthenedand                           reports
                              ;apable of increasing
                              nandatedservice as

                                                      13

                             evidenced by
                             achievements o f their
                             workplans.
Objectivesof each            Intermediate                           Means of
component                    outcome and output                  Verification/
                             indicators                          Data Sources

1. Advocacy and Policy       # o fregional studies        7   Final study reports
Development                  conducted with
                             findings disseminated
                            to inform policy
                             development and
                             advocacy

                            # o f toolkits produced       6   Toolkits
                            & disseminated
                            documenting best
                            practices to reduce
                            stigma &
                            discrimination at the
                            country level

                            # o f draft regional           1  report ,workshops
                            model policies &                  and draft legislation
                            legislation developed
                            to reduce stigma &
                            discrimination
                            against PLWHAs &
                            their families

2. Prevention of the Spread Regionalprogram               1   Regional framework
of HIV/AIDS                 designed to provide               and report
                            HIV infection
                            prevention services at
                            tertiary educational
                            institutions

                            # o f workplace               2   Workshop reports
                            HIV/AIDS
                            prevention
                            CEOhusiness leader
                            workshops andor
                            meetings conducted

                            # of vulnerable               6   Quarterly
                            population networks               monitoring reports
                            supported

                            # o f HIV/AIDS                5   Quarterly
                            prevention mini-                  monitoring reports
                            grants implemented
                            by CARICOM Youth
                            Ambassadors (CYA)

                            # o f healthcare              30  Workshop &
                            providers trained to              quarterly reports
                            train other Droviders

                                                    14

                          how to serve M S M &
                          CSW healthcare
                          needs


3. StrengtheningRegional  # o f regional                      1  Quarterly
Laboratory Services to    laboratories                           monitoring Reports
Support Scaling-Up        renovated and
Treatment & Care          expanded

                          # o f regional                      2  Quarterly
                          laboratories equipped                  monitoring reports

                          Regional Lab                        1  Quarterly
                          Network established                    monitoring reports

4. Strengthening Regional # of UWI-HEU                        1  Buildingsite review
ResponseCapacity          training facilities                    & quarterly reports
                          expanded &
                          equipment support
                          provided

                          Number of graduate                  8  Quarterly
                          students trained in                    monitoring Reports
                          HIV-related health
                          economics

                          Number o f regional                10  R C M and A G M
                          HIV/AIDS                               reports
                          coordination
                          meetings conducted

                          # o f countries                    4   Quarterly reports
                          completing
                          accreditation inthe
                          Caribbean Initiative
                          for the Elimination o f
                          Vertical
                          Transmission o fHIV
                          & Syphilis
                          # o f countries           0    0    5  Project reports
                          receivingtechnical
                          assistance on
                          IT/M&E database
                          and tools.
                          # o f PLWHAs trained      0            Project reports on
                          inadvocacy, project                    actual numbers
                          & financial
                          management, &
                          marketing




                                                  15

