Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9226
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
BOGOTA DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(LOAN 1807-CO)
DECEMBER 21, 1990
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                  = Colombian Peso (Col $)
ColS 433.92 (12/31/89)         = US$1
Col$ 513.71 (07/31/90)         = US$1
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
EEEB                           = Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota
INCOMEX                        = Instituto Colombiano de Comercio Exterior
ISA                            = Interconexi6n Electrica S.A.
JNT                            = Junta Nacional de Tarifas
SEB                            = Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken
FISCAL YEAR        = CALENDAR YEAR



TN* WORLD SANK.                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
WashiAlton. D.C. 20433
U.S A
Office of Virect-GOOT:I
Opera:lac~ Uialuatic
December 21. 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on Colombia
Bogota Distribution Proiect (Loan 1807-CO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Colombia - Bogota Distribution Project (Loan 1807-CO)"
prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office with Part II
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
|Ths daCM  has a Min'g d_ Mb wan OM may be se by 'ro ueu mlU sonl  l* pSiufUmOcN=
Of shut ofikud dmuauu Its mmaaS may GM cterewi be duckaa wstbout 'WoiW Baok awbemionj



COLOMBIA                       FOR OFFICIL   USE ONLY
BOGOTA DISTRIBUTION PROJECT (LOAN 1807-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
EVALUATION SUMMARY .............................                              ......       ii
PART I  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ............... ..                     1
1 - Project Identity c......................................                      1
2 - Project Background ......... ....              .     ...............................  1
Sector Development Objectives ................... .......                 1
Policy Context.*.*.*.*.*..*........................................       1
Linkages between Project, Sector and Macro Policy
3 - Project Objectives and  Description ...................                       2
Project Objectives ......... ...       .. f............. ...              2
Project Description..*. .................. .....              ................... .  2
4 - Project Design and  Organization .........             ......... .            2
5 - Project Implementation ..... .... ............               ....................... .  3
Loan Signature, Effectiveness and Project Start-up ...                    3
Implementation Schedule ...................... . . .. .                   3
Procurement ..........................................                    4
Project Costs                          ..... 5
Disbursements ............. ......................................        5
Loan Allocation .............                           .0... .....       5
6 - Project Results ......................                   ...........          5
Meetin of Pro Pet Objectiv               tOes    . 5
Physical Results ........................ ......... . ..                  5
Financial Performance .......... .................... .                   6
Impact of the Project ... .                      ... ..........          9
7 - Project Sustainability .........                        ........... .        9
8 - Bank Performance ......                                  ........ . . . . .    10
9 - Lessons Learned  .......                              ..............        10
10- Borrower Performance                      ..................................... .    11
11- Project Relationship ..........    .... . . . . . . . . .. ............    11
12- Consulting Services .........................                ... .................. .    11
13- Project Documentation and Data ........................................... 11
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.)
Page No.
FART II   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE*..............   13
-Introduction ................... .........................  13
- Chapter of Conclusions of the Final Report
prepared  by  EEEB.......... **   .............. * * . .......*  14
- Letter with EEEB's Comments on the PCR ............. 17
- Translation into English of the Chapter of Conclusions
of the Final Report prepared by FEEB and the letter
with EEEB's comments on the PCR .... *................0
PART III  STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ...........       ....... oo, ....   19
Table 1. Related Bank Loans...*..* .............. *** .......... * *  19
Table 2. Project Timetable       .......     .......................  ....  21
Table 3. Loan Disbursements. ............... .................... .  22
Table 4. Allocation of Loan Proceeds     .......... .... ...  23
Table 5. Planned and Actual Completion Dates of Components....   24
Table 6. Project Costs and Financing ........ ...........** ....   25
Table 7. Project Results ........................ .   .............  27
A. Economic Impact ......... .  ........  ........... *........  27
B. Project Studies ... .       ..... #0. ...... .......... . .  29
Table 8. Status of Loan Covenants .     ............... # ............  30
Table 9. Use of Bank Resources..,*** .........................  32
ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Comparison of Actual and Forecast Income
Statements (1979-1987) ....... ..... ...   .........  33
- Comparison of Actual and Forecast Sources and Application
of Funds (1979-1987)  . ..... . .............. .-.0... .  34
- Comparison of Actual and Forecast Balance
Sheets (1978-1987)         .......... ......... ...O...  35
- Comparisvn of Actual and Forecast Performance
Indicators (1979-1987).......  ............... .#..... *. .  36
Annex 2 - Actual and Forecast Sales (GWh) ................... ......   37
Annex 3 - Energy Purchases .......... ... ..............................  38
Annex 4 - Operating Expenses. ... ..................................... .. . . . . .  39
Annex 5 - Transmission Lines and Transformer Capacity ............  .  40
Annex 6 - Installed Capacity and Generation for 1988.......-......   41
Annex 7 - Participation of the Plants Built by the Project in the
EEEB System ............. .  ....... ........ . ..... .........  42



COLOMBIA
BOGOTA DISTRIBUTION PROJECT (LOAN 1807-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) deals with the Bogota
Distribution Project, for which Loan 1807-CO in the amount of US$87 million
was approved on March 13, 1980. The Loan was closed on December 31, 1986,
three years behind schedule. It was fully disbursed, with the last
disbursement on September 30, 1987.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Infrastructure and
Energy Division, Country Department III, of Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office and are based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report;
the Loan and Guarantee Agreements; supervision reports; a final report
prepared by Empresa de Energia Elactrica de Bogota (EEEB); correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda. Part II of
the report reproduces the chapter of conclusions of the final report
prepared by EEEB. The PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments on May 1,
1990 and the comments received have been incorporated into the report to
the extent deemed appropriate. The letter with EEEB's comments is attached
to Part II of this report.



ii
COLOMBIA
BOGOTA DISTRIBUTION PROJECT (LOAN 1807-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Obiectives
i.        The objectivt  of the Project were to expand the transmission and
distribution systemu to meet projected energy demand, to improve the level
of street lighting, and to modernize the distribution system and ancillary
facilities in order to improve the quality of service (para.3.01).
Implementation Experience
2.        Although the Loan was approved by the Board on March 13, 1980, it
was not signed until almost one year later on February 6, 1981. This delay
was caused by difficulties in obtaining Congressional approval for
increasing the level of external borrowing by the public sector. Further
delay was -xperienced in de:laring the Loan effective, which cook place on
September 25, 1981, about one year later than expected at appraisal. This
delay was caused by difficulties in obtaining local loans to cover the
financial needs of EEEB's investment program, as well as the Company's
problems in settling its overdue accounts to Interconexion Electrica S.A.
(ISA) (para. 5.01).
3.       The Project was scheduled for completion by December 31, 1982, but
most of the original components were completed two years later, by December
31, 1984. The remainder of the original components, and the works added,
were completed by September 1987, about five years later than the
originally scheduled date. The reasons for this delay were: delay in
signature and in declaring the Loan effective; slow procurement processing
bAcause of insufficient experience of the staff who handled this task;
changes in the scope of the Project; lower demand than expected; management
weakness; and EEEB's commitment to an ambitious investment program that
overwhelmed its implementational and financial capacity (paras. 5.01 to
5.03).
Prolect Results
4.       The objectives of the Project were only partially met because,
even though EEEB completed the Project originally planned and was able to
add other works to it, the Project was implemented with considerable
delay. This delay factor contributed to EEEB's inability to decrease its
power losses to the level established as a performance target. Actual power
losses for 1985, the last year for which a target was established in the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), were 24.4%, versus 14.3% targeted. Losses
increased further to 24.7% in 1986 and to 26.1% in 1987 (para. 6.01).
5.       It also must be pointed out that other important objectives of the
Project, such as the improvement of the operational and financial areas of
EEEB, fell short of appraisal expectations. From 1979 to 1984, the rate of
return was lower than that covenanted, and, for the period 1985 to 1987, it



iii
was somewhat above that covenanted. Tariffs were increased substantially
during the period of implementation, but internal cash generation was lower
than expected because of reduced sales growth, high energy losses, and
increased operating costs. Likewise, there was a huge increase in the
construction program with the decision to build the Guavio hydroelectric
project, which was not included in the program at the time of appraisal.
Consequently, the self-financing ratio deteriorated, and EEEB was obliged
to increase its borrowing, a large part of which was obtained on commercial
terms. This factor, coupled with the devaluation of the Colombian peso
(which increased the debt service), strained EEEB's finances which, in
turn, reduced the Company's implementational capacity and forced it to
accumulate large overdue accounts with contractors and ISA (para. 6.03).
6.       Perhaps the Project's most important achievement was the creation
of the basis for dealing with the expansion of distribution facilities as a
permanent planning activity of EFEB and for improving its operating and
financial efficiency in the future. The Project helped the Company to buy
equipment for expanding services and detecting deficiencies in the
distribution system, as well as to initiate the establisbment of a data
base for collecting, verifying and updating the information of the
transmission and distribution system. These contributions are now important
tools that the Company is using in its drive for efficiency. In 1989, EEEB
took decisive actions to reduce power losses and accounts receivable, and,
even though moderate in scale, these actions have started to pay off. The
losses in 1989 declined to 22.4%, which corresponds with the revised target
agreed with the Bank for that year (paras. 6.10 and 6.11).
Proilect Sustainability
7.       It is expected that the facilities, as well as the institutional
development, created by the Project will continue to produce benefits since
EEEB is improving its capacity to maintain its facilities properly and the
Government has consistently shown its commitment to the development of the
power sector. Moreover, the benefits will increase if EEEB's management
continues its efforts to improve its operating and financial efficiency
(para. 7.01).
Issues Remaining Outstandina
8.       EEEB's main problems upon completion of the project are thats  (a)
energy losses remain high, about 22.4% in 1989, as compared to 10 to 13%,
which is the reasonable level for a system such as EEEB's; (b) the ratio of
accounts receivable to total sales was about 24% in 1988, but should be no
more than 17%; and (c) residential tariffs, especially those of the first
blocks of the residential category, are extremely low and need to be raised
to reflect the economic cost of the service.
Lessons learned
9.       The implementation of the Project suggested the following lessons:
(a) Procurement is an important area for attention during
preparation and appraisal. If training is needed, arrangements should be
made to get it promptly either from the Bank or through consultants. This
period should provide the opportunity to discover conflicts between the
Bank and the borrower regarding application of Bank procurement rules.



iv
(b) The simultaneous construction of the subject Project together
with Guavio, Mesitas and other smaller projects, overwhelmed the
constructional and financial capabilities of EEEB, thereby delaying the
implementation of all the projects and putting EEEB in a difficult
financial position. In the future, the Bank should give more weight to the
risks of overburdening the institutional and financial capacities of
companies and should refrain from financing additional projects when the
assessment shows that capacities are being over-extended (para. 9.01).



COLOMBIA
BOGOTA DISTRIBUTION PRJJECT (LOAN 1807-CO)
PROJECT COMPLEA;ION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Proiect Identity
- Project Name: Bogota Distribution Project
- Loan No:       1807-CO
- RVP Unit:      Latin America and the Caribbean Region,
Country Department III
- Country:       Colombia
- Sector:        Power
2.   Proiect Background
2.01     Sector Development Obiectives (at time of Project appraisal).
Considering the power sector's important role in Colombia's development
process, the Government and the main power companies established, in the
mid-1970s, the "Sochagota" Agreement for orderly and efficient sector
expansion. All plants requiring a joint effort by all its shareholders were
to be constructed, owned and op-rated by Interconexion Electrica S.A.
(ISA). However, plants of regional interest might be built by one or
several shareholders, subJect to IS^As approval. The energy requirements of
the interconnected system were expected to increase at an average annual
rate of about 10.6%. To satisfy these requirements, a development plan for
the period 1978 to 1985 included new projects with an aggregate installed
capacity of 2,133 MW; of these, 1,701 were hydroelectric. The sector was
also iziterested in improving its efficiency, and, toward this goal, a
tariff study based or. marginal costing and a study of power system losses
were to be undertaken by ISA.
2.02     Policy Context. The Government's development strategy was aimed at
expanding the power system in pace with demand. To this end it proposed to
make full use of those energy sources which were in abundant supply, i.e.,
hydropower, natural gas and coal. Consistent with this objective, 80% of
the power sector expansion plan for 1978-85 consisted of hydroelectric
projects. The Government, however, also wanted to step up surveys of
identified coal fields in the departments of Santander and Antioquia and to
study the feasibility of using low-grade coal for large thermal plants
likely to be needed in the early nineties, when potential hydro sites were
expected to be increasingly more costly to develop.
2.03     Linkages between Project. Sector and Macro PolicSy Oblectives.  The
Project objectives of constructing/improving the distribution facilities
(described in detail in paragraph 3.02), were the means for providing to
the final consumers the electricity generated using the abundant national
resources. The Project was also aimed at improving efficiency by adding
distribution facilities and by introducing changes in the tariff structure
in order to correct considerable existing imbalances.



- 2-
and which subsequently were incorporated into CUEP (e.g., reform of Iller
Bank), these issues may not have received the attention they deserved as
participants preferred to focus on identifying possible investments.
1.03     The Bank and the Government were cognizant of the failure of the
Istanbul Integrated Urban Development (para 1.01), and hoped to limit the
risks of a second failure through more thorough preparation. Because the
requirem .ats for preparing the Cukurova project were expected to exceed the
resources available through the Bank's Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
which had already been tapped, the Government requested an engineering loan to
prepare a pilot investment project for five municipalities (Adana, Mersin,
Iskenderun, Tarsus, Ceyhan) in November 1984. The Cukurova region was
selected as a pilot area because of its rapid urban population growth and
municipal service deficiencies. P'
2.       Proiect Obiectives and Description:
2.01     CUEP was a project preparation loan.  Its objectives were first, to
identify and design investments for financing under the follow-on Cukurova
Region Urban Development Project (CUDP; LN2819-TU) and second, to develop
complementary policies and national, regional, and local institutional
mechanisms to support decentralization, integrated planning, and improved
urban efficiency. The total planned cost of CUEP was US$10.7 million. 90X of
project costs were budgeted for consultants to manage preparation activities
an-I carry out instttutional, feasibility, and design work. Components
included water suDDly and sewerage, solid waste management, urban transport,
upgrading infrastructure and services in informal housing areas (i.e.,
Gecekondus), design of on- and off-site infrastructure for Urban ExNansion
Areas (UAEs) and establishment of municipal Housing and Urban Development
Companies (HUDCs) to market serviced land in these areas.V
2.02     In addition to the municipal infrastructure and related
institutional components such as creating separate water authorities within
municipalities, CUEP aimed to develop reorganization Rlans for local
government, design and implement new municipaL accounting standards and
establish a new regional planning authority. Funds were also budgeted for
staff training, technical assistance and equipment for the national and
regional cadastral programs §/, and a study to examine the role of Iller Bank.
Population in the five major municipalities increased 6.2X p.a. from
1980-85 and over half lived in unplanned gecekondu settlements in 1985.
V     Half of the total area of 2000 ha. was to be developed for low income
families.
The objectives of the regional cadastral component were to advance
survey completion from 15 to 3 years including mapping 25,000 km2,
title registration in 2,300 km2 villages, and surveys of 68,000 plots
in municipalities.



-3-
4.03     Project cost was estimated at US$182.2 million, with US$87 million
of foreign costs and US$95.2 million of local costs. The Bank loan was to
finance the foreign costs while EEEB was to finance the local costs.
5.PrKoJ.t Implementation
5.01     Loan Signature, Effectiveness and Project Startup. Althcough
Loan 1807-CO was approved by the Board on March 13, 1980, it was not signed
until almost one year later on February 6, 1981. This dtlay was caused by
difficulties in obtaining Congressional approval for increasing the level
of external borrowing by the public sector. Further delay was experienced
in declaring the Loan effective, which took place on September 25, 1981,
about one year later than expected at appraisal. This delay was caused by
difficulties in obtaining local loans to cover the financial needs of
EEEB's investment program, which was one of the conditions of
effectiveness. The Bank also required EEEB to pay its overdue accounts with
ISA. Even though this requirement was not an original condition of
effectiveness, the level of overdue accounts was sufficiently high (about
US$40 million) to put the Company in a position of non-.compliance with
fir.ancial covenants. EEEB concurred with the Bank's request by reducing
somewhat its overdue accounts with ISA.
5.02     Implementation Schedule. The Project was originally scheduled to
be completed by December 31, 1982, but the majority of the original Project
components were not completed until December 1984, two years later than
scheduled. The remainder of the original components, and the works added to
the Project, were completed by September 1987, about five years later than
the target date. The main reasons for the delays were as follows:
(a) Delays in Loan signature and in declaring the Loan effective
affected the normal implementation of the Project because,
even though the preparation of bidding documents proceeded,
the long delays obliged EEEB to continue requesting bidders to
extend their offers. In some cases, the bidders were unwilling
or unable to do so, and it was necessary to prepare new bids.
The delays also affected the financial situation of EEEB
because, since it could not make withdrawals from the loan
account, it had to finance advance payments to suppliers from
its own resources;
(b) The procurement process was slow during Project
implementation, mainly because the EEEB staff who handled this
matter did not have sufficient experience in dealing with the
Bank's procurement procedures (para. 5.03);
(c) Frequent changes in EEEB'^ top management affected the Project
implementation because they were usually accompanied by new
appointments and shifting of staff in key units, including the
staff in charge of the Project; such changes required
considerable time for adjustunent. There were four General
Managers in the period from 1979 to 1987;



-4-
(d) Changes were made in the scope of the Project to include
additional works (substations and transmission line) made
possible by savings in the Loan, the financing of some
components with a loan from Skandinaviska Enakilda Banken
(SEB) and an increase in the financing by EEEB with its own
resources; and
(e) Simultaneously with the Distribution Project, EEEB was
committed to a huge investment program, which strained its
implementation and financing capacity. It was building Mesitas
(600 MW) and Guavio (1000 MW) hydroelectric projects, as well
as other smaller projects.
5.03.    Procurement. The procurement process was delayed because:
(a) EEEB staff responsible for the procurement process were not
experienced. Although EEEB was a previous Bank borrower, these
staff members were relatively new and not familiar with the
Bank's guidelines. Likewise, the C6digo Fiscal of Colombia
included some regulations which were in conflict with the
Bank's guidelines (para 5.03 (b) following). There was
voluminous correspondence to solve aspects related to: (i) bid
announcemerls, which did not allow sufficient time for bidders
to prepare offers; (ii) inconsistency in bidding documents for
the using of firm as well as adjustable prices in the same
documents; (iii) evaluation of alternative offers other than
the lowest evaluated bid; and (iv) use of the rate of
exchange in the bid evaluation process.
(b) Colombia's Codigo Fiscal included some regulations which were
in conflict with the Bank's guidelines, the main ones being
the requirements to give preference to Colombian products and
to consultants associated in joint ventures with Colombian
firms. The preference for Colombian products was enforced by
the authorization of import licenses by the Instituto
Colombiano de Comercio Exterior (INCOMEX). Some of the import
licenses were delayed for months, and some of them were never
approved. The requirement relating to consultants was solved
by EEEB's decision to apply the Bank's guidelines and by some
voluntary association of external consultants with local
firms.
5.04.    The Bank insisted that INCOMEX and other Government departments
should expedite the approval of licenses, which was done to a minimal
extent. The Bank was slow in handling this problem and did not press the
Government sufficiently to solve it.
5.05     As a result of the delay in obtaining INCOMEX's approval, EEEB was
unable to enter into a contract with a Brazilian supplier for the supply of
aluminum conductors. The Bank insisted with the Government and INCOMEX that
the import licenses should be approved and that the contract should be
awarded to the successful bidder, but EEEB claimed that it needed the
materials urgently and decided to purchase the conductors through local



-5-
bidding procedures at a cost about 50% higher than that of the prospective
bidder. Under these circumstances, the Bank decided to consider the matter
a misprocurement and canceled the amount of the contract (US$2.4 million)
from the Loan account.
5.06.    Prolect Costs. The estimated cost of the Project at appraisal was
about US$182.2 million. The final cost was about US$202.7 million, as shown
in Table 5 of Part III. It is perhaps more meaningful to compare the costs
of the project components that were planned, less those excluded from the
Project, which totaled US$180 million, and the actual costs of these
components, which was US$158.7 million, or a cost underrun of 12Z. This is
explained basically by the lower prices obtained in the international
competitive bidding.
5.07.    Disbursements. The Loan's estimated and actual disbursements
(in Table 3 of Part III) reflect the Project's slow implementation. The
original closing date was December 31, 1983, but the Loan was closed only
on December 31, 1986, after three extensions. However, the Bank honored
disbursement applications received until September 30, 1987.
5.08.    Loan Allocation. The original and actual disbursements by
categories are shown in Table 4 of Part III. The original allocations were
revised in May 1984 and on four more occasions to reflect changes in the
Project scope, the creation of a special account, and actual implementation
needs.
6. Proiect Results
6.01.    Meetint of Project Objectives. The objectives of the Project were
only partially met because, even though EEEB completed the Project
originally planned and was able to add other works to it, the Project was
implemented with considerable delay. This delay factor might be one of the
reasons for EEEB's inability to decrease the energy losses to the level
established as a performance target. Actual losses for 1985, the last year
for which a target was established in the SAR, were 24.4%, versus 14.3%
targeted. Likewise, the Project's other important objectives, such as
improving the operational and financial areas of EEEB, fell short of what
was expected at appraisal, as explained in paragraphs 6.03 to 6.10. In
retrospect, it seems that a timely implementation of the Project, including
the training program and implementation of the distribution studies, would
have increased the ability of EEEB to tackle the problem of *ower losses,
which is still one of the Company's major concerns. EEEB, however, did not
pursue the implementation process diligently, and the Bank did not press it
sufficiently to fulfill this commitment, as well as the financial
covenants.
6.02.    Physical Results. The physical targets of the project in terms of
transmission and distribution facilities were achieved, but with
substantial delay (Table 5, Part III). This delay did not seriously affect
the electricity service to customers because the demand did not grow as
forecast, but it was necessary to feed some areas provisionally from other
than the planned lines and substations, which implied additional
expenditures. Also, some areas experienced minor restrictions of service.
The increase in EEEB's transmission and distribution facilities can be s6en
in Annexes 5 and 7.



-6-
6.03.    Financial Performance. Annex 1 compares the actual and appraisal
forecast income statements, sources and applications of funds, balance
sheets, and performance indicators for the period 1979 to 1987. EEEB's
performance during that period was adequate, but operational and financial
indicators fell short of the expectations held at appraisal. The company
had been committed to a large expansion program to meet the system growth;
however, there was a slowdown in the economy, and sales were substantially
below appraisal expectations. The rate of return on revalued assets was
lower than that covenanted from 1979 to 1984, and somewhat above that
covenanted for the period 1985 to 1987.1 The self-financing ratio declined
from 59% in 1979 to 35% in 1982, which was adequate. During the rest of the
period, this ratio deteriorated from 30% in 1983 to 23% in 1987, which was
lower than that covenanted under other Bank loan agreements and basically
sufficient only to cover interest during construction.2 The debt-service
coverage ratio was generally above the covenanted level of 1.5 in the
period 1979 to 1982, but it deteriorated steadily, from 1983 to 1987, from
a level of 1.4 to 0.9 times. The company was unable to cover its total debt
service from internally generated funds in 1986 and 1987. The debt-equity
ratio also deteriorated significantly during the period, reaching 67/33 in
1987.
6.04     Electric-ity rates increased substantially during the period 1981
to 1987 (para. 6.05). However, EEEB's internal cash generation was lower
than expected and contributed to the difficulties in financing its
construction program, as well as its payments to ISA and contractors. The
reasons for this low internal cash generation were: (a) reduced sales
growth (actual sales for 1979-85 were 24% lower than forecast in the SAR,
Annex 2); (b) higher than forecast energy losses (para. 6.10);
(c) increase in operating costs (cost per kWh increased approximately 5.4%
in real terms between 1979 and 1985, compared to about 1% estimated at
appraisal, Annex 4); and (d) higher than expected inflation and
devaluation. There was also a staggering increase in the investment
program with the decisior. to build Guavio, a 1000 MW hydroelectric
project, which overwhelmed the financial and executing capacity of EEEB.
Guavio is expected to be commissioned in 1993, or six years later than
originally estimated.3 This project could have been commissioned with less
delay (by 1991), but, because of EEEB's financial difficulties and also
because the project was not urgently needed in the system at that time,
EEEB, with the Bank's agreement, decided to postpone its construction to
1993.
1/ The rate covenanted was 12% for 1979 and 1980 and 14% thereafter.
2/  Loan 1807-CO did not have a self-financing ratio covenant, but, under
Loans 2008/2634-CO, a 35% ratio was agreed.
3/  Guavio, was not included in the EEEB's construction program at the time
th&t the Bogota Distribution Project was appraised. Even though a
slowdown in demand had already been noticed, EEEB did not undertake a
thorough analysis of this risk and the other uncertainties associated
with building other projects simultaneously. Such an analysis might
have helped to decide a different timing for Guavio or a different
arrangement for its construction.



-7-
6.05     Annual average tariffs were somewhat lower than the expected level
for 1979 and 1980 but improved steadily in the period 1981 to 1987,
reaching Col$ 13.47/kWh in 1987, at which time they were among the highest
in Colombia. In mid-1979 prices, the average tariff increased at an average
rate of 10% in the period 1979 to 1987. However, the tariff structure is
extremely unbalanced among consumer categories and is far above or below
the estimated long-run average incremental costs (LRAIC), as reflected in
the following table:
Average Tariff for 1988
(Col.$/kWh)
Estimated                           As % of
LRAIC           Actual              LRAIC
Residential          21.9               6.6                 30
Industrial           14.6             25.2                 172
Commercial           19.7              37.2                189
6.06    The average residential tariffs are too low, while the industrial
and commercial tariffs are too high, in relation to the economic cost of
the service. The residential tariffs are especially low in the first blocks
(0 to 400 kWh/month).4 This problem was also identified during appraisal of
the Project, at which time EEEB agreed to prepare a prograr of rate
structure revisions and to put the program into effect by April 1980. Bank
missions frequently expressed concern over this matter during Project
supervisions, but, because of its financial difficulties, EEEB focused its
attention on the overall increases in tariffs rather than their structure.
The Bank agreed to this approach since it reflected the priorities at the
time. EEEB's freedom of action was also limited in that, following consumer
protests in 1981, the Government did not allow the Company to implement a
once-a-year real increase in the electricity rates to the lower income
sector of the population in A.ril 1982 and April 1983.
6.07    In October 1984, the Junta Nacional de Tarifas (JNT) issued Decree
No. 2545, establishing a new uniform tariff structure to be applied
nationwide. For the residential sector, it introduced fixed monthly charges
depending on the socio-economic stratum in which a house was classified.
The Bank considered the new tariff structure adequate. EEEB made little
progress in putting the new structure into effect, and again agreed, in
connection with Loan 2634-CO, to revise the structure of its tariffs within
the framework of the decree. Also, in connection with the processing of the
Power Sector Adjustment Loan, which was approved in December 1987, JNT
issued Resolution 086 (November 1986). Under this Resolution, the
Government assumed control of the tariff policy, establishing the LRAIC as
a benchmark which power company tariffs would gradually approach and
4/ Sales in the blocks with consumption 0 to 400 kWh/month represented
about 81% of total residential sales in 1988 and had an average tariff
of about Col.$2.8/kWh (excluding fixed charges), which is extremely low
and which pulls down the average tariff of the whole residential
category.



-8-
eliminating the utility's discretionary faculty to depart from the
authorized rates.5 This arrangement represented an advance in tariff
policy. However, the prices of the first blocks of the residential category
allowed by Resolution 086 were too low (20Z-30% of LRAIC), and EEEB's
tariffs for these blocks were even below the lower limit established in the
Resolution. Consequently, changes in Resolution 086 and accelerated tariff
increases would be required to arrive at a tariff that would give an
appropriate signal to consumers.
6.08    The operating cost per kWh, in current pesos, increased from
Col$ 0.95 in 1979 to Col$ 10.52 in 1988, which represented an increase of
about 5.4Z in real terms during that period. Actual annual operating costs
per kWh were higher than the appraisal forecast (31% higher in 1985, Annex
4), but, even with this increase, the operating expenses seem to be low
(about US$0.035/kWh for 1988). To some extent, this situation is caused by
heavily subsidized energy bought from ISA (about 100% subsidy).6 Actually,
the price per kWh paid by EEEB declined in real terms from Col$ 0.83 in
1979 to Col$ 0.78 in 1988 (Annex 3). At present, ISA is adjusting its
tariffs within the spirit of Resolution 086, which, in 1989, allowed a real
increase of about 3%. At this rate, however, it will take over 20 years to
reach the economic cost of the service.
6.09    As a percentage of sales, the accounts receivable increased from
34Z in 1979 to 47% in 1981, declining gradually thereafter to reach 27% in
1987. The ratio was substantially higher than the 17% covenanted. During
Project supervision, the Bank insisted that EEEB comply with this covenant.
The Company responded by establishing special arrangements with customers
with overdue accounts, and by intensifying its cutoff program for
delinquent customers; some improvements resulted. More recently, and in the
context of the Power Sector Adjustment Loan, EEEB's management has taken a
more decisive action by upgrading the hierarchy of the Subgerencia
Comercial (Billing and Collection Unit), and by creating within it the
Departamento de CrEdito y Cartera (Credit and Portfolio Department), which
includes in its functions the monitoring of accounts in arrears. This
department has 22 employees and is assisted by the Secci6n de Corte y
Reconexi6n (Curtailment and Reconnection Section) to allow for cutting
se-rice to delinquent customers. However, because the latter section is
S   ', it can handle only about 20% of the cutoff program. To solve this
pi _em, EEEB contracted a Colombian firm at the end of 1989 to perform
50,000 cutoff/connections in 1990. The loss reduction program, which is
also under the responsibility of the Subgerencia Comercial, is undertaking
actions that would help to improve the status of the accounts receivable in
arrears. The Government is contributing to this task and has created some
budget mechanisms by which the Government entities and departments would
settle their accounts with the power companies.
5/ Resolution 086 set ranges of tariffs as percentages of LRAIC, within
which the tariffs are allowed to vary, the minimum being 20% for the
first block of residential consumption and a maximum of 125% for blocks
with consumption greater than 400 kWhimonth and for the bulk of the
commercial and industrial categories.
6/ Without this subsidy, the operating cost per kWh would have been about
US$ 0.047.



-9-
6.10    System losses increased significantly during the period 1979 to
1987, from 18.5% in 1979 to 26.1X in 1987, far beyond the 10 to 13% which
is the reasonable level for a system such as EEEB's. It is estimated that
over 50% of the losses (14.5%) are due to unbilled consumption, including
theft. During Project implementation, the Bank did not press EEEB
sufficiently to adopt actions to reduce the losses. The Bank is tackling
this problem at present in the context of the Power Distribution II Project
(Loan 2634-CO) and the Pcwer Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 2889-CO). Some
progress has been noted since early 1988. EEEB's management has taken a
number of actions to solve the problem, and, in October 1988, EEEB upgraded
the Subgerencia Comercial 7 to give special attention to billing,
collection, and reduction of fraud. Some of the measures adopted were to
enact legislation to increase the penalties for fraud, to carry out
publicity campaigns to encourage civil responsibility, to install new
meters and calibrate existing meters, and to check customers' connections
and accuracy of their m_ters. To deal with the latter task, the number of
personnel has been increased by 15 squadrons (consisting of one electric
engineer and one technician each), and a contract was signed at the end of
1989 with a Colombian contractor, who will provide 38 additional squadrons
to undertake 130,000 revisions of customers' connections in 1990. In
addition, in order to support these activities, the staff of the
Subgerencia Comercial has been increased with administrative, laboratory
and legal advice personnel. All of these actions have been beneficial, and
some improvements were seen in the results of 1989, when losses declined to
22.4%, which corresponds to the new target agreed with the Bank for that
year. However, efforts need to be intensified in order to reach the
system's losses target of 13% agreed with the Bank for 1992.
6.11    Impact of the Project. The Project had a fairly good impact on
EEEB's development. It created the basis for dealing with the expansion of
distribution facilities as a permanent planning activity and for improving
its operating and financial efficiency in the future. The Project also
helped to develop the concept of a special unit in charge of a project;
provided;8 equipment to expand the services and detect deficiencies in the
distribution system; and initiated the creation of a data base for
collecting, verifying and updating the information of the transmission and
distribution system. These contributions are now important tools that EEEB
is using in its drive for efficiency.
7.      Project Sustainability
7.01    It is expected that the facilities, as well as the institutional
development, created by the Project will continue to produce adequate
benefits for EEEB. Moreover, the benefits will increase if EEEB's
management continues to improve its finances and operating efficiency,
particularly in adjusting its tariffs in line with long-run marginal cost,
especially the residential tariffs to low and middle income customers.
Power system losses represent another area where the efforts should
continue in order to reduce them to a satisfactory level.
71 Previously it functioned as a department of the Subgerencia Comercial y
Financiera.
8/ This unit was only partially operational during Project implementation.



-10-
8.      Bank Performance
8.01    Bank participation in the Project was generally satisfactory. The
Bank made a positive contribution during project preparation by identifying
the areas which needed further analysis 9 and by locating the areas of
EEEB's organization and practices that required improvement. During the
implementation period, the Bank gave professional advice regarding EEEB's
engineering, organization and finances. The Bank was flexible in its
approval of changes in the Project scope, in the creation of a special
account under the Loan, and in increasing the retroactive financing for the
Project changes that were necessary to counteract, to some extent, the
problems caused by the delay in the signature and in the effectiveness of
the Loan (para. 5.01). However, Bank performance was not satisfactory on
the following points: (a) it failed to provide timely advice on procurement
to EEEB's staff after errors occurred in the bidding documents; (b) it was
slow in detecting the bottleneck created by INCOMEX in delaying the issue
of import licenses, and, once the problem was detected, it failed to press
the Government strongly enough to settle this matter promptly (some of the
import licenses requested by EEEB were never approved); (c) it did not
press EEEB sufficiently to adopt actions to reduce energy losses; and (d)
it was late in advising EEEB regarding the creation of a special unit in
charge of Project implementation and did not urge EEEB to put this unit
fully into operation once it was created.
9.      Lessons Learned
9.01     The principal lessons learned are summarized below:
(a) Procurement capability is one of the areas that should be
examined closely during project preparation and appraisal. If
training is needed, arrangements should be made to obtain it
promptly either from the Bank or through consultants. The Bank
should not assume that, because the bor rower has dealt with
other Bank loans, the experience exists, since, in some
utilities, there is a high turnover in the personnel who handle
these matters or the personnel might not have kept up to date
with the Bank's guidelines. EEEB faced these problems during
Project implementation, and the Bank failed to recognize the
difficulties that EEEB was having with the Bank's procurement
rules in time to provide the needed assistance.
(b) It seems that EEEB and the Bank underestimated the impact that
EEEB's commitment to a huge investment program would have upon
its implementing and financial capabilities. Therefore, the
Bank agreed to EEEB's request to finance the Guavio
9/ Such as the program for completing the changes in the voltage of the
secondary circuits from 150 to a more normal 120V, which at the time of
the appraisal was installed to only about 40% of the customers; the
increase in the utilization factor of the distribution transformers,
which, at the time of appraisal, was substantially lower than the
standard electric utility norm; and the increase in the installation of
capacitors to improve the power factor.



-11-
Hydroelectric Project (1,000 MW) simultaneously with the
Mesitas and other smaller projects. The implementation of this
investment program was delayed considerably and put EEEB in a
difficult financial position. In the future, the Bank should
give more weight to the risks of overburdening the
institutional and financial capacities of companies, and should
refrain from financing additional projects when the assessment
shows that capacities are being over-extended.
10.     Borrower Performance
10.01   EEEB's performance during project implementation was below
expectations held at appraisal. The Project was delayed for about two
years, revenue covenants were generally not met; in some years the utility
was unable to cover its debt service with internally generated funds; power
losses increased substantially; and there was a large accumulation of
accounts payable and receivable. This situation was caused basically by the
ambitious investment program; Colombian's economic recession, which
decreased the volume of sales; the onset of the debt crisis that hardened
the terms of borrowing; the inflation and devaluation that increased the
debt service; and the management's inability to cope with all of these
problems. The creation of the Departamento de Coordinaci6n de Proyectos de
Transmision y Distribuci6n (Coordination of Transmission and Distribution
Projects Department) in September of 1984 was an important step toward
improving the coordination of Project execution; however, this unit was not
fully operational during Project implementation. Aditionally, the upgrading
of the Subgerencia Comercial (formerly a department) and the adoption of
measures to decrease the system losses and accounts payable and receivable
represent positive actions taken in recent times by EEEB to tackle these
problems.
11      Proiect Relationship
11.01   The Bank relationship with the Government and EEEB concerning the
Project was good.
12.     Consulting Services
12.01   Twenty consulting firms (13 Colombian and 7 foreign) participated
in Project implementation in the areas of engineering design of
transmission and subtransmission lines and substations; supervision of the
installation and construction contracts; load center design; and studies of
tariffs, assets insurance, budget, accounting and training. EEEB rated the
consultant services from good to very good. The Bank staff who supervised
the Project agreed with this rating.
13.     Project Documentation and Data
13.01   The Loan Agreement was adequate for achieving the Project
objectives in the key organizational and financial areas, and the Staff
Appraisal Report provided a useful framework to both the Bank and EEEB for
review of Project implementation. The Loan Agreement provided flexibility
for introducing changes in Project description, which required only
regional approval. EEEB prepared a project completion report and provided
additional information requested. Moreover, EEEB created, in July 1986, the



-12-
Seccion de Administracion de Base de Datos de Distribuci6n (Distribution
Data Base Management Section), which is in charge of collecting, verifying
and updatiaig information concerning REEB's distribution system.



- 13 -
COLOMBIA
BOGOTA DISTRIBUTION PROJECT (LOAN 1807-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Introduction:
Part II consists of: (e) the chapter of conclusions of the final report
prepared by EEEB, and (b) the letter with EEEB's comments on the PCR.
Translations into English of these documents are attached to Part II. In
the chapter of conclusions, EEEB considers that: (i) the Project
represented a significant achievement for the Company, (ii) there were
delays in the implementation of some Project components largely due to
procurement problems (scarcity of personnel, large number of Project
components, inexperience on part of EEEB procurement staff and conflict
between Bank's procurement guidelines and local legislation), and (iii) the
targets of the Project were generally obtained, although some targets, such
as energy losses, were not fully met, and training needed substantial
improvement. The letter with EEEB' comments on the PCR stated that, in
general, it agrees with the Bank's report. EEEB's observations have been
incorporated into the report, except regarding two minor points: (i) the
percentages of power losses included in the report are slightly higher that
the ones included in EEEB's letter, due to the methodology used to estimate
these percentages; 1 and (ii) the substation of Mosquera was replaced by
the substation of Salitre, and EEEB suggests that the latter be treated as
part of the original Project; but the PCR, following the practice of the
Bank supervision missions, considers Salitre substation as a new Project
component.
1/ In the report, the percentage of losses is calculated as the ratio of
transmission and distribution losses to the net supply (own generation
less station use plus net purchases from ISA), whereas, EEEB calculates
this ratio using as denominator the total supply (including station
use).



_14_
Page 1 3f 3
Unofficial Translation
CHAPTER OF CONCLUSIONS OF THE FINAL REPORT PREPARED BY EEEB
CONCLUSIONS
Project justification and objectives
The initial appraisal of the priority nature of the Distribution
Project proved quite correct, given the inability of the energy distribution
system to keep pace with customer demand and the expansion of the generation
and transmission system, which limited the system's capacity to deliver the
power thus generated to the final user.
Proiect content and organization
The Distribution Project has a large number of components, which
alone makes it rather complex.
Although the original size of the Project was adequate, it now
appears that the initial planning of its component activities was not prepared
in sufficient detail, particularly considering the fact that no reliable
background information was available on the implementation of any project of
similar magnitude to the one undertaken or on the time required to process
operations according to new procedures governing executing units both inside
and outside EEEB.
The changes made in the course of the project meant an increase in
its scope, entailing wider coverage and longer execution periods; although
these changes were of an appropriate scale, the implementation results did not
conform to the revised plans, not because of any inherent shortcomings in the
planning process, but because of unforeseen developments (see Section 3.4),
which delayed program implementation.*
Project imDlementation and Dhvsical results
The project's original design was satisfactory.
A lack of preparation can be detected, however, particularly in
the early stages, as regards the procedures used and the actual infrastructure
available in the executing entities to implement the project in accordance
with the original schedule.
T.N. This sentence (and others) is written in such a 's- .dat one
partly has to guess at the intended meaning.



- 15 -
Page 2 of 3
Nor at the outset did EEEB have an optional operating capability,
partly because of its shortage of staff, and partly because the staff it did
have lacked training in the new procedures.
Although the civil works and procurement program was drawn up as
realistically as possible, its implementation was, in many cases, hindered by
unforeseen circumstances, such as difficulties with land purchases and
contracting procedures.
Problems were encountered on several occasions (particularly
towards project completion) over imports, agreements with the World Bank on
model bidding documents because of its ever-stronger insistence on compliance
with its rules, which in some cases conflicted with certain aspects of local
legislation, and the authorization of contracts for larger amounts by outside
supervisory agencies. These difficulties caused delays in the execution of
some works, but fortunately these were manageable thanks to the reduced rates
of increase in energy and power demand compared to those originally assumed
when preparing projections.
With reference to the operating forecasts, it must be pointed out
that, generally speaking, the actual results fell short of the original
targets, mainly because the power and energy increase rates on which all
demand estimates were based turned out considerably lower than the assumptions
adopted.
We should also mention the difference between the estimated and
actual figures in the context of energy losses.
The project included steps to improve the level of losses that
existed in 1978-80, and measures were in fact taken that aimed to reduce
physical rather than technical losses; however, these measures were largely
frustrated, primarily by theft and fraud on the part of certain customers.
The project received a large proportion of financial assistance
(about 42X) from the World Bank and also guidance on physical aspects.
The World Bank coniducted periodic reviews of project
implementation in the form of quarterly progress reports and missions which
took place at least once a year, and always at the right times.
These reviews were extremely useful and their frequenc%r was
considered adequate. Mission members displayed extensive experience of and
familiarity with the project.
Reporting requirements were also felt to be reasonable arnd EhEB
found the reports invaluable.
Evaluation df groject implementation and results
This project can be viewed as a significant achievement for EEEB,
enabling it to tailor its distribution system to the demands and needs of
existing and new customers and to the expansion of its generation and



- 16 -
Page 3 of 3
transmission systems. In this respect, the project can be said to have lived
up to initial expectations.
Generally speaking, the project's targets and assumptions were
achieved or proved correct, respectively. In some cases figures were
overestimated (e.g. some costs), while in others the results fell short of the
cargets set (e.g. energy losses). Areas can also be identified in which there
is room for substantial improvement, such as training.



- 17 -
Page 1 of 2
Empresa de Energia Electrica de BogotA, D.E.
BogotA, Colombia.
June 4, 1990
Mr. Graham Smith
Chief, Infrastructure and Energy
Operations Division
Latin America and the Cariabean
Regional Office
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Ref.: IBRD Loan 1807-CO - Proiect Complation Report
Dear Mr. Smith:
Having reviewed the above-referenced document enclosed with your
letter of May 1, 1990, we find that the Bank's comments with respect to
project implementation, the factors that impacted it and the conclusions to be
drawn are generally correct.
We think that the conclusions could be elaborated on further,
particularly with respect to administrative aspects and [energy] losses.
We do feel that the following comments are called for, however:
-     Actual power losses were 24.2X in 1985, 24.51 in 1986 and 24.8X in
1988 (page ii).
-     Although the comments made with reference to procurement are valid
(pages iii and 10), they are primarily applicable to the project
implementation (sic) phase.
We feel that any lack of experience then apparent was overcome
later on as the project progressed.
The procurement procedure did present some problems, however,
particularly at the contract award and delivery stages.
This was primarily due to the fact that the Board of EEEB, in
awarding contracts, had to comply with the District's regulations
governing this area, and that external intervention was required
to enhance most of the contracts, which on many occasions resulted
in procedural delays.
With respect to project implementation (page 3), it must be made
quite clear that the original agreed scope of the project (Staff



- 18 -
Page 2 of 2
Appraisal), was twice modificd, additional works being
incorporated in November 1982 and August 1984, respectively (see
Annex 2 of the project completion report of June 1988).
Most of the works included in the original project were completed
between 1983 and 1984 (not 1985), the works added in 1982 were
completed in 1985 and those added in 1984 were completed in 1987
(see Annex 4 of the project completion report of June 1988).
With reference to project costs and physical results (page 5, and
Tables 5 and 6) the following clarifications need to be made:
-     The Salitre substation can be regarded as part of the
original project, since it replaced the Mosquera substation
originally included.
-     The meters, street lighting and communications equipment
included in the original project were completed in May 1982,
June 1983 and July 1985, respectively, while the additions
decided upon in the course of the project were completed on
the dates shown in Table 5.
ThiE situation is reflected in Annexes 2A and 4 of the
proie,t completion report of June 1988, and the costs are
shoin separately in Tables 1 and 2 of our letter, reference
No. 45Xc}O9 of January 17, 1989.
Kind regards,
(origivil signed) Alfonso Rios Aponte
Deputy Technical Manager
Copy to: World Bank, Bogota



- 19 -
PART III - STATISTICAL DATA
1.  Related Bank Loans                                                                            Page 1 of 2
. .... . . . .. .
Amount    Year
(in USS    of
mill-     Apro-      Bo-       Dis-
Nunber and Title  ion)       val      rower    bursement         Purpose
................ ........   ---  ......... .........   .........................
1. 38-CO:               3.53     1950     CVC/         100%   Anchicaya units 1 and 2
Achicaya Hydro-                      CHIDRAL                (2 x 12) MU hydro)
electric
2. 39-Co:                2.6     1950     CHEC          100%  The Insula units 1 and 2
La Insula Hydro-                                           (2 x 10 MW hydro)
electric
3. 54-CD;                2.4    1951   LABRIJA          100X  Palmas units 1 and 2
Labrija Hydro-                                             (2 x 4.4 MW hydro)
electric
4. 113-CD:               4.5     1955   CHIDRAL         100%  Anchicaya unit 3 (20 MW
Anchicaya Yumbo                                            hydro) and Yumbo unit I
Power                                                       (10 MW thermal)
5. 215-CO:               2.8    1958   CHIDRAL          100%  Yumbo unit 2 (10 MW
Yumbo Extension                                             thermal)
6. 217-CD:               4.6     1959     CHEC          100%   La Esmeralda units 1 and 2
La Esmelalda                                               (2 x 13.3 MU hydro)
7. 225-Ca:                12     1959     EPM           100%  GuadaLupe units 1 and 2
Guadalupe                                                  (2 x 45 MW hydro) and Trone-
ras unit 1 (18 MW hydro)
8. 246 CO:              17.6    1960      EEEB          100%   Laguneta unit 4 (18 MW
8ogota Power                                               hydro) and Zipaquira unit 1
(33 MU termal)
9. 255-CO:                25     1960     CVC/          100%   Yuffbo unit 3 (33 MW
Yu.nbo III Calima I                  CHIDRAL                thermal) and Calima units
Power                                                       l and 2 (2 x 30 MU hydro)
10. 282-Co:                22     1961     EPM          100%   Troneras unit 2 (1e MW
Second Guadalupe                                           hydro) and Guadalupe units
3, 4 and 5 (3 x 45 MW
hydro)
11. 313-CD:                50     1962     EEEB         100%  Zipaquira unit 2 (37.5 MW
Second Expansion                                           hydro) and Colegio units
1,2 and 3 (3 x 50 MU hydro)
12. 339-CO:               8.8     1963     CVC/         100%   Calima units 3 and 4
Power Expansion                      CHIDRAL                (2 x 30 MW hydro)
13. 347-CD:                 5     1963  ELECTRIBOL      100%  Cospique units 2 and 3
Cospique Power                                              (2 x 12.5 MW thermal)
14. 369-CO:                45     1964     EPM          100%   Guatape units 1,2,3 and 4
Nare                                                       (4 x 70 MW hydro)
15. 537-CD:                18     1968     EEEB         100%   EL Cotegfo units 4, 5 and 6
Third Expansion                                            (3 x 5) MW hydro) and Canoes
(1 x 50 MW hydro)
16. 575-'0:                18     1968     ISA          100%  Central System Intercon-
Power Intercon-                                            nection (230 kV transmis-
nection                                                    sion Line and substation)
17. 681-CD:              52.3    1970      ISA          100%  Chivor I (4 x 125 hydro)
Chivor Hydro-
electric
18. 874-CD:                56     1973     EPH          100%  Guatape II units 1,2,3 and 4
Guatape II                                                  (4 x 70 MW hydro)
Hydroelectric
19. 158c-C0:              126     1978     ISA          100%  San Carlos 1 (4 x 155 MU
San Carlos I                                               hydro)
Hydro Power



- 20 -
Amount    Year                                                                 Page 2 of 2
(in USS    of
miLl-     Apro-      Bo-       Dis-
Number and Title  ion)       va       rower    bursement          Purpose
,,, -----,-----.-------    ... . .. ............................................
20. 1583-CO:               50     1978   GOVERN-         100X  500 kV Intercowmection
500 kV Intercon-                       NENT                 Central System/ Atlantic
nection                                                     System
21. 1628-CO:               84     1978     EEEB          100X  Mesitas Hydro (El ParaIso
Mesitas Hydro-                                              3 x 90 MU; La Guaca 3 X 100 MU
electric Power                                              puiping 3 x 10 MHP; Sesquile
dam strengthening)
22. 1725-CO:               72     1979     ISA           100X   San Carlos II
San CarLos II                                              (4 x 155 Mw hydro)
Hydro Power
23. 1807-CO:               87     1980     EEE8          100X   Bogota distribution
Bogota Power
Distribution
24. 1868-CO:              125     1980     EPM           100X  Guadalupe IV (3 X 71 MU
Guadalupe IV                                                hydro)
Hydro Power
25. 1953-CO:               85     1981     EPH           61X   Playas (3 x 67 MU hydra)
Playas Hydro
Power
26. 1999-CO:               36     '982   CORELCA         84X   Atlantic coast village
Village                                                     electrification
Electrification
27. 2008-C0:              359     1982     EEEB          99%   Guavio (5 x 200 MU hydro)
Guavio Hydro
Power
28. 2401-CO:              170     1984     FEN           100X  Pow'fr development finance
Power Develop-
ment Finance
28.2     1984     FEN          100%   Power development finance
(Cofinancing)
29. 2449-CO:            164.5     1984     EPM           32X   Rio Grande Hydro
Rio Grande                                                  (3 x 100 MUW hydro)
Multipurpose
30. 2634-CO:              171     1986     EEEB          20X   Bogota Distribution II
Bogota Distribu-
tion II
31. 2889-CO:              300     1988   GOVERN-         75X   Power Sector Adjustment
Power Sector                           MENT



- 21 -
2. Project Timetable
Item                            Date                       Date
Planned                       Actual
Identification                                                  4/78
Preparation                                                     4/78
Appraisal Mission                                               3/79
Post-Appraisal Mission                                          11/79
Loan Negotiations                                               1/21/80
Board Approval                                                  3/13/80
Loan Signature                   10/80                          2/6/81
Loan Effectiveness               9/80                           9/25/81
Loan Closing                     12/83                          12/31/86
Project Completion               12/82                          9/30/87



- 22 -
3. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(in million of US$)
Bank Fiscal Year                  Estimated          Actual      Actual as % of
and Semester_                   Cumulative      Cumulative       Estimated._
1980-19Z1
December 31, 1980                    27.5            0.0              0
June 30, 1981                        43.4            0.0              0
1981-1982
December 31, 1981                    66.3            6.7             10
June 30, 1982                        78.7           12.7             16
1982-1983
December 31, 1982                    84.5           23.3             27
June 30, 1983                        86.0           30.5             35
1983-1984
December 31, 1983                    87.0           34.7             40
June 30, 1984                        87.0           39.7             46
1984-1985
December 31, 1984                    87.0           49.5             57
June 30, 1985                        87.0           52.0             60
1985-1986
December 31, 1985                    87.0           57.4             66
June 30, 1986                        87.0           57.8             66
1986-1987
December 31, 1986                    87.0           60.5             70
June 30, 1987                        87.0           78.2             90
1987-1988
December 31, 1987                    87.0           84.6 1           97
Date of Final Disbursement: 9/30/87
/  US$2.4 million was canceled because of misprocurement.



- 23 -
4. Allocation of Loan Proceeds (in US$)
Cate.gory                      Original                 Actual
Allocation            Disbursements
(1) Equipment and
materials for Part A
of the Project              22,300,000            29,621734.13
(2) Equipment and
materials for Part B
of the Project               49,400,000            38,853,075.25
(3) Other equipment
and materials                 6,200,000            14,004,842.41
(4) Consultants'
services                      1,200,000             2,120,348.21
(5) Unallocated                   7.900.000                     0.00
87,000,000            84,600,000.00 1
1/ US$2,400,000 was canceled because of misprocurement.



- 24 -
PLANNED AND ACTUAL COMPLETION DATES OF COMPONENTS
. . ........... ... ... ...... . ..........
. ..... ........................................ ......................................................................................................................... . .
-----Appraisalt       ---    . .Actual -.---         Months of        Camnents
Project Components         MVA/km  Completion            MVA/km   Completion       Delay
..m. .............. ...............................................................................................................
IGINAL PROJECT:
.  ..  .. . . . .
SUBSTATIONS
Circo 230/115 kV                   300     Jul-82               168      Sep-84            26
Sur 230/11.4 kV                     30     Dec-82                56      Sep-87            58  It was planned at 115/11.4 kV
Tunal 230/115 kV                   150     Dec-82               168      Nov-83            11
Victoria 115/11.4 kV                30     Jul-82                30      May-83            10
Catle 51 115/11.4 kV                60     Jul-82                60      Dec-85            42
Bosa 115/34.5 kV                    30     Jul-82                30      Jun-85            36
Fontibon 115/34.5 kV                30     Jul-82                30      Dec-85            42
Autopista 115/11.4 kV               30     Dec-82                30      Mar-84            15
Suba 115/11.4 kV                    30     Dec-82                30      Jun-84            18
Techo 115/11.4 kV                   60     Dec-82                60      Jun-84            18
Muna 115/34.5 kV                    30     Dec-82                30      Sep-84            21
El Sol 115/34.5 kV                  30     Dec-82                30      Mar-84            15
Mobile 115/34.5/11.4 kV             30     Jul-82                40      Jul-84            24
Spare transformers                  60     Jul-82                90      Jun-85            36
TRANSMISSION LINES (115 kV)
Tunal-Bosa                         5.1     Jun-82               3.7      Nov-83            17 Double circuit
Fontibon-Techo                     6.0     Jun-82               6.0      Sep-86            52  Single circuit
Tunal-Muzu                         4.0     Jun-82               4.0      Mar-85            33  Single circuit
Techo-Bosa                         2.0     Jun-82               6.2      Jun-87            61  2 km single circuit, 4 km ------
DISTRIBUTION
...... ..........
Primary circuits 34.5 kV                   Dec-82                 7      Dec-83            12
Primary circuit 11.4 kV                    Dec-82               370      Aug-83             8
Secondary circuit 120/208 V                Dec-82               631      Dec-84            24
Transformers                               Jun-82               328      Jun-83            12  Date of final delivery
Revamp 11.4 kV circuits                    Dec-82               910      Dec-87            61
Revamp secondary system                    Dec-82              1153      Mar-85            27
Capacitors and voltage Reg.                Nov-82               211      Dec-85            38  Include 200 MVAR of capacitors
Meters                                     Nov-82            161000      Jun-82             5  Additional purchases completed 9/87
Street lighting                            Dec-82            212000      Jun-82            -6  Additional works compLeted by 9/87
Communications equipment                   Nov-81               402 1/   Jul-85            45  Additional equipment delivered by 12/85
Vehictes                                       NA               331 1/   Dec-86            NA  Date of Equipment delivery
Maintenance equipment                          NA                        Dec-86            NA  Date of Equipment delivery
ENGINEERING SERVICES
Distribution study                         Sep-80                        May-81             8
Dispatch center study                      Jun-81                        Aug-82            14
Insurance study                            Feb-81                        May-83            27
Training                                   Aug-81                        Oct-81             2
WORKS ADDED TO THE PROJECT
Substations:
Tunal 230/11.4 kV                                                56      Jun-89
Noreste 230/115 kV                                              168      Sep-87
Saliti-e 115/11/4 kV                                             30      Jun-83
Bolivia 115/11.4 kV                                              30      Sep-87
Bosa 115/11.4 kV                                                 60      Nov-85
Bosa 115/34.5 kV                                                 30      Sep-87
Castellana 115/11.4 kV                                           30      Dec-85
Fontibon 115/11.4 kV                                             60      Nov-85
Fontibon 115/34.5 kV                                             30      Sep-87
La Paz 115/11.4 kV                                               30      Jan-86
Muzu 115/11.4 kV                                                 30      Dec-85
Tibabuyes 115/11.4 kV                                            60      Sep-87
Torca 115/11.4 kV                                                30      Sep-87
Usme 115/11.4 kV                                                 60      Sep-87
Varaguas 115/11.4 kV                                             30      Dec-85
Spare transformers                                              404
15 kV Transmission Lines:
Torca-Usaquen                                                  10.7      Dec-83                Single circuit
Connection Calle 51                                             1.3      Feb-86                Double circuit
Connection Morato                                               1.2      Dec-83                Double circuit
Circo-Concordia                                                 1.3      Mar-84                Double circuit
Castellana-Salitre                                                6      Dec-83                Single circuit
Connection Usme                                                 2.9      Feb-86                Double circuit
Connection Tibabuyes                                            0.5      Har-86                Double circuit
Noroeste-Bolivia                                                  5      Sep-87                Double circuit structures
Noroeste-Fontibon                                                 5      Sep-87                Double circuit structures
Connecticn Noroeste  230 kV)                                      S      Sep-87                Double circuit structures
Engineering studies:
Dist.Planning Method.                                                    Jun-89
1/ Number of units.



- 25 -                                   Page  1 of 2
6. Project Costs and Financing (miLlion of USS)
... ....... ....................
Appraisal and Actual PraJect Costs
.................    SAR .................ACTUAL...................
Transformer                                          Transformer
Capacity tMVA)                                       Capacity ( VA)
SUBSTATIONS                and Line Length (km)  Local   Foreign   Total         and Line Length ()km)  Local   Foreign   Total
Circo 230/115 kV                        300.0      363     2490     2853                       168     3159      9186    12345
Sur 230/11.4 kV 1/                       30.0      190     1844     2035                        90     2314      3542     5856
Tunal 230/115 kV 2/                     150.0      368     3726     4094                       168     3103     4729      7832
Victoria 115/11.4 kV                     30.0      190     1844     2035                        30      859       451     1310
Catte 51 115/11.4 kV                    60.0       141     1995     2136                        60     1115       745     1860
Bosa 115/34.5 kV                         30.0       75      786      861                        60      612      359       971
Fontibon 115/34.5 kV                    30.0        75      786      861                       120      600      335       935
Autopista 115/11.4 kV                    30.0       38      854      892                        30      367       417      784
Suba 115/11.4 kV                         30.0       38      854      892                        30      381      343       724
Techo 115/11.4 kV                       60.0       137     1993     2131                        60      661      698      1359
Muna 115/34.5 kV                         30.0       76      786      862                        30       36       682      718
El Sot 115/34.5 kV                       30.0       73      786      859                        30      709      361      1070
Mobile 115/34.5/11.4 kV                  30.0       75     1451     1526                        40       30       665      695
Spare transformers (2)                   60.0       35      616      652                        90        0      630       630
....     .... .   ..... ... .....                   ..... . . .....    -----. ...-----.... .......  
Subtotal                           900.0      1876    20813    22689                      1006    13946    23143    37089
TRANSMISSION LINES (115 kV)
...........................
Tunal-Bosa                                5.1       30      426      456                       3.7      275      633       908
Fontibon-Techo                            6.0       30      403      433                         6      337      578       915
Tunat-Muzu                                4.0       20      286      307                         4      358      387       745
Techo-Bosa                                2.0       11      135      146                       6.2      295       229      524
SubtotaL                             17.1       91     1251     1342                      19.9     1265      1827     3092
DISTRIBUTION
............
Primary circuits 34.5 kV                           718      352     1070                                          45        45
Primary circuit 11.4 kV                          13442     5808    19250                               7560      5984    13544
Secondary circuit 120/208 V                      10770     7322    18092                              13024      2089    15113
Transformers                                      5761     6649    12410                                 25     3762      3787
Revamp 11.4 kV circuits                          20286    10076    30362                              11525     4853    16378
RevaiT secondary system                          12260    12684    24944                              26165     3629    29794
Capacitors and voltage Reg.                        144     1933     2077                                  0       791      791
Meters                                             857     2582     3438                                 36      2269     2305
Street lighting                                  13026     6829    19854                               6728      4380    11108
Communications equipment                            75      548      623                                 46      1724     1770
Vehicles                                           838     6224     7061                               5289      4618     9907
Maintenance equipment                               52      392      443                                211     4049      4260
,- --    ...... . . ------                           ------. . ------   ------. 
Subtotal                                     78228    61397   139625                              70609    38193   108802
ENGINEERING SERVICES
Distribution study                                 737      539     1276                                 45       150      195
Dispatch center study                                       539      539                                479       843     1322
Insurance study                                             197      197                                  0       51        51
Training                                                    259      259                                  0      353       353
Subtotal                                       737     1535     2272                                524      1397     1921
ENGINEERING AND ADMINISTRATION                     14101        0    14101                               7786         0     7786
.......... ...................                    ...... ... . .....  ......                           ...... .. ......   ------  ..... ... ..... ... .....  
TOTAL PROJECTS COSTS                          95033    84996   180029                              94130    64560   158690
PLANNED AND EXECUTED                         ------   ......  -----                               ......   ......   ------
WORKS EXCLUDED FROM THE PROJECT:
Substations:
Mosauera 115/11.4 kV                     30.0       38      854      892
Subtotal                             30.0        38      854      892
Transmission Lines
..................
Batsiltas-Fontibon                       11.4       60      818      878
Tunal-Spur                                4.4       26      366      392
Sboa  .1.8        1184    .....1270
Subtotat                              15.8       86     1184     1270



-  26  -                                   Page 2 of 2
--------------------SAR..---------------------          ---------------------ACTUAL-----
Transformer                                            Transformer
Capacity (MVA)                                         Capacity (MVA)
SUBSTATIONS                 and Line Length (km)  Local   Foreign   Total           and Line Length (km)  Local   Foreign   Total
WORKS ADDED TO THE PROJECT
.........................
Substations:
Tunal 230/11.4 kV                                                                                    50       16       596       612
Noreste 230/115 kV                                                                                   40      533      3999      4532
Salitre 115/11/4 kV                                                                                  30      528       348       876
BoLivia 115/11.4 kV                                                                                  30       27       604       631
Bosa 115/11.4 kV                                                                                     60      764       473      1237
Bosa 115/34.5 kV  n/                                                                                         389      1058      1447
Castellana 115/11.4 kV                                                                               30      610       383       993
Fontibon 115/11.4 kV                                                                                 60      777       719      1496
Fontibon 115/34.5 kV                                                                                         413      1211      16Z4
La Paz 115/11.4 kV                                                                                   30     1275       984      2259
Muzu 115/11.4 kV                                                                                     30     1111       u5      1816
Tibabuyes 115/11.4 kV                                                                                60      270      2416      2686
Torca 115/11.4 kV                                                                                    30       46       544       590
Usme 115/11.4 kV                                                                                     60      270      2416      2686
Varaguas 115/11.4 kV                                                                                 30      562       700      1262
Spare transformers                                                                                  404      239      3038      3277
Subtotal                                                                                        944      7830    20194    28024
Transmission Lines:
Torca-Usaquen                                                                                      10.7      316      1012      1328
Connection Calle 51                                                                                 1.3      112       116       228
Connection Morato                                                                                   1.2       96       116       212
Circo-Concordia                                                                                     1.3      112       116       228
Castellana-Satitre                                                                                    6       114      155       269
Connection Usme                                                                                     2.9       35       185       220
Connection Tibabuyes                                                                                0.5       39       194       233
Noroeste-Bolivia                                                                                      5         3      458       461
Noroeste-Fontibon                                                                                     5         3      458       461
Connection Noroeste-230 kV                                                                            5        2        81        83
Other                                                                                                          88      924      1012
Subtotal                                                                                       38.9       920      3815     4735
Distribution:
Transformers                                                                                                    0     4506      4506
Voltage regulators                                                                                              0      515       515
Meters                                                                                                      1150      3049      4199
Other                                                                                                           0       29        29
Subtotal                                                                                                 1150      8099     9249
Engineering studies:
Financial advisory                                                                                           126         0       126
Dist.PLanning Method.                                                                                       1773        63      1836
Taining                                                                                                        3        61        64
Subtotal                                                                                                 1902       124      2026
GRAND TOTAL                                     95157    87034   182191                                105932    96792   202724
Project Financing
BIRF                                                      0    87000    87000                                     0    84600    84600
EEEB                                                 95157        34    95191                               105932         0   105932
SEB 3/                                                    0        0         0                                    0    12192    12192
GRAND TOTAL                                     95157    87034   182191                                105932    96792   202724
...........................
1/ It was planned originally for 115/11.4 kV
2/ Installation and and estructure costs were financed under Loan 2634-CO.
3/ Skandinaviska EnskiIda Banken



- 27 -
Page 1 of 3
7. Project Results
A. Economic Impact
Appraisal
Estimate        Actual
Rate of Return                                     11.8% 1          10.1%2
Underlying Assumptions
1      The benefits and costs have been calculated using Colombian pesos of
mid-1987, which was the year when all of the Project facilities were in
full operation.
2.     As in the SAR, the rate of return was calculated on a time-slice of
the construction program. The period 1981 to 1987 was used, which was the
period of Project investments. The investment in the Guavio hydroelectric
project was excluded because this project will not be commissioned until
1993 and because of iLs large magnitude.
3.     The benefits period of the Program extends from 1981 to 2018,
similar to the SAR's assumption, when, on average, the plants included in
the construction program are expected to have substantially completed their
useful life span.
4.     From 1988 onward, operating costs and benefits are constant.
5.     Costs and benefits were calculated using financial prices, differing
from the SAR, which used border prices. This exercise was not undertaken
because border and financial prices are close at present in Colombia. To
make the rate of return of the SAR fully comparable with the reestimated
one, the rate of return of the SAR as recalculated using also financial
prices.
COMMENTS:
1.     The rate of return on the investment has been calculated using the
tariffs to value the benefits; in this sense, the rate does not take into
account the consumers' surplus.
1/ The rate of return calculated in SAR using border prices was 12%.
tJ The rate of return calculation appears in following page.



- 28 -
Page 2 of 3
Rate of Return on Investment
(mitlion of mid-1987 Col.$)
---------Sales (GWh)-------
Plant          Capital            TOTAL           Incremen-Attocated Tariffs            Net
Life   Years  Expend.   0 & M   COSTS   Total    tat  to Prog. CotS/kwh Revenues Benefits
.....      -------   .....    .....  . . ..... .    ---- --- --- ---- --- ---   -------   ......... .. .... .. .... ............................................... ............
1    1979                                3849
2    1980                                4139
3     1981    6827      193    7020    3929         80      43    7.36       318   -6702
4     1982   21434    1241   22675    4224         375     274    8.22    2250   -20425
5     1983   20625     2127   22752    4348        499     444    10.51    4668   -18084
6     1984   18364    2488   20852    4259         410     377   11.73    4425   -16427
7    1985   17569    3443   21012    4551          702     660   12.33    8134   -12878
8     1986    4484    5537   10021    4876        1027     996    13.25   13201    3180
9     1987    6785    6112   12897    5140    1291    1265   13.47    17042    4145
10    1988              6112    6112                       1265   13.47   17042   10930
11    1989              6112    6112                       1265   13.47   17042   10930
12    1990              6112    6112                       1265    13.47    17042   10930
13    1991              6112    6112                       1265   13.47   17042   10930
14    1992              6112    6112                       1265    13.47    17042   10930
15    1993              6112    6112                       1265   13.47   17042   10930
16    1994              6112    6112                        1265   13.47   17042   10930
17    1995              6112    6112                        1265   13.47    17042   10930
18    1996              6112    6112                       1265   13.47   17042   10930
19    1997              6112    6112                       1265   13.47   17042   10930
20    1998              6112    6112                        1265   13.47    17042   10930
21    1999              6112    6112                        1265   13.47    17042   10930
22    2000              6112    6112                        1265    13.47   17042   10930
23    2001              6112    6112                        1265   13.47   17042   10930
24    2002              6112    6112                        1265   13.47   17042   10930
25    2003              6112    6112                        1265    13.47    17042   10930
26    2004              6112    6112                        1265   13.47   17042   10930
27    2005              6112    6112                        1265   13.47    17042   10930
28    2006              6112    6112                        1265   13.47    17042   10930
29    2007              6112    6112                        1265   13.47    17042   10930
30    2008              6112    6112                        1265   13.47    17042   10930
31    2009              6112    6112                        1265   13.47   17042   10930
32    2010              6112    6112                        1265   13.47    17042   10930
33    2011              6112    6112                        1265   13.47   17042    10930
34    2012              6112    6112                        1265    13.47   17042   10930
35    2013              6112    6112                        1265   13.47    17042   10930
36    2014              6112    6112                        1265    13.47   17042   10930
37    2015              6112    6112                        1265   13.47    17042   10930
38    2016              6112    6112                        1265   13.47   17042   10930
Rate of Return                                                                     10.1X
...........................
a/ Exclude financial charges and investment in Guavio.
b/ Actual O&M at mid-1987 prices. From 1987 onward a cost of
ColS 4.83/kWh was used.



- 29 -
Page 3 of 3
B. Project Studies
.......................                            .................................................. ....... .............. ...................................................
Impact of
Study                   Purpose as Defined in SAR                 Status                     Study
............ ........................ .......... ..................... ..................................... ................................................ ,. ,,,,*
Distribution Study   To improve distribution                         Completed and              Planning capability has
planning and design                       imptemented to a           inproved.
procedures.                               large extent.
Dispatch Center            To provide economic                       Corpteted                  The dispatch
Study                      justification, preliminary                                           center  is
design and cost estimates.                                           operating
satisfactorily.
Insurance Study           To improve  insurance policy              Completed                  The insurance coverages
and train staff on this                                             were  increased and
matter.                                                              additional  risks are
covered.
Training                   To train about 25 EEEB                    Not completed              The implementation of
supervisory  level                                                   the training program was
distribution technicians.                                            transferred to the
followup project.



- 30 -
Page 1 of 2
8. Status of Loan Covenants
................ .................................. ........... ...... ......... .
Section        Brief Description                             Status of Compilance
. ......................................................... ................................................................
Loan
3.01         EEEB to carry out the Project with            Project management was not fully
diligence and efficiency                     satisfactory and there was
implementation delay
3.02    (a)  Requiring EEEB:
(b)  (i) to employ by 9/30/80                     Met, consultant appointed on June
consultants to carry  out a study            1980
on the distribution planning and
design procedures.
Cii) to furnish to the Bank by               Met in May 1981
11/30/80 the results of the study
in 3.02 (b) (i) together with a
program to carry out the
recommendation of such study.
(iii) to put into effect by                  Met
1/31/81 a program for carrying out
the recommendation of the study
referred in Section 3.02 (b) (i).
(c)  (i) to employ by 6/30/81                     Met in April 1981
consultants for carrying out a
study for the construction of an
energy control center.
Cii) to furnish to the Bank by               Met in August 1982
8/31/81 the results of the study
referred in Section 3.02 (c) Ci).
cd)  (i) to employ by 6/30/80 consuLtants         Met in March 1982
for carrying out a study on the
Long-term insurance requirements.
Cii) to furnish to the Bank by               Met in May 1983
4/30/81 the results of the study
referred in Section 3.02 (d) (i).
(iii) to prepare a program for               Met in 1985
revising insurance practices and
to put into effect such program.
ce)  to employ by 5/31/80 consuLtants             Met in JuLy 1981
for assisting it in carrying out a
training program.
(f)  (i) to employ by 4/30/80                     Met in May 1882
consultants to assist it in
carrying out a study on valuation
of its fixed assets.
(ii) to furnish to the Bank by               Met in November 1984
4/30/81 the result of the study
referred in 3.02 (f) (i).
(iii) to exchange views with the             Met
Bank by 6/30/81 on the aggregate
gross and net value of its fixed
assets, its assets valuation
methodology and the rate of return.
(g)  to employ by 6/30/80 two senior              Modified by hiring consultants who
financial experts for carrying out           undertook accounting and budget
a training program for EEEB's                studies
financial staff.
3.03    (a)  to insure, or make adequate                   Met
provision for the insurance of
the imported goods to be financed
with the Loan.



-  31 -                                        Page 2 of 2
. ..... .. .... .... ... ...... ......................... . ................... ...... ......... ... ... ...
Section        Brief Description                             Status of Compliance
.... ...... . ... .. . ........... ..................... ...................... ..... .
4.01    (a)  to manage its operations in
accordance with appropriate
business financial and public
utilities practices.
5.02    (a)  (i) to have its accounts and                  Met
financial statements for each
fiscal year audited by independent
auditors.
(ii) to furnish to the Bank within           Audit report generally submitted
four months after the end of each            late
year the audit report of such year.
(b)  to furnish to the Bank, not later            Met, but generally with some
than two months after the end of             delay
each quarter, a report of the rate
of return for the past four
quarters and projected for the
following four quarters.
*c)  to furnish to the Bank, not later
than two months after the end of             Report was always submitted late
the year, a report with seven
years financial projections.
5.04    tb)  to obtain Bank'a concurrence
before committing to any capital             Met
expenditure that exceeds 1% of the
net current value of the fixed
assets in operation.
5.05         to reduce its accounts receivable
and maintain them at a level not             Not met
exceeding 17% of total sales.
5.06         to establish and maintain tariffs
to generate a rate of return of              Rate of return was not met for
12% in 1979 and 1980, and 14%                1979-84, but it was met for the
thereafter on the average net                period 1985-87
current value of its fixed assets
in operation.
5.08         not to incur any debt unless
its net revenues are greater than            Ratio generally lower than 1.5
1.5 times its debt service.                  times
5.09    (a)  (i) to prepare by 4/30/80 a program to        Not met
revise its tariff structure taking
intO account the tariff study that
woG -i be done by ISA.
tii) to put into effect the
program referred in 5.09 ti) by
6/30/80.
tb)  To prepare and carry out an interim
program if the ISA study referred in
(a) were delayed and substitute the
interim program once the ISA study was
completed.
Guarantee
3.02         Government to enable EEEB to set and          Government approved tariffs
maintain its tariffs at levels               adjustments timely, except in
sufficient to fulfill EEEB's                 1981-82 when low income
obligations.                                 residential tariffs were frozen
3.03         Government to take a_tions,                   INCOMEX did not approve or was
including granting import                    generally late in approving
licenses, to ensure timely                   import licenses
procurement for the Project.



- 32 -
9. Use of Bank Resources
A. STAFF INPUT
(Staff Weeks)
Bank FY             1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987
Preparation             8.1  12.2
Appraisal                    28.6  32.7
Negotiations                       20.9
Supervisions                 _     . 5.6  7.4  15.9  15.1  14.0   4.7  10.6   3.6
Total                 8.1  40.8  59.2  7.4  15.9  15.1  14.0   4.7  10.6   3.6
B. MISSION DATA
Perfor-
Staff   mance    Type of
Month/   No. of   No. of       Weeks   Ratingl  Problems 2
TvRe of Mission         Year     Weeks    Persons 3   in Field           Status
Project Preparation      10/78     1      2              2
Project Preparation       9/79     1      1              1
Appraisal                 3/79     2.5    4             10
Post-Appraisal           11/79     1      1              1
Supervision I             7/80     3      1 PE           3        2        F
Supervision II            9/81     3      2 PE           6        2        F
Supervision III          11/81     1.7    1 FA           1.7      3        F
Supervision IV            4/82     2.6    1 PE           2.6      3        F
Supervision V             7/82     2      1 TE           2
Supervision VI           10/82     0.4    1 PE           0.4
Supervision VII          11/83     2.6    1 PE           2.6      2        M
Supervision VIII         12/83     2      1 FA           2
Supervision IX           11/85     1.8    1 PE,1FA       3.6      2        M
Supervision X             9/86     0.6    1 PE,JFA       1.2      3        M,F
Supervision XI            9/87     1.7    2 PE,lFA,lE   .8        2        M,F
Total                                                45.9
1/ 1 -Problem-free or minor problems; 2- Moderate problems; and 3- Major
problems
2/ F-Financial; K-Managerial
3/  PE-Power Engineer; FA-Financial Analyst; TE-Training Specialist;
E-Economist.



COLfuBA
COGOTA DIST5i5IjTlU PROJECT
E  08 DE E8E016 ELECTEICA DE 90005A
CaWsrison of Actulmud Va recent inca Ltetmenut. (1979-1987),
(sitllia of curren Coto)
-1979----            ... 193.--. ve -          ...1981...-  5ef-          ...982.-.-  aH             ...1983----     era-        ... 1964----                   1985---. M...Vei-    -1986-  -1987-
LSM    Actual  Lien (2)   LASk    Achtua   tin (LI    LAR    Actual  tian CI)   SAR    Actual  tin CI)   LAS    Actual  tien CI)   SAR   kActu  timn CL)   SAS    Actual  tiau CII Actual   Actual
Ensr1  Sates C(GM)                             3908     3849              42880    4139              4751     3929              5268    4224               So"4    4348               6486     4239               7207    41551             48M       5140
FHal coatsw  a/                            3908     3714    -5.0    428        39537    -77      4751     3834    -19.3    5268    4575   -20.7    5814         4183    -28.4    6488      425      -34.4    7Mr    4551    -369         4876     5140
ISA                                            0      135                 0      18le                0       95                 0       45                0       164                 0        0                 0        0                 0        0
Ananals Twinf to Finat CaruAsar: CalS/bbS    1.14       1.13    -1.16     1.58     1.49    -5.68     2.04     2.14     4.47     2.65     2.99    12.55     3.44     4.60     33.52     3.9?    6.28    58.06     4.59      8.27    80.24    10.82    13.47
Operating revenus
-Pin                                       4461     4190     -6.1    6754      582       13.0    9713    81BB    -IS.?    1397    12477    -10.7   20129    19240         -4.4   2578      26759      3.8   33062    37627      13.8   52768    6922
.13A                                     ST~~~~~~~5                 89                        127                        102                        2S4                           0                       210                  0        0
Otluet 96entcq Semais                        85       so5    -38.8      945      s85   -38.5    1359    8O3    -39.4          MT3   117e   -39.8    2818         1492    -47.1    4060       2712   -33.2    5856       227 -62.1    2927    3896
Total                       3286     4732   ~~~~~~~~~~~~-10.1    7699    6553    -14.9   11072    9138    -17.5   1596    13757    -13.7   22947    2096   -8.5   29868    29471     -1.3   38918    39664       2.4   55695   73124
Genseraion                                   394      390     -1.0      530      649     22.5      630    1017    61.4    1057    1316    24.3    1017    1362             53.6    1131      2423    114.2    1604      2591     61.5      42      31
truminfani                                    77      171    122.1t      96      179    86.3       1t8      258    118.6      156      362   166.2       157      420     167.5     181       577   218.8       209      S72    173.7      871     1406
Distribution                                 166      447    169.3      222      634    183.6      288      886    207.6      364      769    111.3      455     1730     284.6      572    2224   288.8        717     1202    67.6    4392    5478
LEnsr5 purdiasa                             1306      944    -27.7    1654      1367   -17.4    2396    1699   -291.1    2928         3113      6.3    3468      3538      -3.3    5196      7674     47.7    738       9906     34.2   1229      11316
Sensal a AS. oxaes                           525      533      1.3      682      701      2.8      858      986     16.9    1106       987   -10.8    1341       1584      18.1    1601      1624     13.9    195       1572   -19.7    2132       3214
Cuatrlbutlmn to 306                          117      126      7.?      141      223    58.2       136      247     60.4      174      422    142.3     198      241      23.6       217      317    46.1       240       90    -62.3        1        0
Public tiStIng                               186            -100.0      25'            -100.0      333            -100.0      4a             -100.0     645              -199.0     872             -108.0    1164             -100.0
CQeciotion                                   877      904      3.1    1142      1210      6.0    1519    1362        2.8    2478      2001   -19.2    3661       3685       6.5    4144      4525      9.2    5002      3934     18.6   10217    1294
Total                                      34       355      -.       474      493       51      61        63       54      82        90       28     10951    12800      16.9   13914    19664      40.6   I8B7      218167    t9.7   32347    3778
Set cpu-sling incam                            1638     1237   -24.5    297        1590   -44.6    4756       2483    -47.8    7210    478    -33.6   11996    8186          -31.8   15934    990       -37.8   20643    1797      -12.9   23348    3534
Other Incme Cespawee)w
inlt-sat an ILA's Title                        74      219    195.9      139      336    141.7      214      408    90.7       237      437     70.0     347      364      62.3       608      920    31.3       730      6ia    -9.6         0     1094
Divid-euc fans ISA                            259      103    -60.2      339      211   -37.8       344      28    -17.2       459      2S9   -41.0       562      301     -65.1    1310       523    -59.9    171        437   -74.6        19      55
Otbsr Commone)                                 95      263    176.8       61      131    114.8       67      349   420.9        73      412   664.4        8I      633     681.5       89      433    386.3       98      864    781.6      895     114
Totalt2                                               8      36.71     539      6       2S.8      625    1062    66.7        769     1108    44.1    1290    1498         16.1    2607    1878    -6.4    2566         1979    *22.9      94    29
Set innm Before inleteat                       2066     1822    -11.8    3514      2268    -33.5    3381      332    -34.5    7979    S89    -26.1   13286          9684     -27.1    17941    1178     -34.3   230       i9956   -14.    2426    38139
Intwerst ecpUW                                  460      S83     26.7      554      714    20.9       663     1314    97.6    1353       2439    80.3    3760      2826      -24.4    3263    3933       20.3    3308      4726    42.9    S73    1I=3
Set inca                                       1606     1239    -22.9    2960    1334   -47.5    4716    2211   -53.1    6426            3436   -47.8    95"6    6805    -28.2   1467          7652   -46.5   19901    1523    -23.5    183M    24301
a,InIesitamlate aslea to mauicpsUlele  (tesut 1.72 of total fmnst sales in 1917)



800078 013181 W0I10 PROJECT
ENRESA CE EtiERtlA ELECTAICA 0E SOOTA
COUariaon of Actual and Fo,ecast Souces and Applications of funds (1979.198?)
(mttimo of Current Col%)
-...1979----               ---- 39$0...       .        ... 1981-.--               ... 1982----                     1983----1984-...--.. 398...-                                                    1986     1987
Vansa-                      Varne-                      Varie-                      Verba-                       Varie-                      vriai-                       Veil.-
SAR    Actual  ticn CI)    SAR    Actual  tic.. (2)    SAR    Actual  ti- (0)    OAR    ACtual  tic.  (1)    SA8    Actual   ticm (2)    SAR    Actual  Iton (%           SAt    Actual  tim (2)  Actual   Actual
Set Incme before Interet                         2066      1922    -11.8      3514     2268    -3S5.      5381     3525    .34.5      7979     389      -26.1    1328      9684      -27.1    17941    1178      -34.3    2320      1905     .`14.0    24242    38139
Oopreciation                                      877       904       3.1     1142     1218       6.31    1519     1562       2.8     2475     2001    -39.2      3441     368S        6.5     4144     4525       9.2      mm0      594       18.6    1021?    12954
Increas  in liduitity reeres38                              311     66.3       241      78P   227.4        301      849    3az.1       346     3355    233.8       416     179       332.2      477     2628    450.9       588       367    -37.6      2758     3834
Gros  fintei,tl generation                     3130      3037     -3.0      4897     4267    -12.9      7201     5936    -17.6    10803      9051    -16.2    17163    15367       -11.6    22562    1893      -16.1    28M9    26257'    -8.8    3727    3492
Debt Service
intereet apewe                                  460      so3      26.7      854       714     28.9       665     1314     97.6      1353     2439     80.3      3740     2826     -24.4      3263     3933      20.5     3308     4726      42.9    5sm       1333
Amortization                                    454       916    103.8       624      759     21.6      1165     1223      5.0      223      2053      -8.1     AM9      5709       16.6     6262     6287       0.4     9209      7291    -20.8    16386    2303
total debt  ser-vice                             14      1499     64.0      1378     3473     25.0      183      2537     38.6      3586     4492      25.3     8636     8535       -1.2     9525    1022        7.3    125`17    32817     -4.0    22168    36868
Set Intewst genwration                         126       3538    -30.6      3719     2794    -24.9      5371     3399    -36.7      7237     4559    -36.8      8327     6632      -22.2    13037     8718    -33.1    16282    1424       -12.5    15069   1WO5
total bornoriap                                  3443      3111    -67.7    10476      3154    -69.9      7986    1097      37.4      7331    11277      53.      3545    36702     371.1      6002    21842    263.9      838      28665    242.0   3394       33M
Capitatlcmtrlisjtlan                                0         0      0.0         0        0      0.0         0        0       0.0        0        0       0.0        0     2867        0.0        0      999       0.0         0     1587      0.0      3090     2544
total lSrae567m64                                            -53.2    1419       594     -58.3    1335?    14374       7.6    14348    35836       8.9    12972    26201      117.0    39039    31559       65.8   2466      44492      80.4    S2oo9    7392
APPLICAItOIS
Icveetur,t in f ixed  aSet
neialte                                       305       1348    -62.5      8238     5036    -38.9      4824     3305    -31.5      2409     4534      87.4      147     307     333.0          0     4014       0.0         0     5997      0.5         0        0
Otaclo                                           0         0      0.0         0        7       0.0        0     2423       0.0        0     2452       0.0        0     8896        0.0        0    19051       0.0         0    54966      0.0    2509      37605
Others  eneratlrnsplants   a                     0        13      0.0         0       44       0.0        0       In7      0.0        0     1277       0.0        0      77         0.0        0      108       0.0         0      298      0.0       364      908
Tr-anmisuion ud distributlon                  1829       508    -72.2      3089      946    -69.4      4111      774    -81.2      3441     1632    -52.6    4469       2513     -43.8      6360     4197    -34.0      6321      508     -19.5     5419      5766
Gouteraplants                                    0        11      0.0         0      192      0.0         0      191       0.0        0      387       0.0        0      704        0.0        0      590       0.0        0       466      0.0       127      154
OLtAtatl48                                           167     -57       11327     6225    -45.0      893      6873    -23.1    585       10242      73.1     4616    17966     289.2      6360    2893      355.0     6323    46834    640.6   2880        443
Interest 6rlng onsutruction b/                 173         0   -308.0      826         0   -100.0      1752        0   -300.0      2185     1373    -37.2       562     2476     340.6      1065    4.71 1    342.3     1254      9732    678.i   22661    23372
Total castrutton program                   5561      3677    -66.9    12153      6225    -48.8    30691      6873    -35.7      8035    116315    64.6      3178    20142    294.8       7425    33646    353.2      7575    56516    646.5    51446    6.30?
l.easeta.  In ISA                                1122       938    -18.2      1581     1339    -15.3      2337     2062      -3.5     3980     1477    -62.9    589        177      -619.9    0527      1670    -80.4    11033      1095    -90.8       99       0534 
Other applications  c/                              0       616      0.0         0      -21       0.0        0     329        0.0        0      399       0.0        0      144       0.0         0      676       0.0        0      1350      0.0      -543    -1872
Variation  in wokIng capItalt99                            -562    -43.1       634    -1197   -353.9       518     2152    315.4      1653     2346      43.9      849     3243    282.0       2047    -4435   -316.7      1386   -14699  -1160.5       108    -1539
Total Appllcetions                         51393    2649    -49.0    143468 S945.86-6   -58.6   133546    14373        7.7    13668    15837      15.9    11921    2620       119.8    17999    31159      75.3    20032    44492    113.8    52099    73930
Cash Topporary Surplus (deficit)                  462         o-7                                            i         150                        -                 5         314                                           8200                                   -
e/l iucides ies-escent in Guanio. Chinmuca and Rio Stero projects.
b/ Dala of actual ICC f or 1982-1987 acre taken from st4percision reopots or esticeted by luck'e staf f sio prepared the PCR.
The actual 1DCs crc deducted f roe Inv-estment project on pro-rate basis.
cvi lclue edvances to ccntrectaraen eM ther inwestment.
a                                                                                                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OQZ
0



BOGOA DSTRIBUTItOdN PROJECT
18006R0SB OE E8ERG ELECIBICA St BOGOTA
CcwMPriSOnl of Actual and Forecast B4alace Sheets (.975- 1987)
billon of current oS)
--1978 --   ---1979-.--.                  -¶i- ...980....   -ra     ...1981---- era-            ... -1982---.                   -1983----                 -....1984---. - i              -1985 ge---- aia        1986     198?
Actual    SMR   ACtual  tier CZ)    SMR   Actual  riotn It)    SOR    ACtual  tic  (X)    SAR    Actual  Slot. (5)    SAR    Acctst   tier I%)    0A60    Actt,al  St. (3            5A5    Actual  tier (0)  Actua    Actual
ASO. .                                                                          .    . . .  . . ...S..T. . .             . . ...S. .          . . .  . . .. .    . .    . . . . . .. . . .     . .     . . .   .. . . .    . .     . . .   .. . . .     . . .  . . .
GraOs's Feed Assets in Service         20652    27316    8489    211.8         'A   8A89    107.7    46732    87427          87.1    84981    8987        3.8   103961   106988        2.9   124860   131598       5S4   151067   168650       11.6   304917   38703
Accasulated dtaepciatioa                7801     9698    ¶6954      74.8   .2780    20828       62.0    16472    22564       37.0    21421    29080      40.0    28130    38761       37-B    36529    49875       36.5   67046    67280       43.0    90977   125557
set Floed  ssets in Srvice  1365    158       695    277         22278    66021    196.4    30260    64865    114.4    63560    59891        -5.8    75831    68227      -10.0    88331    81723       -7.5   104021   101350      -2.6   213940   261206
Work6  n progtress                      2062     6967      6687    -32.7    19089    11331    -40.6    27734    25183        -9.2     4915    47165    859.6      4328    74827    1673.1       7085   12046    1597.9      8028   210230   2518.7   225008   327245
Totat Fised Assets                 I571      24485    72602    196.5    41367    7732        87.0    57994    90066      55.3   68475   107056        56.3   80159   145054        81.0    95426   202186    ¶1119   112049   311560    178.1   439748   588471
Inoestmonts
lfnesst-. In ISA                    2035      3265     2953      -9.6     4866      4292    -11.6      698      6354     -9.0    10963      7831    -28.6   1687        9604      -63.0    25384    11274    455.6    37235    12369    -66.8    13165    22699
Otber lameteents                      418      310       133S   -57.1       310      158    -49.0       310      168    -45.8       310      215    -30.6       318      371       19.7       310      580     61.3       510      666    114.8      1062      1311
Total ltinstin~~~~ts       2453     3573      3086    -13.7      5156     6450    -13.7      7293     6522    -¶0.6    11273       8046    -28.6    176        97        -61.9    2569     11774    -54.2    37548    13035    -65.3    1420        24010
Cu-rent Aasst        -
Cash' Operatiajal rewait-ans         341       586      286    -26.6        366      256    -54.8       855      352    -SEB8      1234      469    -62.0      1717      589      -65.7      2324     2627      13.0     2372     3988      68.1     3775      6707
1owarty au-plus                620       662        0   -¶80.0       289         0   -180.0      360         0   -180.0      1180        0   -180.0      1331        0    -180.0      2371         0   -180.0      6223        0   -180.0         0        0
AccaWis te B  veevble                 568     ¶O06     1445      63.9      1385     2328     68.1      1682     3988    107.7      2709     5032      85.8    3801      5848       69.9      5876     6776      33.5     6616     9265      60.0    13003    18691
ACCaUsis ReceielvAbt  ahr                                184                         274                         615                        1166                        2463                          577/6                       3135                4088     5582
lIwentory                            1068     1052     1224      16.3     1322      1581     19.6      1702     3097     82.8      2272     6061    165.9      2562     7589      165.2      3482     3650     621.3     6162      5559     33.0     788      15201
Otber                                 288        0        63      0.0         0      189      0.0         0      629       0.0        0      576       0.0        0      1¶070      0.0         0     239        0.0        0      1243      0.0      1736     204
Totat Carrat: Asses285                        204      38        10.2     36        628      29.9      4739     820)     73.1      7395    13284      79.6    9811    17599        79.0    13251    23219       73.2    19353    23160      19.6    30826    6820
TOTAL ASSETS                    21051    30964    7888       154.8    So0s3    86630      72.6    70026   106769      69.6    B743   12838        67.3   107137   172588        61.1   134371   237179      76.5   16894    34775       105.8  484,781   686
EQUITY Alt LIABILITY
Capiqtal Stack aid serplan            3839      5665     509       -6.5     8405     6647    -20.9    13121       8859     32.5    19787    12313    -37.6    2929       19173      -36.5    43971    27027    -38.5    83872    62257    -33.8    60737    8504
Beautuatlan Surpln                  10001    16130   66789    358.-5    ¶8756    63992    261.2    23605    66820    183.1    26584    69201    181.5    3048          8238       178.9   38367    97930    155.6    6790    10386         116.8   10177      94539
Taota  Oqaioy                   136       19575    6988      257.0    27161    70639    160.1    36726    75679    106.1   64331    81514         83.9   59701   101560         70.     8251    124957      51.8   111774   146123       30.7 1654        799
taig-SeS  aine                          4670     8050      5309    -33.?    19036      7774    -59.2    27775    ¶S757      -36.7    34421    28170    -18.2    3778      66633       23.7    41462    76104       70.8   66918   146960    227.1   227090   348205 
Othert LIdlbitieis sl                   105      1270      1077    -15.7      1619     1866     22.8      1820     2715      49.2     2166     387       78.7     2582     8335      230.6      3059    12162    297.6      3667    16116    287.1    19966    26362
Arratnt Payable                      962      ISO?      885    -46.?       170      2321     36.2      2352     ,676     47f.8     2475     6687      89.6     3891     505        29.9     6266    10643    130.8       5108    117191    ¶30.8    22373    29504
Accents Payeble to0158                  0        0      553       0.0        0)    1677       0.0         0     1666      0.0         0     3815      0.0         0     2208        0.0         0     325        0.0        0     8180       0.0    15313    19966
Cu-ran PortIan  of Oft               688       554      701      26.5      665      1236     86.2      1355     2666     82.1      3768     5369     63.6      326      6136       87.9     3308      580      75.5      3580    13619    289.1    76551    64757
otlmeraw                               0         0      553       0.0         0      915,     0.0         0     1211      0.0         0     11?58     0.0         0     246?        0.0        0      422k      0.0         0     706        0.0    10177    17333
Total current tiabititios        165       26       250       25.?     2369;    6151    159.6      318       8797    13.4      6215    16829    ¶58.6    7154    15861         ¶21.7     7552    25956    265.7      860      60S75    371.4    74413   111560
MOAL LIABILITIES AND 00011       21041    30964    7888       14.      5038     86630      72.6    70026   106769      69.6    87133   ¶2838       47.3   107137   172589        61.1   136371   237179      76.    16896    36775      105.8  484781   66068
......................ss............san    tuass                                                                          *S......  ...-....-......
a/ lfictude ISA.s shareftolder partleipatlas in buawo  peftaaaidn NW gr reserves.
h/ Incduc Interest payable3 consumers' dWaptiolad other liabilities.
c/ In a-rd  to eliminate diffrenace baoaaa asses aid tlabillties t6mG    e   In the 1979-81 data SLieled by E889  adjustwnt wer  intorodcted In. sort in pouges  aid   cotsisted depreciotion.
0
I-t



COLoxelA
00014 D05TR781   a POoJECI
11831S4 OE EUEACIA  E      At A   50l OE    16T
C1 igM  of Atltt ad forecat Porftorw     lidicators,n 479-IsVn
..... 1979- --V          -V----  .....              ... 1981..        .         ...- .  1982...                                      .. *----1e4.         .- -198$--'-                  ¶9816    1
s"    Atual  tion 4S)   SA    Atel  tion   )    SO    Actual  tien (Sl  St            ktul tion (<)   SO        ktlst  tIon (0 )   SA t     etat  tin (1)   S8         ttuIl tion (t) Aetal   Aat
bpl>y (ash
EntarcUu. Lasme A station use In Zips                 -48.1                     -31.8                     -75.8                     .82.1                     -102.1                     -135.3                     -152.9           -213.8  -167.1
. ..  ........ ...... .........  ......  ......  ......  ......  ......        .. . ......  ......       ......  ......             ......  ......             ......  ......            .... .... ........ . 
Total SWi                                  47m    4507.6     3.2   581   S196.9        0.3    3707  498.6   -13.7    628          5344   -11.8    6924   5767.3    -16.7    7626  6102.9   -20.0    84?  64472.?    23.0  694.5  7505.2
Entr w1 aste oo
am mmet                                            3714.2                    3957.3                     3831.7                    4178.2                      4182                     4254.5                     4550.8           486.1  SU0.3
To ottor utilitlo                                   300.2                     309.3                     314.8                      350.7                     388.8                        426                      452.9            505.0   551.9
.... ....      .      ......  ......            ......   ......           ......   ......           ......   ......             ......   ......           ......   ......            ......  .... ........  .. ...... .... ........ ......
total SaS"                                 31       14.4      2.7    4288  4266.6    -0.5    4751  4146.5   -12.7    5248  4328.9   -14.0    5844  4570.8    -21.8    6488   484.5   .27.8    720?  s5 .    -30.6  5S3.1  5692.2
S mtw  tos       7k7    84.2                                     5A      893   930.3       4.2     936   m.1   -18.7         1s   ¶O0S.1       0.0    lOO   1196.5        10.8    1138  1418.4    24.6    1200    1469    22.4  1603.           180
Loom  *t  of dBt tlI ty                       t 1.9    Us.s      9.2    17.2    19.8    10.4    16.8    16.9         0.7    16.2    19.5    2T.0    15.6    22.2          42.6     U.9      5.0    67.4    14.3    24.4    n1.0    24.?    26.1
m r of 4lAe                                   2415    246        2.1    860      2M58      3.8    274 2VI     0      3.9    377       200       3.9    3050    3179        4.2      to    313        9.0    343       3687      7.6    3713   S3
lo sold w  boom                               161$    1621       0.6     1s75    1605    -4.2    175s    1470   -16.0    1881    t516   -17.2    1916    1408            -25.0    2009    1331   -33.?    2104        157   -35.5       u49    1448
_   de of al ters (tlsesat):                   542      532    -1.8      590      360     5.1       642     so5    -8.9       699      622   -11.0      763      4 "6    -12.7      832     71     -I4.?      910      744   -16.0      806      059
as. Clt r  Per 4etlps                          224      216    -L9       230      211    -8.6       237     207   -12.3       243      20    -14.5      250    239       -.13       258      202   -21.7      266      207   -22.0       217     219
ea  of Sa.  6/                                10.5      3.0   -71.1    15.0       2.4   -84.1    L8.I       3.8    -9.0    15.4        7.7   -56.1    17.2    12.8    -25.8    19.4    13.2   -31.9    21.3    19.6    -1.5             142     14.9
Ott-SIwi   Carnag I atf. at                    2.9      2.0   329.6      2.4      2.9    1L8        2.9      2.3    16.4      1.9      1.5   -17.6      1.9      1.4    -26.2       2.1      1.3   -40.5      2.1      1.2    42.3       0.0     0.9
Ott flaw"Aetytle M    fj                        32        8    -13.9      43       12   -72.1        45      21   -52.6        43       2     -37.6      40       55    -12.6        35       41    16.4       30       52    73.1        60      67
MammO Rsaivo@ -0 S of
mpk ealo    o                              22.J     3.0    51.2    20.5        9.0     90.2    19.4    47.0   142.6    19.4    40.0    16    .4   4          i0.0      54.    19.7    23.3    28.7    20.0    24.6    232e    24.7    27.0
sSaf-Pimrfefwtel                                36      S      65.4      27       3?    36.4        42      358    -9.1       60        5  -42.0        77       30    -41.2       8n        5  -9.8          84       25  -7e.s         29       23
......................................................... 
*   Rt of boet ile to ISA ad intetrloocion tlas . it alas fioti% e t pVehso  to 904.
t Ineliab trasulon ael dlstribtiotn lassos: SMUs fles also i*nclude stien wa for pWing fg stra. ge.
al 1st agly a           to totai aty Iesatas to other utilits.
di Rtio of nretie in     to the awras nt fltamd Aets In apwralin
el  Ratio of ds  intwa  cash gsnstlion to total debt service.
f/ Rtio of lw ttn dSbt to ta-ton  Cb  pta wuity. Tbis ratio dslinitian difaes fro the am ued in WS. fiick inlu abort-t. dit.
Ratio of aewat  ruclveia  to totat al*e. This dflnitiln differs frca the ow uod in SM wich lInciuce kther re_ess in tw d                 ons r.
Ratls of Mt iAnst cab go            ten to l._mt_uIs    * led   sts ad itsesient* in ISA.
I- 
0 
O t
.0



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
COLOMBIA
BOGOTA DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
EMPRESA DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA DE BOGOTA
Actual and Forecast Sales (GWh)
<-------------A C T U A L-------------------------------->    SAR   Variation
Residen-  Commer-  Indus-                Public                       Forecast from SAR
tial     cial       trial  Oficial  Lighting   Block    TOTAL                     %
1979     1549        622      1168       257       117         1     3714       3908      -5.0
1980     1660        638      1226       312       120         1     3957      4288       -7.7
1981     1593        577      1169       370       124         2     3835      4751    -19.3
1982     1892        601      1182       326       127        51     4179       5268    -20.7
1983     1897        583     1157        325       132        91     4185       5844    -28.4
1984     1945        535      1191       353       138        98     4260      6488    -34.3
1985     2115        547      1286       365       146        93     4552       7207    -36.8
1986     2298        543      1453       352       153        76     4875
1987     2404        558     1555        378       157        88     5140
1988     2638        536      1611       366       196        86     5433
Total 1979-85 -------------------------------------------->   28682    37754    -24.0



COLOMBIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (LOAN 1807-CO)
EMPRESA DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA DE BOGOTA (EEEB)
Energy Purchases a/
--Total Cost--    --GUh Puchased    ---Costs/kWh--    -------L Local Inflation----------  ---Costs/kWh-- Variation
(Million ColS)                         (Current ColS)   ------SAR-----   ----Actual-----   (Mid-1979 ColS) from SAR
years      SAR    Actual      SAR    Actual      SAR    Actual        %     Factor       %     Factor      SAR    Actuat       %
b/       b/
1979     1306       944     1554      1140     0.84      0.83        26     1.00    28.80      1.00      0.84     0.83      -1.5%
1980     1654      1367     2061      1604     0.80      0.85        20     1.23    25.96      1.27     0.65      0.67      2.5%
1981     2396      1699     2437      1463     0.98      1.16        17     1.46    26.35      1.61     0.67      0.72      7.1%
1982     2928      3113     1908      1786     1.53      1.74        15     1.69    24.03      2.01      0.91     0.87      -4.6%
1983     3680      3558     1924      1617     1.91      2.20        15     1.94    16.64      2.42      0.98     0.91      -7.6%
1984     5196      7674     2626      3106     1.98      2.47        15     2.24    28.28      2.96      0.89     0.83      -5.7%
1985     7382      9906     3407      3459     2.17      2.86        15     2.57    22.45      3.71      0.84     0.77      -8.4%
1986              12292               3459               3.55                       20.95      4.51               0.79
1987              11316               2803               4.04                       24.02      5.53               0.73
1988              19704               3619               5.44                       28.12      6.97               0.78
............. .....................................
a/ Purchases for EEEB's own system.
b/ not fully comparable because the SAR's data are net of interconecction losses (about 4%) and
the actual data are gross. Figures for 1988 are estimated.
U0



COLOMBIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (LOAN 1807-CO)
EMPRESA DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA DE BOGOTA (EEEB)
Operating Expenses
Op. Expenses    -.GWh Sold ----    --- Costs/kWh--    ---------Local Inflation----------  ---Costs/kWh--   Variation
(Million ColS)                         (Current ColS)   ------SAR------   ----Actual-----   (Mid-1979 ColS)  from SAR
years      SAR    Actual       SAR    Actual     SAR    Actual        %     Factor       %     Factor      SAR     Actual       %
1979     3648      3515     3908      3714     0.93      0.95        26     1.00    28.80      1.00      0.93      0.95       1.4%
1980     4724      4963     4288      3957     1.10      1.25        20     1.23    25.96      1.27      0.90      0.98       9.9%
1981     6316      6655     4751      3835     1.33      1.74        17     1.46    26.35      1.61      0.91      1.08      18.4%
1982     8726      8970     5268      4179     1.66      2.15        15     1.69    24.03      2.01      0.98      1.07       8.9%
1983    10951    12800      5844      4185     1.87      3.06        15     1.94    16.64      2.42      0.96      1.26      31.1%
1984    13914    19564      6488      4260     2.14      4.59        15     2.24    28.28      2.96      0.96      1.55      61.7%
1985    18275    21867      7207      4552     2.54      4.80        15     2.57    22.45      3.71      0.99      1.30      31.3%
1986             32347                4875               6.64                        20.95     4.51                1.47
1987             37784                5140               7.35                        24.02     5.53                1.33
1988              57168               5433              10.52                        28.12     6.97                1.51



COLOMBIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (LOAN 1807-CO)
EMPRESA DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA DE BOGOTA (EEEB)
Transmission Lines and Transformer Capacity
<------------Transmission Lines (Kin)-----------------><---Transformer Capacity (MVA)---->
years   --Subtransmission-- ---Medium Tension-  --Low Tension--  -Subtrans./M.T-    -----MT/LT----
Urban    Rural   Urban    RuraL    Urban   RuraL   Urban   Rural    Urban   Rural
1979    1099.4   445.0   1944.4  2903.0  2313.7  3013.0  1155.5    49.8  1808.5   120.9
1980    1116.8   464.0   2073.8  3245.0  2391.2  3430.0  1252.5    58.0  1924.9   147.1
1981    1121.7   50C.0   2163.0  3542.0  2509.7  3794.0  1351.0    63.9  2027.8   166.7
1982    1128.2   513.0   2274.0  3824.0  2588.0  4134.0  1403.0    83.3  2139.8   188.5
1983    1362.2   588.0   2411.0  4057.0  2449.0  4572.0  1533.0    85.9  2304.0   205.2
1984    1376.9   590.0   2600.0  4209.0  2972.0  4776.0  1640.0    85.9  2562.0   234.5
1985   1422.3   680.0   2802.7  4530.0  3244.6  5154.0  1952.0    87.9  2711.8   241.4
1986    1465.8   915.0   3315.3  6626.0. 3471.3  10720.0  2012.0    99.3  2837.7   280.6
1987    1465.8   837.0   3429.8  6724.0  3638.3  11102.0  2039.0   101.7  2981.6   290.5
1988    1465.8   800.0   3551.9  6869.0  3853.5  11233.0  3619.0   101.7  3157.8   311.8
................................. ...................................................... .. .... .........
a1 NT=medium Tension; LT= Low Tension
x
VI



- 41 -
ANNEX 6
COLOMBIA
BOGOTA DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
EMPRESA DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA DE BOGOTA
Installed Capacity and Generation for 1988
Nominal                         Gross       Station
Capacity                      Generation      Used
Plant Name            (MW)               Type        (GWH)        (GWH)
Canoas                          50.0           Hydro            125.9        0.427
Salto I                         61.5           Hydro              1.9
Salto II                        70.0           Hydro            286.2        1.078
Laguneta                        76.0           Hydro            244.4         0.81
Colegio                        300.0           Hydro           1190.3         2.23
Mesitas:
Paraiso                      270.0           Hydro           839.0         3.139
La Guaca                     310.5           Hydro           970.0         3.367
Termozipa 1,2,3                136.5           Coal Therma      208.0         25.7
Sesquile                         3.5                                         0.926
Muna                             2.2                                         47.77
Total                      1280.2                          3865.7          85.4
Peak Demand (MW)                1397



- 42 -
ANNEX 7
COLOMBIA
BOGOTA DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
EMPRESA iF. ENERGIA ELECTRICA DE BOGOTA
Participation of the Plants Built by the Project in the EEEB System
As of end   Increment    Addition
1987      over 1980   by Project   Percentage
Transmission lines (Km)               1465.8         366.4          31.6           8.6%
Transformer capacity (KVA)              1358           654           504          77.1%
230/115 kV
Transformer capacity (MVA)              2079         923.5           640          69.3%
High voltage/medium voltage
Transformer capacity (M'VA)           2981.6        1173.1           548          46.7%
Medium voltage/low voltage
Primary distribution
network (Km)                          3429.8        1485.4           377          25.4%
Primary feeders (Units)                  295            87             0             0
Secondary distribution
network (Km)                          3638.3        1324.6           631          47.6%



