Document of
The World Bank   FILE co
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2676-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
EMPRESA DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA DE BOGOTA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR THE
BOGOTA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
February 22, 1980
This docment has a restrited distributon and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their offcial dutdes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Average Calendar 1978                Mid-1979 Estimate
Currency Unit  =  Peso - Col$                   Col$
US$1           =  Col$39.25                     42.06
Col$1          =  US$0.0255                     0.0238
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)           2    =  3.281 feet (ft)        2
1 square kilometer (km )   =  0.386 square mile (mi )
1 cubic meter (m3)          =  35.315 cubic feet (ft3)
it                   =  264.2 gallons (gal)
1 kilogram (kg)             =  2.206 pounds (lb)
1 ton (t;metric;1,000 kg)  =  1.100 short tons (sh. tons)
1 kilowatt (kW)             =  1,000 watts (103 kW - 106 W)
1 kilowatt-hour (kWh)       =  830.3 kilocalories (kcal)
1 gigawatt-hour (GWh)       =  1,000,000 kWh (106 kWh)
1 kilovolt (kV)             =  1,000 Volts (V)
1 kilovolt ampere (KVA)    =  1,000 Volt amperes (103 VA)
1 megavolt ampere (MVA)    =  1,000 kVA (106 VA)
1 megavolt ampere
reactive (MVAr)         =  1 megavolt ampere reactive (COSq = 00)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CORELCA  =     Corporacion Electrica de la Costa Atlantica
CVC      =     Corporacion Autonoma Regional de el Valle
del Rio Cauca
DNP            National Planning Department
EEEB     =     Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota
EiPM     =     Empresas Publicas de Medellin
ICEL     =     Instituto Colombiano de Energia Electrica
IDB      =     Inter-American Development Bank
ISA      =     Interconexion Electrica, S.A.
JNT      =     Junta Nacional de Tarifas de Servicios Publicos
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
BOGOTA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota (EEEB)
Guarantor:             Republic of Colombia
Amount:                US$87 million equivalent
Terms:                 Repayment in seventeen years, including three years
of grace, at 8.25% interest per annum.
Project
Description:         The proposed project would support the government's
objective of increasing the delivery of electricity
to the final consumer. The proposed project forms part
of EEEB's 1979-82 Investment Program, and is aimed at
expansion, rehabilitation and modernization of the urban
distribution network, including strengthening of the
company's distribution planning, design, operating and
maintenance practices. The impact of the project on
Bogota's development would be considerable; it is
estimated that it would supply electricity to an esti-
mated 157,000 new residential, commercial and industrial
subscribers. About thirty-five percent of the new
subscribers are expected to be in the lower income
group. The project would also contribute to enhancing
the reliability of electricity services throughout the
urban area. The project is not subject to significant
risks and is expected to be carried out as scheduled.
All appropriate provisions have been made to minimize
the environmental impact of the facilities.
Tbi document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of ther officil duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost (net of taxes):
Local      Foreign      Total
--(US$ million equivalent)--
Subtransmission                       1.5          18.8        20.3
Distribution                         56.8          42.2        99.0
Other Equipment                       0.7           5.6         6.3
Consultants and Training              0.5           1.2         1.7
Engineering and Administration       10.4             -        10.4
Base Cost                          69.9          67.8       137.7
Physical Contingencies              5.4           6.0        11.4
Price Contingencies                19.9          13.2        33.1
Total Project Cost            95.2         87.0       182.2
Note: During the period 1979-82, EEEB will carry out other works with an
estimated cost of US$777 million equivalent (including interest during
construction amounting to US$97 million), will require an increase in
working capital estimated at US$35 million and will invest approxi-
mately US$176 million in Interconexion Electrica, S.A., in which it is
a shareholder.
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign      Total
--(US$ million equivalent)--
Internal Cash Generation 1/           38.2            _        38.2
Commercial Borrowings 1/              57.0            -        57.0
Proposed IBRD Loan                       -         87.0        87.0
95.2        87.0       182.2
1/   These estimates reflect the relative proportions of internal
cash generation and commercial borrowings anticipated for total
investments during 1979-82-
Rate of Return:      12%
Appraisal Report:   Report No.2649b-CO,  dated February 22, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOIMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
EMPRESA DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA DE BOGOTA WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA FOR THE
BOGOTA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota (EEEB), with the guarantee of the
Republic of Colombia, for the equivalent of US$87 million to help finance the
Bogota Power Distribution Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including three years of grace, with interest at 8.25% per annum.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report on Colombia (2535-CO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in June 1979. A small updating mission visited Colombia
in mid-December and this section reflects its major findings. Country data
sheets are provided in Annex I.
Background
3.        Colombia has made substantial progress over the past two decades in
the transition from a predominantly rural and agricultural economy scattered
among several isolated, but largely self-contained, regions to a more inte-
grated, urban industrial economy. The productive base of the economy has been
widened and diversified, and a modern sector relying heavily on imported
inputs has developed. The country's external sector has been strengthened by
the rapid growth of non-traditional exports. Fluctuations in domestic economic
conditions resulting from unpredictable shifts in world coffee prices, while
still considerable, have become more manageable.
4.        Following several years of erratic economic growth and high unemploy-
ment, the Colombian authorities introduced in 1967 a dramatic change in devel-
opment policy, shifting emphasis from a protectionist policy of import substi-
tution to measures designed to expand and diversify exports. With only minor
modifications, this export promotion strategy remained in effect until the
mid-1970s. These policies were successful in expanding non-coffee exports,
thereby alleviating the foreign exchange constraint to growth and making
possible a higher level of investment. As a consequence, real GDP growth
accelerated to an average 6.5% p.a. between 1968 and 1974, well above the
historic average, and non-coffee merchandise exports rose nearly threefold.
5.        Despite these advances, the economy showed signs of deteriorating
by late 1974. This was largely the result of slower growth in the industrial
economies, an inelastic tax system, imported inflation which led to a weakening
of the public finances and balance of payments and an acceleration in domestic



- 2 -
inflation. In addition, the country was faced with a pending loss of self-
sufficiency in petroleum, its primary energy source. These developments
-prompted the authorities to introduce a stabilization program, accompanied by
basic reforms of the fiscal, monetary and trade systems aimed at restoring the
basis for self-sustained long-term growth. Concurrently, petroleum pricing
policy was modified to improve incentives for oil exploration and development
and policies were initiated to reduce the subsidy on local consumption of
petroleum products. These reforms were successful in improving the public
finances and reducing inflation in 1975, but initially caused economic growth
to slow (from 6.0% in 1974 to 3.8% in 1975) as the economy adjusted to the
changing domestic and international circumstances.
Recent Economic Developments
6.        During the three years 1976-78 the Colombian economy was subject to
severe inflationary pressures which caused the Government to focus economic
policy on short-term stabilization rather than on long-term development issues.
The origin of these pressures was the exceptionally high world coffee price
prevailing during this period which caused Colombia's export earnings from
coffee to increase to US$1.8 billion and US$2.1 billion in 1977 and 1978,
respectively (from an average US$725 million in 1974-75), producing a sharp
rise in incomes and aggregate demand. The supply of consumer goods, particu-
larly of basic foodstuffs which was adversely affected by drought conditions
in most of the country, lagged behind the growth in demand and inflation
accelerated to the unprecedented rate of 44% in the twelve months ending June
1977, from 26% the preceding year. The authorities responded rapidly by
introducing a broad range of fiscal, monetary and trade policies designed to
gain control over the increase in prices. As a consequence of these measures
and of a favorable second semester harvest, inflation declined sharply through-
out most of the following 18 months, with the annual inflation rate leveling
off at 29% in 1977 and falling to 18% in 1978.
7.        Because of the lack of dynamism in world markets and modest increases
in domestic investment, the Colombian economy expanded only moderately in 1976
and 1977, with real GDP growing by 4.6% and 4.8%, respectively. In 1978,
however, real GDP rose by an estimated 8.5% in response to continued strong
growth in aggregate demand, supported by expanded private investment financed
increasingly through a rapidly growing extra bank market and by favorable
agricultural conditions. Since growth was concentrated in the relatively
labor intensive sectors of the economy--personal services, trade, transport
and communications, and small-scale manufacturing and agriculture--unemployment
declined sharply during this period. In 1978, unemployment in the four major
cities averaged about 8% of the labor force, compared with an average of about
12% a few years earlier. Both the balance of payments and the public finances
generated large current surpluses in the 1976-78 period. Largely as a result
of increased coffee export receipts, Colombia's net official international
reserves had risen from US$573 million at the end of 1975 to US$2.5 billion by
the end of 1978, equivalent to about nine months imports of goods and non-factor
services. This increase in reserves occurred despite nearly 12% p.a. real
growth in imports and slow growth in manufactured exports. Curbs on public
investment and higher revenues from the coffee tax and from earnings on
international reserves made possible unprecedented overall surpluses in the
public finances.



- 3 -
8.        Despite continuation of the stabilization policies in effect since
early 1977, inflationary pressures increased somewhat in 1979. A mild frost in
Brazil's coffee areas caused world coffee prices to rise early in the year,
resulting in an acceleration in reserve accumulation and in aggregate demand
growth. Widening interest rate differentials favoring Colombia and some real
appreciation of the peso, generated short-term capital inflows, which, toge-
ther with delays in import payments, led to further reserve increases. Receipts
from illegal exports provided an additional source of funds for the already
overly liquid economy. In all, net official reserves rose by approximately
US$1.6 billion for the year, reaching the equivalent of 11 months imports
at year end. About mid-year the authorities issued a new series of short-term
securities carrying highly competitive interest rates in an effort to absorb
some of the excess liquidity existing in the formal and informal credit
markets. This issue, which represents a significant break with past open
market operations that were non interest-competitive and forced onto financial
institution portfolios, was successful in attracting funds equivalent to 5.4%
of the monetary base by year end, helping to reduce money supply growth (M2)
in the formal market from 34% in 1978 to 28% in 1979. Nevertheless, large
wage increases and higher energy costs, together with rapid growth in domestic
demand, pushed inflation up to 30% for the year. Economic growth was strong
again in 1979, with real GDP rising by an estimated 5.5%, and unemployment
remained low. In January 1980, inflation appears to be slowing down (on an
annual basis the increase in the cost of living was 28.3%). The Government is
committed to reducing further the rate of inflation during 1980.
Distribution and Welfare
9.        The steady gains in per capita income, together with rapid rural/
urban migration and expanded employment opportunities for women over the past
quarter century caused a dramatic drop in the crude birth rate. The achieve-
ment of lower birth rates was facilitated by expanded family planning programs.
Consequently, Colombia's population growth rate declined sharply, from over
3% in the late 1950s, to about 2.8% in the early 1970s and to an estimated
2.1% at present. About 66% of the population lives in urban centers, and
there are now 22 cities with populations exceeding 100,000 persons. Some of
the major cities have serious transportation, housing and urban congestion
problems, however, and large numbers of persons live under poor conditions.
10.       Available evidence suggests that the welfare of all income groups
in Colombia has increased significantly since the 1950s and that the propor-
tion of the population living in absolute poverty has declined. These gains
were in part a consequence of reasonably good economic growth and of efforts
to raise welfare through investment in health, education, low income housing,
water and sewerage, and other social services. Data on income distribution
trends present a less clear picture. It is probable that some improvement
occurred in income distribution between 1950 and the mid-1960s as a result
of a strong shift of the labor force from rural areas to higher productivity
jobs in urban industry and services and of relative wage gains for urban
unskilled workers. Accelerated inflation through the early and mid-1970s
caused real wages to increase less rapidly than returns to non-labor



- 4 -
factors of production. While the trends in income distribution during
this period are unclear, it seems unlikely that any significant improvement
-occurred. Since 1977, however, rural wages have risen in real terms and
unemployment has declined notably, supporting the presumption of some
distributional improvement.
Development Strategy of the Current Administration
11.       The development strategy of the present Government is essentially
unchanged from that of the previous administration, with the most significant
variation being a greater emphasis on expanding economic and social infrastruc-
ture.  The key elements of this strategy are the promotion of non-coffee
exports and investment, supported by measures to increase allocative and
productive efficiency. Factor (particularly capital) and product markets are
to be freed from unnecessary controls in order to increase efficiency and
lower costs, and tariff and non-tariff barriers to imports are to be reduced
to provide greater competition to domestic industry. These steps, along with
periodic exchange rate adjustments as required by relative cost differences,
tax rebates and favorable access to credit, are expected to provide the
stimulus for rapid growth in non-coffee exports and in private investment.
Public investment is to be accelerated, with particular stress on improving
and extending the transport and communications network and on resolving the
country's rapidly growing energy problem. Investments in transportation are
expected to lower freight costs substantially and those in telecommunications
to facilitate economic activity as well as to minimize the unnecessary use of
transport; both are aimed at integrating regional growth centers into a
national market. Complementary measures to encourage industry to locate
outside the four major metropolitan areas have been introduced.
12.       Raising investment and productivity in agriculture and industry are
important objectives of the Government's plans to expand growth and employment.
Substantial increases in credit are being provided to agriculture. Extension
programs are to be expanded to cover larger numbers of small and medium scale
farms and widened to include farm management and broader dissemination of crop
research. Innovative programs such as the integrated rural development (DRI)
and nutrition (PAN) projects financed by the Bank are expected to receive
continued high priority. Low income rural areas are to be helped through
rural electrification, health and education programs and through an expanded
feeder roads program. Industry, which is experiencing high capacity utiliza-
tion ratios because of lagging investment in recent years, is expected to
benefit from improved functioning of domestic capital markets, as a result of
the gradual removal of artificial controls from them, and from increased
incentives for exports as the real effective exchange rate recovers to pre-1976
levels. This, plus increased competition from imports as tariff and non-tariff
barriers are lowered, should provide the stimulus for greater industrial
investment and bring about more rapid technological change.
13.       Projections of Colombia's energy balance indicate a rapidly growing
deficit which is expected to reach significant proportions in the mid-1980s
in the absence of an aggressive energy development program. High priority is



- 5 -
being given to the development of additional energy resources in order to
avoid the constraint on growth that large scale shortages of energy would
-entail. The strategy adopted is designed to reduce the country's dependence
on petroleum as an energy source by developing substitutes. Major projects
are being executed and others prepared to expand hydroelectric power genera-
tion, and incentives are being given to private foreign companies for accel-
erated exploration and development of the country's petroleum, coal and
natural gas potential (paragraph 26). Exports of coal and natural gas are
expected to offset a large portion of the petroleum imports projected for the
mid to late 1980s. Higher energy prices are expected to slow the growth in
energy demand. While the total investment cost of future energy development
is still being determined, preliminary estimates indicate that the required
investment could run as high as US$8.0 billion in 1979 prices over the next
decade. Even under the most optimistic assumptions regarding development of
energy resources, however, Colombia will continue to rely heavily on energy
imports until the mid-1980s when exports of coal and natural gas begin to
reduce the nation's net energy deficit.
14.       With Colombia's long-term growth prospects enhanced by the increased
availability of foreign exchange and with inflation expected to moderate, the
authorities are beginning to focus policies on a number of issues that need
to be addressed if the country is to achieve its full growth potential and
poverty is to be alleviated at a more rapid pace. These issues include the
reduced competitiveness of Colombian goods in external markets brought about
in recent years by the relatively high domestic inflation uncompensated by
foreign exchange adjustments, and the slow modernization and lowered efficiency
of domestic industry resulting from low investment levels and limited foreign
competition. Public investment has not increased significantly in the past
few years and domestic resource mobilization is still insufficient, particu-
larly in comparison to the expansion required in public investment. While
income distribution and welfare trends appear favorable, substantial efforts
will have to be made to reduce the widespread poverty still existing in the
country.
15.       Economic policy is presently in a period of transition as the
authorities attempt to combine stabilization and growth measures so as to
arrest inflation while still permitting the economy to expand. Some advances
have already been made in dismantling the existing stabilization program and
in bringing about conditions favorable to increased investment and growth.
For example, the 100% marginal reserve requirement imposed on commercial
banks has been rescinded and the Government has taken a more active role in
the capital market through open market operations. The transition process,
however, has been moving slowly in certain respects and the Government recog-
nizes the importance of acting quickly in finding appropriate solutions
to these potential constraints to growth. Exchange rate adjustments must
once again become a tool of development, rather than a component of stabili-
zation policy, and further measures to stimulate private investment and
encourage technological change are needed. As inflationary pressures continue
to recede, controls on interest rates and credit, which have already been
relaxed somewhat, are expected to be further reduced as are tariff and non-
tariff barriers to trade. Such measures, once fully effective, could be
expected to produce a sizeable jump in private investment and in economic



-6-
efficiency. Delays in carrying out economic and social infrastructure invest-
ments could adversely affect growth of the productive sectors and reduce
economic welfare. Thus public investment needs to be accelerated at the
maximum consistent with continued progress toward economic stability. The
Government is particularly concerned with the slow growth of energy sector
investment (with the exception of investment in hydropower). Although some
progress has been achieved as capital outlays by foreign oil companies have
risen as a result of more profitable wellhead prices and the growth in demand
for petroleum products has been slowed by higher retail prices, the Government
intends to advance development of the country's other energy resources, i.e.,
coal and natural gas.
16.       Since in the absence of corrective measures both the current account
of the balance of payments and public sector savings are expected to weaken
over the next few years, mobilization of domestic resources to support the
strong expansion required in public investment is likely to be a critical
issue in carrying out the Government's strategy. The authorities are already
moving ahead on this issue, having taken measures to improve tax administration
and enforcement and to generate resources through large real increases in
charges for public services. Additional tax measures will probably be needed,
however. Capital market improvements, including realistic interest rates on
savings deposits, are expected to stimulate private savings. These efforts
are being complemented by measures to encourage the production of basic
foodstuffs--which weigh heavily in the consumer market basket--as a means of
reducing inflationary pressures and moderating inflationary expectations,
which should have a further favorable effect on savings.
17.       Given the country's strong resource base, with continued sound
economic management, Colombia is expected to achieve annual real GDP growth
averaging about 6% during the 1980-85 period. However, because of the expected
decline in coffee prices and with accelerating oil imports and the high import
content of future investment, the current account of the balance of payments
is projected to be in deficit throughout the early to mid-1980s. Colombia is
likely, therefore, to continue to be a large net importer of capital for
some time to come. Even assuming that the Colombian authorities permit a
drawdown of international reserves to the equivalent of three months' imports
in the years immediately ahead, gross external capital requirements are
projected at US$10 billion between 1980 and 1985, or an annual average of
about US$1.7 billion.  An increasing proportion of this capital inflow is
expected to be provided by foreign commercial and financial sources.
18.       Colombia's public external debt repayable in foreign currency
amounted to an estimated US$4.4 billion at the end of 1978, equivalent to
about 18% of GDP, of which US$2.8 billion was disbursed and outstanding.
The Bank/IDA share of this external debt was 26.5% in 1978. Because of the
expected decline in commitments from bilateral sources and corresponding
recent acceleration in Bank lending, this share is expected to exceed 30%
in the early 1980s, before falling to about 27% by 1985. Although the public
debt service ratio fell in recent years as export growth accelerated, this
ratio is expected to increase from 10% in 1978 to about 15% in 1985. Balance
of payments prospects beyond the early 1980s will depend heavily on the timely



development of domestic energy sources and on progress made in executing
several natural resource-based export-oriented projects currently under
preparation. Given the expected continuation of sound economic and financial
management and timely execution of the country's energy program, Colombia is
considered creditworthy for the required external borrowing on conventional
terms.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
19.       The proposed loan, the 84th to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$2,356.6 million (net of cancella-
tions). Of this amount, US$1,803.9 million is now held by the Bank; IDA made
one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in Colombia in 1961. Disbursements
have been completed on 48 loans and the IDA credit. During 1972-77, disburse-
ments averaged US$86 million equivalent per year, then declined slightly to
US$74 million in 1978 and increased sharply to US$135 million equivalent in
1979. The improving performance of social sector institutions in the execu-
tion of Bank-financed programs, the gradual containment of inflationary
pressures which should allow for relaxation of fiscal restraint and the recent
Bank lending for infrastructure projects, all point to higher levels of
disbursements in the future. IFC has made investments and underwriting
commitments of US$53.9 million in 24 enterprises and now holds US$16.7 million.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, the IDA credit and IFC
investments as of December 31, 1979. The Annex also contains summaries on the
execution of the 34 ongoing projects.
20.       In response to the priority objectives established by successive
Governments (self-sustained economic growth, increased employment and improved
income distribution), since 1966, Bank lending in Colombia has become increas-
ingly diversified and has been concentrated on production-oriented programs
and activities which emphasized social as well as economic benefits. Eleven
of the thirteen loans for industry have been made since then, eleven of the
thirteen agricultural loans, all three loans for education, one loan for a
nutrition project, two loans for urban development projects and all nine loans
for water supply and sewerage.  During the same period only fourteen loans in
the power and transport sectors were made, while before 1966 twenty-two out of
a total of twenty-five were to these sectors.
21.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY79 consisted of two loans each
for water supply/sewerage and power, and one each for urban development,
aviation development and agricultural credit, totalling US$311.5 million
equivalent. In addition to the loan proposed in this report, the FY80 program
includes the recently approved loan for a nickel project, as well as proposed
loans for vocational training, power generation, secondary oil recovery and
exploration, industrial credit, including small-scale industry, and telecommu-
nications. Work is also under way on projects for land settlement, agro-indus-
tries, railways, ports, feeder and rural roads, further mining development,
power (including village electrification), irrigation, agricultural credit,
water supply and sewerage, urban development and environmental improvement, for
possible consideration by the Executive Directors during the next two years.



-8-
22.       The proposed Bank lending conforms closely with the Government's
development strategy which is attuned to the requirements of the era that
-began with the 1973 price rise of internationally traded petroleum. To help
Colombia develop domestic sources of energy, a sizeable part of the proposed
lending would be for hydropower. The Bank intends to assist the development of
coal mines and petroleum, which hold potential in helping Colombia meet part of
its energy requirements and in diversifying exports. Bank involvement in the
energy sector would help mobilize additional external financing as some of the
projects would require co-financing. Other future loans would finance agricul-
ture and industry (including agro-industries) to assist the Government in its
efforts to raise overall productivity, income and employment, and to strengthen
and diversify exports. Closely related to these objectives would be the
proposed Bank lending for transport infrastructure. In this context, the Bank
is assisting the Government in preparing a rural and feeder roads project to
integrate the more backward areas of the country into the modern economy.
Other loans under preparation for ports and railroads are aimed at helping
Colombia handle larger volumes of non-traditional exports and the imported
inputs on which the modern sector of its economy relies for expansion.
Lending for telecommunication would assist the Government in its efforts to
integrate the smaller towns into the national economy and reduce the large
amount of congestion in existing networks. Finally, a relatively large number
of loans are being prepared in support of the Government's efforts to help the
lowest 50% of the Colombian population. Lending for urban development and
slum improvement, rural electrification, land settlement, water supply and
sewerage, irrigation and environmental improvement projects is principally
designed to improve the standard of living of the poor.
23.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex I.
While IBRD, IDB, and bilateral sources provided about 75% of gross disburse-
ments to the public sector from external sources in the 1961-72 period, their
share has decreased since then to approximately 50% for the 1975-77 period
and it is expected that during the period 1979-83 this share will decline
further to about 38% of external capital requirements. Like the Bank, IDB has
given increased emphasis to social projects and has financed projects in low
cost housing, urban and rural development, agrarian reform, university educa-
tion, water supply, rural electrification and land erosion control. In the
future, it proposes to assist Colombia to develop sources of domestic energy
and to expand the activity of the productive sectors to help generate increased
employment. USAID has supported programs in education, urban development and
small farm development, but it plans to phase out its aid program in Colombia
over the next few years with the disbursement of a US$6 million nutrition
loan. The Governments of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Netherlands
have also provided concessional financing for social and regional integration
projects.



- 9 -
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND POWER REQUIREMENTS
Energy Resources and Requirements
24.       Colombia is endowed with substantial primary energy resources
(hydropower, natural gas, petroleum and coal), the most promising of which is
hydropower, estimated at a potential 100 GW, of which only 2.7% have been
developed to date. Coal resources have been barely explored, but reserves
are estimated to range from 20-40 billion metric tons, at which level they
would be the largest in Latin America. A recent discovery of natural gas in
the Guajira Peninsula, amounting to 3.5 trillion cubic feet, has brought
proven reserves to a level well above 5 trillion cubic feet. On the other
hand, because of insufficient exploration, known reserves of crude oil have
fallen and are estimated to amount to less than seven years of 1976 output.
However, only one of Colombia's nine sedimentary basins (the Magdalena River
Valley) has been explored on a systematic basis, although the state oil
company, ECOPETROL, in association with foreign oil companies, is now explor-
ing other basins. Additionally, investigation of nuclear, geo-thermal and
solar energy is under way.
25.       Since 1965, output of primary energy has lagged behind overall
economic growth, mainly because of declining crude oil output. By 1977,
production of crude (281 trillion Btu) had fallen to 69% of 1965 output.
While during 1965-77 total energy output increased by 10%, from 578 trillion
Btu to 637 trillion Btu, annual energy consumption increased by 132%, rising
from 271 trillion Btu to 629 trillion Btu. (Exports and losses account for
the difference between production and consumption figures.) By 1978, hydro-
carbon imports exceeded exports by US$79 million equivalent. Projections
of Colombia's energy balance indicate an expanding deficit that could become
so large in the mid-1980s as to become a constraint on economic growth
(paragraphs 13 and 15).
Energy Development Objectives and Strategy
26.       As stated, the Government's objective is to overcome the energy
deficit by developing domestic energy sources and by promoting rational use of
them. To this end, it has adopted several measures. First, it has recast
its hydrocarbon pricing and regulation policy to stimulate output of petro-
leum, natural gas and coal. Foreign oil companies, in response to these
measures, have initiated new explorations. Second, CARBOCOL, a Government
agency established to develop the country's coal resources, has concluded
contracts with various foreign companies to undertake exploration and develop-
ment of several coal fields, particularly El Cerrejon, in the Guajira region.
Third, considerable substitution of gas for petroleum products in industry and
thermal power generation is being carried out on the Atlantic Coast. Fourth,
a program for expansion of power generation and transmission facilities to
meet forecast demand over the 1978-85 period has been drawn up (paragraphs 32
and 33). Fifth, the Government has concluded a contract with the French
Minatome Group to explore the country's uranium potential. Lastly, the
Government has adopted a policy calling for charging the full cost of energy



- 10 -
to consumers in order to promote rational energy use and self-generate
an important share of the financial resources required for investment in the
sector (paragraph 31).
The Power Market, Service Levels and Institutional Framework
27.       Electric power is the fastest-growing form of energy use in Colombia.
Its share of total energy consumption has risen from 14% in 1960 to 25% in
1977. Colombia's installed capacity at the end of 1977 was about 3,800 MW,
including self production; hydro stations account for 68% of total power
generated. Since 1971, production of electricity has been growing at an
annual rate of 9.6%, i.e., one and a half times as fast as the growth rate of
GDP. Power sales also have been rising rapidly (9.5% per annum since 1972).
Annual per capita electricity generation stands at 610 kWh, which is below the
average for Latin America. Households (42% of the total), industry (33%) and
commerce (14%) are the major electricity users.
28.       About 62% of Colombia's 25.2 million population has electric power,
compared to 45% in 1970 and 26% in 1950. The urban population, comprising
about 66% of the population, has greater access to electricity. 1/ In 1976,
for example, 85% of households in large cities (population of 50,000 or more)
had electrical service while in rural towns (population between 500-2,500) the
corresponding figure was 36%; in other rural areas, 16%. 2/ With the assis-
tance of external lenders, the Government is carrying out programs to increase
the supply of electricity to rural areas.
29.       The Ministry of Mines and Energy is charged with formulating
national policy for power generation, transmission and distribution. In
defining investment priorities, it shares responsibility with the National
Planning Department (DNP). The Government cannot enforce its policies directly
on the municipally controlled power companies, but Interconexion Electrica,
S.A. (ISA), a generating and transmission company, of which the shareholders
are the largest municipal power companies and the Government-owned national
power companies, 3/ provides a mechanism for reaching agreement on major
issues affecting the sector. ISA defines the generation and transmission
expansion program for the interconnected system, after approval by DNP, this
becomes the national power expansion program.  Public utility tariffs are
regulated by the Junta Nacional de Tarifas de Servicios Publicos (JNT) in the
1/   Residents of cities with 2,500 or more inhabitants at the end of 1977.
This data differs from that given as the most recent estimate in the
Social Indicators Data Sheet (Annex 1) which is an average for the period
1974-77.
2/   Estimate for end-1977.  This data differs from that given as the most
recent estimate in the Social Indicators Data Sheet (Annex 1) which is
an average for 1973.
3/   EEEB, Empresas Publicas de Medellin (EPM), Corporacion Electrica de la
Costa Atlantica (CORELCA), Corporacion Autonoma Regional del Valle del
Rio Cauca (CVC), and Instituto Colombiano de Energia Electrica (ICEL).



- 11 -
DNP. JNT, which was established in the late sixties with Bank support, has
the power to approve requests from the power companies for tariff increases.
The power companies, however, are free to set rates lower than those approved
by JNT.
Power Development and Its Financing
30.       Colombia's power sector has developed rapidly.  Between 1950-1977
installed generating capacity increased by 3,515 MW or fifteenfold, electricity
service has been provided to one-third more of the population (paragraph 28)
and the task of interconnecting the country's regional systems to form an inte-
grated national network is nearing completion (paragraph 38). A substan-
tial part of this expansion was financed with internal cash generation (in
the case of the large municipal cQmpanies, about 40% of total capital outlays)
and with contributions from the National Treasury, chiefly to ICEL, CVC and
CORELCA. The Bank and IDB were the main sources of foreign financing for the
power sector (US$607 million equivalent combined), although in recent years
suppliers' credits and external commercial banks have increased their partici-
pation.
31.       During 1971-74, power tariff adjustments lagged behind cost increases
and the companies' finances deteriorated, with the result that construction
of needed works was delayed and the operating efficiency of the companies
suffered. However, investment outlays have picked up sharply since 1977, when
the Government and the major power companies initiated a program of tariff
increases with the aim of generating an adequate portion of investment funds
for planned expansion. They propose to continue adjusting tariffs as
necessary to generate sufficient resources for investment. Also, to promote
rational energy use, the power companies and the Government, under the San
Carlos I Hydro Power Project (1583-CO), are studying the internal structure of
rates with a view toward bringing them more in line with the cost of supply to
each consumer category. The study is taking into account the Government's
social welfare policies with respect to rates to be charged to low income
consumers (paragraph 57).
Power Requirements and Proposed Investments
32.       To catch up with rising power requirements, in view of the under-
investment in new facilities during the first half of the 1970s and to sub-
stitute some electricity for more costly forms of energy, effective generating
capacity is planned to be increased by 130%, or about 4,800 MW, by 1985. Of
this total, about 580 MW were completed in 1977 and 2,700 MW are under con-
struction.
33.       Investments in generation and transmission through 1985 are expected
to amount to about US$4.2 billion in mid-1979 prices, of which some 60% would
be foreign exchange. Thus, in accordance with national policy of financing
only foreign costs with external borrowings, external financing on the order
of US$600 million equivalent on average per annum, in nominal terms, would be
required. A substantial share of these funds are expected to come from
foreign capital markets, which have recently been providing increased finan-
cing to the power sector, including to Bank-financed projects. Future



- 12 -
distribution investments are only partially known nation-wide but, for EEEB
and EPM, are estimated to amount to some US$700 million in 1979 prices during
the aforementioned period.
34.       To provide for future sector expansion, ISA and its shareholders,
under San Carlos I, are preparing a Master Plan for generation and transmission
facilities covering the period 1980-1990 in detail, and 1991-2000 in more
general terms. This plan is being supplemented by a Master Plan for distri-
bution covering the same period. This combined effort should encourage
not only improved investment planning but also greater attention to system
design, operation and maintenance in light of modern techniques with a view
toward enhancing the quality and reliability of service to consumers.  Overall,
the consolidated master plan is expected to provide a valuable framework for
long-range decisions on sector expansion, financing, pricing and rural elec-
trification.
The Bogota Power Market
35.       Bogota, Colombia's capital city, is also the country's principal
commercial, financial and industrial center, and accounts for roughly one-third
of GDP. Industrialization and expanded economic activity have given rise to
steadily-growing employment opportunities (Bogota's unemployment rate is 40%
below the national average), which have attracted considerable migration to
the city, mainly from rural areas. In addition to its attractive employment
possibilities, Bogota's cool, even climate, ample space for physical expansion,
and substantial hydrological resources are indicative of the city's long-term
development potential. With its population increasing at 5.8% since 1970,
Bogota's inhabitants numbered about 3.8 million in 1978. Despite Government
programs to foster the development of secondary cities, Bogota is expected to
continue to grow rapidly, with its population reaching more than 7 million by
1990.
36.       Charged with supplying electricity to this expanding market, in 1978
EEEB served 500,000 customers, who in that same year consumed 3,550 GWh.
Households (40% of the total), and commercial (18%) and industrial establish-
ments (32%) are EEEB's major customers. The company's sales have been growing
rapidly, at an annual rate of 9.7%. In line with the country's favorable
economic outlook and Bogota's growing urbanization, EEEB's gross energy
requirements are expected to rise even faster during 1980-85 (about 11% per
annum).
37.       To keep pace with the city's household requirements and to facilitate
commercial and industrial expansion, EEEB is carrying out a program to extend
and modernize its electricity distribution network. In 1978, for example,
EEEB connected 27,730 new urban customers, including provision of service to
31 marginal neighborhoods (totalling about 3,800 subscribers) and to approxi-
mately 1,840 rural families in 48 villages. By 1985, EEEB's system is expected
to serve an estimated 910,000 customers, with a peak demand of 1,600 MW, and a
total energy demand of 8,407 GWh per annum. The 1978-85 National Power
Expansion Program, which includes EEEB's Mesitas hydropower facility (1628-CO),
would ensure the required power supply. To deliver this power to the final



- 13 -
consumer, the company's Investment Program (1979-85) provides for necessary
additions to transmission and distribution facilities, as well as rehabilita-
tion and modernization of older parts of the system. This program includes
the proposed project (1980-82), which would be the first Bank loan exclusively
financing distribution in Colombia. The project is aimed not only at providing
additional connections to electricity services but also at increasing the
coverage of low income neighborhoods and at improving the efficiency and
reliability of the overall urban network, particularly in the older sections
of the city (paragraph 43). The Investment Program also includes rural
distribution (1982, with proposed Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau support) and
future urban distribution (1983-85).
Bank Participation in the Power Sector
38.       Since 1950, the Bank has made 22 loans to Colombia's power sector,
totalling US$682 million. Eighteen loans have assisted the expansion of
generating capacity and transmission and distribution facilities in the
systems serving Bogota, Medellin, Cali, Cartagena, Bucaramanga and Manizales,
including expansion of electricity distribution to low income areas (874-CO,
1973). In addition, the Bank has supported rural electrification under 246-CO
(1960) and 313-CO (1962) and under the ongoing Integrated Rural Development
Project (1352-CO, 1977). The most recent loans included the 500 kV Inter-
connection Line (1583-CO, 1978) and the San Carlos I and II Hydropower
Projects (Loans 1582-CO, 1978; 1725-CO, 1979) which would, respectively,
complete the task of interconnecting the country's regional power systems
begun under 575-CO (1968), and add 1240 MW of capacity to the national inter-
connected system; EEEB's Mesitas Hydropower Project (1628-CO, 1979) would
meet about 95% of projected incremental demand in the Bogota system during
1982-84. Taken together with the abovementioned projects and the Master Plan
referred to in paragraph 34, the proposed project reflects the Bank's expanding
participation in overall power development in Colombia, from the planning
stage through financing and construction of generation and transmission
facilities, to delivery of service to the final consumer. It is envisaged
that the proposed project would be followed in the coming year by a project in
support of village electrification in northern Colombia.
39.       EEEB has received four Bank loans, totalling US$169.6 million
equivalent. The first two (246-CO, 1960; and 313-.CO, 1962) assisted in
financing the addition of 305 MW to hydro and thermal plant capacity, trans-
mission lines and distribution system expansion. The works financed included
the rebuilding of distribution networks in several, mostly rural, towns near
Bogota, as well as expansion of rural sub-transmission. The third loan
(537-CO, 1968) supported a 200 MW increase in EEEB's hydro plant capacity, and
expansion of transmission and distribution facilities. Despite delays, all
works under the three projects were successfully carried out. A Project
Performance Audit Report (SecM77-536, June 1977) of Loan 537-CO observed that
project objectives had been met, both in terms of project execution and
institutional performance. With respect to financial performance of the
utility, EEEB had exceeded the 9% covenanted annual return on partially-
revalued assets. Moreover, despite the fact that the cost of total invest-
ments for the Third Expansion Program (1968-74) were substantially higher



- 14 -
than anticipated at the outset, EEEB was able to generate from revenues a
satisfactory 45% of total investment costs. Under the fourth loan (1628-CO,
1978), EEEB is constructing the 600 MW Mesitas hydro plant (paragraph 38)
scheduled for completion by mid-1982.
40.       Bank support of sound power development financing has, until recently,
been most successful with the large municipal companies, EEEB and EPM. The
consolidation of public power entities into regional companies, the joint
participation of the major regional and municipal companies in national expan-
sion programs through ISA and, most importantly, the national adoption of
policies designed to ensure orderly expansion of power facilities through
sound planning, coordination and financing of development have enabled the
sector to attain the current overall satisfactory level of performance.
41.       Past Bank lending to Colombia's power sector has been reviewed in
four OED reports. "Power Interconnection (Loan 575-CO) and Chivor Hydroelectric
Projects (Loan 681-CO)" (Report No. 2720, October 29, 1979) details the Bank's
participation in Colombia's successful effort to evolve a stronger and more
efficient power sector organization. Through the creation of ISA in conjunc-
tion with these projects, and the steps taken to overcome financial and
institutional difficulties, real progress was made toward coordinated sector
development. Despite construction delays and increased costs, both projects
were successfully carried out. The conclusions of "Third Power Expansion
Program - Loan 537-CO" (Report No. 536, June 29, 1977) are discussed in
paragraph 39. A third report, "Third Medellin Power Project - Loan 369-CO"
(Report No. 450, May 24, 1974) concluded that the project had been very well
executed despite considerable geological difficulties. Although EPM's power
rates were in general maintained at a level which should have generated
sufficient funds, anticipated revenues did not fully materialize because of
power losses in the distribution system, a problem which has since been
rectified. Overall Bank operations in the sector were reviewed in an OED
report entitled "Bank Operations in Colombia, an Evaluation" (Report No. Z-18)
of May 25, 1972. The report concluded that Bank financing was successful in
assisting the power companies to develop hydroelectric plants at lower unit
cost than they otherwise would have been able to do. In turn, this permitted
greater urban coverage as well as cheaper and more reliable electricity to
supply to industry. The report commended Bank efforts in the establishment of
JNT and the central interconnected system which facilitated further power
sector development. Among other things, the report recommended that in the
future the Bank pay increased attention to the companies' financial planning,
tariff structures, distribution programs and energy losses.  These points have
been addressed under the aforementioned recent loans, and complementary
measures are provided for under the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
42.       The project, prepared by EEEB through consultants (INGETEC, Colombia),
comprises part of EEEB's 1979-85 Investment Program, and covers EEEB's planned
1980-82 expansion and rehabilitation of its urban distribution network, and



- 15 -
technical studies. The project was appraised by a Bank mission which visited
Colombia in February/March 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington D.C.,
during the week of January 21, 1980, with a Colombian delegation led by
Dra. Leonor Montoya de Torres, Director of Public Credit, and Mr. Roberto
Caceres, General Manager of EEEB.
43.       Project objectives are:  (a) to provide facilities necessary to
supply electricity service to about 157,000 new residential, commercial,
industrial and low income urban customers over 1980-82 and to improve the
quality and reliability of service throughout the system; (b) to support
EEEB's efforts to improve its distribution planning, design, operating and
maintenance practices; and (c) to continue support of the Government and the
Bank's power sector objectives, including sound sector financing, operational
efficiency and economic structure of tariffs to promote rational energy
use.
Project Description
44.       The physical facilities comprise:
(a) Subtransmission: installation of 450 MVA of substation capacity
at 230 kV, 390 MVA at 115 kV and 42 km of lines at 115 kV;
(b) Distribution: line extensions and improvements at 11.4 kV or
13.2 kV, and 34.5 kV aggregating about 1,330 circuit km; instal-
lation of about 630 km and improvements to about 1,150 km of
lines at 120/208 V; installation of about 250 MVA of distribution
transformer capacity at 120/208 V and 66 MVA at 480 V; installa-
tion of about 3 MVA of voltage regulators and 200 MVAR of capaci-
tors; installation of about 48,000 kWh meters; and installation
of about 33,000 street lights; and
(c) Vehicles and Equipment: acquisition of about 331 utility vehicles
and specialized equipment, and 300 mobile radios for operation and
maintenance of the system. (EEEB's vehicle maintenance practices
are excellent, as evidenced by the fact that about 25% of the
company's operating fleet is from 15-20 years old.) EEEB's
fleet requires urgent replacement and additions to ensure adequate
upkeep of the distribution system to be renovated under the project.
Moreover, financing under the proposed loan would enable EEEB to
procure the vehicles through international competitive bidding,
thus realizing substantial savings.
45.       Studies
(a) Distribution Planning. Consultants are being engaged (paragraph 59)
to assist EEEB in strengthening its distribution and planning practices and to
advise the company on technical and economic aspects of future system expansion,
including the distribution Master Plan (paragraph 34). The study would be
presented to the Bank for comments by November 30, 1980, and, by January 31,
1981, implementation of Bank-agreed procedures would be initiated (Section
3.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement);



- 16 -
(b) Dispatch Center. Consultants would be employed by July 31, 1980,
to carry out a study of the economic justification, preliminary design and
cost of a regional energy control and dispatch center that would permit
delivery to consumers of least cost electricity with an adequate level of
reliability. This facility, which is provided for in EEEB's 1979-85 Investment
Program, would operate as a satellite of ISA's national control center. By
August 31, 1981, the results of the study, together with EEEB's program for
implementation, would be received by the Bank for review and comments (Section
3.02(c) of the draft Loan Agreement); and
(c) Insurance. To assist EEEB in designing an appropriate insurance
policy for its fixed assets and in establishing a specialized department
to deal with insurance matters, consultants would be engaged by June 30, 1980.
The study would be presented to the Bank for review by April 30, 1981. EEEB
would then prepare a plan of action, satisfactory to the Bank, to provide
its assets with adequate insurance and, by December 31, 1981 put it into
effect (Section 3.02(d) of the draft Loan Agreement)
46.       Training.  To prepare EEEB's supervisory technicians to modernize
the company's operational and maintenance practices in distribution, a twelve-
month training program satisfactory to the Bank will be carried out by August
31, 1981 through consultants to be engaged by May 31, 1980 (Section 3.02(e)
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Costs and Financing
47.       Total project cost is estimated at US$182.2 million equivalent, of
which US$87.0 million equivalent correspond to the foreign exchange component.
During project execution (1980-82), EEEB plans to carry out other investments
at a cost of US$777 million equivalent, including investments in ISA, and will
require an increase in working capital of US$35 million equivalent. Project
costs are based upon estimates prepared by INGETEC (Colombia) for EEEB, and
include physical contingencies amounting to approximately 8% of the base
cost; also included are price contingencies equivalent to about 24% of base
costs, reflecting estimates of yearly price increases. The cost of consultant
services for studies and training includes an average of US$4,500 per man-
month for local services (53 man-months) and US$11,500 per man-month for
foreign services (56 man-months). All such services would be provided by
consultants whose qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions would
be satisfactory to the Bank and EEEB (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
48.       The proposed loan of US$87.0 million would finance 48% of the total
funds required for the project, i.e., 100% of the project's foreign exchange
cost. The remaining costs (52%) would be financed by EEEB's internal cash
generation and commercial borrowings.
The Borrower, EEEB
49.       EEEB is an autonomous company owned by the Municipality of the
Special District of Bogota. It was established by private Colombian interests
and has operated the city's electric service for the past 79 years, since 1951
under municipal ownership. It has an installed capacity of 719 MW, 81% of
which is hydro and the balance coal-fired thermal.



- 17 -
50.       EEEB is administered by a seven member Board of Directors and
a General Manager appointed by the Board. The General Manager is responsible
for day-to-day operations with the support of four Assistant Managers heading,
respectively, the administrative, finance and commercial, technical and
operations branches of the organization. The Board of Directors is chaired
by the Major of Bogota, and consists of two members elected by the Municipal
Council, three members chosen by the Council from lists submitted by associa-
tions representative of banks, commerce, and industry in Bogota, and one
member chosen by the President of Colombia. This composition was worked out
in connection with the Bank's initial loan to EEEB (246-CO) and has generally
proven satisfactory. Although EEEB has a history of stable and competent
management, turnover in its senior personnel increased during the past three
years resulting in a reduction in the number of experienced financial officers.
Recently the financial staff have been strengthened, particularly as a result
of the appointment of a new financial manager and the hiring of management
consultants to advise on managerial, budgetary and accounting systems, and
financial planning. This consultant assistance is to be supplemented by
additional middle-management staff and a specialized training program for
middle management staff (Section 3.02(g) of the draft Loan Agreement).
51.       EEEB had 2,254 employees at the beginning of 1979, including a
technical staff of 608, and 1,348 operations personnel, as well as 146 con-
struction staff. The history of the company's staff growth over the past ten
years, in relation to number of customers served and energy sold, shows a
steadily improving trend: 220 customers and 1,603 MWh per employee in 1978,
compared with 174 customers and 1,021 MWh per employee in 1968. These figures
compare favorably with those of electric utilities serving similar markets.
52.       Finances.  Over its 18-year relationship with the Bank, EEEB has
maintained a satisfactory financial position. During the past ten years its
internal cash generation has provided on average more than 50% of annual
investments, including substantial contributions to ISA. The balance of the
company's investment funds have been obtained through borrowings, most of
which have been secured from IBRD and IDB; no government funding has ever been
required.
53.       As a result of the measures taken by EEEB under the San Carlos I
and Mesitas projects (including full revaluation of assets for monitoring of
financial performance), the company's financial structure has been strengthened.
At the end of 1978, EEEB's debt to equity ratio was 34/66, calculated on the
basis of revalued assets, with 70% of the debt in long-term obligations to the
Bank and the IDB. EEEB's 1979-82 investment program amounts to US$959 million
equivalent, of which US$182 million correspond to the proposed project. The
Mesitas project, partially financed by Loan 1628-CO, is the largest component
of the program, requiring an investment of US$311 million. In line with Govern-
ment practice to finance the local cost of investments only from domestic
sources, EEEB would be required to generate internally approximately 40% of
the funds required during this period, taking into account that no more than
Col$6,146 million (US$115 million equivalent) would likely be available from
domestic commercial banks. The balance would be obtained through existing and
future external borrowings. The favorable structure of EEEB's debt and its



- 18 -
program of tariff increases (paragraph 54) place it in a good position to
obtain the additional financing it will need over and above that provided by
the Bank. For example, EEEB has recently concluded negotiations with a
commercial bank for part of the Mesitas foreign costs (10.5 years, 6 years
grace, interest 3/4% over LIBOR, commission 3/8%, management charges 1/2%
flat, government guarantee not required). As a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed loan, EEEB would make satisfactory arrangements for the balance
of financing for its 1980-81 investments (Section 8.01(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
54.       The projected cash generation in EEEB's financing plan is based
upon the company's planned tariff increases. The plan assumes continuance of
the current 2.2% monthly tariff increase through 1982, plus a further increase
estimated at 12% in mid-1980, in order to generate adequate cash. As a condi-
tion of loan effectiveness, EEEB will have to demonstrate it has taken all
necessary measures to achieve the agreed rate of return for 1980 (paragraph
55 and Section 8.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The monthly 2.2% increase,
which has been in effect since 1977, has been authorized by JNT through 1980;
EEEB will have to request necessary authorization to continue it through 1982.
In this way, by end-1982, EEEB's rates would have increased 86% over 1977
rates in real terms. Such an increase is consistent with the policy of the
Government of charging the full cost of energy to the final user in order
to promote rational power use and self-generate an important share of the
resources needed for investment (paragraph 26).
55.       Based on the above, EEEB's projected net operating income would
produce annual rates of return on fully revalued assets ranging from 12% in
1979-80, on average, to 14% in 1981 and annually thereafter (Section 5.06 of
the draft Loan Agreement), compared with the 12% agreed upon under the San
Carlos I and Mesitas loans. (Although EEEB is expected to achieve an annual
average of 10.5% over 1978-80, rather than the 12% envisaged under the afore-
mentioned loans, the company's financial performance is considered acceptable.)
These returns are consistent with the aforementioned internal cash generation
(paragraph 53).
56.       EEEB's debt service coverage ratio during 1979-82 would be 2.0 times
as a result of the substantial revenue increase and the grace period of
foreign borrowings. In subsequent years, the ratio is expected to fall no
lower than 1.7, which would still be satisfactory. EEEB has confirmed that,
unless the Bank should otherwise agree, it would not incur debt in any fiscal
year which would reduce the coverage of its maximum future debt service by
internal cash generation below 1.5 times (Section 5.08 of the draft Loan
Agreement). It is expected that the company's debt/equity ratio will decrease
slightly from the current proportion of approximately 34/66 during the next
two years, and decline to 45/55 by the end of 1983. Lastly, to ensure
adherence to the financing plan as well as to the national least-cost power
expansion program, until project completion, EEEB has agreed not to undertake,
without prior concurrence of the Bank, investments in any year in excess of 1%
of the value of its net fixed assets in service other than for (a) the proposed
project, (b) generation expansion included in the national expansion program,
provided that adequate financing would be available, (c) its obligations to



- 19 -
ISA, and (d) transmission/distribution expansion up to US$9 million equivalent
in each of the years 1980-82 (Section 5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Currently, EEEB is considering the possibility of building, in association
with ISA, the planned Guavio Hydro Power Project. EEEB, therefore, has
confirmed that, before proceeding with this project, it will present the Bank
with a satisfactory financing plan, as provided for in the agreement described
above.
57.       Tariff Structure.  EEEB's average tariff level has been rising
in real terms and is scheduled to continue doing so over the next two-and-
one-half years. However, its charges to industrial and commercial electricity
consumers are higher than the corresponding residential charges, even though
the cost of residential service would be at least equal to the cost of service
to industrial or commercial customers. Since late 1977, the gap between
residential and other rates has widened by the allocation of a smaller portion
of overall tariff increases to the residential category and by the exemption
of residential consumers using less than 300 kWh per month from tariff
increases. A study on cost of service to final consumers and pricing implica-
tions, to be carried out under San Carlos I, is expected to detail the precise
dimensions of the structural imbalance. In view of the importance to the
energy sector, and to the Colombian economy as a whole, of minimizing distor-
tions in energy pricing structure, EEEB would, as agreed under Mesitas and
confirmed under the proposed loan, take account of the study's recommendations
and establish a related program in agreement with the Bank. In the event that
study results would be delayed, EEEB would implement an interim program to
overcome the most obvious aspects of the imbalance (Section 5.09 of the draft
Loan Agreement). Ultimately, the aggregate cost of service to each category
of consumers (residential, industrial, commercial and governmental) would be
covered approximately by the aggregate price charged to each category, with
the exception that the revised tariff structure would take account of the
government's social welfare policies with respect to the lowest-income consumers.
Procurement, Implementation and Disbursements
58.       All the items to be financed by the proposed loan (except consulting
services and training) would be procured by international competitive bidding
(ICB) under Bank guidelines. Colombian manufacturers would receive a margin
of preference of 15% or the applicable import duties, whichever is the lower,
for purposes of bid evaluation. To avoid delays in project implementation,
EEEB will procure through local competitive bidding a small amount of distribu-
tion equipment, valued at less than US$2 million; equipment specifications
are satisfactory. The project commenced in January 1980 and would be completed
by end-1982.
59.       Disbursements would be made against:  (a) 100% of foreign expendi-
tures for imported equipment; (b) 94% of the ex-factory cost of locally manu-
factured equipment and materials; and (c) 100% of foreign and 50% of local
expenditures for consultant services and training. Retroactive financing of
up to US$500,000 equivalent is proposed for consultant services paid after
January 1, 1980 (paragraph 45(a)). The loan is expected to be fully disbursed
by December 31, 1983.



- 20 -
Benefits and Risks
60.       The impact of the project on the development of Bogota and its
surrounding area would be considerable, in view of the economic and social
effects of making electricity supply available to an estimated 157,000 new
residential, industrial and commercial subscribers. About thirty-five percent
of these new subscribers would be among the lower-income group (those consuming
less than 200 kWh per month), representing about 340,000 people. The project
would improve the reliability of power supply throughout the system and
facilitate commercial and industrial expansion, thus contributing to increased
employment opportunities. Small industries are expected to benefit in par-
ticular, as improvements in electricity supply would permit them to reach
higher levels of efficiency.
61.       A return on investment was calculated by relating the combined
costs (capital and incremental operating/maintenance costs) of EEEB's 1979-85
development program to estimated incremental revenues. On this basis, the
discount rate at which the present value of project costs equal benefits would
be 12%, i.e., above the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Colombia.
The incremental revenues, however, which are based on official tariffs rather
than on the--unmeasurable--consumers' willingness to pay, underestimate the
benefits to subscribers, particularly in commerce and industry. The measurable
benefits also exclude the social benefits accruing from connecting more than
57,000 low income households for the first time and from increased safety
which accompanies better street lighting. The results of a sensitivity
analysis indicate that, even assuming a 10% increase in projected costs, or an
equivalent decrease in projected revenues, the rate of return would not fall
below 10%.
62.       Project risks are considered minimal.  The procurement and construc-
tion schedules are reasonable, and there are no difficult or unusual technical
aspects. Furthermore, EEEB is an experienced and competent company.
Ecology
63.       EEEB has carried out previous projects with due regard to environ-
mental protection and safety considerations. Under the proposed project,
works will be carried out in a like manner, consistent with the aim of minimal
effect on land usage and adverse visual impact.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and EEEB, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank and the
report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.



- 21 -
65.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Additional conditions of effectiveness would be that EEEB has made
satisfactory arrangements for the balance of required financing for invest-
ments programmed for 1980-81, and that arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
have been made by EEEB to achieve the agreed 1980 rate of return (paragraphs
53 and 54).
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI: RECOMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 22, 1980






-22 -                                                       ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                              I2e  . of   5
CO7MIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SREZT
REEEO  GDUPS (ADJUSTED A1I~R
LAND ARL4 (TWUJA%  S. Kt.)                  COUXOIA                      - yDSS SCams X8TAS ) 
COLOMBIA            ~~~- ,DS  nCW ISTDIATE L
TOTAL          1138.9                                                SBlA       SAME     NXT HIGER
AGRICULTURAL    225.6                               OST RECENT    GECORAPRIC   INCOE        INCOIE
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMTE3 /b     DCION  c  GRIUP d   GROUP Lo
GNP PER CAPITA (US5)               240.0       380.0    870.0          1124.4    1097.7      1942.6
ENERCY CONSUITION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    691.0      606.0    685.0           943.1      730.7     1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, KID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    15.8       21.3      24.6
UR8AN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 48.2      59.8      65.5           59.3       49.0       51.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (HILLIONS)                    38.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      55.0
YEAR STATIONART POPULATION IS REACHED               2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PR SQ. F.M.                     14.0        19.0      22.0           23.5       44.6       28.2
PER SQ. Nll. AGIUCULTURAL LAND    71.0      93.0    109.0            80.5      140.7       100.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YES.                       46.0        46.8      38.0           40.9       41.3       35.4
15-64 YES.                       51.0        50.5     59.0            54.4      55.3        56.3
65 YRS. AND AOV                   3.0         2.7       3.0            3.9        3.5         5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            3.1         3.0       2.1            2.4        2.4        1.7
URBAN                            6.0L       5.2       3.9            3.7        4.5        3.0
CRUDE BIRTS RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.0       36.0     30.0            32.8       31.1       27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    14.0       11.0       8.0            8.5        9.2        9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.2         3.2       1.8            2.4        2.2        1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TSRUSANDS)      ..      115.4    263.8
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMN)    ..         ..      48.6           17.7       34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        97.0        99.0    107.0            99.4      104.4      102.0
PER CAP ITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                 94.0        92.0      94.0          107.0      105.3      120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        50.0        51.0     45.5            60.4       64.4       80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE     28.0        29.0      36.8           28.3       23.5       31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    17.0       13.0       9.0            6.7        8.6        5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   53.0       58.5      62.0           63.6       60.2       65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           ..          ..      98.0/|         76.1       46.7       45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        63.0      64.0           63.4       60.8       69.4
URBAN                             ..          ..      73.0           79.5       75.7       85.1
RURAL                             ..          ..      46.0           38.6       40.0       43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        47.0      48.0           58.8       46.0       70.1
URBAN                             ..        75.0      73.0           77.8       46.0       88.3
RURAL                             ..         8.0      13.0           24.5       22.5       33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        2400.0      2170.0   1820.0          1841.9    2262.4      1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON   3740.0      2040.0       ..           933.7    1195.4       765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          580.0       510.0    530.0           563.4      453.4      197.6
URBAN                             ..          ..    320.0           279.4      253.1      260.2
RURAL                             ..          ..   9670.0          1140.9    2732.4       1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..       23.0      25.0           25.7       22.1        17.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OP HOUSMHOLD
TOTAL                             ..         6.0       5.7/           5.0        5.3        4.7
URBAN                             ..          ..      55              4.8        5.2        4.4
RURAL                             ..          ..       5.9.j          5.3        5.4        5.1
AVERArE NUMBER OF PERSONS Pn ROOM
TOTAL                             ..          ..       1.8/J          1.3        1.9         1.1
URBAN                             ..          ..       1.6Z           1.3        1 6         1 2
RURAL                             ..          ..       2.4            1.5        2.5         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLI7NS)
TOTAL                           47.0/f        *-      58.1j/         54 3       SO5.       66.0
URBAN                           83.07         ..      87.5L          80.1       71.7       85.1
RURAL                            8.07!        ..      13.2           14.2       17.3



- 2 3 -                                                             ANNEX I
Paxe 2 of 5
TA3_E 3A
COLOMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERZINCE GROUPS (J 7USTE) AIRAGES
COLOFtBIA              ~~~- MOST RECENT E TrMTl)-
SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960 lb      1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        RECION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /a
EDUCATION
AbJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  77.0        100.0     106.0             107.3       102.5        101.7
MALE                   77.0         98.0      103.0            109.1       103.6        110.0
FEMALE                77.0         102.0     109.0             107.4        97.1         92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   12.0         23.0      35.0              40.5        33.5         51.2
MALE                   13.0         23.0      35.0              40.4        38.4         56.4
FEMALE                11.0          22.0      35.0              39.0        30.7         43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (i OF SECONDARY)  31.0/h          21.0       17.0             18.5        11.5         18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              38.0         38.0       30.0             37.1        35.8         27.1
SECONDARY                            11.0         17.0       19.0             17.9        22.9         25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          63.0         73;0       81.0             77.4        64.0         86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENCER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            7.0         11.0      16.5              29.1        13.5         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         139.0         105.0     119.0             172.1       122.7        225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           11.0         38.0       51.0             67.9        38.3        102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    56.0            .       69.0             76.1        40.0         78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..              ..        6.8              4.2         3.7           3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       5100.0/f    6200.0    6700.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     18.9        24.6       24.6              21.5        25.0         24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                51.4         37.9       31.0             30.2        43.5         28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.2         21.0       23.0              23.8        21.5         30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  30.6         29.7       29.7             30.9        33.5         33.8
'ALE                                   49.8         44.9       44.7             47.3        48.0         51.3
FEMALE                                 11.6         14.6       14.6             13.3        16.8         16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.7/f        1.7        1.6              1.5         1.4           1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   41.2tf,i    31.9/i           .-             23.7        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  67.7/f.i    60.1/i           ..             58.7        52.1         57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.1/f i         3.57?       ..              2.9         3.9          3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.8Zff        10.1/i        ..              9.9        12.6         11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..     214.0             265.6       270.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..      197.0            185.1       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY LNCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..     267.0             396.3       282.5        550.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..     122.0             308.1       248.9        403.4
ESTIMATED POPUbLATION BELoW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  *-           *-       34.0             35.2        20.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..             46.6        35.3
Not available
.Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusced group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding che extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
,b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Latin America 4 Caribbean;   td  Intermediate Middle Income (5551-1135 per capita, 1976);   /e  Upper
Middle Income (51136-2500 per capita, 1976);   /f  1964;   /S  1951-64;   /h  Includes teacher-training at
the third level;   /i  Economically active population;   /j  1973.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
Revised October 1979



- 24 -                                                                   AN~NEX I
MI)FIIU CY sCCa mIrTORSo                                                        Page   3   of  .5    -
Pts:      ltcg  thedata are, drama fromsourcses generally judge  the meet anthoritative end reliable, It should also be noted that they may sot be interna-
tionlL    c      bmnle hams. of the lack of standardized definitions ad Concepts used by different countries in Collacting the data. Ths dat.are,  noontheles,
useful to desoribe orders of --itade. indicate trande, ad oh-aratsine cetain msa.or differences bstess  hoosntris..
Ike44,fl4,j~p,avep3es for ewac  indetor are, population-weighted geometric maso, ascluding the extrma values of the, indicator and the mwst populated
coutr  ineah gou.  Teeto  ako.      aa  grap  avenges of all indicators for Capitol Surplus Oil. Enporters nod of Indioators of Access to Water and ecrets
Pidsp.se1, Basing, bocoms Distribution sod Povrty for other c.-try groups are populi.niin-eightsd geomtric ana cithout sacluio  of the sebreme, value  and
the ast poPlaIted country.  sincth   coergo   ounres san   the indica                   1.tors prond  oaeilabiiity ofdt  ad beso o!hifo;:rm -atio  mast be fsuercisd
in relating average  of one indicao   osohr   hs   vrgsaeietrueu   sapoitoso   eped"  aue   he  oesiAg thevausoon
indicator at atime sang the .Country ad refrence grouse.me
LAM AMA (thouand sq.he.)                                                                 ACcess to Excreta. ROenosl(ecn   fnplto)-ttl   ra,a    oa 
--- !;'t=   Total surface area comprising lad area ad island waters.                       flanhe  of people (toa,ubn  and  a al sered by  crta dispsa  a
Uiouclturai - Mbet recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                 percetgee of their   spective populations. Excreta disposal my include
or permanently for crops, pastures, maket and kitcha gardens, or to                    the nol1eotlon and disposal, cith or without treatmet,Iof boomo -eurta
lie fallow,                                                                            and wate-water by wtater-borne systema or the une of pit privies end s.aiiar
- lIP per capita estiapes at current market prices,  puL4h p,ps    ~icin-  Population divided by ouster of practicing physicisos
calculated7h   smconeversion method as World Beni Atlas (i976-.7H basis);              'Tjif7fithimediaL              cola   nvriylvl
1560, 1970, ad 1978 data.                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pbopulation per Horsing Pesn- Poplation, divided bly numbr of practicing male
n,mMP Mruw ION PRO CAPITA - Annalcuumpim    f oCasreis. enrap                          sod femal  grdut  cures* prctca  -'ese' and assistant nurse..
(coal ead lignite, petroleu, natural ga  and bydro-, ncdlear ad gec-                    Population paerHsital3rd&-. to-tal.iurh. sod rura  -iPoplation (total, urban
thrmal electricity) in kilogras of coaI equivlent per caPita; 1960,                     ad rural) dlivdd  byterrsetv   ubro1optlbd   e I'aiei
1970, end 1976 data,                                                                     public and private gerarl ad specialiced hostpiisl and rebabilItaetIon.. cetero.
Hospitals are netblisobmnts permanently staffed by at leant Cone physi'cian.
POPoLATIOII AND PTTAL. STATISTICS                                                          Ruosilism-nas providing priocipaluc cut~odial car  ar  ot inniuded.  uR-l
Total90polctin. Hd-Yer (nllios) -As of J0i1 1; 1960, 1970, ad                  hospitals, howeveor, macdud  boaltb and aedical onotera not permanetly staffed
197  data.                                                                             by a physician (but by a adiosi assitetnt, nurse, adwife, etc.)  h0mb offer
Uirban P.poain(preto   tota) - natto of aria  to total population;                        in-patient acco-adatios ad provide a  alsted rage of medical1 facilitie..
different deinition   of uban, areas may effect comparability of data                Adndiseoas per Hospi,t,al Hod,-Ttal outer of adaissio-  to or disciegen from
.-n cutrie; 1960, 1970, and 1975 data.                                              bospitalo dividdb  the ouer of beds.
1,ya   OO- Current population projections are based on          HOOHIJY
1975 total pulton by age and sea and their onrtality and fertility                 AveriageSr  ofRurod (proeper                         toebl) - tct, urbanm n   ua 
mos.  peoV.ctics paramters for srtLity rates coprise of tires                       A busbod consits  fa  ru f            lnlcduinob  shmhvo    uresad
levels  asuing life expeotoncy at birth increasinLg with cotuntrys eChi   an aa.Abadro   odgwr my or   yno   betcue   othe
per Capita icome level  ad female life vopeCtsoy utbilising at                       hoonehod for statistical porpnseo.
77.5 years.  The parameters for fertility rate also have three levels              Avrerge outer of perecwo per roo  - tota,uban, sod rurl   derge cober
a.ssumng declice on fertility accordin  in incme level sod past                      of pereono Per room in ei urban, and rural occpied convetional Awelling
fami Cly eanning performance. cch country is then assigned one of these              rPesetively.  itell_ings occludde oo-po net struture  sod unccpied posts.
ninetcobinations of mortality sod fertility trends for projectioc                  Aco..ss to Electrict  (percent of dwelings) - total, aria, ead ruirol -  Con-
pu-poses.                                                                            retlonal doelliogs  ith electricity in l1ivig quartero as percenitgo  of
Staticosr  Pomlatico -in a stationary population there is no groth                     total, urban, and rurl. delliogs repectively.
5ME"th  birth vaoi   qual to tin dsath rate, cdc.A ls  the  gpe
struturerem inconstant. This Lo achievd conly after fertility rates         EDUCATIONI
decline to th  replacemet level of unit son reproduction rate,   ..                Adjuoted Enrolinet ntion
.-ch generation of soec ropiaces itself cuartly.  The stationary pupu-               Prisr  shool - total. male and female- Groua total, mule and female enroll-
latioone was estimated on tie basin of the projected charactevintice                   asen  ofal  gesat the primacy levla  percntages of resPective prisarY
of tie popuItioc in the year lWO, sod toe rote of deue. of fertility                   school-age populetiono; normally includes oJlldre  aged 6-il year  out
rate torpisoe_et leel a.djusted fo.r differeot le-9tis of prassry education ; for coutries with
Pear eotati"nar  nplation in roameCd - The year  en  stationar y pplation                universal education onrolnet may ecceed 100 percent o1oe som  pupils
sine has been reaphed.                                                                 ar   eowo   bov  the oftici.  scoo"ae
Poosclaticn Desty                                                                        Seodr  cool. --oaI.l ndfnl  - Compted Pi..                      e  snocr
Per s. km. -  id-year ppoplation per square kilometer (120D heotare.) of                 educa.tion rqiest least Four years of uppr-ced -pimr  Iotc ti-o.
totalue                                                                                provides generale.  oote, o  tooch-r trelang inotr-tioo for pupilo
Per so. Am. gioltitral land - foNpted as above for agricultural land                     inuall  of 12 to 17 year  of age; -orveopocoene ..u.... ar e g-ecrally
honly.                                                                                 e-oludd.
pu-ltio  Ma"iroue 'oRre-t) - Childrec (0-14 year), soking-ago                            Vosloa erll,ot orre--. of soisy                   - Vctio...l 1n-totu-os  o .lode
(5-6k yean),tan   .Iroov     (A5 year  and over)        pretgsof cod-year               tvooioal, todutr-1, or  ~thr progren  oc-h operate independertly or so
popultion; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                     depwsrtento of orocdary7 boi-tuttiocs.
PuatCo Growth Rate (Perot) - total -  noAl o1R-eth rates of total aid-               P'uiltenbh  rto-rlryanscody-Ttlsudeoto etrolld in
yerppltoofor 1950-O  17609-70, and 10-77.                                       pri_ry ad secondar  leel  deedby ouner, ofteChes                    'nthe roye-
PouainGrowth Rate (posre.ti  - urban - Annual groth rates of urban                    spoiog      "vI
popuatoo  o  150r,  90-..ad.90-5                                                        Adult 'lttcr-c  rotc (pe--tv) - Litcoto odulto  nble tored and -rite)a
Crude Birth Pats  os.r thouand) - Annal live birtho per th-ouad of did-                     operts-tago of total  dolt populatioc aged 15 year  and over.
year popultion; 1900. 1970, and 1977 data.
foods Dinet, nate (oper thcuead) - nno,l deaths per thoonand of old-yea              COPoitrTOdrio
pouaio;16, 1970; end 1977 data.                                               Paaee ao(ro tho-cnd p-uolc      anegror   cpriar outr or
Gross Reprduot1ios Rate - ueAge o.her of dnaghtere a o             ill hear              nesting:  les  t'han cogt per-oo; eM clude  soaaoe    aonad si Lvoy
in her crca lreprodoci   period b1 ohe  -operlesoe  pre-et agw-reila
spewific fertiLity ruten; usull  fire-year a-rges ending in 1960,                    Rsl   eerr    e  bcad  1p,1ulnoo-  - All type,.tof rceos--rsfor radio
i970 , and 1975.                                                                       br _dnto to ge--s  pIoprtuuad of puolto;vcudouloce
Famiy Plenig: - Ac.cetors. A-cuo  'thirosads) - Anacual ounhr of                         reeivers to ooutric  and -c pear  cioego oltrtiov of radi  sta co  In
acetrs of birth-contro1le Geroosuder aupice  of sationi1 fesily                    offwot; data if- orr-t year  nay cot Ice -opri icrmt -cutri-v
planing pragr-n                                                                        aholisied Ioccg
Fm~ily Planaloci1 -Uleers(pero,Ft of caried cps   Percen.tage of mnmad                 TV Ocovr   Pertotin     pop,ia.tton  - Tb  eevr  for brondo-t to g--reJ
wome  of  hil-hesing  ge   5-44 ye-v) cAn one birth-cotrol devaCes1 puli  pro tioccead ppultioc, ec-1udeculio-er..d Tb reeirrriniooutr-e
to all inried ees  in ton  ag  group.                                                  and in yea o cis  vsgit-rtioo of TV  oto ca  Is effect.
espprCr'ultion (per thou-an  c?lnt...  - io   the average cir-ulatiot
POOP AID MIJTRrTlOG                                                                        of "daLy gCeva  interes  osospaper   oficed as n periodical publicotlos
loden of rod Producion per fcita (196-71=100( - Indeo~f pcrc-p,tt             decntsd priouily to  sod n   eea  cr0-   It in c...lidred to hr  daili
anul produetioco   llfo   cditiwu. P-du-tico scolulee seed ad                          If it nppwar  at leant four tiec.s u-es.
feed and is on  alendar year booio. Cosaditice covr primacy goods                    Cinema Annul bttro.donn  per Capita nr ia  - bate.d en the c,inir o  if tcAts
(..ugcaeinst-od of ciga) oci,h are wdibis and ...otalssottrsut                told Gurng tie year, i_uluiog a         .o ontoo  to dr-v-in ole-  and sot, 
(eg.cffee and tea ar  -oolded).  Aggregate production of each coutry                'uio
ishoe  co- na,tinl   cso  prod.o-r price ceigits.
Percaiasplofclre  (percest of recoir: ..ntc( - Computed from                      IABIR FORCEB
energy squivealt of sot foo.d  upplien avilablc is coutry per capita               Total lahn.r Feev  othousudo) - E-ononlnly active persone,. t.oldiu arced
pr dey. Available -opplios  -enriue doectlo production, im.-r. less                 forcest and  -psnicyd lot  -o1ldi.g hou-eiv-,  -td-ots, etc. Defl-titl-.t
experts, and changes to stock,  Net -oppliso coci.de anisni feed, seds,              ito v-iou  e-otroe  are cot zoepaoIble.
_tuatitle  used in food pr--ssis, and 1o-en it dit-tribtlos. Require-              F.-aL.ron    -.F.e.!e ibo- foros as percentage of total labor fovo..
-etn wre etimated by FA0 based cchybyiologicol  eoedo for vorna!                                    c.t  - Labor forc  in farming  foveutry, hootig and
activity and vealti ov...ider-g envirarsetal teeperatuvo, body -righto,              flohing no per-etugv of total labor force.
age and pen doti,,bucione of pepuLttoc, and ell.o-g 10 perosot for                 Industr'y (percen.t) - Labor if-octcoig  ecstrooi-s, esnufotoroag sod
no ten   oueod bed.                                                               el-eotrivty, saver and unti  poreetags of total labor force.
Pe, .apita  -upply of Protein  grso  per day) - Protei  ocotest of per               Porticpation Rate (perrt)- to"talsl,an eae- Part loipatiot or
capita set oupply of foci per dy. Net oupply of food it declord an                   aciiyrtn  r  opod to total, sole, adfn                      ao   oc   spr
ovePeurVemeoto for all o-utr-e  established by USDA proide for a                  eotog-o of  ctal~,1sao and fvaslv  popuot-c  of all agen repeotirely;
nic _i aloance of 60 gr-m  of total protein per dey and 20 gino of              i960, 1970,_ad 1975 data.  Thee  are rIOt partiolpatios rates vefleCtiag
aninl ad puse  rooro,  f oblob 10 gean  olhoald he animal, protein.            age-se  otrutove of the Ppopultion, and bo.g tom  treod.  A few cetimatec
These candarusare bor than those of 75 grams of total protein and               aefo   ainltu e
29 gram  of  --una  pvoteio asa      -vrge for tie coldA, proposed by PAt          Po--val  Reen cytai  -Oai  of cpoplation under 15 and 65 nod over to
is the Third World food Suroy.                                                       the labor forceinag  group of 15-64 year..
Per capita  rti                  --pp    nmL and noise - Protein supply of food
fill  (aes  --' tralltt  ate'er  ihuc=d (- Annual d-atia per thoocand          Preon   fPiaebos(oht   cbaOnd       eedb   ins
in age group 1-4 year, to ohildee   n t  thin ago grop; for sst dee1-                  5 -pecent,  toheo:t 10 perosat, pereot 2O Percent, and poorest 40 peroeat
opiog ounrIes data derived from  life tubles.                                          of htoucebolds.
HEALTH 0                                                                                 VE0TY TARIOT IPOtYPO
liedpcao   t Birth (Years)  A-Aerge nuber of years of life                     Et-timed Aboob.tc P-erety Iooms Lovel 00   c   sp )-uban tad rurl-
remainng mu  irth;  9c0, 1970, ad17.at.Absolute povety iaccn  1wel. iv that oon  lereS beLo  dirtasc
bofoco ttrt.lity bats (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under one                ouit-tina.. l.y adequate diet plus es..eotial tn.-food reqoiremno to st
year of age per thousand. lIre birth..                                                 affordbln.
Arveso to Safe Water (percent of cpla s- btal, urban, and  -,orl -                     Est-mtod Relntive Povety IooeL- lee   Gs; ower capita) - urban and rurl
itunber of peopl    totl, urban, aond  ua       hraoal  accen  to                      biral relative poverty i.cncm   l-ee  in  ooe-third of average per Cap,ta
oaf  cater supply ; lcludes treated surface tatrs or untrea.ted but                    personal income of the o-unty. Ulba  level is dented fros the rura  level 
unootamitmud eater ouc  as that from. protected boreholes, oprongs,                    cith adjoetneut for higher cos t of living in urbanaes
and sanitary e_ls) en Pern-tage  of their  -ep-oi-e populatons-  in                    tisocted rpbaioBelo- Aisoot  Povety  "oom  lee  (                et  - urban and
so urban area a public fountain or Stendpost located not acre tha                      rra    - Pret of popultio   turba  and rural) co,ae'halt  poor".
200  nter. fry  a hous  my he ocosid-rd an being sthA    reasonable
acoesaof that house  in rura  area  r..asunable anon coud imply
that ths bhossufe or  eters of tie bousekhold do cot have to spend a                                                           ooso,uc and Ocotal Deos Dtoi-on
disproportionate part, of the day in ftething the family. esater ne.eds                                                  Eoosoic Aionlysin and  Poetin Dpartacot
August 1979



ANNEX I
ECONOMIC0 DEVELOPMENT DATA                                     Pnge 4 at 5
(I. Mlilli.oo of UtS Dollar,)
A-tu1                               stitlnted      Projected           Ae....e Ann.ua lCrunh Rat..                A. Percent of CDP 
1967-69                                                                                      (1967_69)_   1975_   1980-
A-trsg.      1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980        1985             74         79       8s           1975       1979        1985
NATIONAI. ACODJNTS                                                        1976 Price. ned ftchocAe  ntr-
Den.. Dn.s.tlt Product           ~~~~9,660   14 567    15,236    15.971    17,329    18,282    19,379    29,933                     6.5      5.8      6.0         100.0      100.0      1090 
Gan   reTars  nO lIteae(6                71        -9                      697        624          03      -24         4A34-                       -                     14.8        0.5        1.7
Gres. Derastit Incane8.909                              13,868    15,236    16.668    17,753    18,365    19.115    25.499                     7.4      7.3      5.9          99.2      100.5        98.3
Ieot(nt.95                                   1,491       2.047      2,302      2,618      2,895      3.181      3.411      5,012               7.5    11.7       8.0          14.1        17.4       19.3
Eararta (ntl. 8801(Se. C.paOity)      -1.419      -2.297    -2,782        -h9           84    :.3,314      3.464      4.498               6.5     9.6     5.6           15.8       16.1       17.3
RI... our   Gap                                 72        -290       -480       -681       -489       -133         -53        514               -        -        -           .1.7       -0.7         2.0
Ca..uepti.. Eep..ditt-                       7.320      19,908     1,1,579    12,560    13,3711    13.914    14,5327    19,035                 6.5      6.4      5.6          74.9       76.3        73.4
Invetant E.pendit.tre   (tact. Stock,)   1,661           2.710      31 77      3,427      3,093      4.278      4,535      6,978              11.7    12.1       9.0          18.6       23.6        06.9
Dunatin S-vtga                                ,8         2.960      3,657      4,1 08     4,382      4,411      4rJ88      6,464              11.1    10.5       7.1          20.3       24.         24.9
N.tien.al la-ing                             1,5099      2,824      3.399      3.801      4,206      4,256      4,290      5.817              111    10.6        6.3           19.4      03.13       22.4
NERCI86NDISE TRADE                                                           Annual Data at Corcet Price.                                                                      A. Prcent of Total
I.sPaPCa
Cepit.1 G.nd                                 290         _583       671        827      1,293      1,771      21:13      4.300              10.4    32.0    15.3            40.9       44.6       4.4.5
let.e_diate Good, (Real, Poal,)              056         609        733        772        901      1.223      1 446      2,785              201.4    19.0    16.0           42.:7      30.8        18.8
Pe t, ndrlate  Iitrtl                                 15        109        194        233        699         729     1.756              12.2   152.4    19.2              1.1       10.3       18.1
Ga,,In  uda                            61         218        214         335        290        370        436        836             18.3    14.1    13.9             15.3        9,3        8.6
Teta1 Rsroh.ndiaa Imports (CIF)              608       1,425      1,747      2,126      2,717      3,973      4,724      9.682              16.4    29.2    15.4           100.0      190.0       100.0
EMaeofattnrd Goad.                            117         324        390        382        446        610         775      1.788             22.3    17.4    18.2             18 .9      14.2       21.4
Other Eportt                                 489       1.393      1,04       2.414      2,05       3,016      3.761      6,0 73             14.3    27.8    11.8            81.1        85.8       78.6
Of 9lbi.h:  (Coffen)                     (341)          7964)    1292)   (1760)    2,0084)  )2.637)  (2.424)    3 ,126)                  C131. 7) )36.3)(  5.2)           (4.5)   C60,9)   C37.43
(peal,)              C  ~~~~~~~56)   (98)       65)       136)       154)   (236)   (292)   (567                      (3.6)   24.6)   14.2)              5.7)       5.4)       6.8)
lati1 M,,chanlas cE.P-ta                     608       1.717      2,255      0,796      3,298      0.331      4,536      8,361               t       260      1.           100.0       100.0      100.0
Repo,rt Price l.d.n                           21.2        73.9      100,0      141.6       131.3     147.2       144.7      164.6
lnoort Octra Inden                            34.0        95.6      100.0       I110.5    118.6      142.9       156.4      233.1
Tc.-  of Trade Indee                          62.3        77.1      100.0      120.1       110.7      103.0       91.4       79.2
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR (Factor Coet)                            Annea  Data at 1976- .Pices and E.h.... Rates                              Acara.. Annu1 Groth Rates            A. Percent of Total1
Agrocl..t.r                                2,923       4.145      4,224      4,330      4.720      4.956      5.204       6,737              2.0      4.6      5.3           30.6       29.3       28.1
Ind.atry                                   2,427       3,033      3.933      4,087      4,434      4.669      4,958      6.76                6.7      5.1      6,4           28.3       297.6      28.2
Other                                      4.249       5.558      5.945      6.347      6.865      7.291      7.769    10.498                5.9      7.0      6.2          41.1        43.1       43.7
Tota1                                      9,599      13.536    14,102      14,764    16,019    16.916    17.931         23,996              5.1      5.7      6.0          100.0      100.0      100.0
PUBLIC FINANE 00                                                         Annal Dt.t at Cto...ut P.i...
A, Percen.t of 088
(Cntral.  Oee-r.aet)
Ceerent Re...tpt.                            413       1.502      1,670      2,050      2,548      3.335      4.302    13,129               20.3    22.1    25.0,            10.3       10.8       12.4
C.rrst Eneanditur-s                          262         702        751        931      1.109      1.552      2.126       6.233             16.1    21.0    24.0              4.8        5.8        5.9
Sedgetaty laetrgs                ~~~~        ~~~151  800  919     1.119      1.439      1.783      2,176      6.898              26.2    22.2    26.0             3.15        5.6        6.5
Other Pohilt 'e'to, OarLgs                   434         167        .3 7        80          19        .           25        600                .                              1.1                   0.6
FobiOc le.tte- casn                          612         917      1. 135     1,0123     1,636      1,975       2,387    10,367               6.6    21.1    32.0              6.3        6.4        9.8
DEIJETRD INDICATORS                            1965.70    1975.79   1980.65
(A-aage tft Parted Shee)
Average ICOR (Bas'd at Gra.  Fiend
I_:s_estt  lagged OeeTer                  4.25        3,82       3.73
InPort 21neticitr                               1.28        2.02       1.33
Marginal D-estic SIeege Rate                    0.20        0.32       0,29
OlarinuI Nactieea.  Sa-ing  Rate                0.104       0.322      0.24
Aal%-ofTatsl          A. af Te.~l
IABOR FORCE MD OUTPUT PEt WORKER  T.t.1 Lb., F.t..                                                                    D~~~~~~~~~~~ETAIL 09 PUBLIC SECTOR INVESTMENTt  Ac-st-soe1e
Ie                                                 GtItns5o    atl Aoth Race                                PRGRM_NDF_ANIN
1964            1973         1944            193         14.3au1Osar28965
Ag,ft.o1to-                                     10.8                 11.1
Agri-lter 3. .427                                        2.057          47.3           30.2         -1.8                                                   I.dnsItryard Mitieg                               5.5                 22.8
.ndustry                                 0.958           1.212          18.7           17.8          2.7                                                   P-sse                                           24.2                 18.5
S_ri_e                                   1.749           3.542          34.0           52.0          8.2                                                   Itr..sp-r  aed Cae-iceli.-ee                    14.                   1.
Total                                    5.134           6.812         100.0          100.0          3.2                                                   Othe                                             16.115.
Toa  tend  ue                                   0.                   188.0
Vas.Adad ts Wnrkar (1976 Prices ned                                                                             Tt.1E".det-. Raret)6. 
It  oD Dolrsfa A-tr...                                     Grath Rate                                             FINANICING
1944           1973               1964            1973            1964.73
PblI   ecoOneg.                                69573.4
Agic.1ture                            903          1,517               66.4           88.4              5.9                                               Enees   au e11.                                                       18.O
tedoacry                            1,837          2,552              135.2           140.1              3.7                                               Odr90.                                                               1.
Ser,ice                             1.730           1.46127.3                          90.0             -1-2                                               Totl Ph acIr                                    100.0                158.6
Teta1                               1,359           1,717              100.00         100.0              2.6T.1Fi-g                                                                                         00ID0
.aeery 1, 1980



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BAlANCE OP PAYMENTS EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AMD DEBT
(Asente is Millions of US Dollars at Current Prices)
Actual                              Estiated                   Pij-noted
1970      1975       1976        1977       1978        1979        1980 8                1982         1985
SUMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Etports (icl. NFS)                     1 000    2,165        2,782      3,397       3,992      5,226       5,644      6,138       7,001      10,606
Imp-ts (inol. NFS)                     1.149    2.030       2.302       2.723      3.414       4.789       5.681      6.796       7.881      11.515
RBsourc-  Bol.oce (X-M)                 -149       135         480        674         578        437         -37       -658        -880        -909
FPcto- Services (Net)                   -180      -263        -279       -264        -156        -97        -119       -172        -275         -678
Profics                            (  -64)  (  -74)   ( -115)   ( -114)   ( -118)   ( -130)   ( -145)   ( -163)   ( -182)   (  -233)
Usher                              (-116)  (-189)    (-164)   (-150)   (  -38)   (   33)   (   26)   (   -9)   (  -93)   (  -445)
Current Tr.nsfers (Net)                   27        48          21         29          20         21          22         24          25           30
balso.n on C-roent Ac.oun-t80                                2_22       439         442          361      -134       -806       -1,130       -1,557
Pnivate DOrnot I-ventneot                 39        32          14         42          47         65          80        100         130          300
Poblic hAT Losn-
Dlin b6LT noto                         235       383         241        374         341        887         552        651         980       1,369
R puv, ten                             -75      -135        -152       -174       -231        -458       -319        -330        -385        -552
Net Dioburse-ents                      160       248          89        200         110        429         233        321         595         817
Oth-r M6LI L.o.n
D, bortevoott                          101       141         109         85         110        282         212        250         275         365
- Reovpsnses                             -59       -87         -87        -89         -96       106         -14        -165        -170        -225
Net Dinbortenets                        42        54          22         -4          14        146          71         83         105         140
Cspital Tracustlone n.e.i.                 55      -115         215         173         60         291        -           -          -
Chuoge to Not Neserven
(- = Tn-rease)                             6      -139       -56)        -850       -673     -1,312        -250         300         300         300
GRANT AND LOAN COIIMITMENTS           1972        1973         1974        1975         1976         1977        1978
Officis1 G-rots and
Crt-like                           -            -           -
Public and MALT Loa.n
IBRD                                74          162           8           88           80         306         475
IDA                                -            -           _            _           _            _            -
Other Multilateral                  39           29           65           5           93          61           71
CGversoncts                        114           72          52           66          132          65          113
Supplier                            39           31           50          74           44          31           90
Private Bunks                       93          190          61          164         169           65          146
Bo.ds                              _             45         -            _            _           _            _
Public Loson  n.e.i.               -              1         -            -           -            -            -
Toten  Public IMtdi  - ond
Long-tern Loans                      359          530          236         397          518         528          895
OIIERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                              On-tstadcdino 0   12/31/77                        Outstsodig 0n 12/31/78
(Repoyablo tn L oraigo Currenoy)             Disbursed Onlv               Perosct               Dieborned Only              Percent
World  7n16 2T1                                                         26,7                    751.5                    26.5
IDA                                           22.0                       0.8                     21.8                     0.8
Oth-r KIltilat-ral                           195.5                       7,3                    243.1                     8.6
loveseets                                   92. 4                      34 6                    99 38                    34 7
Supplier,"                                   2087.4                      7,7                    2809.4                    7:4
Private Banks                                551.0                     20.6                     567.9                    20.1
Bonds                                         47.7                       1.8                     45.4                     1.6
Public Debtt n.e.i.                            LLO                       0.5                      9.7                     0.3
Tot.L Public HMditP- and
Long-tern Losos                              2,680.0                     100.0                 2,832.6                    100.0
1972           1973          1974          1975            1976           1977           1978
DEBT AND DEST SERVICE
Public Debt
O.tscundiog and Dinborsed /1                  1,626.5        1,901.7       2,070.0        2,318.0        2,403.2        2,680.0        2,832.6
Inters-t on Public Debt                          57.6           77.2          101.0          111.7         122.8          138.2          171.8
Repayne.ts on Public Debt                        96.3          131.4          207.5          135.3          151.8         176.1          230.5
total Publin Debt Service                       153.9          208.6          308.6          247.0         274.6          314.3          402.3
Other Debt Sorvice (Net)                        055.1          126.6          118.6           87.0           87.0          89.1            96.0
Total Debt Sevyica (Net)                        309.0          335.2          427.2          334.0         361.6          403.4          498.3
Burden 00 Export Ear-ings (%)
Public Debt Service                            12.8           13.5          16.6           11.4            9.9            9.3           10.1
Total Debt Service                             25.6           21.7           23.0          15.4           13.0           11.9           12.5
Total Debt Service Plus Net
FPreige I-.v.ets et I_cope                  31.5           26.2           25.9           18.8           17.1           15.2           15.4
Average Tena of Public Debt
toterest as % Prier Year
Debt ODtstanding and
Disbocend                                    4.2            4.7            5.3            5.4            5.3           5.8            6.4
A-ortirtion as % Prior Year
Debt Outstanding and
Disbursed                                    7.0             8.1          10.9            6.5            6.5            7.3            8.6
IBRD Debt Outetteding and
Di.bursed fL                                 453.4          504.5          561.7          633.5          671.6         716.2          751.5
IbRD as 2 Public Debt O.teteedi.s
and Diebur.ed                                  27.9           26.5           27.1           27.3           27.9          26.7           26.5
IBRD as % Public Debt Service                    30.9           29.1           24.1           31.7           31.2          29.6           23.7
IDA Debt urtat.ndiog and
Dib..r.ed                                      20.9           23.0           22.8           22.5          22.3           22.0           21.8
IDA an % Public Debt Outstanding
and Diabore-d                                   1.3            1.2            1.1            1.0           0.9            0.8            0.8
IDA as % Public Debt Service                      0.3            0.2            0.1            0.2            0.2           0.1            0.1
/1  End of period.                                                                                                            CPe nabir  Divi i9



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 11
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1979)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                            Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose           Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
49 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                      784.5      23.5 /1   --
680     1970  Colombia                          Roads             32.0               1.5
738     1971  Empresas Municipales de
Palmira                        Water Supply       2.0                .2
741     1971  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota       Water Supply      88.0               3.5
849     1972  Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria             Irrigation         2.2                .8
860     1972  Instituto de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply       9.1               2.6
874     1973  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                56.0               4.1
903     1973  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   60.0                  .1
920     1973  Colombia                          Education         21.2              10.4
926     1973  Ferrocarriles Nacionales          Railways          25.0                 .3
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply      27.0              14.4
1073    1975  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones             Communications   15.0                 .9
1118    1975  Colombia                          Rural Settlement 19.5                9.3
1163    1975  Colombia                          Agriculture       21.0              15.3
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   80.0               14.8
1352    1977  Colombia                          Rural Dev.        52.0              40.7
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica             Agricultural Cr. 64.0               29.7
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de               Communications   60.0               58.6
Telecomunicaciones
1451    1977  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   15.0                7.9
1471    1977  Colombia                          Highways          90.0              82.8
1487    1978  Colombia                          Nutrition         25.0              23.2
1523    1978  Empresas Municipales de Cali   Water Supply         13.8              13.4
1558    1978  Colombia                         Urban Develop-
ment            24.8              24.4
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power               126.0             113.4
1583    1978  Colombia                          Power             50.0              39.2



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1979) (Continued)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial            Industrial
y Comercial de Cartagena         Export          15.0              14.3
1598    1978  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.  100.0               81.4
1624    1979  Colombia                          Airports          61.0              61.0
1628    1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                      Power             84.0              73.6
1694 /2 1979  Colombia                          Urban Develop-
ment            13.5              13.5
1697 /2 1979  Empresa de Acueducto
y Alcantarillado
de Bogota                     Water Supply       30.0              30.0
1725 /2 1979  Interconexion
Electrica, S.A.                Power             72.0              72.0
1726 /2 1979  Instituto Nacional de
Fomento Municipal              Water Supply      31.0              31.0
1737 /2 1979  Instituto Colombiano
de la Reforma Agraria          Agriculture Cr.  20.0               20.0
1762 /2 1979  Cerro Matoso, S.A.               Mining-Nickel    80.0                80.0
TOTAL                                           2,269.6      23.5
Of which has been repaid                          442.9       2.0
Total now outstanding                           1,826.7      21.5
.Amount sold                        50.5
Of which has been repaid            27.7           22.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA                  1,803.9      21.5
Total undisbursed                                                   988.3
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
/2   Not yet effective.



- 29-                           ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1979)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                    Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.           Fiber-board      0.50      -       0.50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                      Food products   1.99   0.08        2.07
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.         Metal cans        0.70       -      0.70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                     Home furniture  0.08   0.09        0.17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.          Electrical
equipment      0.50      -       0.50
1962       Corporacion Financiera            Development
Colombiana                        financing         -   2.02       2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera            Development          -   2.04       2.04
Nacional                          financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de            Textiles          1.98   0.15       2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de         Development
Caldas                            financing         -   0.81       0.81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.           Steel forging       -   1.27       1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de            Warehousing       1.00       -      1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Ganadera                Livestock         1.00   0.58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.             Textiles         5.00   2.60       7.60
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de         Tourism              -   0.01       0.01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del        Development          -   0.45       0.45
Norte                             financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del        Development          -   0.43       0.43
Valle                             financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de           Tourism           0.23   0.11       0.34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                 Tourism           0.80   0.25       1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de         Housing              -   0.46       0.46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.              Cement           1.50       -      1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.          Cement           3.60      -       3.60
1976       Las Brisas                        Mining            6.00       -      6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.            Utilities       13.00   2.00      15.00
1977       Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                                Construction
Material       2.43   0.30       2.73
Total Gross Commitments                           40.31  13.65       53.96
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            28.96   8.26      37.22
Total commitments now held by IFC                 11.35   5.39       16.74
Total undisbursed                                   -        -



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION _/
1.   Ln No. 680 Highways VI; US$32 million, June 4, 1970.
Effective date: March 29, 1971
Closing date:    original - November 30, 1974
current  - November 30, 1980
The project is nearing completion; the paving program, which is the
largest component of the project, has experienced considerable cost increases
and delays. The disbursement percentages for the relevant categories of the
loan have been adjusted to spread remaining loan funds over the paving works
implementation period. Project completion is now expected for end-1980. As
of December 31, 1979, US$30.5 million (95% of the total) had been disbursed.
2.   Ln No. 738 Palmira Water Supply and Sewerage; US$2 million, May  28, 1971.
Effective date: December 29, 1971
Closing Date:    original - March 1, 1975
current - June 30, 1980
The original project works were completed at lower cost than originally
estimated. The savings of about US$348,000 are being used to finance supple-
mentary sewerage works which were already identified during project appraisal.
Work on the project additions is well advanced and funds should be fully dis-
bursed by the loan closing date. As of December 31, 1979, about 90% of the
loan amount was disbursed.
3.   Ln No. 741 Water Supply (Bogota II); US$88 million, May 28, 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1978
current - December 31, 1980
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily and the Borrower
continues to perform well. Completion of the Chuza-Ventana tunnel section,
which was delayed by a methane explosion, is expected to be completed by
mid-1982; all other project elements will be completed by the end of 1980.
Disbursements up to December 31, 1979, amounted to about 96% of the loan
amount.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-31-
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
4.   Ln No. 849 Irrigation (Atlantico II); US$5 million, June 30, 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    original - March 31, 1978
current - December 31, 1979
The project is the second phase of a scheme to develop about 17,000
ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production.  At the request
of the Government, US$2.8 million of the loan of US$5.0 million was cancelled
in February 1977. Settlement of farmers within the project areas is behind
schedule and the provision of technical assistance/farm credit needs improve-
ment. Because heavy rainfall in May and again in November resulted in flooding
which destroyed crops in the project area, a study is to be carried out to
determine possible deficiencies in design and a least cost solution for
correcting them. The closing date would be extended once consultants are
employed to carry out the study. The results are expected to be ready for
Bank review in mid-1980.
5.   Ln No. 860 Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project, US$9.1
million, October 10, 1972.
Effective date: March 7, 1973
Closing Date:    original - September 30, 1976
current - September 30, 1980
As of December 31, 1979, about 71% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Management problems affected the initiation of the project, but execution
has since improved. Delay in receiving budgetary funds as a result of the
Government's economic stabilization measures also slowed down project execution;
however, during 1979, execution has improved. INSFOPAL has prepared a new
implementation program for each city and works are now expected to be completed
by December 1980. The closing date will be extended in due time.
6.   Ln No. 874 Guatape II Hydroelectric Power Project; US$56 million,
January 12, 1973.
Effective date: March 13, 1973
Closing Date:    original - December 31, 1978
current - June 30, 1980
The project is virtually completed; the only remaining item is some
procurement of distribution equipment. After considerable delay in resettling
the people of El Penol and Guatape, filling of the Santa Rita reservoir was
carried out in May 1978, three years behind schedule. The revised project
cost is substantially above appraisal estimate, mainly occasioned by higher
cost of the civil works. As of December 31, 1979, US$51.9 million or 93% of
the loan amount had been disbursed.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
7.   Ln No. 903 Development Finance Companies V; US$60 million, June 11, 1973.
Effective date: November 9, 1973
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1979
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are expected to be
completed within the next few months. As of December 31, 1979, only US$0.1
million remained undisbursed.
8. Ln No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 19, 1973.
Effective date: January 9, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1981
Project execution had been suspended in mid-1975 pending redefinition
of sector priorities by the Government. It resumed in 1977 but suffered
continuous delays. In June 1978, the Government submitted a proposal to
reduce the scope of the project and to cancel a large portion of the loan.
However, the new administration, which came to office in August 1978, retracted
the proposal and decided to proceed with the project as originally conceived.
Since reactivating the project, the Borrower has made progress in planning,
construction, educational programming and personnel training, and project
execution is proceeding normally.
9.   Ln. No. 926 Sixth Railway Project:  US$25 million, August 8, 1973.
Effective date: December 6, 1973
Closing date:  original - June 30, 1976
current - August 31, 1980
Because of severely constrained locomotive availability, freight
traffic in 1979 decreased by 5%, compared to the previous year. The Government
has provided substantial funds to assist CNR in obtaining necessary equipment
and spare parts to improve motive availability. Thus, performance is expected
to improve over the next few months. Together with the Bank, the Government
is studying further corrective measures aimed at enabling the railway to
fulfill its important role in facilitating continued economic growth in
Colombia, including provision of necessary services for the planned exploita-
tion of coal for export. As of December 31, 1979 only about US$300,000 of the
loan amount remained undisbursed.



- 33 -                          ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
10. Ln No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$27
million, January 16, 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    June 30, 1980
There were substantial delays in making the eight subloans effective.
The last subloan (Barranquilla) was made effective on September 9, 1976. In
spite of the fiscal restraint imposed by the Government's economic stabiliza-
tion measures, project implementation is progressing satisfactorily in most
cities. Works are expected to be completed by December 1980. Sub-borrowers
have not been implementing tariff adjustments as agreed, therefore, INSFOPAL
is proceeding to take corrective measures. As of December 31, 1979, US$12.6
million or 47% of the loan had been disbursed.
11. Ln No. 1073 Telecommunications III; US$15 million, January 16, 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    Original - December 31, 1978
Current - June 30, 1980
Contracts for all Bank-financed goods have been awarded, and work
is proceeding satisfactorily. Though many of the project works have been
commissioned and are earning revenue, project completion is not expected until
June 1981 because of earlier delays in procurement and building construction.
As of December 31, 1979, only US$900,000 million or 6% of the loan remained
undisbursed.
12. Ln No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million, June 2, 1975.
Effective date: April 1, 1976
Closing Date:    October 31, 1979
The loan became effective on April 1, 1976, after a six-month delay.
Project execution has proceeded rapidly and some of the lost time regained.
Road and bridge construction is well ahead of schedule (79 km have been
completed). School construction and the provision of sufficient credit are
lagging though corrective measures are being slowly taken. As of December 31,
1979, US$9.3 million or 48% of the loan remained undisbursed. Upon receipt
of a Government request, the closing date would be extended for two years in
order to allow sufficient time to complete the project.
13. Ln No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 million,
September 12, 1975.
Effective Date:   March 30, 1976
Closing Date;      June 30, 1981
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision
delayed the initiation of the project. Implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily, but still behind schedule. As of December 31, 1979,
US$5.7 million of the loan amount had been disbursed.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
14. Ln No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 million,
March 31, 1976.
Effective Date:   September 1, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1980
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and virtually all loan
funds are committed. As of December 31, 1979, about 82% of the loan had been
disbursed.
15. Ln No, 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 7, 1977.
Effective Date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is now in its fourth year of implementation and proceed-
ing satisfactorily in spite of its complexity. The project's components of
credit, technical assistance and training are advancing very well, while
institutional coordination continues to be effective. The forestry and water
supply components have suffered some delays. Administrative procedures, such
as procurement and disbursement, continue to present some difficulties, but
they are much less serious than initially. Control and monitoring of project
execution is comprehensive, and a methodology for evaluating the project's
impact has been prepared. As of December 31, 1979, US$11.3 million, or 22% of
the loan had been disbursed.
16. Ln No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million, February 4,
1977.
Effective Date:   September 6, 1977
Closing Date:     December 31, 1981.
The funds assigned to medium and large farmers are now fully committed.
Subloans made to small farmers have recently picked up and this portion of the
loan is expected to be fully committed by 1981. Concern over possible diversion
and substitution of subloan funds led the Borrower to increase substantially
its end-use supervision. About 73% of loan funds for credit to agroindustries
have been committed for 82 subprojects. As of December 31, 1979, US$34.3
million, or 54% of the loan had been disbursed.



-35-
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
17. Ln. No. 1450 Telecommunications IV; US$60 million, July 7, 1977.
Effective Date: October 3, 1977.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982.
The project has been delayed as a result of several personnel
changes in the Borrower. Current activities are concentrated on the procure-
ment of project goods, the planning of cable networks, trunk exchange expansion,
and design of buildings to house equipment. The Borrower is studying possible
ways to make up some of the time lost. As of December 31, 1979, US$58.6, or
98% of the loan, remained undisbursed.
18. Ln. No. 1451 Second Small-Scale Industry Project; US$15 million,
September 27, 1977.
Effective Date: February 14, 1978.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1980.
After initial delays in loan effectiveness mainly due to management
changeover, project implementation is proceeding well and loan funds should be
fully committed by June 30, 1980. As of December 31, 1979, US$7.1 million had
been disbursed.
19. Ln. No. 1471 Highways VII; US$90 million, July 5, 1977.
Effective Date: November 28, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The Project comprises three main programs: rehabilitation, main-
tenance, and vehicle weight control. After initial delays, the project is now
developing satisfactorily. Stabilization and drainage works are progressing
well; contracts for 14 of the 32 construction lots have been signed and works
have commenced. The maintenance program began in January 1980, and consultants
to assist MOPT in executing the program have been retained. The vehicle
weight control program has experienced a 12-month delay but progress is now
satisfactory. As of December 31, 1979, about US$7.2 million had been disbursed.
20. Ln. No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
November 10, 1977.
Effective Date: March 9, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Significant progress has been achieved in the major components of
health, nutrition education and water supply. Initial delays occurred in two
subsidiary components--home food production and food quality control--but
activities are now under way. Project management and coordination have been
sound, flexible and effective. Evaluation systems are operating effectively.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
21.       Ln. No. 1523 Second Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$13.8
million, June 20, 1978.
Effective Date: January 31, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Progress in design and tendering is slow and project implementation
is delayed. EMCALI's weak financial position remains the most critical issue
in the implementation of the project. EMCALI has agreed to take corrective
measures to restore the entity's financial viability and to improve management
and administrative procedures. The Bank is following up project execution
closely.
22.       Ln. No. 1558 Urban Development Project; US$24.8 million, July
21, 1978.
Effective Date: December 1, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
The 1978 change of Government led to corresponding staff turnover
in the executing agency and to slow project start; overall progress is now
running about 18 months behind schedule. Project implementation plans in
eight of the 23 cities are substantially completed and it is expected that
implementation plans in the next ten project zones will be completed before
the end of this year. The first disbursement application has been received
and two more are forthcoming. The new Directora General of SIP intends to
accelerate project implementation and will establish a working unit in SIP
for monitoring and operational evaluation of the project.
23.       Ln. No. 1582 San Carlos I Hydro Power Project; US$126 million,
July 14, 1978.
Effective Date: April 5, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1984
Project works are proceeding on schedule.
24.       Ln. No. 1583 500 kV Interconnection Project; US$50 million, July 14,
1978.
Effective Date: October 17, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Project works have recently been initiated. The Bank-financed
component (transmission line) is proceeding on schedule, at lower-than-
anticipated cost. However, project completion is likely to be delayed by
about one year as a result of the re-issuance of bids for the KfW-financed
component (substations).



- 37 -                          ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
25.       Ln. No. 1593 Cartagena Industrial Export Processing Zone; US$15
million, August 1, 1978.
Effective Date: January 30, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1983
After an initial delay due to procurement problems, project implemen-
tation is now running smoothly. A number of contracts have been signed, and
work is proceeding without delay.
26.       Ln. No. 1598 Seventh Development Finance Companies Project;
US$100 million, July 27, 1978.
Effective Date: November 28, 1978
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
By the end of December 1979, about US$60.6 million had been committed
and an additional US$18.5 million, which has been approved by BR for subloans,
is presently being processed.
27.       Ln. No. 1624 Airports Project; US$61 million, December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: July 24, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984
Project implementation is proceeding well.
28.       Ln. No. 1628 Mesitas Hydroelectric Power Project; US$84 million,
April 9, 1979.
Effective Date: August 21, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
Project works are well under way, although at higher-than-anticipated
cost.
29.       Ln. No. 1694 Second (Cartagena) Urban Development; US$13.5 million,
August 31, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.
30.       Ln. No. 1697 Third Bogota Water Supply; US$30 million, November 30, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.
31.       Ln. No. 1725 San Carlos II Hydro Power; US$72 million, November 30, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.
32.       Ln. No. 1726 Third Water and Sewerage; US$31 million, November 30, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.
33.       Ln. No. 1737 Third Agricultural Credit; US$20 million, November 30, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.
34.       Ln. No. 1762-CO Cerro Matoso Nickel; US$80 million, December 20, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.






- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
BOGOTA POWER DISTRIBUTION
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 16 months
(b) Agency which prepared project: EEEB
(c) First presentation to Bank: April 1978
(d) First mission to review project: July 1977
(e) Departure of Appraisal mission: February 15, 1979
(f) Completion of negotiations: January 25, 1980
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: September 30, 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
In view of the experience gained by EEEB with the first four
projects, no special implementation actions are required.
Section III: Special Conditions
The following assurances will be sought:
(a) the services of consultants would be obtained according to the
agreed schedule and under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank (paragraphs 45-47);
(b) the studies to be undertaken would be presented to the Bank
for review and comment in line with the agreed schedule. Further,
based upon the results of the Distribution Planning Study, a
program of improved practices would be initiated by January 31,
1981; taking into account the results of the insurance study,
a plan of action to provide its assets with adequate insurance
would be put into effect by December 31, 1981; and, finally,
a twelve-month program of operations and maintenance training
would be carried out by August 31, 1981 (paragraphs 45-46);
(c) EEEB would earn an annual return of at least 12% on average over
1979-80, and 14% in 1981 and onwards on its revalued net fixed
assets in operation (paragraph 55);



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) EEEB would, unless the Bank would otherwise agree, maintain an
annual debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5 (paragraph 56);
(e) EEEB would not undertake, without prior Bank concurrence, investments
in excess of 1% of the value of its net fixed assets in operation
other than for: (a) the proposed project, (b) generation expansion
included in the national power expansion program, provided that
adequate financing would be available, (c) its obligations to ISA,
and (d) investments in transmission/distribution of US$9 million
equivalent in each of the years 1980-82 (paragraph 56); and
(f) EEEB would put into effect a revised tariff and rate schedule
to bring the aggregate level of prices charged to each major
consumer category approximately in line with the cost of service
to such category (paragraph 57).
As conditions of loan effectiveness, EEEB would:
(a) make satisfactory arrangements for the balance of required financing
for investments programmed for 1980-81 (paragraph 53); and
(b) make satisfactory arrangements to achieve the agreed 1980 rate of
return (paragraph 54).



BRD-3638R I
78                       76-                        74-                       72ft                       TO'                              CCTOBDER19T
-  A  TI  A  N                                               C / C                                                                          SUA  I    50TH AM
BorraitiwllIQ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ r
ATLANTICZ                                       9                             
cer1cgen~  ..- 
MAGDALENA
-Io'                                                                                                                               0   _____________________ e  Nd  f  -
g   %          g      ./          (    L~~~~~~~~Mroait I>  itndttt duaritit ohan rht ma do two
a,lncelexo                                                   m   ooodWfit k odr  rejnaiteh ay 8ie
00  Zonk mod its aPS UoCmo
49    e    + sX  S   v  m 1  go >    / NORTE  \                           ~~~V E- N  E.Z  U  E  L A
  jCoR D
X  /  -  BucaV''-'-go
,W5u $ . -- ....... t   SANTANDER            -          A R A U CA
_60 'K                          4., Qulbdo . <a-d ^Cd
                    1,          RIAt        CAS                                / ,-.' CASANARE
r   oMet~~~~*C   CurWJto$AMABCIAC0IA D
>     /   t    '    ittit           BOG0t*9il
~~~~~j  ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     r oi bogue                       ,-
< ~~?  ,) 1> . i. . Jf.<     r"  0VIIaviotncro t4
VA LE  fOLI M A'
V A    L E 
0Ne,vir  >   -     t  z                                                                1,M  E  T  A  I  1 r
CS ,''                                               4                                                                                               /'-
a          c       C           0HUI L A>                                                5                        0   AI NIA C A
2'       NA R I N           O                                                             V  A  U          P E                  S                              2'
X \ ~~~~~~~~~ A   Q U E T A >Mz << 
<>             -                         /  0lroci                                                                 --t ----                 ,> < i !
.~~        ~             ~~~ ~~~~ VAPE >                                          t           ' 
UT U MAYCAQU                           A                       N 
-01                                                               r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
. .........................................,fa ; }A   M    A  Z    O N  A  S                   /<  g 
0'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~l
2     N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
COLOMBIA
E] Eevaftits qbovo 1400mfter                                      I-
--  - uwonen, tnoedenct a Camitflser( .onot                        p                    E   R   U/
-  ---   Mn  river.
_._    fernaIealouoibl                           '                                                        /        |
..  ...   ,,,  r . ,,  | ,,, ...........   z ~~~     ~          ~         ~          / 
/  00                       ~~~~~~~~~4
0IOEM&TERS
-o 7isP                                                                          2' -ri72                 7p                         68'



