Page  1
 
 
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC233 
 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: August 22, 2003 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Honduras 
Project ID: P083851 
Project Name: HN PRS  TAC 
Task Team Leader: Alberto Leyton/Joseph 
Trommer 
Estimated Appraisal Date: December 8, 2003 
Loan/Credit amount ($m.):  
IDA: 10 
Estimated Board Date: February 24, 2004 
 
Managing Unit: LCSPS 
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance 
Credit 
Sector: General public administration sector 
(100%); 
Theme: Poverty strategy, analysis and 
monitoring  
Safeguard Policies Specialists in the task team:  
Other financing amounts by source: 
($m.) 
 
 
B.  Project Objective 
The objective of the Poverty Reduction Technical Assistance Credit (PRS TAC) is to assist the 
Government of Honduras in improving its institutional capacity in the areas of planning, public 
expenditure management, accountability, public administration and participatory monitoring, thereby 
facilitating the implementation of  the PRSP. 
 
The PRS TAC is designed to support the implementation of reforms advanced in the PRSC
1
.  The 
GOH’s institutional framework needs to improve in order to overcome the weaknesses that are 
undermining PRSP implementation.  Specifically, the PRS TAC’s development objectives are to: (i) 
strengthen the GOH’s fiscal, financial and fiduciary management, resulting in a more accurate, 
timely, relevant and transparent public sector; (ii) support the implementation of the Civil Service 
Act, thereby ensuring a more equitable working environment with better performance incentives and 
improving the quality of civil servants; and (iii) develop the GOH’s capacity to monitor, evaluate and 
improve PRSP implementation by giving all stakeholders access to effective mechanisms for the 
design and control of poverty reduction programs that will impact them
 
 
C.  Project Description 
The proposed operation would be comprised of the following components:  
 
                                                
 
1
 The PRSC, which supports the implementation of the PRSP, will include the following three main areas: pro-poor growth, 
human capital and social protection, and improving governance and accountability. 
Page  2
 
 
(a) Developing the Capacity to Manage, Monitor, Evaluate and Improve PRS Implementation.
 
 
This component would finance technical assistance to: (i) develop and implement Sector Wide 
Approach Programs (SWAPs) for key PRS sectors; (ii) strengthen the GOH’s capacity to manage 
international assistance by aligning it with PRS goals and through the use of SWAPs; (iii) design a 
national system to monitor and evaluate the implementation of PRS, including the tracking of 
poverty reducing expenditures; (iv) strengthen the institutional capacity of the technical units (UNAT 
and UPEGs) responsible for monitoring and updating the Honduras PRS; (v) promote greater local 
participation in the formulation, implementation and monitoring of the PRS; and (vi) support 
initiatives of the Poverty Reduction Consultative Council (Consejo Consultivo). 
 
(b) 
Supporting the Implementation of Civil Service Reform.
 
This component would finance technical 
assistance for: (i) formulation and dissemination of regulations derived from the new Civil Service 
Reform Bill; (ii) gradual reform of the Estatutos (special regimes for teachers and healthcare 
workers); (iii) formulation of a coherent, equitable and sustainable wage policy for public sector 
employees; (iv) design and implementation of a new Human Resources Information System; (v) 
strengthening the institutional capacity of the Civil Service office; (vi) introduction (on a pilot basis) 
of a public administration career-path through the reengineering of selected government agencies; 
and (vii) development of sustainable training schemes for public sector employees. 
 
 (c) 
Strengthening Public Management and Accountability
. 
This component would finance 
technical assistance to: (i) develop a new public budget system to introduce a medium-term 
expenditure framework, as well as multi-annual and programmatic budgets; (ii) consolidate, expand 
and technologically upgrade the GOH’s Financial Management Information System; (iii) implement 
the recommendations of the CFAA (including registering, analyzing and evaluating public debt; 
reconciling the government’s income and expenditure accounts; registering and controlling public 
revenue; and strengthening the GOH’s internal audit capacity); and (iv) implement the 
recommendations of the CPAR. 
 
Given the wide scope of activities proposed under the PRS TAC, we expect that other donors would 
participate either under co-financing or parallel financing schemes.  Currently, close coordination has 
taken place with the IDB, following the successful partnership in preparing the CFAA and CPAR. 
The IDB would take the lead in budget reform and other institutional strengthening activities in the 
Secretariat of Finance. Other bilateral donors have expressed their interest to follow the Bank’s 
leadership by co-financing the other two components. Sweden’s cooperation would target the civil 
service, while DFID might be involved in activities related to social engagement and monitoring. 
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
 
Tegucigalpa, Honduras 
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity 
 
The proposed operation is specifically aimed at strengthening the Government’s weak institutional 
capacity. That being said, it should be noted that overall responsibility for the project’s 
implementation would fall under the auspices of the Executive Secretariat of the Presidential 
Commission for State Modernization (CPME) which would serve as executing agency  The CPME 
has successfully implemented previous IDA operations geared toward state modernization and 
therefore has proven experience and institutional capacity to successfully prepare and execute the 
Page  3
 
 
proposed operation. Under its coordination, the components of the PRSTAC would be implemented 
by: (i) the Technical Assistance Unit (UNAT) within the Secretariat of the Presidency; (ii) the 
Central Civil Service Office (DGSC); and (iii) the Secretariat of Finance (SEFIN), respectively.  To 
mitigate against possible lack of cohesion between these agencies, special care would be taken to 
foster a sense of shared ownership of the project and to strengthen CPME’s leadership role.  
Furthermore, the coordinators of each of the components would be encouraged to hold monthly 
stocktaking meetings to discuss progress in or bottlenecks to both the implementation of their 
components as well as to the overall program.  Such initiatives are expected to promote economies of 
scale, synergies and the establishment of a common vision and allegiance to the reform program  
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
 
Applicable?
 
Safeguard Policy 
If Applicable, How Might It Apply? 
[NA] 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
 4.01) 
 
 
[NA] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04) 
 
 
[NA] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
) 
 
 
[NA] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12) 
 
 
[NA] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
) 
 
 
[NA] Forests 
(
OP
/
BP
 4.36) 
 
 
[NA] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37) 
 
 
[NA] 
Cultural Property (draft OP 4.11 - 
OPN 11.03
) 
 
 
[NA] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
 
 
 
[NA] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 
7.50) 
 
Environmental Assessment Category:
    
[ ] A   [ ] B   [
X
] C   [ ] FI   [] TBD (to be determined) 
 
No adverse environmental impact is anticipated as a result of the activities to be supported by the 
proposed operation. 
 
Safeguard Policies Classification:
    
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
 
No safeguard policies are expected to apply to the proposed operation. 
                                                
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas
 
Page  4
 
 
III.  ACTIONS DURING PROJECT PREPARATION 
[Guideline: Refer to sections 5 and 6 of the PCN] 
 
A.  What actions might be needed during project preparation to assess safeguard issues 
and prepare to mitigate them? 
No safeguard issues are expected to apply. 
 
B.  How might consultation and disclosure requirements be addressed? 
 
Key activities under the project would specifically be geared to promoting the Government’s 
reform initiatives via broad-based dissemination of its poverty reduction strategy and by 
engaging civil society in ongoing consultations and policy dialogue. 
 
IV.  AGREEMENTS REACHED ON SAFEGUARDS AT PCN REVIEW 
 
[Guideline: Summarize the key agreements reached on follow-up actions to be taken regarding 
safeguards during project preparation] 
 
Agreed target date for Quality Enhancement Review:
 
