Report No. PID7396
Project Name                     Uganda-Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation (@+) ...
Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           UY - Other Urban Development
Project ID                       UGPA59223
Borrower(s)                      Government of Uganda (GoU)
Implementing Agency              Kampala City Council (KCC)
Environment Category             B
Date of Initial PID              February 2, 1999
Date PID Prepared                March 25, 1999
Appraisal Date                   March 22, 1999
Projected Board Date             May 6, 1999
1. Country and Sector Background
The Government's strategy with regard to Kampala is anchored in its objective
to restore key infrastructure in the capital to make it a more efficient and
livable city. In this context the rehabilitation of the Nakivubo Channel is
significant given that it is the main drainage channel in Kampala. It used
to be an earth drain which was channeled in the 1930s through some civil
works and functioned fairly well till about the 1960s. Gradually, however,
because of non-maintenance its efficacy declined. The channel floods
frequently during rains causing considerable hindrance to economic activity
in the populated areas such as the Central Business District of Kampala,
deterioration of the adjacent road network and suffering to the populace at
large. This situation was further exacerbated by the El Nino rains in 1997-
98 which were particularly heavy. The Government's strategic objectives for
Kampala, therefore, include the following:
- Less flooding of Kampala's Central Business District streets which will
increase their economic life thus providing savings in maintenance costs,
leading to more efficient delivery of other basic urban services.
- Ensuring appropriate maintenance discipline thus enhancing sustainability
of infrastructure investments.
- The need for improved infrastructure services to facilitate commercial and
industrial development and thus support poverty alleviation efforts.
2. Objectives
The project would support the Government's program by alleviating the
frequent and increasing incidence of flooding which has adverse effects on
the road network, traffic flow, economic activity and overall living
conditions in the city. It would also assist the Kampala City Council (KCC)
to enhance its ability to plan, manage and execute complex investment
decisions and programs; and to establish the primacy of maintenance of key
infrastructure investments. This operation, which will be the largest civil
works project that the KCC has ever undertaken, would therefore serve as a



testing ground to support KCC's reform program initiated under the ongoing
IDA financed First Urban Project (Credit 2206-UG).
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
It should be noted that the World Bank is the only donor agency active in the
urban sector in Uganda. The Bank has supported improved service delivery in
Kampala City Council through the ongoing IDA-financed First Urban Project.
In this project the Bank will: (i) further support the KCC's Strategic
Framework for Reform initiative; and( ii) continue to support the key
institutional and financial reforms initiated under the First Urban Project.
4. Description
The project would consist of the following components:
(i) Civil Works comprising of the main (Nakivubo) channel, auxiliary works
and priority drainage "Black Spots" rehabilitation.
(ii) Project Implementation Support i.e., a consultant for construction
supervision.
(iii) Program and Policy Studies consisting of the Kampala Drainage Master
Plan Study and the Kampala Urban Transportation Improvement Programme Study.
(iv) Institutional Support to KCC's Strategic Framework for Reform Program,
initiated under the First Urban Project (Credit 2206-UG) and to be further
deepened under the proposed project which includes: revenue enhancement
activities; seed funds to facilitate contracting out of basic service
delivery functions; and implementation support and training. In addition, a
framework for developing a long-term Kampala City Development Strategy which
brings together these various initiatives in a cohesive manner will also be
supported under this component.
5. Financing
Total (US$m)
KCC             2.54
IDA             22.38
Total Project Cost       24.92
6. Implementation
KCC, which is currently undergoing substantial reorganization through the
Strategic Framework for Reform initiative started under the First Urban
Project will be the implementing agency. KCC has established a Core Team
within its organizational structure which consists of a group of
professionals selected by KCC from its own staff, under contractual terms, to
carry out management functions for the implementation of its reform program
initiated under the Strategic Framework for Reform and execute its special
projects such as the First Urban Project. The Nakivubo Channel
Rehabilitation Project will also be handled as a special project of KCC under
the overall management of the Core Team. However, the Nakivubo Channel
Rehabilitation Project requires an effective capacity for the procurement,
supervision and management of works and consultant services within the time
frame required and KCC has traditionally had limited capacity in this regard.
The capacity of KCC to do the above will be reviewed, and augmented through
-2 -



the provision of technical advisory services from its technical cooperation
partner, the Kirklees Metropolitan Council of the U.K. and other sources as
necessary. Construction supervision of the civil works will be provided
through a Construction Supervision Consultant appointed by KCC and financed
from the project.
7. Sustainability
As part of the project, KCC has prepared an Operations and Maintenance Plan
(Routine, Periodic and Emergency) following construction and hand over of the
Nakivubo Channel. It is intended that routine, periodic and emergency
maintenance will be carried out under contract; this contract will be
renewable annually based on performance by the contractor. The KCC Core Team
will supervise this contractor and monitor the work.
KCC has agreed to set up a separate escrow account into which a portion of
its commercial revenues will be channeled to provide for operations and
maintenance (O&M) costs for the channel in the future. It should be noted
that in the short term (until a revised property tax administration system is
fully operational) a significant property tax base increase to support O&M
costs is not expected. Therefore, commercial revenues are earmarked for
covering O&M costs. KCC will set up an improved and more efficient property
tax administration system under this project as a first step to determining
and realizing revenue effectively from this revenue base and allocating the
revenue through a budgetary process.
The project design has taken into consideration both capital and maintenance
costs in determining the most cost-effective alternative. In addition,
availability of locally available materials and requisite labor skills for
undertaking routine and periodic maintenance were factors in the project
design to ensure project sustainability.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons learned from previous projects include:
(i) Lack of ownership due to inadequate involvement of the client in the
decision making process;
(ii) Unsustainable investments due to inadequate attention to operations and
maintenance;
(iii) Lack of community consultation resulting in adverse public reaction;
(iv) Absence of pre-qualification of contractors in large civil works
contracts resulting in award of contract to lowest bidder but without the
requisite capacity;
(v) Weak capacity in some local consulting firms resulting in inadequate and
inappropriate advice to the client;
(vi) Lack of capacity in the client to effectively supervise civil works
contracts.
(vii) Inherent inefficiencies in certain service delivery functions using
force account.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI) No
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues: The investments under this project focus on flood alleviation and
improvement of drainage in the low-lying areas of Kampala within the Nakivubo
channel catchment area. The project therefore focuses on improvement of
- 3-



parameters which lead to a safer, more sanitary, and environmentally improved
living environment. The project will have limited environmental impact
primarily during construction activities due to noise, dust, increased
vehicular activity and aesthetics. An environmental impact assessment has
been done which covers impacts and mitigation measures in the areas of flood
alleviation, soil erosion, transport and disposal of excavated materials,
flow diversion, relocation of utilities, provision of footbridges,
aesthetics, and health and safety during construction activities and
following project completion. The project will be subjected to this
checklist of mitigation measures. These mitigation measures have been
incorporated in the bid documents and will be applied during construction.
A social impact assessment was carried out during the project design phase.
This assessment was done in order to identify any significant social risks
resulting from the implementation of the project. Intensive consultations
were undertaken with local vendors associations, local Council leaders,
market vendors, shop owners and operators, commuters, industrialists,
schools, property owners, the police, the fire brigade, and subsistence
cultivators at the downstream end of the channel. In addition, utility
companies whose services cross the channel at various places were consulted.
The Uganda Telecommunications company and the Uganda Electricity Board have
prepared designs and cost estimates for alterations to their services which
have been incorporated in the bid documents. The assessment concluded that
there is universal support for the project and that it is not anticipated
that project implementation would involve major social risks. There are no
resettlement issues involved, other than minor temporary relocation of make-
shift vending displays within the existing Nakivubo Channel property limits.
This temporary relocation will be done in collaboration with the vendors'
associations during construction. It will generally involve shifting
business from areas where construction is taking place to areas where
construction is yet to begin or has been completed. The project is expected
to have a significant overall benefit to low income groups, through flood
alleviation, particularly in the areas adjacent to open air market activities
near the channel.
11. Program Objective Category: EN
12. Project Benefits
In general, the proposed project will:
(i) reduce the risk of flood damage to property and infrastructure and result
in time and cost savings in transport operations both in Central Kampala and
in the outlying areas;
(ii) reduce flood occurrence in central Kampala;
(iii) serve as a vehicle for building the institutional and managerial
capability of KCC for planning, implementing and instituting measures to
ensure sustainability of future investment projects; and
(iv) improve commercial and industrial activities and land use and result in
health benefits.
13. Project Risks:
Key risks related to the project have to do with KCC's:
(i) commitment to sustained efforts at improving program management and
service delivery capacity;
(ii) ability to set aside the required funds for O&M; and
(iii) ensuring adequate quality of civil works construction.
- 4 -



14. Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Task Manager
Gautam Sengupta
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-4152
Fax: (202) 473-8301
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
PID Processed the week ending April 2, 1999.
- 5 -



ANNEX
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-6-



